Final years of the life of David and um still lessons to be learned as we go through here. I don't know I don't know if anybody else got anything out of this series on David, but I have thoroughly enjoyed uh studying this man's life and uh the character that's displayed there. Humanity, we've learned of his humanity, his tremendous faith sometimes. I tell you, when David was up, he was on top And David was down, he was at the bottom of the barrel. And uh what an amazing man, a passionate man. He's coming towards the end of his life, and I'm going to pick up uh chapter twenty-one. I want to pick up reading on verse number fifteen. 2 Samuel chapter 21. I'm going to read down through the end of the chapter. The Bible says, moreover, the Philistines had yet war again with Israel. And David went down and his servants with him and fought against the Philistines, and David waxed faint. It's the first time we read of anything like that. David's always strong. He's always valiant. He's always the victor in these battles. But now we come across something new. David waxed faint. And Ishbai Binab. That's a name. Ishbai Benob. I've been practicing that name all day. Ishbai Benob Which was of the sons of the giant, the weight of whose spear weighed 300 shekels of brass in weight. He, being girded with a new sword, thought to have slain David. So he's out after David, Ishbai Bibnob. But Abishai, the son of Zariah, secured him and smote the Philistine, and killed him. Then the men of David swear unto him, saying, Thou shalt go no more out with us to battle, that thou quench not the light of Israel. Boy, that's a first They're saying, no, David, we we don't you can't be coming out on the battlefield anymore. And it came to pass after this that there was again a battle with the Philistines at Gob Then Sibichai, the Hushathite, slew Saf, which was one of the sons of the giant. Notice it says the giant, not a giant, the giant. Verse 19, and there was again a battle in Gob, same place, with the Philistines, same people. Where Elhana, the son of, here we go, Jare or Egim, a Bethlehemite, slew the brother of who? Goliath. How about that? Goliath's brother. He must have been an elderly giant at this point. This is many years later. The staff, whose spear was like a beaver's beam, a weaver's beam, not a beaver's weam, a weaver's beam. Tell you, these names got my tongue twisted here a little bit. The Gittite, the staff of whose spear was like a weaver's beam. And there was yet a battle in Gath. And there was a man of great stature that had on every hand, look at this, he had on every hand six fingers, and on every toe six toes, four and twenty in number. How about that? And he also was born to the giant. And when he defied Israel, Jonathan, the son of Shimeah, the brother of David, slew him. These four were born to the giant and Gath and fell by the hand of David and by the hand of his servants I take from verse number 15, it says, Moreover, the Philistines had war, had yet war again, war again. So that's what I've titled tonight's lesson. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts from this. Father in heaven, We come to here again another somewhat obscure passage of Scripture, at least for a lot of people. But Lord, I believe with all my heart you have lessons for us. There's principles here that we can learn from. And that our faith can grow and we can be victorious in our Christian lives. I ask, Lord, that you would fill me once again with your Holy Spirit. It's always my prayer whenever I'm preaching your word. And Lord, I want to be fully yielded to you, my body completely at your disposal, Lord, for you to speak through me, fill me, and teach us, Lord, tonight. Be our teacher. I pray, and I ask this now in Jesus' name. Amen. You back up a little bit from the life of David. I was doing this and preparing for tonight. You back up a little bit at the life of David And from the moment that he encountered Goliath way back yonder, maybe upwards of 50 years previous to this. Whenever he encountered Goliath, from that point to his deathbed, his life was like a series of trials and difficulties Shortly after he kills Goliath, then he's out battling the Philistines for a period of time. He's at war with the Philistines. Now he's being victorious You know, he's slaying his tens of thousands. He's getting the job done. And I have a sneaky suspicion he's enjoying what he's doing. He's a very good warrior But nevertheless, he's not sitting at home drinking iced tea. He's out on the battlefield. His life is at risk. And then Saul turns on him For an extended period of time, he's running for his life, discouraged. You read some of the songs that he wrote during that period of time, and he is absolutely uh down. He's going through a rough time. A man that he respected, a man that he tried to honor, turned on him unjustly, lied about him, tries trying to kill him And then he becomes king. His position as king is challenged continually, right from the start First eleven tribes wouldn't recognize him for seven years. He's dealing with a civil war. I tell you, one of the hardest things, I believe And leadership, I know just from pastoring, is when people who are under your leadership don't get along with each other. That's a tough thing. And uh and so he's got a nation he's king over, and you got one tribe, and you got uh eleven other tribes and they're fussing and fighting, civil war going on. He's dealing with that And then he has family, personal failures, which are heart-wrenching in and of themselves, and then family issues turning on him. uh people trying to take his position as king. The point I'm trying to make is all the way to the end of his life, David faced trial after trial after trial Many of them absolutely horrendous, we wouldn't want to have to deal with once in our lifetime, let alone repeatedly. And that was David's life. And yet he loved God. And he kept the zeal for the Lord, and he kept his faith in God And it's just an amazing thing to me, it's just an amazing thing, the tenacity of David's faith in God, even in his own failure For whatever reason, I don't know why, I woke up with uh Psalm 37, 23, and 24 on my heart and mind this morning. I think I have the reference right, but it says, The steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, and he delighteth in his way. That good man delights in the Lord leading him and directing him. And though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down, for the Lord upholdeth him with his hand. And we can see that in the life of David. He was a good man. And he delighted in the Lord and in the will of God for his light. And he fell, but he was never utterly cast down. He always bounced back because the Lord upheld him with his hand. And what a testimony for David. Now I want to look here. It says, and there was war again. I mean, David's getting up there in years. It's no doubt his hair is gray. The wrinkles he's got uh what do they call it, crows' feet in its corners of his eyes And uh and war breaks out again. And so let's look, see if there's some lessons here. I think there's some interesting things here we'll notice. The first thing I pointed out, and I'm trying to glean spiritual lessons from this for our lives. And the first thing I put down is spiritual warfare is a lifelong problem. Spiritual warfare is a lifelong problem. David is in the final years of his life. He doesn't have a long time to live. And he's still having to fight wars. And uh I don't know about you, I've kind of got over it, but I always had kind of in the back of my mind, never really thought it through, I don't guess But I always thought, you know, one of these days, these spiritual struggles are going to be behind me, and I'm going to live in victory, and it's all going to be cake and easy squeezy from here on out of the Christian life. I have not arrived at that position yet. And I don't think we ever do, to be honest with you. David is in the final years of his life. His body's getting weak. I kind of highlighted there at the end of verse number fifteen when he went down to go to war with uh these Philistines. It says he went down and his servants with him and he fought against the Philistines and David waxed faint And I looked up that phrase, how what that what exactly that means, and and how it's used other places. And it simply means what you think it means, it means he started getting weary He's out there on the battlefield. Now I don't know what all the how this is playing out. I don't know what all the specifics are, but I assume he's got sword in hand, maybe a shield. I don't know if he's uh f shooting arrows, if he's just kind of maybe behind the sea behind the troops, directing things, but whatever it was, and this is just my imagination in my mind. I like to try and picture stuff, whatever it was, some of his fellows looked over And David is, I mean, he's tired. He's worn out. And it's significant enough that the Bible mentions it. The Bible makes note of it. And so his men are noticing this. And it's a concern on the part of the man. David is weak. He's waxing faint. He's running out of gas. One of the uh definitions that it had it kept more part of the definition was the idea of flying away, flying away, and I thought, what is David's not flying away And as I looked at it and how it Jews, I've come to this conclusion, what the Bible's telling us here is David's strength was draining out of him. It was leaving him We never read that about David before. He's he's uh he's up in years and he's still fighting battles. Um He's getting weary. His strength is draining away from him. And yet the enemy is coming after him as hard as they ever did. The Philistines have not led up. You know what I found out about our spiritual enemies? They never say, well, the poor guy's getting up there a little bit. Let's back off on him a little bit. The devil never says that. The world never says that. Well, let's give those Christians a break. They're tired. The world doesn't do that. In fact, it's kind of like when we're tired, the world pours it on. My flesh has never said, oh poor Dennis, he's kind of tired. I'm going to give him a break. I'm not going to give him such a hard time. You know what I found when I'm tired? That's when the flesh flesh says, Alright, get him, boys. David's getting tired and these and the Philistines are pouring it on. Notice it says here, verse 15 I underscore these in my Bible. Verse 14, moreover the Philistines had yet war again. It's like he's been doing it his whole adult life. Then down in verse number 18, notice it says, it came to pass after this that there was again a battle with the Philistines. War again, battle again, verse number 19, and there was again a battle in Gob. And then verse 20, and there was yet a battle in Gath. I mean it's just one after the other after the other after the other. Anybody, can I get a witness? Anyone know what I'm talking about here? Unrelenting spiritual battles You get one licked and you get go through a trial and you go through a difficulty and you got this these temptations or whatever this this warfare, spiritual warfare going on in you By God's grace, you get through it and you win that and say, whoo, praise the Lord. What? Another one hits you. And you deal with that, and then another one, and then another one. And that's what's happening to David here in his battle. Notice here again in verse number 15 it says uh war again and David went down and his servants with him. His body, he's he's still getting after it. He's not backing off. He's up there in years. He says, if there's a battle going on, I'm going to be in it. If there's a war with Israel, with God's people, I'm going to be down there fighting it And um he is absolutely relentless regardless of his physical condition. I put this down, his body could not keep up with his spirit. Can anybody give me a witness on that? Anybody here like me, I'm younger inside here than I am out here. I say, oh yeah, I can do that. I can't even walk up the steps a little So David, he uh uh the Philistine David, uh his general comes in, David reporting, Yes sir. Uh Philistines attacking again. Again, yes. All right, get the troops. David grabs his gear and stuff. He still heads down there. He's just right at it. Up till the late years in his life, he's going after it His body could not keep up with his spirit. Can I tell you who I thought about? Some of you are going to know, remember her, probably a lot of you. But you know who I thought about, somebody getting up there late in years and absolutely would not quit Sue Teagarten. Anybody remember Sue Teagarten? That old gal, she's with the Lord now. God bless her. I love her. She absolutely would not quit. She would go on mission trips with us. Anybody here been on uh yeah with Sue And she absolutely would go, no matter where she was going on that mission. Up to Canada. Were you with us up there? Went up to Canada. I mean that was a tough. She's right in there. She's up first thing in the morning. She's out there giving out literature And then we went to Puerto Rico at least once or twice down there, and uh several times maybe she's down giving out literature. And uh the last time she went with us, it was um I talked to her before, I said, Sue, you know, man, if something would happen, she was so frail. And so petite, I said, yeah, I don't know, so and I'm going. And just me even remotely bringing the issue up made her mad And uh there's nothing worse than having an old lady mad at you. So uh I said, all right, all right, all right. And she went and God bless her, she fell And it it could have been really bad. She fell against a metal fence and ended up in the emergency room. We went came back and then it was a year later maybe we were going planning another mission trip And she came and said, I'm going on she came defiant, I'm going on that thing. And I told her, I said, Sue, you just can't. You just can't. It's too dangerous. If something would happen And um she never did talk to me again after that, but uh no, she did, but she didn't like it, but uh she understood But that made me think of somebody that just says, I'm not quitting. I'm not putting up the sword. I'm not I'm not dropping it until I absolutely have to. And that's the way David was. I thought about uh I thought about my dad, if you'll excuse me, using my dad all the time for an illustration, but when he moved down here and we had track month And he absolutely was going to go on these on these uh road trips. And um I said, Dad, I don't know, it's a lot of walking. We're up and down hills, and I if I remember right, he was in Morgantown And he'd get out and he'd go and finally I'd pull him in and say, Dad, you just stay here on the bus and you know. He wanted to be right in there, missing. I tell you, I like that spirit I like that attitude. I'm not quitting until I absolutely can't do anything else. That's the way David was. John chapter 13, verse 31 says about the Lord. He loved his own, and he loved them unto the end. The Lord loved us all the way to the end of his time here. And I want to turn that around. And it's pretty good when a Christian says, you know, the Lord loved me unto the end. I'm going to love the Lord unto the end. I'm just going to stay faithful to him. I'm going to stay on the firing line as long as I can, and I'm just going to love him to the end. I think that's what David's doing. Um in fact after this, David's going down hill really fast. He's still writing great Psalms That are inspired of God's. In fact, the whole next chapter, chapter 22, I think, is a the whole thing is a psalm that David writes nearly on his deathbed, and absolutely powerful, powerful psalm. And so, spiritual battle, my first thought is this: spiritual warfare is a lifelong warfare, lifelong issue. We're going to might as well accept it right now, deal with it right now. We're just going to have to face an enemy, we're going to have to face the world, the flesh, and the devil till the day God calls us out of here. By the way, wouldn't it be great if the rapture happened before Christmas? Man, get blow out of here and all those battles behind us. But if not, the battle rages on. The battle rages on. Number two, my second thought is this. Spiritual warfare is lifelong, number one. Number two, our enemies can be intimidating. Notice there in verse number 16. Here's this name again. I've been practicing it. Ishbai Benob, Ishbai Benob, which was of the sons of the giant. The weight of whose spear weighed 300 shekels. That's about 7. 5 pounds, according to my research. So he has a spear that weighs seven and a half pounds. Of brass and weight, he being girded with a new sword, thought to have slain David. So here's this son of a giant. He's a giant himself. And he's the son of the giant. Notice it doesn't say the son of a giant. It says the son of the giant. What would be? Who would be the giant? Goliath, he's the giant. If anybody says something about the giant in the Bible, you're talking about Goliath. And so this is Goliath's son. And he sees David. And I'm wondering if he didn't take note that David's winded. I wonder if he didn't take note that David's waxing faint, and maybe this son of Goliath says, here's my chance. Here's my chance. And he comes in there. And so here's this son of Goliath, the giant. He's heavily armed. He's highly motivated. Now think about this. David killed his father. Ishbi Ishbibinoth Nob. He is highly motivated to kill David. Would you agree with me? I can see him in my mind's eye, I can see him walk up to David and say My name is Ishbai Benob. You killed my father. Prepare to die. I can hear him saying that. Some of y'all know what. So he's highly motivated to kill David. He's heavily armed. I want to tell you, the devil is highly motivated to destroy your life and my life. The devil hates us, the devil hates the gospel, the devil hates our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. And I want to suggest to you the devil is more motivated to destroy your life and my life than we are motivated. I should say, let me amend that a little bit. The devil is often more motivated to destroy our lives than we are motivated to live for the Lord. I'm afraid the devil's motivation outdoes our motivation significantly. Your average Christian lives for God if it's convenient Your average Christian will do right if it doesn't cost me too much. The average Christian will do what God instructs us to do if it doesn't require too much effort, and I don't have to change my schedule, and it doesn't go against my desires. Sure, I'll do what God says. I'll do what God does God. I'll go where you want me to go, as long as it isn't too far to go. But the devil, on the other hand, he'll do whatever it takes. Do you ever notice this in the Bible? Do you ever notice this the devil? I don't find anywhere where the devil takes vacation. I don't find everywhere, anywhere where the devil takes uh has a two, three-day weekend. In fact, when we're vacationing and when we're taking those long weekends, is usually when the devil's working his hardest on us. Because we're letting our guard down. Our motivation isn't what the devil's is. This Ishbi Benoth is highly motivated to kill David. He wants revenge. And the devil is highly motivated. This world is highly motivated. Man alive. This world is out to uh uh get what it wants, it doesn't matter what it costs, it doesn't matter who it hurts And Christians are nothing more than somebody standing in the way of what this world wants. You know, we are referred to as salt. Right? Jesus said, ye are the what? Salt of the earth. What does salt do? Salt prevents decay, prevents corruption. You put it on your skin, a hide, or something to keep it from rotting away. You cure meat with salt. This world loves corruption. And so you and I are standing in the way of what the world wants. And the world is highly motivated to get what it wants. And if you and I are in the way, guess who they're motivated to take out? And so my point I'm trying to make is this the enemies of God are highly motivated The world, the flesh, our sinful flesh. Anyone notice this? My flesh sure wants to get its way. That's why we're told over and over: mortify the deeds of the flesh, die to self. My flesh sees what it wants, man, it wants it. The devil is highly motivated. The world is highly motivated. The flesh is highly motivated. We must never underestimate the resolve of our spiritual enemies. So the enemy can be very intimidating, one by their uh by their weaponry, two by their motivation. But notice something else by their numbers. You look at the average church, the average Christian, we are, uh humanly speaking, by all visible appearances, we are outnumbered and outgunned. There's a heap more unsaved than there are saved. Hollywood has more money than Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church has. They're more popular than we are. We're outnumbered, we're outgunned. Notice here there's four giants mentioned. Did you notice that? There was one there, this Ishbai Binob. Do you notice how often I'm saying that name? I've been practicing all day. And then over here in verse 18, you got Saf. That's easy. And then where's the other one at? You come down to the brother of Goliath, verse 19. Then you get down to verse 20. You got this 24, six-fingered, six-toed guy. You got four giants listed here. At least one of them is a brother of Goliath. The others are sons of Goliath, I believe. Three sons of Goliath, one brother. They're all giants. This is a giant family. Now that's interesting. These guys, there's several observations to make here. One These guys are all giants, they're all after David. If you would come with me back to 1 Samuel, and come with me back to chapter 17. Keep your place here. 1 Samuel chapter 17. And when you get there, find verse 40. Now this gets interesting a little bit. This is way back when David, just a young boy. is facing Goliath. This is where our introduction to David for the most part. And he sees Goliath out there and All of Israel is trembling. They're scared. And Goliath says, Send us a champion, and whoever I'll fight him, and whoever kills the other one, they'll win the war. We don't have to fight, we'll surrender. And David says, What? What are you guys crazy? Why don't somebody go out and kill this guy? He's defying the nation of Israel. He's blaspheme God. Is there not a cause? And he's looking around, who in the world? And he said, no, no, no, have you seen him? David says, oh, for Pete's sake. That's all in the Hebrew here. He says, I'll go kill him. Nobody else will. And so he goes out and look down, get down to verse number 40. Look what he does. This is interesting. Chapter 17, verse 40 It says, and he, David, took his staff in his hand and chose him what? Five smooth stones. How many giants is he going out to kill? Goliath is out there. But he takes five smooth stones. And there's been a huge debate. Why'd he take five? Well, in case he missed. It doesn't sound to me like David was planning on missing anything. He's pretty confident. So why is he picking up five? Now we don't know. The Bible doesn't tell us expressly, but we get to Chapter twenty or we get to s 2 Samuel 2 Samuel chapter 22, and we find out that Goliath had three boys and a brother. So three plus a brother is four, plus Goliath is I'm wondering, now the boys would have been, I don't know how small they were, but they would have been young at this point. And his brother, the Goliath's brother's out there, I'm just wondering if David didn't notice he's sharp. He's got a an eye for the battlefield. I wonder if he didn't look beyond Goliath and see these other big boys in the lineup back there standing on deck And I wonder if he didn't think, I'm just gonna, they come out here, they're going down too. And uh I'm just wondering if that wasn't the case. David was outnumbered and outgunned. And yet God used them in a great way and won the victory. Listen, we don't have to have the amount of money Hollywood has. We don't have to have the numbers that the world has. We don't have to have the structure and the and all the media that the world has because we have God Almighty and the person of the Holy Spirit dwelling within us and God plus one is always a majority And so David's facing these guys, and the enemy can seem awfully intimidating. The Philistines had more giants than Israel had. Israel didn't have any giants. But Israel had God, and that's what made the difference. So, number one, spiritual warfare is a lifelong issue. Number two, our enemies can be very intimidating. Anybody here ever try to witness someone and they were intimidating? You were intimidated to witness them? Come on, be honest. Anybody? Yeah. I remember we were in Indianapolis. And I think I've told this before, but we were going door we were going through neighborhoods and I had a bunch of teens. It was Saturday afternoon and we were giving out literature, knocking on doors, like our teens do on Sundays. We did it Saturday forenoon Or I guess this was afternoon. But anyway, we're going down and there's this big party. It was summertime. This big outdoor party and they had kegs of beer set up and the music is rah-rah rah And uh all these guys with tattoos and motorcycle gang guys. And there's one guy, he was about the size of Pastor Matt. And so I got a couple teens with me. I can't act like I'm afraid You know, I gotta put on this big Bravado uh show. And so this guy's up there and I'm like, uh Lord help me. And uh I got these teams waiting, Pastor Dennis, he ain't afraid of nothing. And um so anyway I walk up this big guy and he's there and I said uh hi, I'm Pastor Dennis from the uh Thomson Road Baptist Church and he said Hi, how are you? He had the real high voice. I said, Fine. And uh can I give you a gospel? You know, I end up standing there for about a half hour talking to that guy, witnessing that guy, night one of the nicest guys you ever meet. I couldn't get him saved But he thanked me. He asked me, What about drinking whiskey? Is that sin? I said, Well, yeah, pretty much. He goes, I thought so too. And uh The world can be awfully intimidating, but if we just trust God, we can still get the victory. Number three. Number one, spiritual warfare is a lifelong issue. Number two, our enemies can be awfully intimidating. Number three, we need one another. We need one another. Look here in verse 17. Come back here. 2 Samuel 22. So David is a Waxing faint, verse the end of verse 15. Ishbi Benob, I think, sees that and he makes a beeline for David. I'm going to kill you. You killed my father, you prepare to die. And look at verse 17. But Abishai, the son of Zariah, secured him, David, and smote the Philistine. What does that mean he secured him? That's an old word. Simply means this, he helped him. It means to support. One of the definitions in a few places it's used to mean this, to surround something. I think this is what I this is what I picture happening. David is he's winded. Whew! Somewhere on the battlefield and the fighting's going on and Blood and guts hap going on and clashing and all the chaos of battle and um old uh Ishbai Benob sees David And he's making his way through the crowd and lopping off ahead here and pushing these he's making his way through the crowd, right for David. And Abishai is a good assistant. He's got his eye on David. He sees David uh huffin' and puffin', and man, that's not characteristic. That's not normal, uh that's not good. And then he sees uh uh Uh what's his name? Uh Binob. Um what is it? Ishbah Ichby Binob Yeah, that's the guy. And uh he's make and uh old Abishai I this is what I think happened, Abishai stepped right in between David and that giant. Say, you kill David, you have to kill me first. Man, what a man. Terry, the faith and courage of this guy. And he steps in and he secures David, and what's he do? He smites this giant. He killed him right on the spot. Killed him. Yes. I'm thinking he's probably about my age, maybe a little older I think he's uh mid sixties maybe, sixties, sixties, late fifties at the earliest is what I think Yeah. I that's my guess just off the top of my head. I know he's older. The previous stuff with Bathsheba and all of that, he was in his mid-50s Yes. He had grandkids. And so now he's probably mid-sixties, I would say. We're not given a time frame here, but it's significant time after that. So So old Abishai steps in and kills him. And David needed others to help him. And I want to suggest to you that you and I need one another. I put this down. The Christian life is not designed to be lived in isolation. We're not to fight our battles alone. Hebrews 10, verse 25 says, Forsake not the assembling of yourselves together as the manner of sum is, but so much the more as you see the day approaching, he says, Exhort one another. What he's saying is the battle's hot and the spiritual warfare is real and it never lets up. And the Lord's coming back, and as we get closer to the coming of the Lord That spiritual warfare is going to intensify. And listen, we need one another to secure one another. To support one another, to help one another, to surround one another. We need each other's prayers. We need each other's encouragement. We need each other's support. And we don't shoot our wounded, we help our wounded Christian life is not designed to be lived in isolation. David needed Abishai, and then from here on down, the rest of the chapter, his other men are stepping up, and they're carrying the load for David. Spiritual warfare cannot be fought alone. Now we feel like that sometimes. Anybody here? Let me ask you, let me take a little poll. How many people here ever during the day, you just going about your business And out of nowhere, somebody in the church comes to mind in your mind. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Just out of the blue, you're driving down the road, and all of a sudden you think of somebody. You know what I think I think that's the Holy Spirit radar saying, hey, they need a prayer right now. Throw one up for them. Anybody here with a missionary? Just out of the blue, one of the missionaries comes to mind I'm telling you, when that happens, we ought to stop and throw a prayer up to heaven. If we can, stop and pause and lift them up before the Lord. And you say, well, what do I pray for? This is what I do. Lord, I don't know what's going on, but I believe they need you. You protect them and strengthen them. Help their faith not to fail. That's what Jesus prayed for Peter, right? I prayed that thy faith fail not. That's what we ought to pray for one another. And so we need each other. David needed Abishai to step up at this point. He was winded. He was about to have be taken out. And Abishai stepped in. I wonder how many more Christians would still be in the battle if other Christians would have been more supportive of them. Now we can't blame others for our own decisions to step out, right? Everybody's responsible for their own action. But maybe if we'd be a little more supportive rather than running each other down and shooting each other in the back. Stepping up and helping each other. We need one another. We need one another. Even God's greatest saints in the Bible needed the help of others. And by the way, he needed the perspective that others had. Look at verse 17 there, the last part. Then the men of David swear unto him, saying, Thou shalt not go out and Thou shalt go no more out with us to battle, that thou quench not the light of Israel. They saw something about David he did not say himself. They saw he was becoming vulnerable They saw he was waxing faint. Now, I don't know what David was thinking, but they saw something and they had to come to David didn't say, hey guys I don't know if I can do this anymore. He didn't say that. They came and said, David, you can't do this anymore. And sometimes we need someone else just to step up and say, hey You need this, or you know, here's a perspective. I see this. Now let me throw a little caution out there because people are awfully quick to want to give their opinion about us. Right or wrong. Be very, very careful who you take advice from. These were David's trusted men. These were men that put their lives on the line for him. These were men he had tremendous respect for And when they came and said, David, you can't do this anymore, by the way, did you notice their tremendous respect for David? They called him the light of Israel What a term. They were saying, hey, you're the one. You're the one that is why we are what we are. You're the one that's brought God's blessing on us. And so they uh he listened to these men, he took advice for them, he heeded their uh their what they were telling, they listened to what they had to say. Why? Because he Trusted them and they had a perspective on him that he didn't have. And we need each other. We need folks Uh let me just try and make application. Um we need preaching that tells us how it is. I need it. I've gotten, I've noticed in the last several years, I listen to preaching, I've gotten to the point I try to listen to a sermon every day, because I need somebody else telling me how it is And we need, my point is, we need each other. We need each other's input. We need each other's support. Be careful who you allow to influence you. Be careful who you listen to. Everybody has an opinion, but we need people who we know and respect and trust. Number four, I got a fourth point here real quick. I notice that our time to battle is limited. Again, the last part of verse 17, they said, David, you can't do this anymore. Your time on the battlefield is over. You fought your fights. You've slain your tens of thousands. At this point, probably maybe hundreds of thousands. David, you fought your battle. He can't be out on the battlefield anymore. Now, to David's credit, he stayed engaged right up till it was no longer possible. He didn't walk away. He didn't have any retirement plan In the ministry, in serving the Lord in his Christian light. Now, there's something interesting here. How many giants are mentioned in this passage? Anybody out there? Four. How many giants were killed? Four giants mentioned, four giants killed. Listen, you guys gotta help me out. I'm the only one talking here, alright? Four giants mentioned. There's four giants killed. Who killed all those giants? David's assistants. Did David kill any of them? Not one. He didn't kill one of these four. All these other. Now go back 50 years. We're on a battlefield similar to this. Philistines are arrayed on one side of the valley. The Israelites are arrayed on this side of the valley. The Philistines get this brilliant idea. We'll send our champion down there, this giant Israel, you send a giant and kill our giant and we'll submit to you. Well, Israel doesn't have any giants. So they don't send anybody out In fact, they're all standing there shaking and trembling and saying, I ain't going out there, I ain't killed, I ain't facing no giant. And one boy. Says, you guys, what in the world? There's a God in heaven. And he goes out and kills him with one stone, cuts his head off, routes the whole Philistine army. One young boy does that 50 years earlier, not one Israeli soldier would step up and face a giant. Not one But David did. And I want to submit to you his influence, his faith, his confidence Affected the Israeli army. And 50 years later, now we got four guys at least stepping up, killing other giants. And what I'm trying to say is this. Those people were watching David, and they saw what God could do through David, and they became convinced that God could use them to do the exact same thing. And David had a profound influence on these other young men, this generation coming behind him, and lo and behold, they're stepping up and they're killing giants when previously none of them would. And what I'm trying to say is this. Your life and my life has an impact on other people. And this next generation is watching us. We're the older generation. I'm looking at the crowd We're the the we're the older generation for the most part, yes or no? Of course not you ladies are, but uh us men, we are the older generation. Well, Zach's here. We got some kids here, but What I'm saying is this, these these young people are watching us. And our faith and our boldness for the Lord. And our willingness to engage the spiritual enemies that we face impacts these other young people, and I believe challenges them to step up and do the same thing when it's their turn. Fifty years earlier, there's just one boy willing to fight a giant. Now we've got a number of folks willing to fight a giant. David's years were limited, but his influence carried on to the next generation. Now there's numerous. You got Abishai killing a giant. You got Sibia B. Chai's killing a giant. You got El Hanan killing a giant. You got Jonathan killing a giant. David's reproduced his faith. David has reproduced his confidence. David has reproduced his boldness in standing up for the Lord. And now these other guys are stepping up and saying, yeah, we'll kill giants too. David's confident faith and courage had a profound influence on the next generation. What I'm trying to say is this, we cannot quit. We've got to stand up. We've got to take our stand. We've got to be faithful to the Lord. We've got to speak out with the gospel. We've got to be adventurous and courageous with the gospel. Aggressive with the gospel. If we want to see anything follow in behind us, I tell you what, cowards have no positive influence on the next generation. Would you agree with me? We need a generation that has some faith in God. We need a generation that has some boldness with the gospel. I hear more excuses why you can't do this and why we can't preach that and why we can't do this. Listen, God's not looking for excuses. He's looking for some people who will stand up, have faith in God, do what he says, regardless of consequences, and I believe a generation will follow behind that. Some will Not only did David kill a giant, he inspired a nation. And here we are years later, and we see the fruit of that. When I first got saved was in the late 70s. I went down to Highland Park and Tennessee Temple in the early 80s, and man, the big meetings they had back then. I mean, it's hard to nowadays I don't know anything that compares to it. And these powerful preachers, these men of God. And people would, they had a sword conference out in Indianapolis. I think there were 10,000 people there at that conference. And the preaching, get the messaging and listen to them online, powerful preaching. I thank God I heard these men and I saw what God could do through their lives and something stirred in my heart and I said, I don't I don't know if I'll ever have anything to that degree, but brother, I can have that same fire in my heart and soul. And I can have that same faith that they displayed and that same boldness that they had and those same convictions they held to. And they impacted me and they influenced me. And here we are 40 almost 50 years later, and I tell you, it still burns in my heart. What God did through and with those men of a previous generation, God used that to influence not just me, but hundreds and thousands of other young preachers. And that's what's happening with David, and that's what our next generation needs. When we're off the scene, these young people, what are they going to say about us? Boy, I saw the faith of God in him. I saw a zeal for the lost in her. David didn't just kill a giant, he influenced a nation, and now we have a whole slew of giant killers. And then last of all, I kind of repeat what I started with, but my last point is this: there's no end to the spiritual warfare. David had battles and trials his whole life, right up to the end. In fact, even on his deathbed, he had somebody trying to usurp him. We'll see that here in a little bit. His whole life. Yet he stayed faithful to the Lord. He stayed focused on the Lord. He stayed in love with the Lord. No bitterness. I don't see, get to the end of his life, I don't see a hint of bitterness. Sometimes We get older and we get grouchy and we get bitter. We cannot let that happen. We need to just understand this is just warfare to the day we cross Jordan. And I've said this before, I think of it often. I want to cross heaven's threshold, huffing and puffing, waxing faint. Tired, wore out, and I want to flop down when I get to heaven and flop down the street and go. Just be worn out serving God. Well, we got to rest, and I'm all for resting, but this really isn't our rest. We're in the middle of a battle right now. And we got to stay at it. Amen or not? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us learn from David to stay at that thing and go until we can't go no more and influence others and let them go until they can't go no more. Lord, we sure wish you'd come back soon as our desire. But until you do, I pray you'd help us stay faithful. Until you do, help us stay on the firing line. I ask that you'd help us. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many say, preacher, I want God to use me? I don't want to be put on the sideline. I want to be an example, a testimony, coming generation. I need what David had. I want to pass that on to others. Anybody at all know what I'm talking about? Sure. Sure. Who would not want that? Father, bless us and stir us. Help us be willing to pay the price. Help us be willing to fight the battles. In Jesus' name I pray. Let's stand together.