Kings chapter five, if you would turn with me quickly there, 2 Kings chapter 5. You know why it's so h I think I can get away with this. You know why it's so hard to solve a murder in West Virginia? Two reasons. One, they all have the same DNA And two, there's never any dental records. Ow. There goes half the church. No, I'm just kidding. Second Kings chapter five, notice verse ten with me if you would. And Elisha sent a messenger unto him, Naaman, saying, Go and wash in Jordan seven times, and thy flesh shall come again to thee, and thou shalt be clean. But Naaman was wroth, and went away and said, Behold, I thought, he will surely come out to me and stand and call in the name of the Lord his God, and strike his hand over the place, and recover the leper Are not Arbana and Farpah rivers in Damascus better than all the waters in Israel? May I not wash in them and be clean? So he turned and went away in a rage. And his servants came near, and spake unto him, and said, My father, if the prophet had bid thee to do some great thing, wouldst thou not have done it? How much rather then, when he had said to thee, Wash and be clean? Then he went down and dipped himself seven times in Jordan, according to the saying of the man of God, and his flesh came again, like unto the flesh of a little child, and he was clean. We've been building up to this point for a while. And tonight we want to look at the healing and the salvation of Naaman. Let's pray and look at this here. Father, please bless now. Help me, Lord, I ask, to get to the point. And I pray that what the lesson taught tonight Would get a hold of our hearts and give us a new vision on salvation and reaching reaching others for Christ. Fill me with your spirit, I ask, Lord. I give myself to you new. And speak through me, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. I said this often over the years. Salvation is very simple. Getting saved in and of itself is a very simple thing. But salvation is not always easy. You follow what I'm saying? The act of trusting Christ, being saved, is not complicated. But so often there are so many obstacles we have to get past. Before we get to that point where we trust Christ. How many folks tonight you're sitting here tonight you can go back in your mind? Now some it's been longer than others But you can go back to your mind to the time you got saved. How many people you can do that in your mind? I can go back. I remember the circumstances, everything around it. How many people would testify that the days, maybe weeks, maybe months, maybe just hours, but the time leading up to your decision to trust Christ, there was a real battle in your heart and life. It was a struggle to get to that point. How many people would testify to that? Yeah, look at that. That's the majority of the people. Getting saved is very simple. Trust Christ, call on the Lord, and you shall be saved. Paul's explanation in Acts 16:30, the Philippian jailer said, What must I do to be saved? The answer is very simple, right? Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, thou shalt be saved. But you know, this Philippian jailer had to go through an earthquake before he came to that point. So it wasn't really easy for him to get saved, though it was very simple. There's a lot of obstacles to overcome. I remember my salvation in May of 79 And the months leading up to that, and for whatever reason, why I struggled with that and fought that until I finally got to the point where I simply called on Christ. Name it. Had to go through a series of trials, of disappointments, of frustrations Till he finally got to the point where he was going to simply do what God said he needed to do to be saved and to be cleansed. And the fact of the matter is, Naaman's cleansing Of his leprosy and his ultimate salvation was a very simple thing. Just dip seven times in the river. He could have done that right from the get-go and it had been over with. But he had to go through a process Now, I want you to listen very carefully to this. Salvation is not a process. Alright? Salvation is an instantaneous event. It's not a process. Nobody is in the process of being saved. Alright? Either you is or you ain't. Alright. That's for the West Virginia folks. It's not a process. Salvation isn't an instantaneous event. But Many times, often, a person must go through a process before they get to the point of salvation. Now keep your place here. I want to give you some scripture to support. We're going to come back to this. Turn with me if you would real quickly to 1 Corinthians chapter 3. 1 Corinthians chapter 3 First Corinthians chapter three and I want you to notice with me verse six and seven. Now Paul's dealing with Division in the church there at Corinth. Some people said, I'm of Paul, I'm of Apollos, I'm of Peter. Oh, yeah, well, I'm not of any man, I'm of the Lord Jesus. And Paul was trying to point out to them, listen It's not the individual person. Each person had a role to play, perhaps, in your salvation. And then look at verse number 6. Look what he says. He says, I, Paul, I have planned it. And Apollos what? Watered. But God gave the increase. So then neither is he that planteth anything, neither he that watereth but God that giveth the increase. Do you notice a process that takes place there? Somebody comes along and plants. Somebody else comes along and they water, but God's the one that saves them. So when we go up and knock on a door, My role in the spiritual experience of that person in the door, my role may be that of planting. That person may not trust Christ with me. But if I can at least share the gospel with them, if I can tell them how to be saved and plant that truth in their heart and mind That's part of the process. Is everybody with me? All right? And then somebody else comes along. Somebody's looking for a woodworking stuff. And they share the gospel, and lo and behold, somebody else has already been witnessing them. Somebody else perhaps has already planted seed, and he's watering that. And that truth, get this, that truth that was planted in their heart and mind by the person that planted it is now watered, is now reinforced, somebody else comes along, says the same thing. And that reinforces that truth, that waters that truth, and it begins to take root. And then somebody else comes along and, Lord Willen, leads them to Christ. Now, sometimes you'll do the water, planting, watering, and harvesting all at one shot. But I want to suggest to you that's very rare Very seldom. How many folks here? You got saved. Now be honest. You got saved the very first time you ever heard the gospel. You never heard how to be saved, never heard the gospel at all, never before. First time you heard it, you got saved. Is there anybody here like that? I don't see any hand. You know what that tells me? There was a process going on. Somebody had planted, somebody was watering. Finally, it came to the point where you trusted Christ. That is what is happening in the life of Naaman. Let me give you my two points. First of all, I notice the persuasion. Oh, by the way, let me back up. Since that is true, Since one person water, one person plants, another waters, God gives the increase, they get saved. Since that's true, we shouldn't give up on anybody. Right? Because we don't know where we're at in that process. Say, man, I've witnessed that person with us where they won't get saved. Hey, may take a little more watering. Don't give up on them. We don't know where they are in the process. Some people hear it, believe it, get saved right away. That's very rare. Usually you've got to hear it a number of times in various avenues. Let's say the process. Are you with me? Let's say the process of someone getting saved. is from here to here. Over here is the initial Plan. The scenes put in their heart. They hear the gospel initially. They're presented with the concept of the need of salvation. Heaven, hell, judgment, Christ died for It's new to them, they take it in. The process is over here. You know what I would like to think? If I can help that person, maybe maybe not get them. I might not be the one that gets them from here all the way to over there. But if I can get them from here to here, that's a big thing. Amen? Maybe get him into a revival service and have them sit there. and hear the gospel preached and an invitation given. They may not get saved in that, but that one event may have moved them this far Are you with me? You know, we had several young men here Friday night that had never been in church before. They told me I'd never been to a church before. They're in their mid to late teens. Never been to a church before. That's why I was harping on heaven hell getting sick. I was just because they never heard they'd never been there before Now I'll be honest with you, I was up here praying, I was praying, Lord, let them get saved tonight. Let them get saved tonight. Let them get saved tonight. They didn't make a decision for Christ. But I tell you what, they heard how to be saved I would like to think that in their hearts and lives we may be moved them from here to here. Alright? Follow what I'm saying? Naaman's experience. Did you notice? The little maid did not lead Naaman to the Lord. But does that mean she didn't play a significant role? No. She played a very significant role. So let me give you my two thoughts. Number one, I notice in the salvation, the healing and salvation in Naaman, and this is important for us to get, I believe, is the persuasion of his associates. Now, his servants, I don't believe, were saved at this point. And we talked about this two weeks ago, but they were very concerned for their master. We said he was a kind man. And I'll tell you, I got more response back from that message on kindness than anything I've preached, I think, all year I think I may have touched on something. We're not nice, but um anyway His associate, there's one factor in this whole event that stands out in my mind. There's one factor in this whole event that I believe without that factor, Naaman would have died a slow, horrible death of leprosy and ended up in hell. But he had some associates who cared about him. They cared about him. And that one factor led to the salvation of Naaman. They cared about him. If we if and I'm preaching it myself to much as much as anybody. If I wasn't preaching, if someone up here preaching what I'm preaching, I was sitting there, when the invitation was given, I'd be at the altar because I got convicted over this. If we, I'm convinced, if we would just care about people, just care I'm afraid, I'm guilty as anybody. I'm afraid sometimes I give out a gospel track. I share the gospel, witness somebody knock on the door I hate to admit this, but not always necessarily because I care about him, but because I have a bad conscience if I don't. Huh? I feel bad if I don't do that. Oh, they're lost. And it's not so much a real compassion for the person as it is a selfish thing. Well, I don't want to feel bad. I want to be guilty. I want to do what I'm supposed to do Now I think we should do what we're supposed to do. Amen? But these guys, they weren't even saved. But they really cared about whether Naaman was well or not. And that factor, the little maid, she didn't lead him to the Lord, but she really cared whether he would die of leprosy or be healed. It meant a lot to her. It was important to her. That he not die of leprosy, that he get to the prophet and be healed. Man, I think if we as individuals and us as a church can get to the point where we really care Whether the people around us go to heaven or hell, whether we really care whether they get saved or not, not just doing it because, man, I'll feel bad if I don't. But doing it because, you know, I really want to see that person know Christ. And because of their concern They sought to persuade Naaman. Look at verse 13. And his servants came near. Now remember, Naaman at this point is really ticked. For lack of a more creative way of saying it. He is upset. He's in a rage. Servants came near and spaking to him and said, My father, if the prophet had bid thee do some great thing, wouldest thou not have done it? How much rather then when he saith thee wash and be clean? What are they doing? They're not giving Naaman any more information than what he already had. They're trying to persuade him to act upon the information he's already given. Now we need to be very careful, and again, I'm preaching to myself as much as anybody, but we need to be very careful and not get the attitude, well, I gave them the gospel, I delivered the mail, it's up to them now. Our responsibility as ambassadors for Christ is more than simply delivering the mail. Our responsibility is to persuade folks to trust Christ. It's not enough just stand there, say, here's the gospel, da da da da da da here's the gospel, you want to be saved? No, okay, well, praise the Lord, I did my part. Now, if that's all you do, praise the Lord. Do that But how much better to say, hey, won't you trust Christ? Think about heaven and hell. Come on, think about it. It's not that big, you know, how much more? And his servants sought to persuade him to trust me. You say, Well, I don't think I should talk someone in uh into doing something they don't want to do. Let me ask you a question: if a house is burning And that person's not getting out. Would you try and persuade them to get out? They're sitting there, the things ready to clap on them. They say, I don't believe that. You're just messing with me You'd say, all right, too bad, I told you. You wouldn't do that. You'd go in there and almost drag them out physically if you had to, right or wrong. Persuading them, putting pressure on, saying, hey, come on, this is real. Think about it. You walk away from this. What's going to happen? That is a result of caring. And a result of actually being concerned for that person's well-being. Paul said in 2 Corinthians chapter 5. Excuse me. In 2 Corinthians chapter 5, I think it's verse 11. He said, Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord. Now, I always thought for years that was talking about hell. And I've touched, I've taught on this before. When he says in 2 Corinthians 5, knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, he's not talking about hell, he's talking about the judgment seat of Christ. Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men. There's judgment coming. I don't want this person to die. They need Christ. And he said we try and persuade men. I made reference this morning in Sunday school in Acts uh chapter four, I think it was, uh I can't do it off the top of my head Thing is around there. Uh the Bible says that they so spake that many believed. In other words, they didn't just deliver facts, but they did it in such a way, a persuasive way. And earnest, compassionate way. They spake in such a way that the people said, We've got to do this, we've got to believe on this, we've got to be saved Persuasion. Persuasion. They did more than just brought him to Elisha. They persuaded him. They talked him into doing what God said he should do. I don't see anything in the world wrong with seeking, if we genuinely care about someone, to seek to talk them into trusting Christ. Put some pressure on. Be persuasive. Listen, if we really believe it And if we really care, it's not enough just to give out the fact. Our heart gets in it. We say, listen, this is real. It's interesting. The little Jewish maid, she cared about him. She goes, boy, I wish you could get to Elisha, the prophet in Israel. He's he'd cure you of your leprosy. You know what she did? She planted. There's a prophet in Israel. There's a God in Israel that can heal leprosy? You're gonna be kidding. Somehow it gets to the king. Wow, let's check it out That seed was planted. She didn't lead him to the Lord, but she planted the seed. And apparently she had such a testimony and said it in such a way. That it persuaded him to act on what she said. Then he gets there and he goes through the whole ordeal with the king of Israel. Then he gets down, he has it all planned out, and he gets to Elisha, and Elisha doesn't do what he thought he would do, and it's like, ah! I can't take it anymore. I've had it, I'm out of here. And then his servants, who aren't even saved, they water That seed that the little maid planted. They said, now wait a minute, stop and think about this. What's it hurt? Give it a try. And they watered that thought, and Naaman got saved. Isn't that something? Persuasion. And God, by the way, God did the healing. Right? God did the and God does the saving. But there was a whole lot of watering and seed planting and watering going on, persuasion that got him to the point where God would heal him and save him. My second thought and last is this, the conversion of Naaman. This is interesting. Look at verse 14. Then he went down. Now look back at verse 11. Naaman was wroth, and he went away and said, Behold, I thought. Then you get to verse 14, then he went down. There was a change in his thinking. The way he saw this whole thing from verse 11 to verse 14 was two completely different views. He had a change of thinking. He had a surrender of his will Verse 11, this is crazy. I thought it'd be this way, I'm out of here. Verse 14, he's walking down into the river Jordan, doing exactly what he said in verse 11 he wouldn't do. He went down. That is repentance. He changed his mind completely. I thought a man. Verse 14. Alright. I'll go down and I'll do it. Repent salvation begins in the heart and mind. The way we think. How many people here remember how you saw the world and saw everything before you got saved? How many people here remember your view on the world before you got saved? How many people you view the world and everything differently after you got saved than you did before you got saved? Salvation is a factor in our mind. It's where salvation begins, what we think, what I think about myself, what I think about God, what I think about what he says That's what repentance is. He went from I thought to going down in the river. The most precious, valuable thing a man has. According to the Bible, the most precious, the most valuable thing that you and I have is our soul. There is nothing else in the world that is of equal value to a person's soul. Let me reword that. Everything else in the world is not of equal value. To one man's soul. How the Lord put it. Mark chapter 8, verse 36. What shall it profit a man if he gain the whole world? And what? Lose his own soul. You know what the Lord is saying? Your soul, a man's soul, is of greater value than all the possessions of the world. A man's soul. The most important thing any of us can do with our soul Is to submit it to the Word of God. Now think with me. Think how closely Naaman came. To losing his soul. He was walking away from his only hope of healing and salvation. He was leaving it But a couple servants cared about him. And they spoke up and they persuaded him to trust what God had said and obey him. How many people are you and I going to meet this week? Are that close to losing their own soul? Unsaved. How many people do you and I know? There are people I'm convinced that we're going to meet this week. If somebody would speak up, they just might get saved. If we keep our mouth shut, they may walk away and never trust Christ. You know what's sad? Sometimes we were down at the parade giving out gospel tracts. You know what's sad? Sometimes I come up to people, and I know they claim to be saved. They claim to be Christians. You know what? They were embarrassed. That somebody came by, Lou made reference to it. They were embarrassed that somebody came by to give a gospel tract. What do my friends think of me? People who I saw him, you know, I'm not blind. Try and hope I didn't see him, you know. Oh, he knows me Try and walk by. And I got thinking about that. What about those people around? Maybe all it would have taken was say, hey, he's a preacher. You ought to listen to what he says. He's got something here. May have been the opportunity God was given to be a witness and see some people saved. But they were ashamed. Imagine if Naaman's servants would have said, ah, that guy's a freak. Something weird about that Elijah. Don't listen to him. What would have happened to Naaman? He'd have died and gone to hell. He'd have died a horrible death. How many people are that close? And all it needs, all God needs is a servant. To speak up. Hey, listen, this is for real. Trust him. God can do something in your life Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, you'd help us to genuinely care. Not for ourselves or the things of this world. God help us to care about others. Help us to care enough to get involved in people's life and to speak up, persuade people to trust you and live for you. Pray you'd help me. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many this evening would join me in saying, Preacher, my compassion is not what it ought to be? My real concern, my soul winning, is more a matter of me easing my own conscience than it is really caring about the people I'm talking to. How many people would say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me have compassion? To really care. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? My hand's raised. Been preaching to myself tonight Father, help us, I pray, as a church and as individuals, to have real concern that people would sense that when they come and when we go out and meet them In Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads abowed, eyes are closed. God spoke to your heart this evening. Kathy's playing a few verses of invitation. Maybe you just want to need to come to an altar and say, Lord, please give me that compassion. God, stir my heart. God, please help me to be more concerned for others. God help me to see the value of a soul, not to be ashamed of the gospel. Help me to be like those servants. Just be willing to say a word, to persuade someone.