We'll get going. Second Kings chapter five. I had a rare privilege this afternoon to um uh lead a l uh eighty-nine year old lady to pray with me to trust the Lord as her personal savior. Just a dear lady and she was weeping and crying. I asked her, I said, do you know? I said, ma'am, I said her name, I said, do you know that God has forgiven your sins? Do you know that He's forgiven you? And she began to weep. She goes, I hope so. I hope he has. I said, Well the Bible tells us how we can know for sure. It's so precious. And weeping, she prayed with me So uh you pray for this dear lady. Her last name is uh Lewis, and so uh real precious, her husband is ninety-three And uh wasn't able to speak with him just a bit at the end, but um it was real exciting. Another thing, uh this, I found this on the pulpit, this is Joe Arthur's handkerchief So I think there might be some power in it, and I'm gonna hold on to that. But um and also one other thing I want to do real quickly, how many people recognize the name Leela Naylor Morris? Does anybody recognize the name Leela Naylor-Morris? Leela Naylor-Morris is the author of the song Let Jesus Come Into Your Heart. Anybody familiar with that song? Let Jesus Come. She wrote it at a camp meeting in Mountain Lake Park in the early nineteen hundreds. She wrote that right here in Mountain Lake Park and um at one of the camp meetings going on here at Brother Paul and that song took off. She has a whole slew of other songs we sing Uh what if it were today, Jesus may come today? She wrote that. I don't think it was here, but that song Let Jesus Come Into Your Heart is written here in Mount Lake Park. Isn't that an amazing thing? And there's a great heritage. Dr. Smith and I were talking about it. And if anybody knows, somewhere, I know there's buildings and they've got boxes and stuff stored. If we could go through some of that and find some of these, if we could find a copy of that, wouldn't that be something? Uh an early copy of that? And these things, we could put a little presentation up a little display and somewhere in Mountain Lake Park there's a Bible floating around that has Billy's Sunday signature on it. And Sue's been trying to help me find that thing We know it's here somewhere. And so if you know anything or know anybody or just pray, wouldn't that be a neat thing to have? Put in a box and put it on display? Paul. All right, good. We uh if we can get that, we'll use it and put it on where people can look at it. Don't let the historical society get it, we'll never get it back. But uh no, I'm just teasing Helen I'm I'm kidding. Well maybe I'm not kidding, but um I just said that to tease a little bit. Alright, 2 Kings chapter 5. Let's uh get going here. Uh now name it, verse 1. Captain of the hosts of the king of Syria was a great man, great man with his master, and honorable, because by him the Lord had given deliverance unto Syria. He also was a mighty man of valor. Now we noted in a previous message about this guy named Naaman. What a position he held. What a powerful man he was. successful in every area of his life as far as we can tell. But look at the last phrase. He was a what? A leper. That takes everything away. Oh, I guarantee you, he would have given up all that honor position, all that success, all that fame, just to escape leprosy. Nobody in the world wanted to be a leper. Look at verse 2. And the Syrians had gone out by companies and had brought away captives out of the land of Israel a little maid. And she waited on Naaman's wife. And she said unto her mistress, Would God my Lord were with the prophet that is in Samaria, for he would recover him of his leprosy. And one went in and told his lord, saying, Thus and thus said the maid that is of the land of Israel. And the king of Arius, Syria said, Go too, go, and I will send a letter unto the king of Israel. And he departed and took with him ten talents of silver, six thousand pieces of gold, and ten charges of raiment. And he brought the letter to the king of Israel, saying, This is what the letter said. Now, when this letter is come unto thee, behold, I have therewith sent Naaman my servant to thee, that thou mayest recover him of his leprosy. Wow. Verse 7, it came to pass when the king of Israel read the letter, that he rent his clothes and said, Am I God to kill and to make alive that this man does send unto me to recover a man of his leprosy? Wherefore, consider, I pray you, and see how he seeketh a quarrel against me. He's saying, What in the world? This guy's asking me to heal his leprosy? I can't do that. He's just wanting to pick a fight And it was so when Elisha, the man of God, heard that the king of Israel had rent his clothes, he sent to the king, saying, Wherefore hast thou rent thy clothes? Let him come now to me, and he shall know that there is a prophet in Israel. So Naaman came with his horses and with his chariot and stood in the door of the house of Elisha I think it's interesting the king kept all the gold and silver. Did you notice that? And Elisha sent a messenger unto him saying, Go and wash in the Jordan seven times, and thy flesh shall come again to thee, and thou shalt be clean. But Naaman was wroth and went his way and said, Behold, I thought he will surely come out to me and stand and call on the name of his Lord his God and strike his hand over the place and recover the leper. Are not Arbana, Abanah, and Farpar, rivers in Damascus, better than all the waters of Israel? May I not wash in them and be clean? So he turned and went away in a rage And his servants came near, and spake unto him, and said, My father, if the prophet had bid thee do some great thing, wouldest not thou have done it? How much rather then, when he saith to thee, wash and be clean. When he went down and dipped himself seven times in Jordan, according to the saying of the man of God. Then he went he down and dipped seven times in Jordan, according to the saying of the man of God And his flesh came again like the flesh of a little child, and he was clean. Seven times, washing seven times in the Jordan. Let's pray. Ask the Lord speak our hearts. Father. Lord, you've recorded for us an amazing story here. And Father, you've told us in your New Testament that these stories were written for our admonition, for our benefit. So I pray that tonight as we look at this portion, as we study this out, that your Holy Spirit would apply to our lives. The principles and truths that you know we have need of to live for you and please you with our lives. Lord, we want to be successful in life We want our lives to please you and to count and fulfill the purpose for which you've given us life. And so we ask that you'd speak to our hearts. Father, I don't want to get in the way in any way of you dealing and applying your word to our hearts. So, God, I yield my will to yours. I present my body anew I ask you to fill me with your spirit. Speak through me, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. The very beginning portion of this passage of scripture that I read, we're introduced to this little unnamed girl. And really, by the world's account, she's very insignificant. This little Jewish maid, uh really uh Jewish slave. So we noted in a previous message, we know really nothing about this little girl, other than what the three verses, verse 2, 3, and 4, tell us about her, which is very little. We don't know her name. We don't know how old she is, although the phrase little maid and their um is used and also uh they make reference uh to the little mate I guess and uh the phrase little there has the idea of insignificant but it also has the idea of uh little in age. So she was a young girl. When they refer to her as a little maid, it's not talking so much about her size, physical size. It's not talking so much uh uh uh about like I said her age even necessarily. It implies though that she was insignificant and a very young girl. The picture I got as I was studying this and reading various commentaries on it and getting some input on what I could find out about this girl. Uh I got the impression she was between twelve and sixteen years old. That's just kind of what I picked up. I thought of someone about Morgan's age. Little girl, Morgan, maybe a little bit older. So that's this little girl. She's taken from her home. She's taken to the slave market and sold and ends up being The maid of the captain of the Syrian army's wife. So we don't know anything about her. Nevertheless. Even though we know nothing almost about this girl, yet because of this little girl's faith in God And because of her courage to speak up about that faith, she is used of God as an instrument in one of what I would consider the most unexpected Salvation experiences in the Bible. Who would have ever expected The captain of the Syrian army to find Christ. Alright, do I have everybody's attention? Alright, put the text away and all that, please. Who would have ever expected? That the captain of a pagan heathen nation of their army would come to Christ. And God uses a little girl, probably a young teen girl. Who has faith in God and is her faith is strong enough and she cares enough about the man she's serving the husband of the woman she's serving that she's willing to speak up and simply make a little statement. Look what she says. Would God, my Lord, were with the prophets in Samaria, for he would recover him of his leprosy. In that little phrase, you read confidence. I don't see any doubt. Oh, if you were with Elisha, boy, he'd make you well. The faith of a child Salvation, the Syrian general chief of the army in charge This man was one of the most powerful men in the known world. And he's brought to saving faith. Now this is I'm driving this home. He's brought to saving faith by the word of a little, quote-unquote, insignificant girl. Now that little girl, believing God and willing to speak up for her faith, could be used of God in such a miraculous, unexpected way. How might God use your faith or my faith if we just speak up You know, if you knew the Lord Jesus the way I do, that your marriage, God could turn that around. You know, if you knew Christ as your Savior, you could quit that liquor and have victory over that. You never know what just a word of faith expressing what we say we believe in our hearts is true, sharing that with someone, you never know the impact that may have in someone's life. Would God that my Lord was with the servant, the prophet that is in Israel, he would cure him of his leprosy. There must have been something special about this young girl. Think about it. Do you think she was the only slave that Naaman had? No, this is a powerful man. This is a man that no doubt has scores And the very fact that they would listen, even listen to this little girl from Israel, a Jew nonetheless. The very fact that they would listen to her tells me there must have been something about her. That would cause them to even consider what you had to say, let alone have the king send them uh his chief military man on this five-day journey. Based solely on the statement of a young slave girl. So there was something about this girl that everyone respected There was something about this girl. When she spoke, they were confident that what she said was true. And again, I ask myself and I ask you, does anyone take what you say about the Lord seriously? How is your testimony in your family and in your workplace and in your world of influence? What is your testimony like? When you speak up for the Lord, does anybody Take it seriously? This little girl, who was probably the least esteemed in the entire household, when she spoke, the king listened. When she spoke of God's power, the king of a heathen nation responded. There was something about her. She must have had a powerful, powerful testimony in that household I want us to consider a few things, and we're not going to get anywhere near through this tonight. And uh so I just want to just share a few things and hopefully the Lord can apply it. The thing I want to look at tonight is Naaman's arrival in Jerusalem. I want us to consider Naaman leaving his place, his entourage, getting to Jerusalem, and the things he had to deal with on this trip. Now think about who Naaman was. We talked about him earlier. He is a proud Assyrian. There is nothing humble about the Assyrians They were conquerors. They were victorious. This man was a very powerful warrior. He was extremely self-confident. He ruled over warriors. And this guy is coming to Israel. He travels approximately five days. To get from Damascus to this area of Israel where Elisha was. He traveled that road before, many times, but never like this. When he had traveled this road from Syria to Israel, previously he had traveled leading great armies. They had come to Israel to conquer Israel. If you remember in a previous message, Jewish tradition suggests that when Ahab was killed, the soldier that drew a bow adventure, the Bible says, and just launched a bow into the crowd, an arrow into the crowd, and hit Ahab between the the shoulder blades and came out in the front of him. Jewish his tradition suggests that that was Naaman. So he had traveled this road before But not in this condition. He had traveled this road as a conquering warrior. He had traveled this road as an invading army into Israel and other air uh countries in that area. So this road was not a new road to him, but something was different this time. Now he's traveling this road with mixed emotions. Now put yourself in Naaman's condition. situation. I was trying to imagine him traveling and what would be going through his mind. Powerful man, wealthy Very influential, extremely successful, but he's a leper. And he's leaving his country and he's going to a country he has already conquered. He's killed hundreds, maybe thousands, of that country's soldiers. And now he's traveling in the hopes of being made well. Now I put down some things, emotions that may have been going through his mind. I would imagine he had hope in his heart that what this little girl said was true. Would you agree with me that? Apparently he was hoping, boy. I hope she said there's a guy in Israel that can take away my leprosy. Boy, I hope that's true. But on the other hand, one hand, he must be hoping it's true, obviously, or he wouldn't be doing this But on the other hand, don't you agree with me it would be a little humiliating for him? This one country, he just conquered them, they just wiped them out, now he's coming asking for their help. So I would imagine there would be an element of this proud soldier, there would be an element of humiliation as he comes up with gifts and asking something from the ones he just destroyed. But on the other hand, in the back of his mind, boy, if I could be made well of this leprosy, if I could get this off of me, I could hold my wife again. I could be with my children. I could actually get down and mingle with the soldiers that I lead. Because as a leper, he was quarantined He couldn't mix in with the crowd. And so there's an element of hope going on in his heart, but there's also an element of Humiliation. I I wrote this down. I would imagine there was an element of fear. By that I mean He no doubt has tried everything available in his country to escape this curse of leprosy. Would you agree with me on that? Is everybody with me? Everybody out there? I would imagine being the head of the army, everything they had to help was at his disposal. Just like our senators, you know what's interesting? Um I don't know how I get off on this stuff, but you know what's interesting? Our senators and representatives and our leaders in government are exempting themselves from the health care thing that they're trying to impose on us. Did you know that? This health care thing that's trying to be passed, they are exempt from it. They have their own private type of health insurance and they don't have to be a part of what they're making us be a part of? Does that bother anybody besides me Has nothing to do with the message, but it bothers me, so I said that. I would imagine as a leader of the army, all the the greatest health care that s uh uh Syria had available that he had uh tried and it had not worked. And I would guess that in his mind there's an element of fear this isn't gonna work Nobody has ever been healed of leprosy. I don't know anybody. I know people who have died of leprosy. I don't know anybody that's healed. I'm doing all this, but I'm afraid That when it's all said and done, I'm going to come back in the same condition I win. So I would imagine this whole time he's traveling, these five days. He's thinking, boy, I hope this works. I don't see how this could possibly be true. Oh boy, wouldn't that be great? There's no way. I'm gonna get burned again. Everyone that's told me they could help me has failed. But then there must be an element of faith, or he wouldn't be doing this. Boy, she was so certain Her life has been a testimony that what she believes, she really believes is true. Man, I hope she's right. She's got to be right. And so he has these mixed emotions as he's traveling along. Now I got thinking about it. What was it that motivated Naaman? To humiliate himself and come to the king of the nation he's just conquered His servants are citizens, we're citizens of this country. And now he's coming and seeking them to make him well. What would motivate someone like Naaman to do that? I think there was one thing And one thing only, and that was this. This was his only hope. He had no other options. There were no cures for leprosy That his gods, false gods, were powerless to make him well. If he was ever, hey If he was ever going to be healed from leprosy, it was going to have to be by Israel's God, because nothing else worked. And the application of that for you and I is this. If anybody's ever going to have sins forgiven and make it to heaven, it has to be through the Lord Jesus Christ. The gods of this world, the philosophies of men, cannot take away and change the sinful heart. Only Jesus Christ can. And I'll tell you, it's a great motivation when a man or a woman or a teenager, a child, or a senior citizen comes to the point And they realize that Jesus is the only way they can hope to be saved from sin in hell. When they realize that, that's a great motivation to trust Christ. My testimony through my teen years and you've heard it, but as I was leading up to the time I trusted Christ, I was such a mess and my life was going uh going downhill so fast I could see the train wreck coming of my life. As I read my Bible, I realized if my life was ever going to be turned around, if I was ever going to be cleansed from the leprosy of the sin that was destroying my life, it was going to have to be Jesus Christ. And I think that was going through Naaman's mind. This is my only hope. Nothing else will work. This is my only hope. The witness and testimony of this little girl is the only hope I have. That I'll ever be cleansed of this. So, his arrival in Jerusalem. What did all this involve? Well, first of all, he had to deal with the difficulty of his pride. And I just explained all that, the struggles, no doubt, going through his mind. He was a proud man, but he had to humbly acknowledge that he had no other hope. This prophet in Israel was the only one that's going to make him well. The second thing, Naaman's trip and arrival in Jerusalem involved Naaman presented himself to the king of Israel, but he presents himself with an unreasonable reasonable demand. Look at verse number six. He brings this letter from the king of Syria to the king of Israel. And look what the letter says. Well, we read it a few moments ago, but look at it again with me, verse 6. This is the letter. Starts out. He unrolls the scroll and he reads it. Verse 6. Now, when this letter has come to thee, behold, I have therewith sent Naaman my servant to thee, that thou mayest recover him of his leprosy. That's it. No greetings. Most esteemed Doram, King of Israel. Don't say that. Uh uh how do you open your letters? Dear so-and-so, I trust this letter finds you in good health. Uh boy, we're rejoicing. And uh doesn't say any of that. There's no introduction, there's no greetings, there's no compliments, there's no official salutations from one king to another. It just says, I sent Naaman, your job is to get him well from leprosy. Good grief. Now Joram, the king of Israel, if you study him, he was not really a very smart guy He thought he was something. Did you ever meet somebody that thought they were really, really wise? In reality, they're really dumb. Does anybody know? They think everything they say is really profound. And uh it's right, Tom, we're not taking testimonies right now. But um uh but anybody know what I'm talking about? Yes, amen Tom raised his hand. I thought he was gonna give a testimony. I thought I thought Ed and Ch uh Chester were gonna get up and start shaking hands. I wasn't sure what was gonna happen. That's the way Joram was. He really thought he was something, and he really wasn't anything. You read his story, and we could preach a whole series on this guy. He was arrogant. He was boastful, but at the same time he was a coward. Um you remember those kids in school? Man, they talk and they all do that. But when something actually came down, they're the first ones running. Anybody know what I'm talking about? That's Jorah Man, he'll talk it, talk it, talk it. He's ready to go, he's ready to go. What? They're actually coming? I'm out of here. Um he was arrogant, he was boastful, he was cowardly Um he was unstable. You never knew from one day to the next whether he was Oh on top of it and fired up. The next day he's in the pits wanting to commit suicide. The next day, man, everything's great. The next day everything's down. He was unstable. He was arrogant. He was a coward He was not a wise man, and he was not a man of faith. So he gets this letter from the king of Syria. And he, what in the world? You sent your military leader to me that I'm supposed to cleanse him, I'm supposed to uh uh recover him of his leprosy And it's interesting. Joram was an unbeliever. He had no time for God. But when he gets this letter, he starts talking about God. Notice what he says in response. Verse 7, the middle part. He said, Am I God? To kill and to make alive. This is interesting. He's faced with what he believes is a setup to get him into war with Syria again. And all of a sudden he starts talking about God. All of a sudden he starts talking as if he believed that God could kill and make alive. Previous to this time, he had no time for God. He didn't believe in any of that. Now all of a sudden he starts speaking of the Lord. It's interesting. He lived a life of an unbeliever, but now he starts referencing God. If he really believed that God had power to kill and to make alive, and this guy showed up, if he really believed what he said, why didn't he take Naaman? Personally, down to the prophet and say, This is the man of God. God has power to kill and make alive. You guys get together, God can do this for you. But he doesn't say that You know why? Because all his talk about God, he really didn't believe it. And I'm telling you, it's very Now God knows people's hearts, but I am not impressed with people who live like the heathen. With people who live as if there is no God, then suddenly a problem comes up and they start talking religion. That is not impressive. Naaman was not impressed with the king of Israel's talk about God. The king of Syria. was not impressed with Naaman's talk about God. Naaman's own council members, his own court, was not impressed with his talk about God because his talk about God did not match his living without God. And it's an interesting thing is, a little slave maid in Syria had a better testimony than the king of Israel. Nobody respected his, oh my God, to make why not appeal to that God You know why? Because his faith was non-existent. A little slave maid had more faith than the king of Israel. And in fact, the little slave maid in Syria, teenage girl Had more faith in God than the king of Israel's entire court had. Nobody in his leadership spoke up and said, wait a minute, God can make you well. And the interesting thing is, the king of Israel did not have any maids that had faith in God. One little girl, five days' journey from her home, the slave in a pagan man's house. Has more influence and more testimony for God than these people that held these great positions. I'm telling you, God is not God is not impressed with your titles or your positions or your power you have with men or your possessions. God is looking for genuine faith And you may just be a little slave girl in the world's eyes, someone insignificant, but if you'll trust God and believe God, He'll use you when He'll set aside a king. What an opportunity the king of Israel had to be a testimony of the God he claimed to believe in. What an opportunity for the King of Israel, God's people! What an opportunity to testify to the power of the God who made Israel exist. And he misses it completely. Misses it completely. Was the letter unreasonable? Yes. But was God able to do what that letter was asking for? Absolutely. And the king missed it completely. There's nothing sadder than a person who claims to be a Christian and yet lives a life of unbelief. Nothing so dishonors God as unbelief. And what a shame, what a pitiful testimony this man had. To the God of the people he ruled over. So first of all, you have Naaman has to deal with his pride traveling to Israel to get healed. Second thing he has to deal with is this unreasonable letter that's presented to the king of Israel, and he freaks out. Oh, you're just trying to start a fight. What are we going to do? And he rents his clothes Now when it says that he uh where is the phrase it says um uh it was so uh verse seven came to pass am I God uh wherefore I pray you and it was so the man of God heard that the king of Israel has rent his clothes That doesn't mean he hired them out to make money off of his clothes. He wasn't ready. I thought it was funnier than that. But um get on with it, right? So he rents his clothes And he thinks the fight's gonna start. Here's my last thought I want to share tonight, and that's this. Put yourself in Naaman's shoes again. He travels five-day journey. He's already, no doubt, has these mixed emotions. Is this this is crazy? What am I doing? It's my only hope. Man, I'm making a fool out of myself. But I've tried everything else. What if it's true? And he puts himself in this humiliating position before this king that he already conquered. And this king freaks out. Do you agree with me that I think it's safe in assuming that at that point in this whole story Naaman was probably pretty disappointed. Would you agree? What are you talking about? Are you God? What are you talking about when I'm trying to start a fight? I just I just humiliated myself. If I come back home with this leprosy, I am the biggest fool in Syria. And you're telling me that you don't know what I'm talking about? You're telling me that you're not God? You're telling me all I'm trying to do is pick a fight? I would imagine at that point in time, Naaman could have said, This is not going the way I anticipated. This is not what I would have I expected. If I was in Nayman's shoes, I would be thinking something like this. Looks like to me If you had a God in your country that could heal a man of leprosy, everyone would know about. Looks like to me, if you had a God in your country that could heal a man of leprosy, you would be excited about that. You of all people, as the king, would know that that God exists. You would be glad to tell me he could make me well. And you're acting like you don't even know what I'm talking about. If a little maid in Syria knew about this and believed it with all her heart, why did not the king Whatever disappointment Naaman had in the king, and no doubt there was some disappointment there. Whatever disappointment Naaman at this point had in man, God was beginning a series of events. That was going to show to Naaman that man may disappoint you, but God will never disappoint you. At this point, his hope in these men had absolutely fallen on its face. His trust that this country and these people were going to be what he needed them to be He had lost all hope in them. But that's not a bad thing. Because we're going to notice next week in the message that God is shifting his hope from man. And put his hope in God. Now listen, if you're expecting from Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church to do for you what only God can do for you, you are going to be disappointed every time. If you are expecting from the pastor of this church or any church to do for you what only God can do for you, Then you are going to be disappointed every time. Our hope is not in kings, it is not in organizations, it is not in governments, our hope is in God. And that is what Naaman needed to learn. I'm getting a little ahead of myself, but I'm going to end with this. Elisha hears about the king and his whole fiasco. And no doubt, word spread like crazy. The captain of the Syrian army's into the king. The king's all in a tizzy. I mean the gossip was flying. Who were we visiting yesterday? Lucy. She wouldn't know all the gossip going on in church, so I told her everything going on. We had a great time. Her version of gossip was who's having babies, who's next, who had babies, and who's sick. That was our gossip, so don't worry. But word's flying. King of Syria's here. The king's in a tizzy. We're gonna end up in war again, I know it. And Elisha here gets word. What? The king Naaman, the king uh Syrian commander of the Syrian armies at the king and he wants to be made. Well, why don't you tell him to come down and see me? What are you all worked up about? And when the Naaman does finally get to Elisha, Elisha doesn't even go out and see him. Can you imagine if who's the commander of our armed forces? I mean not Obama, the next guy down, it's what's the guy's name? Gates. Is that the guy? Robert Gates. Robert C. Gates, whatever his name is. Imagine if he came to the church here and says, I need to see the preacher, I want to be saved. And I send James Cat. James, come out and talk to him. Tell him how to get saved. What? I thought the preacher'd come out and do something. Elisha doesn't even go out and talk to him. Go washing the river seven times. That's another sermon. But you know what God's doing? This is what I'm getting at. God is getting Naaman to get his trust off of man and into God. It's not the king, it's not the little maid, and it's not even the preacher. It's God. And that's what we get to get to the point in our lives. We stop trusting ourselves and stop putting so much confidence in others and start trusting God. God can do for you and I far more than Obama can. God can do for you the things that your preacher can't do for you. And this church can't do for you. And that's what God was showing Naaman. He's breaking them down, breaking them down, breaking them down until he finally gets to the point there's nothing else to do but to trust God. And that's a good place to be. Father, help us, Lord, to trust you with our lives, with the issues in life. Help us, Father, to get our eyes off a man and get him onto the Lord. I long for the day, God, when we see you doing things in our church that there's no explanation for other than God did it. Help us, I pray, with our heads bound and with our eyes closed. How many folks here this evening would say, Preacher, I tend to lean on my own understanding. I tend to try and trust in my resolve, or I'm I tend to look to others to do things for me. And I've got to get my eyes on the Lord. And tonight you say, preacher, pray with me. That my trust will be in God to meet my needs, to direct in my life, and to do the things that only He can do for me. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray with me That God will help me to trust Him. Now that can be very humiliating. God has to take away our pride. Our self-confidence and take away our reasoning and get us to the point where nothing makes sense except, God, you've got to do this. And when we're at that point, then we see God doing some great things. Father, bless our invitation. Again, I ask you, Lord, help us to trust you. Do what you need to do to take away our pride, to take away our own understanding, and help us to trust you with all our hearts. In Jesus' name. Let's stand