And you may be seated before with a message. I think the Schofields and Brother Jerry are gonna sing. Oh, the unsearchable riches of Christ wealth that can never be told Bridge is exhaustments of mercy and praise. Precious, more precious than gold. Pressions, more pressions, wealth that can never be told Oh, the unsearchable riches of Christ. Precious, more precious than gold. O the unsearchable riches of Christ, who shall their greatness declare? Jules' lustre or lies may adorn, pearls that the forest may wear. Press us, more press, will that can never be told Oh the unsearchable riches of Christ, precious, more precious than gold. Holy on search of all ridges of Christ. Freely, how freely they flow Making the souls of the faithful and true, happy wherever they go. Press us, more press, wealth that can never be told. Oh the insearchable riches of Christ, precious, more precious than gold. Oh, the unsearchable riches of Christ, who would not gladly endure Trials affliction and cross his honor Riches like the To secure pressions, more pressures, wealth that can never be told. Oh the unsearchable riches of price, precious, more precious than gold. Amen. Amen. Very good. Good old song, I believe, there. Second Kings chapter number five, if you would turn there with me. King's five. And uh I missed out most of the couple's retreat, but uh a little bit I got in and what I heard it was uh a grand success. Everybody had a blast. Uh the little bit I got in, it was uh We never had a teen activity as wild as what these couples were. And uh it was incredible. And uh Dr. Barron said he was uh Friday night, he said he's trying to go to sleep and the we had the whole motel. Actually we had two whole motels And uh he said racket going on and people banging on doors and hollering and he said all those young kids out there he opened the door here was all the older couples doing it He said, I couldn't believe it. So, but it was a lot of fun. We're gonna do that again and uh uh appreciate uh Brother Barron so much. I forgot what the fuck I got it right here. Second Kings chapter chapter five verse fourteen. I think I have a little much there, Brother Tim, if we could back that down a little. Now Naaman. Beginning verse 1. Now Naaman, captain of the hosts of the king of Syria, was a great man with his master and honorable, because by him the Lord had given deliverance unto Syria. He was also he was also a mighty man in of in valor. But he was a leper, and we talked about that. And the Assyrians had gone out by companies and had brought away captive out of the land of Israel a little maid. Now that seems bad, right? God's people get invaded. They take away slaves. One of them is just a little girl. And she ends up being Naaman's, waiting on Naaman's wife. Verse 3, and this little maid, Jewish captive, said to her mistress, Would God my Lord, that's Naaman. We're with the prophet that is Samaria, for he would recover him of his leprosy. Just one little simple statement, but boy, that gets things moving And one went in and told his lord, saying, Thus and thus, said the maid that is of the land of Israel. And the king of Syria said, Go to, and I will send thee a letter, I will send a letter unto the king of Israel. And he, Naaman, departed, and took with him ten talents of silver, six thousand pieces of gold, and ten changes of raiment. So it's a pretty significant gift. He brought the letter to the king of Israel, saying, Now listen to the letter. Now when this letter is come unto thee, behold, I have therewith sent Naaman my servant to thee that thou mayest recover him of his leprosy It came to pass when the king of Israel read the letter that he rent his clothes and said, Am I God to kill and make alive that this man does send me to recover a man of his leprosy? Wherefore consider, I pray you, and see how he seeketh the quarrel against me. And it was so, when Elisha, the man of God, had heard that the king of Israel had rent his clothes, that he sent to the king, saying, Wherefore hast thou rent thy clothes? Let him come now to me, and he shall know that there is a prophet in Israel. So Naaman came with his horses and with his chariot, and stood at the hor door of the house of Elisha. And Elisha sent a messenger unto him, saying, Go and wash in Jordan seven times, and thy flesh shall come again to thee, and thou shalt be clean. But Naaman was wroth. And went away and said, Behold, I thought that he will surely come out to me and call on the name of his Lord his God and strike his hand over the place and recover the leper. Are not Arbana and Farpar rivers of Damascus better than all the waters of Israel? May I not wash in them and be clean? So he turned and went away in a rage And his servant came near, and spake to him, and said, My father, if the prophet had bid thee do some great thing, wouldest thou not have done it? How much rather than when he saith to thee, Wash and be clean. Then he went down, dipped himself seven times in Jordan, according to the saying of the man of God, and his flesh came again, like unto the flesh of a little child, and he was clean. Naaman washing seven times in the Gordon. Let's pray. Father, we've been looking at this portion of Scripture for a while now, and I pray you'd help us to glean some more principles and truths that your Holy Spirit would apply these to our lives. I yield myself to you now. I ask you to fill me with your Spirit. God help me to get to the point this evening. And I pray you'd speak through me to all of our hearts. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I'm fascinated by this guy name it. In fact, this whole incident here. As you know, you may remember many moons ago we were doing a series on Elisha. Well, this is part of that series. And into the ministry of Elisha shows up Naaman. And it's fascinating. And think about it, God gave an entire chapter of the eternal word of God. to this man's experience. So it's significant. We spoke we've looked at a number of things. We talked about the young maid, unnamed, we don't know anything about her, but she spoke up for her Lord and had a powerful influence. It's a great truth there. Challenge to us. We looked at various things here, but in this direct message here, we've already noticed Naaman's arrival in Jerusalem. I believe it was two Sunday nights ago. We noted the difficulty of his pride. If he was going to get healed, he was going to have to learn to humble himself. He's going to have to swallow his pride. He's going back to Jerusalem, the city he had just conquered. This time he's not coming as a conquering warrior. Now he's coming, in a sense, as a beggar almost seeking mercy from their God to heal him. So he had to swallow his pride and he had to deal with that. We noted that he got to Jerusalem, he made an un his demand was unreasonable Comes the king, and the letter from his king says, basically, make this guy well. Now leprosy was an incurable disease. It was unreasonable for anybody to think that the king could heal a man of his disease. And so, uh, I think Naaman, he seems like a reasonable guy in a lot of ways He's standing before the king. He has to realize that what he's asking the king to do is outlandish. I mean, that has to be going through his mind. He has to be thinking, there ain't no way this guy can do this. But he's acting on the word of this little maid. Her faith and testimony was so significant. That he endured this humility. He asked this outlandish question, request. And then, third thing we noted about his arrival in Jerusalem, there had to be an amount of disappointment. in uh in in this whole encounter. Nothing is happening the way he thought it would. It looks like to me, if there was a God in Israel that could cure leprosy, looks like to me the king would know about that. Don't you think? But the king has no clue. And uh surely this had uh Naaman's mind has to be racing, and he must he has to be thinking this is a colossal waste of time There's incredible humiliation. The king of the country has no idea what I'm talking about when we're asking to be cured of leprosy. And so that's the frame of mind, no doubt, that Naaman was in. What's happening? God is beginning a series of trials. God is beginning a series of events that is breaking down Naaman's pride and getting him to the point where he was going to trust God and trust God alone. Now, as I said earlier, I'm intrigued by this guy named Naaman. As I've been preparing these messages and working through this, I'm getting a different opinion about Naaman than I initially had. I'm seeing him in a little bit different light. And I believe that God saw, well I don't believe, I know. God saw the heart of Naaman. And he saw something there that God could work with. And so therefore God puts him through this whole process. God puts him through these whole series of humiliating events, getting Naaman to the point where God could do something miraculous in his life. Now God saw that in the heart. I think I think the little maid saw something in the life of Naaman that sparked her concern for him. Something about this guy, there's more to him than just this hard, warrior, successful man with leprosy. There's a side to him that God saw That God was willing to work. Now think about it. Could God not have sent Naaman back to Jerusalem and directly to Elisha's house? Could he not have done that? Sure. Could not could God not have directed Elisha to go to Syria, to Damascus, and uh meet Naaman there and cure him? Absolutely. But God's do God does what he does on purpose. This isn't God just kind of mm. Trying to wing it as he goes. Did you ever do that? Just kinda wing it as you go? It never very seldom works for me God doesn't operate that way. And so God's breaking them down. Then, if you remember, two weeks ago, we looked at the actions of Elisha when Naaman gets there. The king says, What? Am I God to make you and make alive? I know what you're doing. You're trying to pick a fight so you can come and wipe us out again. And he rents his clothes. Elisha hears about that, and he says, Why are you renting your clothes? Tell them to come down here. And so Elisha responds to this whole situation. Apparently he just finds out about it, and so he says, tell him to come down here to me. A couple of thoughts we noted on Elisha's response. Remember we said that Naaman had to go to Elisha, not vice versa Looks like to me, if the head of our military showed up in Oakland City Court and uh he he and he was he he was seeking the Lord And somebody said, Well Pastor Leatherman could show him how to be saved. Looks like they would say, You come down here to the courthouse and see him. Right? I would go to where the dignitary is Do you agree with me on that? That's not the way it worked with Elisha. Elisha says, Oh yeah, tell them to come down here to my office. 1005 Broadford Road. Have them come out here and uh take care of them. What's what's happening? He's learning. God is teaching Naaman that God is not impressed with his position. Alright, he's the captain of the Assyrian army, as far as God's concerned, big whoop. That's in the Hebrew. You know what God could say? I'm captain of the hosts of the stars of the universe. Doesn't press me. Damon had all his medals, no doubt, and all his possessions and wealth. God says, your wealth means nothing to me. Hey, I want to remind us. We have our faith promise. We have all these things going on and different things were given. I want to remind you, God doesn't need our money. God wants us to give because he's dealing with our heart, and our heart is where our treasure is. Huh? So that's what this giving business is all about. It's not trying to it's not trying to pay God's bills for them. So, God wasn't impressed. Naaman had to learn that he had to go to Elisha. God was not impressed with who Naaman was. He is learning to humble himself. So here show so the the captain of the Syrian army and all his gifts and money and his entourage and his swords and his uniform and all his authority shows up at a humble little house of a prophet. Alright? Prophet's gonna come out and do something. You know what Eliza? Eliza's sitting in his office. He calls James Kent, the assistant, says, go out there and tell that guy to Washington Broadford Lake. I'm putting it in our context. It wasn't really Broadford Lake and it wa okay, forget it. But anyway. So, here's the thing, and we pointed this out. I'm trying real hard not to re-preach this. Elisha, if you remember, and I think this is significant, spoke directly to the problem. He didn't go out and flatter Eli uh Naaman. He didn't even go out to them. He just said, go wash in the river, Jordan, seven times, you'll be clean. And that's what we need, and that's where we left it last time. What we need are pulpits who speak directly to the issues and the problems people face. We got pulpits who preach in generality. So they'll just talk about being saved in some general way. They'll just talk about sin in some general way. They'll just talk about heaven and hell in some general way. You know what this country needs? Some people to say, you've got to be saved, and this is how you get saved. There is a hell, and this is why people go to hell. The sin is sin. This is sin. This is right. This is wrong. You've got to stop doing what's wrong. Start doing what's right. We need some preaching like that. It's what Elisha did. Go wash in the Jordan. He didn't flatter him. He didn't go, you know, there's certain rivers that if certain people wash in at certain times a certain number of times, they'll probably get well. And he walks away not knowing any more than your average Christian does in churches today. They walk out the back door. They don't know anything more about God or salvation in the Christian life than when they walked in. Am I right or wrong? So he he addressed the point. He got right to it. The message was clear and distinct. Now, my goal was to end in five minutes. Really? I want us to consider Naaman's attitude. If God can heal leprosy, God can make this message shorter than what it looks like. Consider his attitude. There are two attitudes, I believe, that damn souls to hell. Two attitudes that Satan uses Most effectively to damn a soul to hell or to destroy a Christian life. Pride and doubt Pride and doubt. The attitude of pride. And the attitude of doubt. Now what do we mean by attitude? What are we talking about when we talk about attitude? We boil it down. It's not as complicated as what you think. An attitude is simply the way I think about something. My thinking process about a specific issue. If a person has the attitude of pride It means they think very highly of themselves. Right? Pride is a way of thinking. Pride is how I see things. I see myself as more important than what I really am. I see myself as more deserving of some things than I really do. I see myself as more exalted than what I really am. Satan wants to have lost people think that they are better than what God says they really are. Be proud. Pride sends more people to hell than any other sin, I believe. I should put it this way: pride keeps people from getting saved. More than any other sin. Too proud. Too proud to walk an aisle, too proud to bow ahead, too proud to call on the Lord. Pride. It's a way of thinking. Then the other one is that of doubt. Doubt is an attitude. It's a way I think. Well, I don't, I don't, I don't see that that verse could be true. Well, I just, that Bible, you know, it's just man wrote it. It's the way they think. It's my process of thinking about it. Doubt. That was where Satan got Eve. He got her doubting that what God said was true. God said, if you eat that forbidden fruit, you eat of the tree of life, thou shalt surely die. Satan says, Oh, will you really die? You'll not surely die. She started doubting. Well, probably don't probably really won't die. Let's try it. Doubt, the way of thinking. So these two attitudes are expressed by Naaman. We see them both here. First one expresses itself, the attitude of pride, expresses itself by naming in his anger. Look at verse 11. But Naaman was what? Wroth. Look at verse twelve, the last part. So he turned and went away in a what? Rage. The word wrath means to be extremely displeased The word wrath means to be filled with anger. I mean, he wasn't just unhappy, he was angry Filled with angry. Like a Christian is filled with the Holy Spirit. I'm under the control of the Spirit of God. He was filled with anger. He was under the control of his anger. He wasn't controlling his anger, his anger was controlling him. It filled him. Then you get over to the word rage, which is an even stronger word. And God is telling us very clearly how he responded to this process where God's seeking to humble him. He's not just going along, he's kicking and screaming. The word rage means to boil over with anger. Wrath, to be filled with anger. Rage, it is boiling over. Every time I make cream of wheat, I boil it over. I have no idea why. I can be standing right there, look away, come back. That's where Naaman was. To put it in our terminology, Naaman snapped Know what I'm talking about? Naaman lost it. He was at the point, all right, this is enough. And he absolutely explodes. Somebody said one time, I have a bad temper, but it's over in a minute. I explode and then it's all over. Yeah, you know what? A shotgun only lasts for a split second But brother, it leaves lifelong damage. Wrath, anger, is a work of the flesh. Galatians chapter 5. We don't have time to turn there. A work of the flesh. Now, there are two conditions. Anger, this wrath is a manifestation of pride, and pride is a form of selfishness. It's me, my will, my way, my timing, my pleasure. There are two things that fuel selfishness, that fuel this pride, that produce this anger. One is an exalted position. It's amazing if you give someone a title, many times that will that position will go to their head And suddenly, because I have this title, suddenly I deserve all these things. I deserve to be treated a certain way. I deserve this, that, and the other. We need to be very careful about that. Now, I do believe that people who hold certain positions ought to be treated with respect. Amen? And I'm not saying this because it's me. I think you know me well enough. I'm not that way. But if a person holds the title of pastor, that's a position of respect. Right? Uh and you can go to any number. But we have to be very careful that because we hold a certain position Therefore, we are somehow exalted over other people. One thing I have to continually remind myself, that though I am the pastor, the under-shepherd of the sheep, I'm still a sheep. And so Naaman held an exalted position. He was captain of the armies of Assyria And boy, that just feeds the flesh. That just feeds pride. Surely he deserves, as captain of the armies of Assyria, to be treated better than this. There's a second thing, I think, that fuels selfishness that produces anger. Now this may not be true for everybody, but I think Generally speaking, it's true. And that is not just an exalted position, but sometimes if you have an extreme illness. I gotta be careful how I say this. Ladies, how many of y'all have a husband that when he gets sick, he reverts back to childhood? Are you brave enough to say that? Anybody know how many of your husbands have a wife? How many of y'all know somebody? Let's put it that way. That when they get sick, they revert back to infancy. Do you know what I'm talking about? Sometimes, if we're not careful, if we're not feeling well, we suddenly get the idea that the whole world needs to bow down at our feet and serve our every whim. Come on now, am I right or wrong? You husbands are afraid to say anything, you wives aren't. Naaman had had leprosy for a long time. We've already looked at what leprosy is and what it does. And it was not pleasant. And I would venture to say, his flesh, his self, His pride was at the point. Hey, y'all owe me some sympathy. Y'all owe me to be treated a little kindly. Look how sick I am. I got leprosy Why are you putting me through this? Why aren't you coming and waiting on my every whip? And it's easy when we're not well to get very impatient with others and for that old flesh to come up and start being become demanding. Now, to be fair, we need to be gracious and kind when people are not well. I'm not suggesting anything other than saying the flesh will take advantage of that. Are you with me? Everybody okay? And so we see this anger on his part. And he responds to that. Man. Now let me I'll end it there. And all of the deacons said, Amen. This is a work of the flesh. I really want to get to the end so I can tie it all together. We'll do that next week, Lord will. But let's remember, if we are going to see, don't turn me off yet. I just changed my mind. No, I'm kidding. How many people want God to bless you? I do. How many people want God to bless your home, your marriage, your children? I do. You know what's going to happen? God only blesses those who humble themselves before Him. If we're going to get God's blessing, we need to put the flesh aside. We need to put self aside. If Naaman was going to get healed, he's going to have to get over this pride. God wasn't going to heal him as a proud man. And God's weaning them out, weeding them out. And God sends trials, God sends challenges, God sends disappointments, I believe, to get us to humble ourselves. So that He can do some great thing in our lives. Father, bless us. Help us to humble ourselves under the mighty hand of God so that you can exalt us in due time in your way with your blessings. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I sense God is working in my life trying to deal with me and humble me and get me to a place where He can really do something in my life. How many people would say I look at my life and I see God working, maybe similar to what Naaman was, and he's just there. And I want to cooperate with God. I want to be yielded to the Lord and let him accomplish that, whatever it is he's getting me to. Because I want God to bless me. How many like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you, hands all around. That's what we want. Father, you I've seen the hands, God. You know our hearts, you know where we're at. God, you know what you're trying to do in our lives and where you're trying to lead us and what you're trying to accomplish. Help us to humbly trust you. And yield to you and obey you. And God see you do some great things. Let's stand