Second Peter chapter three. I just want to read verse twelve. We're just going verse by verse, and sometimes we're parsed part of a verse. We're just going to look at the first statement from chapter 3 verse 12. It says, looking for and hastening unto the coming of the day of God. Then he goes on and he restates information that he gave us back in verse number 10 about the end of the world, how this world is going to end, the universe. And uh the doom, really, goes as he says, the heavens will be on fire, the elements shall melt, and and uh he reiterates what he said before. But he makes that statement there looking for and hastening unto the coming of the day of the Lord. I've entitled it this, Watching and Working. Watching and Working. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless our time and your word tonight. Lord, we're finishing out a good day, a good weekend. Fingerprints and the dinner last night. And then today, just uh we thank you for your blessings on our church. We're very grateful. And we do worship you, Lord, for your goodness to us and who and what you are. And I pray and I ask now, Lord, that you would meet with us just once again today Before we wrap things up and head home and go into the work week, I pray your spirit would stir our hearts and God that you would challenge us and give us some things that will help us be a witness for you and and work for you and uh glorify your name. So fill me with your spirit, I pray. Use your word tonight. And I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. This passage here actually all the way back to verse 10, as I mentioned down through verse 12, he's describing, in fact it's one of the most descriptive um uh descriptions, uh very detailed is the word I want. One of the most detailed descriptions of uh one of the most incredible events that's going to happen in all of human history And that is the complete annihilation of the entire universe. How many of you agree with me? That's big. No pun intended. The complete annihilation of heaven and earth. And then the recreation of a new heaven and a new earth. Boy, what a day that will be. Wonder what that new heaven's going to be like. What will this what will this night sky look in the new heaven? Will there be a moon? What would it be like the new heaven and earth We're given descriptions and revelation of the current world, and even during the millennial reign, there's going to be significant changes. But the new heaven and new earth, um, what's that going to be like? So he gives us some detailed information about how this is all going to transpire, how this ends. how it's uh melts, you know, it's completely annihilated. Then he references the new heaven and new earth. But the interesting thing here is um he doesn't just give us the details about this event and how a bit how it's going to transpire, but he also is challenging, and this is of course the Lord through Peter, is challenging us on how we should respond to that, how the effect of that event, this future event, how that should affect us today. How it should affect our lives. And what he's doing is what I try to do in all of my messages, he's making practical application To a biblical truth. No, look, look there, if you would. And we already preached on 11, I'm not going to do it again. But he says, seeing then that all these things shall be dissolved. Alright, there's the fact. What manner of persons ought you to be in all holy conversation and goodness? Would you agree with me? That's the application This is how the truth of this event should affect your thinking, should affect your living, should affect our behavior And he actually gives three areas here that the fact that one day this world and new the heavens and this world are going to be dissolved He gives three ways that ought to affect us and how we live. Verse 11, we already looked at last week. He says it ought to affect us on what kind of person we ought to be. He says, in all holy conversation and godliness, I would take that to mean it ought to affect our witness, how we live our lives. I tell you, we can talk the gospel all we want, and we should. We have to verbalize the gospel. But while we're talking the gospel, while we're verbalizing the gospel There ought to be a visualize the gospel. You follow what I'm saying? They ought to be able to see how the gospel of Jesus Christ affected my life. If I'm telling people they ought to be saved, it's the greatest thing in the world, it'll change your life, and my life is no different than theirs. Would you agree with me? It's going to minimize the effectiveness of me sharing that gospel. Now God can use a donkey if he wants. But the fact is, we're told here, our lives ought to be godly. Our lives ought to be holy. As we approach these days at the end of the world, we ought to be distinct. We ought to be Something this world cannot be apart from Christ. And so it affects our witness. Now in verse 12, he picks up two more in that first statement: our watching and our working. Now, the first thing I want to look at is our watching. He says, looking for. Looking for. Verse 12. If you would, look down to verse 13. Notice this little phrase. Nevertheless, we according to his promise, what's the next two words? Look for. Verse 12, he says, we're looking for that day. Verse 13. We're looking for that new heaven, new earth. Look at verse fourteen. Wherefore, beloved, seeing that ye what? Look for such things God's telling us we ought to be looking for the return of Christ. We ought to be looking for the rapture of the church. The rapture of the church begins this process of these end time events that culminates in the uh the old w the this world in heaven and earth being dissolved And so we ought to be looking for that, looking for that. Let me ask you a question. Are we foolish? Are we foolish to be looking for the rapture of the church? Are we foolish to be looking for the return of Christ? No, a lot of people in the world think we are. A lot of people in the world would mock at the idea. Of Jesus coming back, the church being raptured. Ooh, spooky, raptured. The world thinks it's a hoop. And I want to say this, are you listening, fellas? I want to say this. Some with the even within the name Christianity would mock the idea of the rapture of the church. And ridicule and the idea that Jesus is coming back again. Yet the Bible's clear. The church will be raptured. We can document that very, very clearly, very, very, very, very easily. To reject the rapture of the church, to reject the return of Jesus Christ To reject the end time events, you're going to have to reject the Bible. Because I can't take it for what it says. I've got to reword it. I've got to reinterpret it. Because I can't take it at face value. If I take it at face value, then it's clear Jesus is coming back in. And so we're not foolish in looking for the return of Christ. The church will be raptured. God's wrath will be poured out during the tribulation period. Mark it down God will judge this world during the tribulation period for its rejection of Christ. Christ will return in glory at the end of the tribulation period. Christ will reign literally 1,000 years from his throne in Jerusalem. Christ will replace this present universe with a new heaven And a new earth. Those things are clearly taught in Scripture. And Peter says we should be looking for these events Looking for, he says there. That word looking is interesting. I use you know, as you know, I like to look up words and find where they come from, and I looked how it's used in various places in Scripture And that word looking there has this idea to watch intensely. I mean, it's like you got the binoculars out, you know And you're watching very h how many hunters do we have here? You're in that sand and man you hear a little crunch or something, and man your eyes are zeroed in. You're just looking for some movement. You're just am I right or wrong That's the idea behind this word here. It's not just a casual, eh, maybe. No, it's I'm watching constantly for the Lord to come back. Um, you know, sometimes did you ever did you ever drive somewhere, maybe a storm went through and and then it clears up and there's still clouds, but the sun kinda shines through the clouds and you have these sunbeams come down. Anyone know what I'm talking about? These these uh pa uh these pillars like of light coming down you know what I'm talking about? Did you ever see something like that and think, boy, wouldn't that be something that's the Lord coming back? Lord come back, the rapture go up. That's the idea. I'm thinking every time I see something happen. Oh, Lord's come back. Maybe today. Maybe today. Maybe today He said that's the attitude we ought to have. The anticipation of Jesus returning any moment, the rapture taking place any moment, anticipation. It has this idea of patiently expecting. Alright, it wasn't today. Get up. Alright, it wasn't yesterday. Maybe today. Alright, what all right, get the three of the day? All right, one day, maybe tomorrow. Maybe tonight. And that's the idea Peter is telling us there. To have a heavenly anticipation. A heavenly expectation for Lord Jesus Christ coming back. What I'm trying to say is this: we are not foolish to look for the return of Jesus Christ. The rapture of the church. Now I want to look at some verses. We got our Bibles. Let's use them. Come with me if you would to Titus chapter number two. Titus 2. And uh I want to read uh three verses from Titus chapter two, four, eleven, twelve, and thirteen. That's three Titus chapter 2, classic passage on this. I have it underscored in my Bible. We memorized verse 13 a number of years ago in church. Verse 11, Titus chapter 2, verse 11. For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared unto all men. Teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lust, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world. Sounds a little bit like what Peter was saying in the previous verse What manner of persons ought we to be? Now look what he says in verse 13. Looking for, there's that phrase, anticipating, looking with intensity. Looking for that what? Blessed hope and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior, Jesus Christ. Anticipation. Expectation. Intensity. Come over, if you would, to 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, just a few pages to your left, as you turn your pages. And uh 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, again, another classic passage, particularly on the rapture of the church. 1 Thessalonians 4, beginning in verse 15, look what the Bible says. For this we say unto you, by the word of the Lord, That we which are alive and remain unto the coming of the Lord shall not prevent, that has the idea of precede or go before. We shall not prevent them which are asleep. Look at this. For the Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, and with a voice of the archangel, and the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall be rise first. Look at this. Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up. That phrase caught up is the is is a we're saying where we get our word rapture. Caught up Where we are we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And so shall we ever be with the Lord. How shall we respond to that? Therefore comfort one another with these words. Now I want you to notice a phrase that Paul uses, again, under the inspiration of God. Look with me, come back there, and look with me at verse number 15. He says, this we say unto you by the word of the Lord, look at this next phrase, that we which are alive And remain unto the coming of the Lord. Did you catch the little word we? When Paul says that we which are alive at the coming of the Lord, what does that tell you? What does that tell us? that Paul is anticipating. He's anticipating the rapture when? In his lifetime. Paul was looking for the rapture during his lifetime. We which are alive. Come over to verse number 17. Look at this, he says again, then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together. Paul was doing exactly what Peter tells us you and I should be doing. Looking for, looking for, looking for. Say, well, Paul lived 2000 years ago. That was a long time. The Lord didn't come back again. Ah, don't forget what Peter said just a little previously. One day with the Lord is as what? Thousand years. So don't measure time by God's time. God's not late. There's purposes and there's reason we looked at already. So looking for it, come over to Matthew chapter number twenty For with me. Matthew chapter 24. Chapter 24, the disciples came to Jesus. They said, What are when are you going to set up your kingdom? And what will be the signs? And the Lord responds to that It's interesting. The first thing he says is, don't be deceived. It's going to be deception. Peter dealt with that, right? Chapter 2. And look what he says in verse number 48 of chapter 24. All the way at the end. He's kind of giving an illustration here. And verse number 48, look what he says. But and if that evil servant shall say in his heart, My Lord delayeth his coming So he's not looking for it. Ah, Lord's delay. He's late. And shall begin to smite his fellow servants and to eat and drink with the drunken. I don't know. I don't know if you see this here, but I I see something here. I see my anticipation of the Lord's coming very much affects My treatment of my of my neighbors. He's ah the Lord ain't coming back and it begins smite, get selfish Gets angry, starts treating others hatefully. Why? Because he's not looking for the return of Christ. He's not anticipating it. He's not there's no expectation the Lord's coming back. And he starts to treat others. I tell you what's good for a church, I tell you what's good for a church, preaching on the second coming, anticipation of the return of Christ. It helps us. Helps us treat one another the way we should. He goes on. He began to smite. Um His uh fellow servants and eat and drink with the drunken. I mean, not godliness, not holiness, like uh ones that are watching for it. This guy's not watching for it. Look at this. The Lord of that servant shall come in a day Look at this next phrase. When he what? Looketh not for him. Oh, he's not doing that. Peter says, we live godly, holy lives, and look, anticipate, look for the Lord. He'll come in an hour that he's not aware of. One more, if you would, come all the way back to Revelation, all the way back to the book uh to the end of your Bible, last book of your Bible, the last chapter of the last book of the Bible. By the way, while you're getting there, in Matthew chapter 6, in the Sermon on the Mount, he's teaching them what we refer to as the Lord's Prayer. He says, Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom Come. You know what he's saying? He says pray, anticipating the Lord, looking for the Lord's kingdom to come, the Lord to come back. Anticipation uh intense watching, expectation. Revelation 22, look at verse 20. He which testified these things saith, Surely I come quickly. Amen. That's the Lord says that. Now look what John, how John responds. uh to the Lord saying, I come quickly. Uh look what he says. He says, even so what? Come, Lord Jesus. You know what John was doing? He was anticipating Lord. He was looking for it. Lord, come on, come on. Anybody here ever get in a situation you say, boy, Lord, please come back? Anybody know what I'm talking about? When we're in university, we have finals. Lord, come back before the final. So I don't have to take it. I go to the dentist, Lord rapture now, on the way of the dentist, right now. I don't want to do this We ought to have that desire, that anticipation, that intensity, wanting the Lord, looking, anticipating the Lord returns. Peter's saying, establish that in your thinking. Establish that in your mentality. I come to the conclusion, I believe as Christians, as believers, we ought to have in the forefront of our mind at all times the rapture could take place at any moment. These end-time events could be initiated at any moment in time. And Peter says, under the inspiration of God to you and I, anticipate that. Look for that. Look for that. Look for that. And so watch our witness, godly, holy lives, are watching, looking for the return of the Lord. And then he says another, come back there to Peter, if you would, real quick. He says, looking for and something else. Another way we ought to be affected by this fact at the end-time events. particularly the end of the world and all of that it's it's described here. Looking for and hastening unto the coming of the day of the Lord. Now this this especially caught my attention. I think there's something being stated here that we might not Think through uh completely sometimes. Um that word hastening means to speed up To quicken. It has this idea. Now think about the implications of the meaning of this word. To cause to happen sooner To bring about sooner. Now, what is the subject that we're looking for? What is it we're looking for? What is it we're hastening? The coming of the day of God. These end time events that are described here that include from the rapture to the to the end of the millennium, that whole time frame. He says we're to look for that intensely, and then he makes a statement and hasten that. What does that sound like to you? That sounds to me. Here's the question that That comes up in my mind when I read that and study that. Can we, as believers, affect the timing of the rapture of the church? He says, hastening, happening quickly, making it uh happen. Uh he says hastening. The day of the Lord, making it happen sooner, making it happen. It sounds to me like there's a implication there that we can affect the timing of the rapture of the church, the return of Christ. Come back up to verse number nine. He says the Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness But as long suffering to usward. Now the context of that statement is people were mocking the idea that Jesus is coming back again. They said it's been so long, everything's just happening the same. They scoffed at the idea that Jesus would come back again. And Peter's saying, wait a minute. God's timing isn't our timing, and God is being very, very patient in his return. He's not late. He's not running behind schedule. He's not being negligent. He is very deliberately I don't want to use the term delaying, but being very patient, very long-suffering till he comes back. And according to verse 9, what is the reason the Lord is being very patient, taking his time and coming back? What's the reason, according to verse 9? Talk to me. Because he doesn't want people to go to hell. He wants people to be saved. He's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. And he says, I'm not coming back immediately after the ascension, because I want everybody to be saved. That's God's desire. That's his will. You can't get anything else out of that. And then he says to us, hasten the day of the Lord. He says, I'm holding off coming back because I want as many people to get saved. And he says, you hasten the day when I do come back. So this is what it appears to me. It appears to me, and it appears pretty clear, that our our evangelistic efforts Our missions, our soul winning, our trying to reach other people, our angelistic efforts are a factor in the timing of these end-time events. Hastening the coming of the day of the Lord. Hurrying up. Listen, you need to have a witness. You live godly, holy lives. Be a witness to what the power of the gospel do in a person's life. You watch intensely for the Lord's recome, and then you hasten that day. You hasten that day. If that's the case, if I'm correct. How do we do that? How uh what do we do? According to verse nine. The reason he's holding off, so more people get saved. So the logical conclusion we would come to is what would we do? What work would we do that would hasten his coming? It would be what? I already just said it. Getting people saved, getting people saved, getting people saved. Um very possible. It's a very possible now I'm not I'm not being dogmatical deliberately and I'm not dogmatic in my notes. I'm not avoiding being dogmatic because the statement said tonight. I'm not being dogmatic because I can't prove it from Scripture. But what I'm saying is this. It looks like that to me. It appears to me. Let me give you let me give you some other uh thoughts, some other references. Come with me to Matthew chapter twenty-four again. He says, hastening the day of the Lord, hurrying it up, making it happen sooner, bringing about quicker. Matthew chapter 24. And notice, come down to verse 14. Matthew 24, verse 14. Look at this statement. He says, and this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached where? In all the world. Why? For a witness unto all nations. Now, look carefully. And what's the next word? Then shall the end come. Is Peter talking about the end? Is Peter talking about the end of the world? Yeah. That's a whole context. And he says, hastening that day. Now we come back and we see what the Lord said, and the Lord said this gospel of the kingdom preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations. When you do that, then The end shall come. You see the correlation there? Um come with me to chapter 28 of Matthew. All the way to the end of the book of Matthew, the last statement, we know this passage as the Great Commission Now notice a wording here, and I think sometimes we read right over this and we miss something. Verse 18: Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. Go ye therefore and teach all nations. What are we teaching them? The gospel. That's our missions, basis of our missions Baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost. By the way, I believe implied in that statement is the establishing of local churches. Establish the churches. Baptism is an ordinance given to the church. So how are we baptizing if there's no church? And so he said, Go out, win the lost, baptizing them, implying you need to get a church established, and teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I've commanded. Live for the Lord, live godly, holy lives, witness. Now look what he says. Last part of verse 20. And lo, I am with you always. How many people are grateful for that statement? Woo! We go out soul-winning, we're not on our own. Uh we're knocking on the door. Do you know for sure we're scared to death? But remember the Lord's with us right there. Amen But then he says this. Though I am with you always, there's no period after that. He has another statement. Even unto what? The end of the world. Is that what Peter's talking about in chapter 3? The end of the world. Do you see a connection here? I mean Do we see a connection here with the evangelization of the world, with the end of the world? He says, I'm with you until the end of the world. Now, it's not expressly stated, I'm implying implication here. Um come with me to Acts chapter thir chapter three. Again Again, I can't be dogmatic on this, but I see that phrase, Peter says, hastening the day of the Lord, making it happen quicker, bringing it about more quickly. He's telling us to do that. Acts chapter 3, look with me at verse 19. Peter is preaching, and he makes a tremendous statement here. He says, Repent ye therefore and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out. Amen. What is that? Evangelism, right? He's preaching an evangelistic message. He's telling people, listen, you repent and get saved. You trust Christ. That your sins can be completely blotted out. Gone, gone, gone, gone. All your sins are gone. But then he makes this statement. When the times of refreshing shall come from the presence of the Lord. Now, what in the world are the times of refreshing? That's the return of Christ. Just about every Bible scholar I've ever read agrees that's reference to the return of Christ, end-time events. And the idea here, and now here's some, that word when, when the times of refreshing come. It's translated various ways in our Bible. And I'm talking about King James Bible. By the way, that's the only Bible in English. And it's translated various ways in the Bible. And it has this idea so that. Now I'm not changing the Bible. Don't go out and say, oh bro, Lord and I'm not. This is what God wants us to have. But that word win has a part of its meaning that is interesting. Repent, therefore, ye therefore, be converted, that your sins may be blotted out. When? Or so that the times of refreshing will come from the presence of the Lord. Now I'm out on a limb here, I I grant you that. But what what grabs me, my thinking Is Peter saying hastening, the coming of the day of the Lord? And you cannot get around the meaning of that word hastening. To accelerate, to make happen quicker, to speed up. So God only knows when Jesus is coming back again. Jesus said to God the Father. We don't know. However, God has given us a great commission until he comes back. Right? Is everybody with me? He's told us something we're supposed to do until he comes back. So there's you cannot we cannot separate soul winning, missions, evangelism, great commission. We cannot separate that from the return of Christ. They're connected We're told to do this until I return. Do this until I return. Do this until I return. Peter says, hasten that return. So my question comes up, my first question was, are we foolish to look for the return of the Lord? And the answer is no. Clearly, we're to look, anticipate, intensely the rapture of the church, the coming end events. But then he says, work. Hasten the day. The only thing I can find in the Bible that even remotely suggests how we would hasten that day is by winning people to Christ. Exactly what we did last night. Exactly what we're trying to do running buses. Exactly what we're doing, giving out gospel tracts. Now, is my vote motive I'm going to give out five tracks every day or whatever your number is, I'm going to give out five tracks every day so that Jesus come back tonight? No, that's not that's not what it is. I'm supposed to give out five tracks every day so that what? Five people get saved. That's my focus. That's my motive. That's my desire. But in doing so, I wonder If maybe that's not a factor in the timing of Christ's return. That's my message. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd help us work till Jesus comes. Help us win every soul we possibly can until Jesus comes. Help us to run buses, send out missionaries, give out gospel tracts, run radio programs. Witness everybody we possibly can till Jesus comes back. And I pray you'd use us and I pray you'd stir us and help us Heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many say, preacher, I need to keep the fact that Jesus coming back again, the rapture, I need to keep that clo m more to the front of my thinking on a more regular basis. Any like that? I need to think of that more. I need to keep that a factor. Every morning I get up, maybe today. That's the idea. Watching, watching, watching I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I need to focus more efforts and energy on winning lost people. Carrying out this great commission that He's given us. Till he comes back. Any like that? Working. Watching and working. God bless you. Hands all around. I like that song. Will work. Till Jesus comes. Will work. and will be carried home. Let's pray. Father, bless now. I think I already am planned. Lord, bless now our invitation in Jesus' name. Let's stand again.