Verse number 17. 2 Peter chapter 2, verse number 17. I like hot dogs. There's hot dogs waiting on us over there. So um We'll get look at this and then we'll go eat some hot dogs. Look at verse 17. Uh it says this. These are wells without water. Clouds that are carried with a tempest, to whom the mist of darkness is reserved forever Wells without water. That's what we're going to talk about tonight. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now our time in your word. And I thank you for the day. For this whole week, Lord, it has been a whirlwind week And we trust, Father, that the sermons that were preached, the songs sung, the fellowship we've had one with another Lord, we're praying with all our heart that all that bears fruit in the coming weeks and months and years. And Lord, maybe something said, maybe your spirit would have moved them in some way That a life is changed, a home is strengthened, a faith has grown. And so, Lord, we don't want it to be in vain. We ask that you would bless. And now as we finish out today I pray you'd speak to our hearts and prepare us for the week ahead. I yield my will to you, Lord, in this moment, this hour, I ask with all my heart That you fill me with your Holy Spirit as I present my body anew to you and challenge us and help us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. try to remind every time we open our books, our Bibles to 2 Peter is what he's doing here is he is um uh he's exposing these false teachers and we understand that This whole chapter is devoted to emphasizing, Peter is emphasizing, that it's important for you and I to understand, this whole chapter is devoted to how to spot a false teacher. We ought to be able to recognize somebody if they're a phony. Amen? If they're teaching something false, we ought to be able to recognize that If they're living a life that is not in line with the Word of God, we ought to be able to recognize that. Not in a judgmental way. Every man answers to God. Amen? And so we we we don't we we're not looking for it. We're not out hunting for false doctrine. We're not out hunting for hypocritical lifestyles, but what we do want to do is be careful what we uh and who we allow to influence us. And that's what Peter's concern is: these false teachers are coming in the church and they're influencing the church, and they're getting the church to shift or to drift from its biblical moorings. And so he's teaching how to spot a false teacher. Uh he's exposing how they operate, what their methods are, how they get in that church, and they come in privily, they come in Jude says they sneak in, they creep in. Very deceptive. I said before, and I I said it in Sunday school when we were working through, as we're working through the book of Jude, they're sneaky creeps And they creep in there very deceptively. And that's their method of operation, dishonesty. And then he's exposing how to avoid being influenced by them And so we come to our passage here. If you remember last week, we looked at verse 15 and 16. He said, what uh speaking of these false prophets they forsaken the right way and gone astray the word gone astray means to drift slowly bit by bit and he says they followed the way of Balaam Ah the son of Bosar, who lived who loved the wages of unrighteousness, but was rebuked for his iniquity, the dumbass, speaking with a man's voice, forbade the madness of a prophet. So Peter reaches back into the Old Testament and he finds this example of a false prophet in the Old Testament. And he uses Balaam as an example, as a picture of these false teachers here in the churches. It's not the first time he's reached back into the Old Testament. He did earlier when he talked about Lot and Sodom and Gomorrah. He talked about the great flood. He talked about angels who left their first estate. And so Peter is assuming that his audience is familiar with the Old Testament And I just want to stop here just for a moment and emphasize the fact the Old Testament is just as important for the believer as the New Testament. And I believe you and I, as New Testament believers, in 2024, we ought to be as familiar with the Old Testament as we are with the New Testament. And I've had people say to me, and sometimes people get this idea, and like I said, I've had them say to me, I don't like reading the Old Testament, I just read the New Testament. Well, I think you're making a mistake In fact, the New Testament, Paul tells us in Corinthians that, and I think in Romans, uh, he says that these Old Testament accounts And particularly the historical accounts are given as examples for you and I that we can learn uh from them and we see how God operates, what happens when someone disobeys God, what happens when they obey God How God interacts with man. These Old Testament accounts, again, particularly the historical accounts, are illustrations of New Testament principles. And I am absolutely convinced every teaching in the New Testament, you go back to the Old Testament, you can find an illustration of that teaching somewhere in the Old Testament. That's one of the primary purposes in the Old Testament. And so when you're reading your Bible through the year, and uh you're reading your Bible every day, you are reading your Bible every day. You want to be sure and read the Old Testament along with the New Testament. Don't neglect the Old Testament. So Peter is writing and he keeps reaching back and he's getting these Old Testament examples These Old Testament illustrations of what happens when you allow false teaching, false prophets to creep into the among the people of God and how that affects it, and more importantly, how God responds to that. And God's rebuke and God's judgment on that. Now we come to verse number 17, and he's shifting back. He went back to the Old Testament. Balaam and his experience and how that played out. Now he's using a figure of speech to illustrate how spiritually bankrupt These false teachers are. They look good, they sound good, but they are absolutely spiritually bankrupt. Look what he says He says, these are wells without water. And then he uses another figure of speech. They are clouds that are carried with a tempest. Now we know what a well without water is. You can picture that. What is a cloud that is carried with a tempest? Well the idea here is it's a cloud and it is just kind of blown around by the wind. If you would, keep your place here, come over to Jude, just a few pages back, right before Revelation, and I'd like to put in an advertisement for my Sunday school class. We're studying Jude and we look through this Almost verbatim, uh, the same truths as what's in 2 Peter. And um and again, we didn't do that study, these two studies by design that way, it's just how it came out. But look with me if you would, at verse number twelve of Jude. He's referencing the same uh same thing. He says It says, these are spots in your feasts of charity when they feast with you, feeding themselves without fear. They're just there for the food. And look what he says next. Clouds they are, same figure of speech that Peter's using, same illustration. Clouds they are without what? Water. Peter puts it this way: clouds that are carried about are carried with a tempest. And so you have these waterless wells and these rainless clouds. The well doesn't have any water in it. The cloud doesn't have any rain in it. In other words, there is nothing of substance they have to offer. There's nothing of any spiritual value they have to offer you and I. And I want to say this, and I say it so often, and it is a real, it is a clear and present danger To our churches, and that is these false teachers, false prophets on YouTube. Come on. They are On the it used to be television, but I've kind of taken over YouTube. I'm telling you, there is more, and this maybe this is me, this is the way I see it, there's more false teaching goes on on YouTube than anywhere else in this world And I'm saying you've got to watch it. You better be very, very careful because it can sound so good and it can sound so so biblical and yet be absolutely void of any spiritual value. In fact, I would say even more than that, it can be, it'll have little s no spiritual value. Instead, it'll be spiritual arsenic. Poison. You say, boy, you feel pretty strongly about that preacher, don't you? Yes, I do. And I see it from my end, how it's infected. Affecting people and f and affecting churches. And so you gotta be very, very careful. You say, Well is there anything good on there to listen to? Yeah there is, but you better know who that person is you're listening to You better know what their background is. You never know better know what their doctrinal statement is. I don't listen. Very few. I have some old school preachers I listen to on there Old uh Lee Robertson. I like to listen to Lee Robertson, he's on there and and uh old B. R. Lakin. Some of y'all know B. R. Lakin. Boy, what a good one he was. And so I'm just trying to say this. Be very, very, very careful. Be very, very careful. They had nothing of substance to offer, and they had nothing of spiritual value to offer. In other words, if there was an unsaved sinner An unsaved person in their service. They would walk out of there knowing nothing more how to be saved than what they did when they came in. In fact, worse yet, they would walk out of there thinking they had to do unscriptural things to be saved. That's the picture he's painting here. They have no nothing to offer for a lost sinner. They have no forgiveness. They have no biblical salvation. to offer to a lost sinner. Um they had no comfort for a brokenhearted believer. Oh, they could give some human philosophy and some psychology and some some uh superficial solve to put over. I think it's Jeremiah puts it this way, peace, peace, say they, but there is no peace. They have no they have no salvation to offer a lost sinner. They I'm glad, I am glad that in a Bible preaching church like ours An old sinner can come in and they can find out how they can know for sure when their sins are forgiven, they're on their way to heaven. It's a free gift of God. That's Bible. No comfort for a brokenhearted believer. No remedy for a backslidden Christian. He said there are clouds without rain. There are wells. There's no water. There's no refreshment. There's no substance. There's no nourishment. You can live, I I had some statistics, I don't I don't have them with me, you can live for a certain period of time without food. I don't know, I've heard you can go like 45 minutes without eating and not die. I don't know from it I don't I can't speak from experience on that, but But you can go extended period of time without food. But you can't go very long without water. You can't go very long without water. And these guys have no water. They have nothing, spiritually speaking. They have no water. Both wells and clouds produce the same thing. Right? And which is what? Water. A cloud, a well produces water from up out of the ground A cloud produces water from the sky. How many people are glad you came to church and learned that? I s sound like our vice president right now, but um um There is no water in that statement right there. So these wells don't have any water, the clouds don't have any rain, they have nothing to offer. They have there's no substance, uh nothing of any value for you and I. No water. Now, in Scripture, and this would be a great study if we had more time to spend more time on it, but water has a special significance in Scripture. And of course, actual water, again, going back to the Old Testament as Israel's coming out of Egypt, water was an issue right off the bat when they had to get across the Red Sea And then once they're out in the wilderness, having water to drink caused quite a stir and quite a fussing among the people. They didn't trust God, didn't trust Moses. So all through the Old Testament, water you find very, very significant. Elijah by the stream dries up, remember? Over and over and over. But it has a spiritual significance Water. If you would take your Bibles now, keep your place here. Turn with me to John chapter number seven. Jesus speaking to his disciples here and he references water. And he says in John chapter 7, look with me at verse 37. John chapter 7, verse 37. It says, in that last day, the great day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried. Now just those terms there. He stood up and he's crying out loud voice And he says, if any man thirst, let him come unto me and drink. What an invitation. Is he talking about literal water or spiritual water? Spiritual water. He's talking about having my soul nourished, having my spirit refreshed. He says, Come unto me, if any of you thirst, then your heart and soul you're dried up. Spiritually dry. Come to me and drink. Verse 38. Look at this. He that believeth on me. As the scripture has said, out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water. Boy, what a picture. You understand that's not literal, right? He's speaking spiritually. He says you're dried up, you're thirsty, your soul and spirit is dried up. There's nothing there He says, you come to me and you believe on me, and you will have a spiritual river flowing up out of you. Now he explains himself a little bit in the next verse. But this spake he of the what? The Spirit, the Holy Spirit, which they that believe on him should receive, because for the Holy Ghost was not yet given. Because that Jesus was not yet glorified. So when he says that this water that'll swell up if you believe on him and trust in him, that you the water will swell up in you and be a great river. He's talking about the presence of the Holy Spirit in the believer, but he's using the figure of speech of water, the Holy Spirit. So here we see That in the Bible, water, sometimes how it's used, the context, is referring to the presence and the power of the Holy Spirit in the believer. Now we've been studying this in Sunday school. I told the Sunday school class were, uh, how many people ever notice sometimes I take a rabbit trail? Anybody ever notice that? In Sunday school, we are on a rabbit trail off of rabbit trails. We are way out there. And we're talking about the Holy Spirit's role in a believer And one of the ministries, the roles of the Holy Spirit indwelling us, is giving us power. It's giving us power. How many folks here tonight? You're saved to know it. Say amen. If that's true, and I believe it is, if that's true, I know something about every single one of you. Just said amen I know that the Holy Spirit of God is in your body right now. I know that's true. And by the way, if you're saved, you have the Holy Spirit. If you're not saved, you do not have the Holy Spirit There is no unsaved person that has the Holy Spirit dwelling in them. Not one. Uh-uh. And there's not one saved person that does not have the Holy Spirit dwelling in them. Youngest child, trust Christ, has the Holy Spirit on him. And so water Jesus here in John says that it's a picture, it's a figure of speech of the presence and the power of the Holy Spirit in the believer. I don't know about you, but I want the power of the Holy Spirit on my ministry. I know he dwells within me. I know he's there. And he's in you. And the power of God and the person of the Holy Spirit is the potential for every believer. We can be empowered by the Holy Ghost. But he's saying this These false teachers don't have that. They're empty. And they're not giving you anything That will make it possible for you. They are a well where you would expect water, where you could expect, figuratively speaking, spiritually speaking, the presence and power of the Holy Spirit, but it's not there. They don't have it Jude put it this way, they are without the Spirit. In other words, they're what? They're unsaved. They're lost. They have nothing to offer. And so sometimes in the Bible, the water is a picture of the presence and the power of the Spirit of God. in the life of the believer. Remember, Jesus said, believe on me, and this will be true. Come over to Ephesians chapter number five with me if you would. Again, we have another illustration or figure of what water represents. And in the context of Ephesians chapter 5, come down to verse number 25 And he makes this statement. He says he's speaking on the home here, and the role of the wives in verse 22, role of the husbands in verse 25. Get over to chapter 6, verse 1, the role of children. Down to verse 4, the role of fathers, and then he goes into the workforce, the work-a-day world with the masters and servants. But in verse 25, notice what he says. He says, Husbands, love your wives Then he tells us how, to what degree, even as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for it. Let me just say this to the men: there's our model. There's our pattern. There's our example. That is what we are to follow in loving our wives, even as Christ loved the church and gave himself for it. But he goes on, look at this. Now he's speaking about Christ and the church. He says that he, Christ, might sanctify and cleanse it, the church. Look at this. With the washing of the water by the what? By the word. What's the word there? The Bible, the word of God. So here we find an example where water is a picture or a type or a figure of speech referring to the Word of God. So sometimes water can represent the presence and power of God and the person of the Holy Spirit. Sometimes water represents the Word of God, the power of the Word of God to cleanse our heart and life and to cleanse our minds and to cleanse our mouth and to clean our home I'm telling you, this book right here is a powerful, powerful book. And in it, it can alter, and it will alter the way you and I think. How many people ever thought this? Boy, I wish I didn't think that way. Huh? Get something in your mind. Somebody was talking, oh, brother uh brother Bard this morning is talking about getting an attitude And having a stinky attitude. I tell you, a good source to clean your attitude up is right here. Get your nose in mind in this book right here. That's why we always try to, that's why we want to emphasize memorizing scripture. Clean us up. It'll clean us up. Somebody said, Oh, that church out there, they're just brainwashing those kids. Well, some of them need their brains washed, to be honest with you. We need it. We need it So the word of the water, sometimes it'll be the word of God. We ought to wash every day in the Word of God. Wash our hearts and minds out. Clean our hearts and minds out. I like what Lester Rawls said. He said the best brain food in the world is the Word of God. And it'll help our thinking, it'll clean our hearts, and um uh and uh you know sometimes it's just like uh w why am I thinking this way? I don't even want to think this way. I tell you the word of God will cleanse that, cleanse that I tell you what we need. We need in our church, I'm telling you, in our day and age in America, we need clean churches. You with me? I mean clean. Lester Roloff was uh was being sued by the state of Texas over his boy his children's homes down there, and they wanted him to get a license. He refused to and It was a big, big uh fight with the state and David Gibbs got involved representing him in law. This was decades ago. And um he's uh uh David Gibbs said one time he and Lester Roloff were praying before they went in the court, courtroom, and they were praying, and Lester Roloff prayed, he said, he said, God, I don't want to just be cleaner. Than I am, I want to be clean. And sometimes we're satisfied with just being cleaner But we're not clean. Follow what I'm saying? Oh, I'm not as bad as I was. No, we want to be clean. I want to be clean. Oh, create in me a clean heart, O God. Renew a right spirit within me. You know how that happens? Through the washing of the water of the Word. The word. So the Bible uh so water in the Bible sometimes represents the presence, the power of God, of the Holy Spirit. Sometimes it represents the power and the cleansing power of the Word of God in the heart and life of the believer. And these false prophets didn't have either of that. And of it. They were wells without water. Clouds, no rain. No water coming out of the clouds, no water coming up from the well. They did not have the power of God. They didn't even have the presence of God in their life. And they certainly did not have the cleansing power of the Word of God. They were bankrupt. They were barren spiritually. And yet they're infiltrating the church Getting in influential positions and influencing the direction of the church. Anybody see a problem with that? Yeah, Peter's worked up. He's burdened. I can see this is just me, but I can see Peter writing down, gritting his teeth, and tears streaming down his cheeks. He's seeing what's happening to these churches, these guys coming in. And he's sending a red alert out. No power of the Holy Spirit, no presence of the Holy Spirit, and no power of the Word of God. These wells without water, these clouds without rain, number one, they appear to be something they're not. If you see a well, you expect what to be in it Water. Did you ever see anybody uh have one of these little decorative wishing wells uh in their f in the yard there somewhere, a wishing well? I think it's just a money-making scheme. They're trying to get people Throw a coin in there. And uh you walk up to it and there's nothing in there but weeds and a dead mouse and uh some leaves. There's no water in it. You know what a well? You know what a well without water is? It's a hole in the ground. That's all it is. Just a hole in the ground. And I tell you, a hole in the ground can be dangerous. Then we fall down through that thing, and a false teacher has no water to offer. They're just a spiritual hole in the ground. And people fall into it, fall into it, fall into it. You know what a cloud without rain is? A decoration in the sky. You can have the dryest route. We've had a dry summer, didn't we? You can have the dryest route and you see that cloud and if there's no rain in it, all it's doing is decorating the sky. Anybody lay on your back as a kid, look up at the clouds, see elephants? Anybody there? And see uh uh see uh oh there's a puppy dog and uh oh look at that elephant oh there's a giraffe when I laid on the ground I looked up there and I saw there's a muskrat and uh There's an alligator, you know, but there's a M1 tank and there's a F fifteen jet. Look at that. I think they were actually jets, but um But uh a clouds without water is nothing more than decoration in the sky. I tell you, some folks can call themselves a Christian, they can look good And they can put on a show, but if they don't have the word of God and they don't have the spirit of God, they're an empty well and a dry cloud So number one, they appear to be something they are not. Number two, I am with this. They advertise something they do not possess. They do not possess. You ever go someplace advertise something and you go in there and they don't even have what they advertise? Not even there. Uh remember there was a Mm, I gotta be careful. Uh there was a place that sold chicken here in town a number of years ago. Very well known place that sold chicken. And uh they're named after a state down south of us a little ways. Um and uh and um I don't want to get sued. But um and tward it something broke down. There was some sort of breakdown in leadership there or something. And went by one time and I was looking forward to getting some good uh uh Tennessee fried chicken. Uh not Tennessee. Uh I was looking forward to getting fried chicken. They said, uh we don't have any chicken. Um so well I'll tell you I'll take uh I'll take an egg sandwich. We don't have any eggs. Uh what do you got? We got fifteen biscuits left. That's all they had. That's a true story. But um advertise something they don't have. Advertise. Listen, if a church claims to be a Bible preaching church, they ought to preach the Bible. Right? Uh uh this is again I I might as well just jump in. If it if a if an organ if they c if somebody claims to be a church, they ought to be a church. Not a nightclub. I think a church ought to look like a church, ought to act like a church, or to talk like a church, or to sound like a church, or to function like Church I don't want anybody to wonder whether we're a church or not. Now I'm not trying you know everybody has to answer for themselves. I'm just saying why we're where we were. And I think if you have the name Baptist on the church, you ought to hold to Baptist distinctives. Names mean something. And these guys advertise, but they don't got what they're advertising. It's called bait and switch. And I'll tell you, more people go to hell. Let me say a lot of people go to hell because the false teachers, false prophets, comp convince them that they can be saved somehow, other than the Bible way. Other than the Bible way. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church cannot save a soul. And neither can any other church And not the brethren, not the Methodists, not the Luther, not the Episcopalian, not the Catholic, and not the Baptist. And so we don't advertise. Two things we need. Here's what I want to end with, and I I tried to be brief tonight. Two things I think Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we need if we're going to influence our world for Christ and if we're going to see revival in our homes and in our church, number one, we need the Word of God. We need the preaching and the teaching of the Word of God. Now I know I don't need to say this because our Sunday school teachers are doing it and doing it well. But Sunday school teachers, you stick with the Word of God. Bus workers, when you're teaching on the buses, you teach the word of God. Pastor Letterman, Pastor Matt, when you're preaching, you stick to the Word of God. Amen. But we can't stop there. We also need the power of the Holy Spirit. And I want to urge all our church folk Particularly our workers, particularly those that are involved in teaching. I want to urge you, stick to the book, but seek the power of God to be upon your teaching and preaching. Ask God to fill you with His Holy Spirit. Ask God to give you the power of the Holy Ghost as you give the Word of God out. Because only God can save a soul. Only God can revive a church. Only God can heal a home. Only God can change a life. And he uses his word to do that. These false prophets didn't have any of it. None of it. But we want it. Amen. We're going into work week. Let's ask the Lord. Give us his power. Would you do that with me? Pray and ask God. God, give me the power of God on my witness this week, on my testimony. Holy Spirit, fill me. Cleanse my heart and mind with your word. And use me to make a difference. Father, bless now and help us. To be faithful to your word and to be filled with your spirit. In Jesus' name I pray. Let's stand together, heads-bowed eyes closed.