Never far astray, till Jesus came to me, He opened wide his arms and heard my sinful plea Because of Calvary, my hands were washed away. Because of Calvary, my night has turned to day. I'm ten for heaven, sure, to spend eternity. The burdens are past, I'm free, and that's because of Calvary I have a song to sing, for Jesus save my soul. The opposite eyes are bound, since Jesus took control because of Calvary. My hands are washed away because of Calvary. My night has turned to day. I'm headed for heaven's shore To spend eternity. The burdens are passed and free and left because of Calvary. Amen. Amen. Connie and Zoe. Praise the Lord for our bus ministry. And Connie's a bus worker, Zoe rides the Sunday school bus, and up here singing, isn't that a blessing? Appreciate that. If you would turn back in your Bibles to Isaiah chapter forty four. Isaiah forty-four. I thought I'd let my doctor check me because I just didn't feel quite right. All those aches and pains annoyed me and I couldn't sleep at night. He could find no real disorder, but he wouldn't let it rest. What with Medicare and Blue Cross and Obamacare So to the hospital he sent me, though I didn't feel that bad, he arranged for them to give me everything Test that could be had. I was fluoroscoped and cystoscoped, my aging frame displayed, stripped and on an ice-cold table, my gizzards were x-rayed I was checked for worms and parasites for fungus and the crud, while they pierced me with long needles, taking Samples of my blood. Doctors came to check me over, probed, and pushed and poked around, and then to make sure I was living, they wired me for sound. They have finally concluded. The results have filled a page. What I have will someday kill me. My affliction is old age. Can I get a witness? So I read that this week and I thought oh I can relate to that. So Amen. There's only my dad's been my dad turned 76 And he's kind of been griping about old AIDS and pains and aches and go to the doctors and all this. And he says, Boy, getting old really stinks. I said, Dad, there's only one other option, you know, and so I'm all for Isaiah chapter number 44. And I want us to look at verse number three. We're actually gonna, in our message, uh give attention to all three of the first three verses here But I just want to highlight verse number three, where uh God says, For I will pour water upon him that is thirsty, and floods upon the dry ground. I will pour my spirit upon thy seed and my blessings, my blessing upon thine offspring. I just simply entitled the message Water for the Thirsty. Let's pray. And ask the Lord to speak our hearts this morning. Lord, we are grateful for a new day. Lord, as we mentioned earlier, Lord, it's a real blessing to start out a new day and a new week in the house of God. your people. Lord, my heart's been blessed already with the singing and the fellowship. Lord, we ask now as we look into your word that your presence would be here in a very real way Lord, we need you. We need your wisdom. We need your direction, your protection, your provision in our life. And we believe that your word is true, dear God So we ask that you would take your word and speak to our hearts, open our hearts and minds, help us to understand what your will is for each of us and how we can go about fulfilling Fulfilling your will and living lives that bring glory to you and please you. I ask with all my heart, dear Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew and ask that you would speak through me. And Lord, that you would um help us now in this hour. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen Amen. Israel, the nation of Israel, of course, they were God's people for the Old Testament. After Jesus Christ was crucified, buried, and rose again, he ascended God's economy shifted a bit. God, in a sense, took Israel as his people, set them aside, and he established the church, the New Testament church. And now in this age, in this dispensation God's people is the church. God works through the church. The Old Testament, Israel were his people, and he worked through Israel. But Israel had a terrible habit. Israel had a tendency to go through a cycle. And if you read through your Old Testament very carefully, you can see see this pretty clearly. What would happen is Israel would begin a chapter of their existence, they would begin Really seeking the Lord. They wanted to know God. They wanted to live for Jehovah. They wanted to be right with God. They wanted his blessing. So they, as a nation and as individuals, would seek God. They would look to his word, to his prophets, for direction on what they should do and what they should not do. They trusted God They obeyed God. What God said to do, they would do that. And in response, God would bless them. God would meet their needs. He'd protect them, he'd care for them. But this the second stage of their terrible habit they had, first they would seek the Lord, and God would bless them in response. And then they would become complacent. They would begin over a period of time, they would take God's blessings for granted. They would take God's provisions for granted and even get to the point where they thought that God's blessings was not from God, but they had somehow manufactured these blessings. themselves. And they become complacent and they would uh become self-centered. God was blessing them and caring for them and meeting their needs and giving them direction. They would forget that it was God behind all of this blessing. They would begin to neglect God's word. And as time progressed with this frame of mind that Israel had of becoming self-centered and complacent, it would inevitably lead to becoming very worldly. And very sinful. And as you read through the Old Testament, you find periods of Israel's existence where they were absolutely ungodly. God's people. Taking on the form and being conformed to this world and taking on the practices of the pagans around them to the point many times there was little or no distinction between the people of God Israel and the pagans of the world. And as a result Of becoming complacent and indifferent and neglecting their walk with God and neglecting their faith and obedience to God, it inevitably brought trials back upon them. And God would remove his hand of blessing. And God would remove his hand of protection. And God would remove the direction and wisdom that He would give to them and lead them, and He'd step back. And that would bring trials, and that would bring heartaches, and that would bring difficulties. And you read through the Old Testament And it's not unusual to find the Babylonians and the Philistines and others coming in upon the people of God and pillaging them and spoiling them and taking them captive. And Israel would respond by seeking the Lord again, and then humbling themselves before God and say, God, we need you. God, we've sinned you against you we've done wrong. And they would begin to pay attention to God's word. And they would begin to trust God again. And they would begin to obey God anew And God would deliver them, and God would again bless them, and God would again provide for them. And time would go by, and they would begin taking God's blessing. You see what I'm saying? It was a cycle that Israel would go through. And you can see this as you read through the The historical books of the Old Testament, as you read through the messages of the prophets in the back last part of the Old Testament, second half of the Old Testament, you can see this cycle over and over and over and over again Now you say, why do you bring that up? I'll tell you why. Because the New Testament church is very similar to the Old Testament nation of Israel in that regard. regard. And you and I as is as individuals will often will often see the act actions and the characteristics of Israel. We'll see that in our own lives Um for whatever reason, something will prompt us to begin to seek the Lord. We'll become very concerned about our soul, we'll become very concerned about our relationship with And we'll seek the Lord and uh we'll trust Jesus Christ perhaps as our personal Savior. Maybe we never gave thought to uh heaven and hell, we never gave thought to the existence of God and any kind of relationship I have, but for whatever reason I begin to seek the Lord and I find Jesus as Savior, and I want to live for Him and I want to please Him and I want to grow as a Christian I want to know what God has to say, and I want to know what His will is for my life, and I want to fulfill it. And in response to that, God begins to bless And God leads in our lives, and God directs in our lives, and many times He'll give us victory over sins that beset us, and we'll know the peace of God in our hearts, and we'll know the joy of the Lord. And as time goes by, if we're not careful, we begin taking those blessings for granted. And we begin neglecting our walk with God. And we begin taking for granted that God is going to meet my needs and God is going to take care of me. That peace of mind in our heart and soul, we begin to devalue it. We don't appreciate it like we once did. And next thing we know, our life is a mess. God's blessings are gone and the weight of guilt is there. Now I want to be sure and point this out. We talked about this in Sunday school a little bit. I want to be sure and point this out. As a child of God, when we We take God's blessings for granted and we neglect our walk with God. We never lose our salvation. That's settled. That's a settled fact. But we do lose God's fellowship. And we do lose God's blessings. And we begin to experience the chastisement of God. I think people know what I mean by that term, the chastisement of God. You know what I'm talking about? Chastisement of God is when God takes one of his children who is neglecting their walk with him, who is who are disobedient to him, and he chastises them, or he begins to correct them begins to chasten them. Uh we used to call it years ago uh when daddy would take them out to the woodshed. Now, how many people know what we're talking about? Yeah. Now we never had a woodshed, but Daddy took us out. We took it out to we had a little uh barn there and uh uh the doghouse and if we went out there, brother, we came back a different person, I'll tell you that for sure And God begins to do that in the life of the Christian. And that peace and that joy and that it sometimes you could describe Oh boy, when it it used to be a blessing to go to church and just the joy to sing these hymns and now that's all gone Now it's a drudgery and it's not a blessing, and the hymns don't mean anything for us, and we're going through this cycle. And inevitably that brings heartache. That brings difficulty, and maybe we'll go to revival service, or maybe something will touch our heart, and we'll begin to seek God again. And say, Lord, I sin. Lord, I got away from you. I lost my first love. I became lukewarm. And Lord, I don't want to be that way anymore. I want to be right with you. I want to have your blessings. I want the joy of the Lord to be true in my life. And we begin to seek God. And God is so gracious, and God is so merciful. And God comes back and restores that fellowship. And God comes back and renews that joy in our hearts. And it's a cycle that Israel went through. And if we're not careful, as New Testament Christians, we can get caught up in that same cycle. Israel had to learn over and over again that they could not accomplish God's will without God's presence and God's power. They could not be the people God intended it for them to be and neglect their walk with God. They had to stay close, they had to stay tender-hearted, they had to keep their faith in God. If they were going to grow spiritually, if they were going to be what God wanted to be, they were going to accomplish God's will. They would get the idea that they could somehow do it on their own. Oh, I can do it my way, and it's going to be alright. You know what? When we neglect God's way and we try to do it our way, it's never alright. It always ends up in emptiness and failure and hurt. And Israel had to learn that over and over and over again, they needed the Lord. Paul put it this way in the book of Corinthians. 2 Corinthians, he said, when I am weak, Then am I strong. You know what he was saying? He was saying when I realize how badly I need God, When I realize that in and of myself I don't have enough wisdom, I don't have enough self-discipline, I don't have enough character about me. to be everything that God intends for me to be. And when I realize how weak I really am, then God steps in And God makes me strong. And God enables me to live for Him. And God enables me to fulfill His will. And God leads me and directs me and helps me when I realize That I need him. I've got to do it by his plan. Paul understood that. And Israel had to learn that over and over and over again. Paul said, When I'm weak, then I'm strong. And the other side of that coin is when I think I'm strong and I really think I'm something and I got it together and I don't need God and I don't need to do it by God's way, I can do it my own way, then I'm really weak. Then I'm really weak. So we find this in Isaiah, this cycle being addressed. In chapter 43, particularly the last part of chapter 43, God is rebuking Israel because of their unfaithfulness. They had gotten complacent. They had gotten very self-centered. They were taking God's blessings and God's goodness for granted. And they were no longer seeking the Lord or His will for their life. They were doing what they wanted to do. And God is addressing that and rebuking them for that. And of rebuking them for their sin. Look at chapter 43 and look with me at verse 22, if you would. Just the chapter before where we're at. He says, but thou hast not called upon me, O Jacob. Now when the Lord's saying, O Jacob, he's talking to the nation of Israel. Thou hast not called upon me, O Jacob. They're not praying like they should. They're not seeking God. They've gotten self-centered. But thou hast been weary of me, O Israel. The joy of the Lord is gone. Thou hast not brought me the small cattle of thy burnt offerings, neither hast thou honored me with thy sacrifices. I have not caused thee to serve with an offering, nor weary thee with incense. Thou hast brought me no sweet cane with money, neither hast thou filled me with the fat of thy sacrifices. Look at this statement But thou hast made me to serve with thy sins. Thou hast wearied me with thine iniquities. I put in the morning in my Bible, my sin wearies God. It grieves him. And so God is rebuking Israel for their complacency, their indifference. He's rebuking them for their neglect of their Christian life, of their walk with God, I should say. But as I mentioned a moment ago, thank God, God is a God of great mercy. Amen. God is a God of great grace. And God, in his mercy, withholds from us the judgment we deserve. And God, in his mercy, grants us the forgiveness we don't deserve. And our God is a God of great forgiveness. Our God, I like this statement. Our God is a God of second chances. We praise God for that. And Israel experienced the mercy and grace of God over and over again. the second, third, fourth chances that God would give them if they would just seek his face and humble themselves and pray and turn from their wicked ways. Then he says, I'll yield your land and I'll forgive your sin. Our God is a God of great grace. And thus that brings us to Isaiah forty four, our text for this morning God has addressed. Israel has become complacent. Israel has gotten indifferent. The joy of the Lord is gone. Their sin is grievous to God. And God comes to them and says, I'll pour waters on the dry ground. In other words, I'll bring you back to where you were. I'll restore my blessings on you. I think about Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. 21 years in just two weeks, it'll be 21 years. God called my family and I come here. And I'm here to say God has greatly blessed Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. God has blessed our church. And we thank God for that. And I want to say this: God continues to bless our church to this day. And we're grateful to God for that. God has blessed individuals within our church and families within our church. Many of us could stand up and testify how God has been good to our families. How God has been good to us as individuals and He's blessed us, He's provided for us. We can stand up and testify over and over of times that God has protected us by His grace and mercy. God has been and continues to be very, very good for us. I thought this week as I was traveling and down in South Carolina with Beacon of Truth and I was thinking about our church and God's blessing, I thought about lives. That are being changed by the Word of God. I thought about folks who heard the Word of God and heard the gospel and accepted Jesus Christ as their personal Savior and how God has changed and continually is changed. changing their life and taking the old sinful things out and replacing them with good things. I'm thinking about folks that have conquered sin, that God's presence and God's power through the Word of God Has conquered sin, how homes have been strengthened, souls have been saved and baptized. What I'm trying to say is this: God has blessed us and is blessing us. But we must be careful. We must be careful. We must not take God's blessings for granted. We must not get complacent. Well, praise the Lord, the bills are paid, praise the Lord, we've got nice crowds, praise the Lord, the buses are running, praise the Lord, the buses are running, am I got this, God's doing that. Listen, we must never forget it is God's blessings that those things are in place It's nothing in us that brings that about. Nothing, oh, it's not us. It's God's blessings. And we must never take that for granted. We must never get complacent in our walk with God. I'm saying to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church and those of us that were here back in the days when God begins stirring again. We need to seek God today as much as we did back in 1993. We need to humble ourselves before God. We need to trust Him and depend on Him and obey Him as much today. We ever did before. We must not get complacent. We must not take God's blessings for granted. We must not get our eyes off the Lord. We must not get self-centered. We need to be careful to keep our walk with God as it should be. And what's true for us as a church is true for every one of our families. Listen, let me throw this out. I'm getting a little ahead of myself here, but let me throw this out. Listen, families, there was a day when your family read the Bible together and prayed together, and you had the presence and blessings of God. Listen, don't let that slip. Keep that up. I'm talking to folks, there was a day you read your Bible every single day. As an individual, you spent some time alone with God and you prayed and you sought the Lord. And God blessed, and you were growing, and God was leading in your life, and you could see the hand of God in your life, and you've taken that for granted, and that has slipped, and it's going by the wayside. I'm saying don't let that happen. Amen or not? We've got to be very, very careful that we do not take the mercy and blessings and goodness of God for granted. I'm telling you, God can remove his hand of blessing. We can get into the most horrific sins. without even thinking about it and find ourselves just like Israel was in a mess. Now what I see in Isaiah 44, verses 1, 2, and 3 I see three clear steps that we can do to keep us from falling into this cycle. Where we can stay close to God, where we can stay in the center of God's will and see God blessing us and taking care of us. And by the way, when I'm talking about God's blessings, I'm not talking about millions of dollars and worldly stuff. I'm talking about the presence and blessings and peace and fulfillment of God in our lives. This world has distorted what it means to have God's blessings. And so what do we do? What are these steps? I think we give them here in these few verses. And uh I encourage you to jot these down. I'll just give them to you real quick. Number one. If we're going to break this cycle, if we're going to keep from getting complacent and taking things for granted, number one, write this down, listen. Listen. Look at verse number one of Isaiah 44. Yet now, what's the next word? Hear, O Jacob, my servants. Listen to the Lord. Listen to the Lord. That word here, get this. This is important. That word here means to listen with intent. To obey. There's one thing to hear a noise. There's another thing to listen. How many folks here, either you or someone in your household, at night, you'll turn a little fan on To have that little mmm and then that helps you sleep. Anybody here know what I'm talking about? Mmm. We had our board meeting down in South Carolina and those ways crashing on the beach. I tell you, for us up here in the mountains, that's fascinating to me. I said, I just love that. And boy, just that sound, those waves. And it was just I fell asleep on the beach, just fell right over. No, not really. That's where you hear a sound. But you're not listening to it, right? Just hear it. That's the way it is for some people at church. That's not what the Lord's talking about here. Don't just hear a sound. This is, hear, O Israel, it is listen very intently. Listen with the intention of obeying. Another word scholar put it this way: to hear intelligently Listen, we must never underestimate the importance of God's word. In our ministries, the very focal point of everything Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church does must be the communication of the Word of God. In Sunday school, in children's church, the songs that the choir sings, the messages that are preached The activities that go on, the focal point of everything our church does must be the communication of the Word of God so that we can understand God's will and obey Him. And when we stop listening to God, when we stop hearing what God has to say We're beginning that downward cycle. And we'll get away from God's blessing in our church, in our ministries. In our homes and our families, can I throw this out? Let's make the word of God the center of our homes Now, I understand what some churches say, and I don't mean to be overly critical, but sometimes churches will advertise we are a family-centered church. Now I thank God for families. Amen. Would you agree with me? The family's important. But when the family replaces the word of God in the church, we're getting out of kilter. Should not be a family-centered church, should be a Christ-centered church, should be a word of God-centered church. And when it's Christ-centered, then the family will be what it ought to be. Are you with me? He says, Hero Israel, listen to what I had to say. And when we stop listening to God, We're in trouble. We're in trouble. Never underestimate the importance of God's word in our homes, in our families, in our individual lives. I cannot emphasize to you enough the importance of reading and meditating and memorizing the Word of God on a daily basis. Spending time in God's Word. When I begin neglecting my devotion time, I begin backsliding. I don't know how many times I met with people that messed up, messed up bad. They sat down and said, Preacher, I don't know what's wrong. I can ask this question. Have you been reading your Bible every day like you should? And without fail. No, you know, really not like it ought to be. Really not like it ought to be. I years ago had uh someone was just critical. They were criticizing everyone and everything and all of this And it just went on and on, I'm sitting there just taking a beating and everything finally I said, hold it a second. Let me ask you a personal question. I said, okay Said, are you spending every time alone with the Are you spending time every day alone with the Lord in Bible reading and meditating and prayer? And their head immediately went down. I said, No, I'm not. I said, I can tell. I can tell. Listen. When I listen to God with the purpose of obeying what he says, that will keep me close to the Lord. That will keep God's blessings in my life That will keep me on track with God. When I begin neglecting that, when I begin taking this book for granted, as many have, many churches have. Brother, we're on a downward spiral. We're going to end up like Israel did. We'll lose God's blessings. I put this down. God gives wisdom to those who will listen to him God gives direction to those who will listen to him. Say, preacher, I need some wisdom. I know a good place to find wisdom. In the book of Proverbs, in the Word of God. Preacher, I need direction. Go to God's Word. God gives protection to those who will listen to him. Listen with the purpose of obey. Take your Bibles with me if you would, real quick. Keep your place here, because we're going to look at two other steps here in a moment. But go to Joshua, the sixth book of the Old Testament. I love Joshua. We preached through Joshua years ago here, one of my favorite series we've ever done. Joshua is a good man. Faithful to God, humble before God. And God used him and blessed him in wonderful ways. And notice Joshua chapter 1. And I want to begin reading in verse number seven. Now if you have a pen in hand, I I I don't know if you're in the habit of marking your Bible or not. I'd like to. I think it's a good study tool. I was down in Dominican this past February teaching a class in their seminary there on Methods of Bible study. And I said the the greatest Bible study tool ever invented is the pen Taking notes, underscoring, jotting thoughts down. Now, if you're in the habit of doing that, these verses are good verses to underscore. I'm going to begin reading in verse number 7 of Joshua chapter 1. Notice what God is saying to Joshua. Only be thou strong and very courageous. Look at this. That thou mayest observe to do according to all the law, which Moses, my servant, commanded thee. Turn not from it to the right hand or to the left. Look at this. That thou mayest what? Prosper whithersoever thou goest. Now the law for Joshua would basically we could say is the word of God for you and I, the entire word of God. Now he doesn't stop there. Look at verse 8. This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth. But thou shalt what? Meditate therein day and night. Why? That thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein. He says, I want you to meditate in this word day and night So that you can understand what I want you to do, so you can understand what my will is and carry it out Look at this. That thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written there and look at this. For then thou shalt make thy way prosperous. And then Thou shalt have good success. Have not I commanded thee? Be strong and of good courage. Be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed, for the Lord thy God is with thee whithersoever thou goest. What is he saying to Joshua? He's saying to Joshua, learn to listen to me Meditate on my word, find out what I have to say to you, find out what my instructions are, understand what my will is, and then carry it out. And I will bless thee, and I will give thee prosperity, and I will give you success in your endeavors. What a promise of God! I don't want to take God's blessings for granted. Do you? I don't want to. God's been good to me. He saved my soul from sin in hell. He delivered me from these horrendous addictions. God has blessed me with a family and with a church family that I love with all my heart. And I don't want to take that for granted. And I don't want to neglect the goodness of God. And I want to be very, very careful that I stay close to God and I struggle with it and I'm growing as a Christian just as much as anybody else. But I want to stay close to God and I don't want to lose that blessing, and I don't want to go into the cycle that Israel continually went through. And to avoid that, I've got to listen to God. I've got to meditate in his word day and night. God sends revival to those who will listen to him. God sends spiritual blessings and success to those who will listen to him, read his word, find out what he says, and then carry it through. Anybody recognize the name Franklin Roosevelt? FDR, elected four terms to president. 32nd president of the United States. After he had been president for an extended period of time, he had picked up something He found that when they would have these receiving lines for the president, which were sometimes were several hours, people coming by, shaking his hands, saying a word, politicians, world leaders, all this He decided one time it was an especially long receiving line. He knew he was going to be there a long time. And he got the distinct impression that nobody really listened. to anything he had to say through that receiving line. They were so nervous, they were locked into what they were going to say and do. They never paid any attention to what he said. So this one particular day, as they had a long, it was going to obviously be long, he decided that every person came by, he was going to make this statement to them. I murdered my grandmother this morning True story. And lo and behold, they'd come by, they'd introduce himself, he'd say who he was, and he'd say, uh, I murdered my grandmother this morning. And nobody paid a bit of attention to that They'd say stuff like this in response. Well God bless you. You're doing a great job, Mr. President. We really appreciate what you're doing. And never paid a bit of attention to what he I murdered my grandmother this morning. Until way down into the line, he started, he was having fun with it actually, the ambassador to Bolivia stepped up The introductions are made, they shook hands, he said, uh President uh Roosevelt and uh he said his name, he says, I murdered my grandmother this morning, and the guy said, well she probably deserved it Pretty good politician there, huh? What's the point? The point is a lot of times we'll hear a sound, but we're not really listening to what's being said. Wait a minute. I'm afraid we're guilty of that as concerning God's will. And even those that do spend a little time in God's word, if we're not careful, we'll just read down and see that and never pay a bit of attention to what God was saying. We're just going through the motions, right or wrong How many people here ever read portions of scripture and stopped and thought, did I read that or not? I don't know. Did I read that? And we'll go back and read again. Sometimes read it two, three times. Oh, did I read that? That's sick. He says, here, listen very carefully, pay attention to what I'm saying, so that you can carry it out and do what I'm instructing you If we do that, we'll be very, very careful. We'll be very, very careful. And God will bless us. Write this second word down. First one was listen. I got that from chapter 44 of Isaiah, verse 1. Hear. Yet now hear, O Jacob. Put this one down. Remember. Remember. If I'm going to avoid this cycle, if I'm going to avoid taking God's blessings and God's goodness for granted Number one, I need to be careful to listen to what God has to say and carry out what he tells me. Number two, I need to remember. What do I need to remember? What God has done for me. We get in trouble when we forget what God has done for us. Over and over and over through the Old Testament. God sent his prophets to the nation of Israel and He would say to them, Remember how I delivered you from Egypt. Remember how I took care of you in that wilderness. Remember how I gave you victory over the nations of the new of the new land of the promised land. And remember and when they forgot They would begin to backslide. And they took God's blessings for granted, and they lost the blessings of God Look at verse one here. Look at the second part. First he says, Hear now, yet now hear, O Jacob, my servant, look at this, and Israel whom I have chosen Thus saith the Lord that made thee, formed thee from the womb, which will help thee. Fear not, O Jacob, my servant, now Jeshran, whom I have chosen He's reminding them: I brought you out of Ur of the Chaldees. I've chosen you to be my people. I set you apart to be my people. Don't forget what I have done for you I think one of the best things a Christian can do is to constantly remind myself what Jesus Christ did for me on that old rugged cross. Constantly remember what Jesus Christ has done for me in saving my sin from hell, saving my soul from sin in hell. Failure in our Christian lives is often the result of forgetting how empty my life was without the Lord Jesus Christ. Forgetting how awful, uh how awful price that the Lord Jesus Christ paid for my sins. When we forget about that. We begin to get self-centered, we begin to get implacent, we begin to take God's goodness for granted, and next thing you know, we're out of the will of God. One of the most, I think you'll agree with, many of you agree with me on this One of the most stirring services we have. One of the most heart-touching services that we have, at least for me personally, is when we take part in Lord's Supper. Am I right or wrong? Does that not stir our hearts? You know why? Because we're stopping and remembering. The horrendous price that Jesus Christ paid so that I could be forgiven, so that I could escape hell and go to heaven, so that I could have eternal life here and now. And the bloodshed, and the body that was broken. And when we remember that, sin seems awfully sinful, doesn't it? And I realize how dependent I am on the Lord Jesus Christ. And we forget, we forget how good God's been to us. We forget all that God has done for us. Brother, we start messing up pretty quick. We start complaining. We start criticizing. We start finding fault. We be kind of unhappy. I think a good thing to do is just stop and remember, God saved me. He set me apart. He's telling Israel, I've chosen you, I set you apart. They'd forgotten all about that. Years ago I had a there was a woman that had been unfaithful to her husband, Christian. And she said to work in making things right. She confessed it, trying to make things right. She made this statement. She goes, I forgot how good God had been to me I forgot how good God had been to me. I thought that was a powerful statement. Oh, and start complaining or not satisfied with this and stop and think, wait a minute, God's done some amazing things for me. I can't do this. What did Joseph say when Potiphar's wife came to him? He said, I can't do this wickedness and sin against God. What was he saying? God's been too good to me This ain't right. We find Christians running to the world and abandoning the clear instructions of Scripture. You know why? They've forgotten what all Jesus Christ has done for them. Remember, remember. Um, Derek's here. Uh the other week, Derek and I helped Betty uh she had her heart surgery, so we were hauling some trash for her. She had their need to haul out, so don't And so we're working, we're driving, talking, and we're we're talking about important things like fishing and hunting and that type of stuff. And uh talking about trapping a little bit and skumps And he goes, he said, Did you ever get sprayed by a skunk? I said, No. He goes, I did. And uh he told the story when he was a little boy. Uh he found a skunk and he thought it was a kitty cat Right? And uh didn't take long, he found out it's not a kitty cat. Now I guarantee ya, he sees a skunk, he remembers that skunk ain't no kitty cat. You know what our problem is? We messed up in sin and got sprayed by sin, but our problem is we forgot. Time goes by and we look back and say, oh look at that kitty cat. Ain't no kitty cat. We forget how sinful sin is. We forget what sin has done for us and how it's devastated us in the past. And the Lord forgives us and restores us and gets us back up, and time goes by and we forget all about that. And we turn around and go back right back to the same stink in sin. Amen or not. So what Israel did If we're not careful, we start forgetting. We don't remember what God has done for us. If we don't remember what God says to us, we're going to mess up. We were at the beacon board meeting this week and I'm my heart stirred. It was an amazing week down there. We'll talk more about it, I'm sure. But there were several needs for the beacon of Beacon of Truth Baptist Ministry is a scripture printing ministry, print scriptures and gospel tracts by the millions. I asked Brother Homo, I said, how many gospel tracts has Beacon of Truth printed in the last twenty whatever years? I think it's twenty-two years they've been in existence. How many gospel tracts? He said, I don't know. We have no record. It has to be tens of millions of gospel tracts. have gone out. Isn't that an amazing thing? I said, how many scriptures, Bibles, New Testament? It's in the millions. And so there's and the and the ministry is expanding and the opportunities out there are just tremendous. We don't have the resources to meet the needs of the opportunities. And so we were talking about different systems we needed and materials and room, which of course means finances And we're going through, and it got to the point where a lot of us were starting to worry about whether we're going to be able to do what needs to be done. And one of the board members stopped and said, wait a minute. Didn't we have needs like this before? Yes. Did God meet those needs before? Yes. Where in the world do we get the idea that God's not going to keep on meeting those needs? You know what I'm saying? We forget. I'm talking to somebody this morning. I have no doubt I'm talking to somebody this morning. You've got a situation, you're worried sick about it, scares you to death, and the fact of the matter is God has seen you through just as bad, if not worse, situations in the past Don't forget he got you through them before. He'll get you through them again. Just keep trusting. Just keep trusting. Um, number let me give you the last word real quick. Number one, listen. Number two, remember. And number three, and that's where I get the title, the message, and the message this morning. Desire. Desire. Look what he says in verse 3. For I will pour water upon him that is what? Thirsty. To be thirsty means to be parched. Means to be desperate for water. This isn't just, this word thirsty here doesn't mean just wet your whistle. Right? Whatever that means. This means that it implies desperation. I need water bad. And my Bible says that when we get to the point in our life where we realize how badly we need God, when I want the Lord. And his will to be done in my life. When I am desperate, God, I want my life to please you Lord, I want to be right with you. I want my heart and mind to be pure. I want to live a life of integrity. I want to have faith in you. God, I want you And when that becomes more important to us than anything else, God says you can have it. You will have it When I desire God's blessings and God's will to be done in my life, when I desire His presence and His Holy Spirit to fill me, empower me, when I desire that more than anything else, God says, I will give it to you. That word thirsty implies dissatisfaction. I'm not satisfied with the way things are. I want to be a better Christian. I want to have more victory in my life. I want to be more influential in my witness. I want to be closer to God. I want to be more like the Lord Jesus Christ. If I want God's will badly enough, He'll reveal it to me and He'll pour out His blessing. I want God's help, when I want God's blessings, when I want God's power badly enough, I can have it. We go out witnessing every week. I try to I try, my personal goal is to give five gospel tracts out a day. Sometimes I go well over it, sometimes I don't meet it, but that's my goal. Give five gospel tracts a day. It's not that big a deal. I try to get out every week, I'll knock on someone's door and share it, go through the gospel every week. I try to do that, make sure at least do that several times every week. That's just my personal goal. I get out and I share the gospel with people and it's not unusual to come across someone and they'll say, yeah, I'm lost, yeah. You die now, you know where you go? Yeah, probably to hell. And I like to ask them if they if they kind of convey that attitude, I like to ask this question. Does that concern you at all? That you're lost and that when you die you go to hell? Does that concern you at all? And it's not unusual to have people say, nah, not really. Not really. That guy up in um Elk Garden, Brother Ed. Seventy-eight years old I'm not real concerned about it. I said, sir, do you realize the danger you're in? If you die without Christ I've found that God won't save someone who doesn't care to be saved. You've got to want to. There's people over this auditorium stand up and testify, when I trusted Christ, I was desperate. I needed God I can testify. I'm telling you, that night, back in Penn, Philadelphia, when I knelt by my bed that night, called out to God, I was desperate I I I was thirsty. I needed Jesus to save me I did not want to be the man I was becoming, somebody, and only God could step in and forgive me of my sin and give me a new life. If you're here this morning and you don't care about whether you go to heaven or hell, I'm here to tell you God's not going to help you. If you're here this morning and you realize how important it is that you know for sure your sins are forgiven, that you go to heaven and not to hell when you die, I'm telling you, God will step in. And God will help you get that matter taken care of. Amen or not? And those of us that are already saved, those of us that know Jesus Christ the Savior, if we don't care, if we don't care Whether we're doing right or not, whether we're living for God or not, whether we're obeying God or not, if we don't care, If we have God's blessings on our home and our families and our individual lives or not, if we are a Sunday school teacher or a preacher or have a ministry, and I don't care If God is blessing my ministry and using me to bring people to Christ, if I don't care, then don't expect God to step in and do much for us. But I will say this. When we get to the point, thank you, Catherine. When we get to the point, now listen up here We get to the point where we say, I want God's will to be done in my life more than anything else. We get someone we love, a brother, sister, mother, father, neighbor, co-worker that's lost on their way to hell, we say, God, I want them to be saved saved more than anything else. God, I can't stand the thought of my loved one going to hell. God, I need you to use me. God, I need you to give me power and boldness to witness them. We get to that point, I'll tell you this, God will step in. And God will help us. He says, those that are thirsty, I'll pour that water out. And he goes down a little farther in that verse, and he says, I'll pour my spirit. I'll give my spirit. What he's talking about there is the presence of God in our life, the power of God in our life, the victory in our life, if we want it. Number one, listen to what God has to say. Do what he says. Number two, don't ever forget how good God has been to us. And number three, we've got to desire God's will to be done and God to use us and bless us and help us. Amen? The old far there's a city boy, city fellow, decided to get out of city, and he moved to the country. First thing he did out in the country is he bought him a milk cow. He said, this is going to be great, fresh milk every day, whenever I want it. So he got the milk cow, went out, milked, got milk, put it on his Cereos. It was great. Well, after a little time went by, the milk cow dried up. He said, I can't believe this. This was a good milk cow. I got good milk. They told me it was a good so he went to his neighbor who was a farmer, had milk cows. He says, uh Hey, that milk I got dried up, went dry. Neighbor said, I can't believe that. And the city boy said, I can't believe it either. He says I was I tried being so nice. I was careful to only milk them when I wanted milk. I didn't want to be too demanding. And the neighbor farmer explained to him If you want milk, don't just get as little out of there as you can. He says you've got to get all the milk out of that thing as often as you possibly can to keep that milk flowing. Any farmers here know what we're talking about? You quit milking, it'll dry up. Can I suggest to you God's blessings are that way? We get indifferent, we say, Well, I'll just come to God whenever I need a little something, and I'll just I'll just read my Bible whenever a problem comes up and I'll just seek the Lord, uh you know You know what you're going to find out? You're going to find God's blessings dry up on you. And we've got to get there every day listening to God, remembering what He's done for me, desiring His blessings. On a continual, ongoing basis. And when we do that, we can break that cycle that Israel found themselves in. We can stay close to God and we can stay strong in the Lord. Isn't that good? Father, help us, I pray. I thank you for Israel's example. I'm sorry they had to experience this. And I ask, Lord, you'd help me as an individual Christian, a growing Christian. Help me, Lord, to listen carefully to you. Holy Spirit, help me. Help me to remember. Help me, Lord, to keep that desire for your blessings. Don't let the things of this world appeal to me Help us, Lord, to stay thirsty for you. With our heads bound and eyes closed, how many Christians this morning say, preacher, I need to be careful To listen to God, spend time in His Word more diligently. I need to be more consistent and stay at that. I need to pay attention to what God is trying to tell me on a regular daily basis. How many are like that? Preacher, pray with me. God will help me to be more diligent on that, more disciplined in that. Hands all around. God bless you. I think that one thing is so important to come and listen To what God has to say to me from His Word. How many would say, preacher, I have a tendency to forget how good God is, and I find myself griping and complaining a little bit. I find myself, the world becoming appealing to me Because I tend to forget how good God has been to me. And you say, preacher, pray with me. God will help me remember all that God has done for me. That was Israel's big problem. Any like that, preacher, pray for me. I need to remember on a daily basis how good God has been to me. God bless you. Now what about this part, desire? How about it, church workers, those that have ministries? How badly do you want God to use you? How about in our homes? How badly do we want our families, our children, our homes to be exactly what God? Do we want that? How badly do I want God's will done in my life? If I'm thirsty for it, God says He'll pour it out. If I don't care That ain't going to happen. How many say, preacher, I'm thirsty for God's blessings? I want God's will to be done in my life more than anything. And I need him to help me. And I'm looking to him. How about it? Any like that? In my ministry, in my personal life, in my home. God bless you. One last question. Is there someone here this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure. When I die, I'm going to heaven. I know you don't want to go to hell. Nobody in their right mind wants to go to hell You say, Preacher, I really want that matter settled in my heart and life. I really do. I want to know that God has forgiven me and saved me, that I have eternal life. I go to heaven and not to hell. I need to say, Preacher, pray for me also. That God will help me settle that. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I'm concerned about that. I don't want to go to hell when I know I'm going to heaven. How about it? Any at all? Uplifted hand, how about it? Any at all. Now, Father, you know our hearts. You know how badly we want this, Lord. You know. So help us. Help me. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. The invitation