Um uh what I consider tips, helpful tips maybe in witnessing to people and sharing the gospel. I hope uh you're determined this coming year to uh be a witness for our Lord I uh always want to every week I begin, I think I want to try and share the gospel as many pe as many people as I can this week. A lot of times I fall short. And uh so New Year is a good time to turn and try and witness and try and win people to Christ. Proverbs chapter number 29. And I want to talk tonight, before we read the reference, I want to try and give some tips here. And this is what I call it, I don't know if this is real accurate title, but I called it um uh uh ways to secure a person's attention. Now I had ten ways I put down in the bulletin but it's actually only eight So it's going to be a short message instead of ten. It's going to be eight. Amen. How to secure a person's attention. Now before we read our reference tonight, I want to ask you some questions that I'm wanting you to give a little input in the in the message tonight, in the lesson Uh what are some things that hinder people from sharing the gospel with other people? And I'm by sharing the gospel I mean getting to the point where I have an open Bible and I'm showing them from the Bible how to be saved. What are some things that hinder that in Christians' lives? Dorothy. Lack of confidence or a feeling of inadequacy. I'm not able to do this. I'm not sure I can do this. The person you know that. You know that. And so what would it that would hinder you from witnessing to them? It would be Fear. Is that yeah. How many people agree with me? Fear is a huge, huge factor in hindering our witness to the Lord. And um And let me say this, fear, uh if you if you say, well, I just really struggle with fear and witnessing and talking to people about Christ, don't feel like you're some oddball for being that way. You're so you're some strange Christian or you're a sorry Christian. because you're struggling with fear in witnessing. I'm telling you right now, every Christian struggles with that. And I I want to suggest to you, even Paul struggled with that And he said to the I believe it was the Philippians, he said, Pray that I may uh speak the Word of God as I ought to. And he asked several times. He asked prayer for boldness. And in the book of Acts, I reference often when we talk about this. The New Testament believers, they prayed and asked the Lord to grant to thy servants that with all boldness we may speak the word of God as we ought to. So fear is a very real factor. And um and you know uh um it doesn't matter how long you've been saved, doesn't matter how many doors you've knocked on, doesn't how many times you sat down with people, sometimes fear is a factor. What would be the root cause of fear? Why would we be afraid of sharing the gospel with people? We'd be afraid of rejection. Yes, fear of rejection. Why would that bother us being rejected? Somebody Okay. Maybe you feel guilty that you I didn't live up to the way I should have. My testimony wasn't good. But why would we care whether anybody rejects us or not? Have you said it? Yeah. Uh I think uh m not all cases, but many cases, I think it's just downright pride. I want people to think highly of me. I want people to like me and uh ego uh oh in that. Now that's that's not Totally all the time. Sometimes I think, sometimes I'm afraid because I don't feel adequate. Here's a fear sometimes people might struggle with is I might mess up You know, I don't want to mess up. I want them to be clear. Look at Proverbs chapter 29 and verse number 25. Proverbs 29 and verse 25. The Bible says, particularly, the Bible says the fear of man bringeth a what? Snare, but whosoever putteth his trust in the Lord shall be saved. The fear man bringeth a snare. What does a snare do? You know what he's talking about, a snare, right? Alright, it'll catch him, it'll trap, but what does it do? Alright, it stops the critter in their tracks. It keeps them from what? Going further. It keeps them from going where they want to. They want to get to that destination. They want to get in their hole. They want to get up the tree. They want to get to the river. Whatever the critter is. You set the snare. They get in there. And they cannot go where they want to be. Want to go. That's what fear does, particularly in the subject of soul winning. I want to share the gospel with this person. I want to see them saved. I want to be able to be a witness and win this soul to Christ. But because of my fear, I am unable to get to that destination. Does that make sense? I'm snared by my fears holding me back and keeping me from getting where I want to. And so um what I want to do tonight is give some tips on how to get somebody uh and overcome our fear, but get to the point where this person is willing to listen to what I have to say. Alright, I want to do things and say things in such a way, present myself in such a way, that this person is willing to listen to what I have to say. Ed touched on it a little bit when he said, maybe my testimony is such you're not going to listen to me And that's a case. So let's pray and I'll share what I have tonight. Father in heaven, uh help us this coming year. We've got twelve months ahead of us, fifty-two weeks. So this year's up. And then I pray, Lord, that this would be a good year for us spiritually, that we would grow. We want to be strong in our faith. We want to be close in our walk with you. But Lord, very, very important is that we be a witness to this old sinful world. That's why you've left us here. That's the commission you've given us. And so maybe a thought or two, a few statements tonight might help us step out of that fear and have a little bit more confidence that, yes, we can do this. So fill me with your Spirit, Lord. Speak through me is my prayer as always. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Now this isn't one of my tips, but I think this is an important thing to keep in mind is I need to learn to just relax. How many people here ever witnessed to somebody or you were just talking to them about the Lord and boy you just got so nervous and that fear got in there And you're stumbling over your words and uh anybody know what I'm talking about? How many people ever thought this? Man, if I could just relax a little bit I won't be so tense. That's what we want to get to. We want to get where we're relaxing. Let me make a few statements here that helps us maybe relax. The thing I need to understand is this: it's God that saves. Alright? It's God that saves. Um I used to put myself under such pressure, I thought I had to get this person saved. I had to This. I had to, man, I had myself under such pressure to be this successful soul winner. And over a period of time, I began to realize, you know, I can't save anybody. It's God that does the saving. He simply works through me. Who knows what a conduit is? A conduit is what? What's a conduit? Something that yeah, something goes through it. And maybe it's an electric launch, maybe it's a uh electrical pulse or it's water or wires are going through a conduit. That's what you and I are. We're a conduit. We're simply the channel through which the Word of God, the Holy Spirit of God, speaks through us to them. So we can go and just relax. That doesn't mean we don't have a burden. Doesn't mean we're not driven and and earnest in wedding them. But it's it's it I I don't have to put myself under that pressure. I can just relax. We're just the conduits. And a lot of a big part of winning a soul to Christ, winning someone to Christ, a big part of this is first winning them to myself. If I'm obnoxious, if there's things about myself personally and the way I'm talking and what I'm saying and how I'm doing it, and it turns those people off, they're not going to listen to me And so I've got to be presentable. I've got to to some degree win them to myself. I'm thinking about a couple, an older couple that trusted Christ here a couple three months ago in the hospital. And I guess I'm thinking of them because I visited them on Thursday night of follow-up. But um, you know, we walked there in the hospital room and I didn't know them from Adam and they didn't know well they knew of me. And uh we walked in and and um you know we just sat down and just talked a little bit And got going on and about or you know, where they're from and different things and different people we both knew. And just relax And once we relaxed and I got one of them over where they weren't intimidated or concerned about me. Funny thing is, not funny, but someone's in the hospital and I walk in in a suit, they think I'm a doctor coming to tell them they're going to die or something, you know. Oh no. And so I want to get them relaxed. And we just had I just enjoyed it. And I was able to win them over to myself a little bit. And then I was able to say, hey, by the way, can I read a Bible verse with you? Sure. And I was able to go through the gospel. They trusted Christ. And so winning them to ourselves, getting them to the point where they're willing to listen to me, where they feel comfortable with me. Did you ever get around someone nervous? Get around someone this real nervous person. What are the what happens to you? You get nervous, you know, and um and uh get where they just Are comfortable around me and get them to trust me. Here we go. Let me give you a few tips. I got eight of them, not ten, eight. Number one, if you're writing these down, I think they'd be helpful. Have a genuine concern for this person Have a genuine concern for this person. I mean, really care about him. I cannot allow the people I'm witnessing to, my soul when he become uh just another number out there, just some uh nameless face that I'm throwing the gospel at him. But somebody, a person that I genuinely care about. I think one of the greatest needs in soul winning is just having a genuine concern for the people we're witnessing to. Can I say this? I think that's a real need in Christianity overall. Just really having a concern for others and their spiritual well-being and their relationship with the Lord and how they are, just caring about others. I got thinking through the Lord's earthly ministry and the gospels, and I tell you, something that stands out in my mind about the Lord Jesus Christ is this. He sincerely cared about people I mean he sincerely cared about people. Um can you think of any instances in the Gospels and the earthly ministry of our Lord that displays the fact that he he sincerely cared about people? Anybody think of anything in the in the vents of our Lord? Woman at the well is the first one that came to my mind. Here's a woman, she goes, what do you have to do with us? You're a Jew. You don't have any dealings with us That didn't matter to him. Why? Because he cared about her. He genuinely cared about her. In fact, the others went on to get lunch. He stayed back. And um uh cared about her. Any others, can you think of anyone else? Still. Yeah. Yeah. And that was they weren't coming to him asking him to come and do this. He came across that thing and he did it And it raised her up. Um there's a number I thought of the fella by the pool of Bethesda. You know, and the Lord went to him just out of compassion. And uh he cared about people. And I really believe you and I, I'm talking about us individually, not as a church as a whole, but us individually, we'd see more people saved if we could learn to just care about people. I have a genuine concern For their well-being. I thought of this. There's not a single person alive, not one single person on planet Earth at this time that the Lord does not love dearly. You ever think about that? Not one person that the Lord doesn't love dearly. Let me put it this way: there's not one person alive that the Lord does not love dearly enough to be willing to suffer hell for them. Now how many people in the world would you and I be willing to go to hell for? I'll go to hell so you can go to heaven. How many people would we'd be willing to do that for? That's what Jesus did. And so we need to get a little bit of that compassion that the Lord had for other people and really care about them and see beyond their failures and their obnoxious and the sin and all of that And here's somebody that is going to s live forever somewhere. And uh I have the the answer to it. Um I thought about this. Uh uh there's a tremendous story the Lord told about the Good Samaritan I'm telling you, there is so much truth in that one event that the Lord shared where this guy, this Samaritan, comes across the guy and he genuinely cares about this fella That's beat up left for dead along the road. And all the religious folk and the Pharisees and the fun they would be the fundamentalists to some extent of their day, you know, and all these religious leaders And all these folks real religious, they go by, and here's just an ordinary guy that sees somebody dying. He has no knows nothing about 'em, but he says, you know, I'm going to stop, take some time, I'm going to invest a little bit of effort, some finances, I'm going to help this guy get well. I don't want him to die. And uh just a genuine concern. Would you turn with me? Now keep your place in Proverbs. I don't know why we just end up in Proverbs all the time, but come to Romans. I want you to notice a verse in Romans chapter 5. Now let's be honest. How many of us don't respond to this? But how many of us come across people and if we're going to be honest, we really don't care about them? I mean we would never say that. That's awful to even think that. But our sinful nature is sometimes you know, I just uh we don't care. We're so caught up in our what we're doing and go on And that concern is not there. And I think we might need what this verse talks about. Romans 5 and verse number 5. It says, And hope maketh not ashamed. Now look at this, because the what Love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost, which is given to us. Did you get that? The love of God, the love that God has for the world, this verse says, is shed abroad in our hearts. By the Holy Spirit which has been given unto us. So we've been given the Holy Spirit the moment we got saved. That Holy Spirit in us has the love of God, loves people as much as God the Father of Jesus Christ does. That agape love is there. in uh what do you call uh latent, right? Is that right, Sandy? Latent power. It's it's not active, it's latent. Am I right? Somebody, just shake your head, tell me I'm right. I'm insecure. And I need you yeah, thank you. But that whole that love, that unconditional love of God is in us, in the person of the Holy Spirit dwell is in us. And what we need is that shed abroad. We need God to shed that abroad. I got looking up that phrase shed abroad, and it means this, to be poured out. And one definition that caught my attention means this, to distribute lavishly And so one thing the Holy Spirit wants to do in us is take the love of God that is there. The Holy Spirit loves these people dearly. And he wants that to be poured out lavishly. On other people. Just love them and care about them. Lost people on their way to hell. Care about them. Care about that. Maybe this coming year, 2019, a good prayer for us would be, God, give me that love for others. God, give me a concern for other people's spiritual well-being. And um man, we're so easy, we're so quick and easy to condemn people and find their faults and see everything they do wrong and everything that's bad about them, and we see all this stuff we don't like about them. But yet within us is the Holy Spirit of God. And he loves them dearly. And so one thing that's going to help us get people to listen to what we have to say and be able to have a positive influence for the gospel and for Christ He's to genuinely care about him. I have a genuine concern. How many people have ever heard this statement? Nobody cares what you know until they know how much you care. Did you ever hear that before? And there's truth in that And I knock on someone's door, or I sit down in someone's living room, or I go to a hospital, and I'm going to visit with someone there, or maybe one of the ladies out of um blankets for babies and you're delivering the little package and the blanket and you're sitting down there with that new mother and maybe she's a single mother scared to death and I'm not picking on blankets for babies. I'm just using this illustration And that dear gal's scared to death. She's got a baby and no father around that's involved and she don't know how she's going to take care of this. Maybe she's very, very young. And you know, some Christian comes by and just cares deeply about that girl. What a profound impact that has on that. And you knock on the door, you get in an elevator with somebody at the hospital, or maybe you're in Morgantown somewhere, and there's a person standing there, and uh you have no idea what's going on in that person's life. That might be a a man's wife just left them And his heart is shattered. Maybe somebody just found out their daughter has cancer, only has three weeks to live. You have no idea what that's going on And just somebody that cares and has have just cares about them, talks to them a little bit. I started doing this years ago, but I get in the hospital, somebody's there, I'll ask them, I said, do you have family or someone in the hospital here And uh they'll say, Yeah, my mom's uh up in the hospital, they found leukemia or something, they'll say something like that. And I said, I'm so sorry. I said, what's your mother's name? And they'll say, and I said, Well here, let me give you a little gospel track And uh, if I can do anything, you call and read those verses. That'll be a blessing. I tell you, I never had one person turn me down. With that approach. You know, just carry, just carry. So number one, my first tip is this, to get someone to listen to you, is have a genuine concern for that person Number two, this one seems obvious, but we miss it. Be friendly. Just be friendly. We have a world full of grouches Anybody notice that? I mean grouch is everywhere. They're in the stores, they're at the market, they're in church. No, there's not in church. But um Just grouchy people. Uh go back to Proverbs, would you, chapter 18? One, we ask God to give us love in our hearts, that we would just give us a real concern for others that we care about. And I need that. Care for their well-being, care concerned about their salvation. Then too, I want to just be friendly to people. Chapter 18, look with me at verse 24. We're familiar with this verse. A man that hath friends must do what? Show himself friendly. I've said this so many times, and maybe it's because I need to work on it so much. But um I think uh the members of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church ought to be the friendliest people in Garrett County We ought to be just friendly as can be. I tell you, one of the great compliments I get when I'm out visiting or something, someone will say this to me, and this is when I'm really proud to be pastor of the church. I'll visit someone, they'll say something like this, your church is so friendly. I'll say, Amen We that ought to be true. Now we're not in c we're not in competition with other churches, but I want to be friendlier than anybody else. We ought to be the friendliest people around. He that hath friends must show himself friendly. Friendly. Amen. And here you are. Yeah, we won you over. Well, I think that's the way it ought to be, but we need to take that friendliness out of here and out uh into our witness and have a friendly witness. Uh in don't turn you don't have to turn there. Matthew 11, 19, the Bible says that Jesus, get this, was a friend of publicans and sinners. How about that? That's probably some of the hardest people to be friendly with. People that live a totally different lifestyle than we do, have totally different values than we do. They say things that irk us. They do things that it are wrong. And uh, you know, we just say, ah, I can't stand that person. But Jesus was friendly to those people. He was a friend of sinners, friend of publicans And just learn to be friendly to people. Be kind. I do not believe there's any excuse for a Christian to be unfriendly. How many folks here, God has been kind to you? Anybody here? God's been kind to you. Man alive, if a perfect God that is sinless can be so kind and can I use this term, so friendly to me who has blasphemed him and sinned against him and hardened stiffened my neck against him so many times and yet he's so kind and so friendly to me and so patient with me. Surely me as a sinner can be kind and friendly to other sinners If a perfect God can do this, there's few things in the world that will win a person over better than friendliness. Well, we're just friendly to people, they'll listen to us. If we're just kind and friendly people, they'll listen to us. Put this one down, number three Uh this one is uh one word smile I'm telling you a smile will go a mile when you're witnessing. I just came up with that. That's a good quote. Smile kit, a smile has profound impact. It really does. Any people are familiar with the Mona Lisa? Painting, most famous paintings by some accounts, most famous painting in all of history, the Mona Lisa. What is it about the Mona Lisa that is so unique? Her smile. And they I mean they do whole courses and studies on the Mona Lisa, the little smile. On Mona Lisa? Well that's the big debate. What is she smiling about? That's the question. But a smile is so profound. Dale Carnegie said this, the expression one wears on his face is far more important than the clothes on your back. I think how you dress is important and especially in witnessing all that, but man, you can w you can be dressed to the T, you can be dressed totally appropriately, and you come in with a scour and a hard face, um, you're gonna turn people off What do they say about first impressions? Are incredibly important. So you go up to meet someone, you're going to talk to someone, you knock on a door, you walk into a room, you sit down beside one, whatever the setting is Man, make sure, first of all, you really care about that person. Number two, be as friendly as possible. Open the door for them. Give them the preferred seat. Die to self. Just be friendly And free smile. Put a big old cheesy smile on your face. I read this one study. I don't know what the deal is with this. I don't know I'd buy it, but they say women smile more than men. Because they're always up to something, I think, is what that's about. I was uh I visit the nursing homes a fair bit and um I know I learned something, I noticed something this past year in the nursing home. Did you ever been in there, you walk down the hallway, and there's usually folks sitting out in wheelchairs, they'll bring them out of the room and they'll sit there And most of them, most of the time, they look very sad. Do you ever notice that? Most of the people look sad. But I observed something this past year in the nursing home. When I walk down there, just about all of them look at me. When somebody's walking down there, look up, and I notice if I smile, I see them and I smile to them, guess what they do? They smile back. And for one brief moment. There's a smile on their face. And all it was was some total stranger walking by and he smiled to them. The other thing I noticed is they always look you in the eye You always look at your eyes. That's something. But a smile. I was looking, I mentioned this before, and this this was such a profound event moment in my life. I was walking here at Dennett Rose, walking down, and there's they were all out there and um one lady looked up and she saw me and she goes, Well looky here It's the only time a woman ever said that about me. And uh I tell you my shoulders went back, got a little stride going. And she was impressed. And then the and this is the truth. If I ever tell the truth, I'll point it out. This is the truth. The guy beside her said, watch it, that's the preacher. But a smile is profound. You know, a smile on your face may determine whether that person will listen to you or not. A smile on the face or a lack of it may determine whether I get to share the gospel with that person or not. Some little thing that seems so insignificant, but is so profound. A smile on the face, can I put it this way, this may be stretching a little, but may determine whether that person trusts Christ or not ends up in heaven and hell. Just by a little smile on my face. I read where Holida uh I think it was Holiday Inn was hiring 500 employees. I guess it was a new motel they built or something. I think it was Holiday Inn Yes. And um they were hiring five hundred employees and people came by the hundreds and hundreds and interviewed. And the people they hired, one of the things they looked for, they was requ and they didn't tell them this, this was on the interviewer side, is they had to have smiled at least four times throughout the conversation, the interview for the job. And if they didn't smile at least four times, then they were written off. They didn't even consider hiring them. You know why? Because Hall they understood the importance of a smile on the face and how that attracts people and how it makes people feel comfortable and enjoyable. Now, if Holiday Inn does that to make money, how much more important would it be for you and I to be able to put a smile on our face to win people to Christ? So a smile, smile, very important. Let me give you another one here. I put this down. A simple, sincere smile may open the heart to the gospel, may open a heart to the bottom. Number four, be a good listener. Be a good listener. Come over to Proverbs 21. And look with me at verse 28. Proverbs 21 and verse 28. A false witness shall perish. All right. But look at the next statement. And this stood out to me in my devotions about two, three years ago. But the man that heareth speaketh constantly. Huh. The man that heareth speaketh constantly. I put this in the margin of my Bible. Listening speaks volumes. Listening speaks volumes. The man hears, listen what they have to say. Hear them out. And boy, you're saying a lot to them. What does it say if I'm willing just to listen to somebody? They got something on their heart, something they it's important to them, something they want to say, and I'm willing just to shut my mouth and listen to what they say, what does that tell them about me? I'm concerned. I'm interested in them. That they they have some value, that what they say is is of importance. And I think sometimes in our soul winning, and I've been convicted about this a little bit, is I'm so concerned about getting my spiel out, getting my presentation to them. That I don't slow down and and just give them opportunity. Let them speak. Let them say what they think. Let them let me listen to what they say. Listen to what their experience has been. Now I'll be honest with you, you get out soul winning, sometimes you get some weird experiences, people say, the strangest stuff. You know, I had a guy out in Colorado told me one time he sincerely believed in uh uh and aliens and we're gonna all this. Oh, he's just bizarre. And so I listened to him, he told me this whole theory and his old belief system, and I said, Well that's interesting, and then went on with the gospel. But I listened to them. And so listen to what they have to say. Um uh allow them to freely speak. I'm afraid sometimes we come so focused on what we want to say we don't hear what the other person's saying. Do you ever have a conversation with someone And the whole time they're talking to you, you're thinking about what you're going to say to them. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And then all of a sudden you realize, what'd they just say? I'm sorry, say that again? We weren't listening because we're so focused on what we want to say. But if I can listen to them, let them say, and here's something else that comes out of that. If I'm willing to listen to what they have to say, well I was raised up. Uh when I was a kid, you know, and m my parents told me I was baptized when I was an infant, and uh we went to church and I helped the guy up front with the wafers and the the Eucharist and all of that. What's he telling me? He's a what? He's Catholic. And so I'm listening to him tell me his what his understanding of what spirituality is, his understanding of that is. And I'm learning how to approach and share the gospel with him. I see where he's coming from. I talk about, I joked a little bit about the guy here who said that he knew for sure he was going to heaven. I said, how do you know that? What makes you sure? Oh, I keep the commandments And so by listening to what he had to say, then I told me, all right, he's depending on what? Works. So I need to emphasize it's grace, it's not by works. And so listening enables me to be a better witness, but it also speaks volumes to them that I'm willing to hear what they have to say. I think uh try and um Try and see their perspective. Try and understand their their point of view a little bit. Listen to what they had to say. Then let me give you another one. Which one was that? What number was that? Four? Let me give you number five I like this one. Open with folksy chit-chat. How many people know what chit chat is? You're just talking about what? Nothing real important. But just being folksy, that this falls under the category, this is closely related to being friendly. What are some things that I'm done I've met the person, we're sitting there beside each other in the waiting room And uh Lord, you know, I think, boy, I'll try and witness this guy sitting here. And um uh so I'm gonna start the conversation. I I'm not gonna start the conversation this way. So you're going to heaven or hell? Right? Not a good approach. So it would be a nice thing is I just talk about something that's real not that important, but maybe an what we call an icebreaker. So what are some things you can talk about? Or you're on a plane, you're flying somewhere, a guy next to you, I'm going to witness this guy. What will be some chit-chat stuff Yeah, you having a nice day? How's your day going for you? What else? Somebody else said something. Weather! Yeah, what weather. Good night. We need rain, don't we? Everybody talks about I think one of the reasons God gives us weather is so we have stuff to talk about with people. What's something else? What's your job? So where do you work? You're sitting in a sitting a doctor's office, you know, it's five hours after your appointment was you're still sitting there. Guys beside you. So uh uh so hey uh long wait, huh? Yeah So what do you do? You got a job or do you work? Oh, I'm a gold miner. You can talk about that a little bit. So you can talk about the weather, you can talk about a job, uh family. Um you can talk about uh their home. You're from around here? Ah, I'm from I'm from Birgoo. Burgoo, you gotta be kidding me. We go down there every year. Yeah, where you live? Oh what the holler there beside the Leatherwood Creek and You gotta be kidding. In that last cabin on the left with the hound dog on the porch. Oh yeah, I know where that is Don't be in a hurry. Just uh be a little chit-chat with them. Uh develop the ability to put people at ease Just talking a little bit like that helps put people at ease. And maybe pray, ask God to help you. I've prayed for years. Lord, help me to have a more pleasant personality. I always felt like I didn't have a very good personality I prayed and prayed and prayed all through my Bible college years and still to this day I pray, God help me to have a nice personality that people are put to ease and they're willing to talk to me. And listen to me. So be folksy. Be uh chit-chat. Just talk about things. Pay attention, what they're wearing, or whatever. And the more you do it, the better, the easier that comes. Number six, I've got to finish up here. Number six, be complimentary. Find something to compliment. Don't flatter them, but compliment them. Just find something. Man, those are nice shoes. Well thank you. Something you can brag on them about. Um boy that's a sharp tie. And uh folks do that every now and then. I got I wore ties I think it was Sunday n I wore it. And um, man, that tie's gotta be twenty years old. I've had it forever. It's in the back of my tie rack, all the way in the back, and I pulled it out, I said, wipe the dust off it. And somebody came up to me Sunday and said, Man, preacher, I like that tie. Is that new? I said, No, but uh you know, felt pretty good. And I'm gonna wear it again next Sunday So find something to compliment them. Find something positive to say about them. I thought about Paul when he wrote the Corinthian church. He's about to skin them alive. But the first part, he's so complimentary. Bully, you guys come behind on none of the gifts, and you've been so good to me, and he sold all these pleasant things. Number seven, put break this down. Sincerely try to make them feel important. Is there anybody on this planet that is not important to God? Anybody? No. I heard a preacher say years ago, and I strongly disagree with him, he says we are of no value. And I thought, I don't believe that for one minute. We're all sinners. We don't deserve God's goodness, but we are of incredible value to God. If he's willing to suffer hell for me, I'm not junk. Right? I'm in his image. And so this world wants to beat people down and convince they're nothing and you're of no value. I want to try and make them feel like you know what you're important. You're important. Some people are very gifted in this area If you ever get around somebody, and boy, when you walk away, you really feel like something. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You know who's like that? At least to me? Chuck Harding. I get around Chuck Harding. I walk away. I just feel I feel good. He he's just gifted to that. We we were down uh at DC and uh his big um uh capital connection mean. I mean there's four or five hundred preachers there. The place is packed. Couple thousand people, the place is packed. And uh hey Brother Leatherman. Hey, you know come over. Hey man, it's good to see you. I'll walk away. I feel pretty good And so try we want to try and do that. Make them it may just be a little tar paper shack they're living in, you're visiting with them. Well boy, I want to walk out. I uh when I leave, if nothing else, I want them to realize God loves them. And God considers them something. One way to do this is use their name. I've been witnessing to people, and I'm halfway through the gospel, and all of a sudden I realize I don't even know their name. That's terrible. So what I do is I just stop. Wait a minute. I'm sorry. I never did get your name. So I want to use that name four or five times. Use their name. Use their name Another way to do this is try and see their point of view, as I mentioned before. Try and understand where they're coming from. And they may try they'll may excuse and justify all their sin, and I don't ever want to excuse Excuse and I never want to justify sin, but I do want to understand why somebody might be that way And I think if folks know I'm trying to understand them, not ex justify their behavior, but at least understand where they're coming from It makes them feel uh it helps out, helps them to witness that. Uh number, let me give you the last one here. Uh it's last but it's not least. Be clean and neat One of my favorite verses, Proverbs 27, 9. I'm going to end with this. Proverbs 27 and verse number 9. Look what it says. You got it there? Ointment and perfume rejoice the heart What does that mean? It means if I smell good, people like it. And the opposite is if I stink. People don't like it. And so ointment and perfume rejoice the heart. So I want to get in there. I want to get around them. I want to make sure I carry uh in our soul-winning training, I teach a thing about carrying mints with you at all times. I got them in my car, in my desk, got them everywhere. And um uh be clean and neat, dress respectfully. But dress appropriately when I'm visiting. I learned something when I came here. I was in cities. Uh my whole ministries have always been in cities. Chattanooga, Indianapolis, Boulder, which was a suburb of Denver. It was all city, city, city. So I always wore suits. Shoot and tie, wingtip shoes basically, or go out soul winning. Always I came to Garrett County and Oakland is not a city. Right? Baird is not a city. And so when I first got here, I'd go out soul window, I'd get my dark suit and my tie, I'd have my dress shoes on, I'd knock on the door, and the people are like, who's this freak? And I knew somehow I wasn't connected. Now the other extreme of that, which I didn't go to, the other extreme is that I'd go out in shorts and a ripped up t-shirt. So I want to be appropriate. I don't want to overdress, but I don't want to be disrespectful in my appearance either. So I want to be appropriate. I want to come across appropriate. Uh but I want to make sure my I'm my I was gonna say my hair is combed. Um I want to make sure that I'm neat and uh I'm clean and and uh that I uh I'm not offensive in any ways. People, many times people are not interested in what we have to say until they're convinced that we're genuine, that we care about them and there's and that we're respectable And then many times they will listen to us. You recognize the name Ann Marrow Lindenberg. Recognize that name? Charles Lindenberg, the great aviator. It's his wife. When she was six years old, her daddy was apparently very, very wealthy. And he was entertaining a presidential candidate, Calvin Coolidge. Have a big dinner. And she wrote a book later on and she told this story in there. And um had the big dinner and they were de they were talking about his potential running to be candidate for president of the United States. And after the Calvin Coolidge dismissed himself and left, there's a lot of them still there, and her daddy said to the group assembled there, it's a pretty good-sized group, he says, I believe that man would be a good president. And everyone else in there said, nope, we won't be good. They gave all their reasons why they didn't think he was good. But little Ann was six years old, and she climbed up on her daddy's lap and she says, Daddy, he'd be a good president. And everybody said, why, Ann? She had a band-aid on her finger, and she said he was the only one in this whole group that asked me what happened to my finger. He was the only one that showed her concern. And that won her over to him And I tell you, if we want to win people Lord Jesus Christ, first many times we have to win them to ourselves. And the best way to do that is to show concern. Show that we care. Show some attention. Let's pray and ask the Lord that this coming year, that God would use each of us as individuals to see others come to Christ. Most important thing in the world, people come to Christ. And God uses people just like you and I. But we've got to care about them, and we've got to pay some attention to this. Father in heaven, I pray you'd help us. Help me. to be able to conduct ourselves and approach people and interact with people in such a way that they would be willing to listen to us. That they would sense our concern for them. The love of Christ would be evident in our lives, in our countenance, in our actions, our words, our listening. I'll pray you'd help us. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many say, preacher, there's some of these lists here, some of these I I could work on. I could give a little attention to Lord I need the Lord to help me. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. My hand's raised What about this one? Say, preacher, I need God to give me a greater concern in my heart for the lost. I need that love of God to be shed abroad in my heart. And how many like me say, preacher, I'm going to pray and ask God to do that in my heart? Is there any like that? I want that love of God shed abroad in my heart. Father in heaven, you know us. We want to be a witness. We want to see others saved. Help us to be that conduit, to be such a vessel that you can and will work through us. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jane's playing the invitation How about maybe just an old-fashioned order this evening, this first Wednesday night of the year, and say, Lord, help me be that witness. God, give me that love and concern for others. Help me to be friendly and kind God put a love in my heart for the lost people around me I work with, maybe family members and neighbors. Maybe uh just total strangers we come across, so we don't give them two thoughts, but yet God loves them so much. Maybe God's got somebody on your heart while I'm teaching that person's name and their face just keeps coming to mind. That's the Lord. That's the Lord dealing with us. You say, God, give me a love for that one. Give me a concern. Father in heaven, thank you for loving us. Lord, give us that same love poured out in our lives to others. In Jesus' name, amen.