Good. Find your place there. And I'd like for us to read this together in unison. If everybody has it. First Corinthians chapter six and uh verse number nineteen. And uh ready? Here we go, all together. What? Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost, which is in you, which ye have of God, and ye are not your own For ye are bought with a price, therefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. Did you catch that last phrase? Which are God's. Look at the end of verse 19. He makes a similar statement. He says, ye are not your own. Now this message today is for saved people. Folks that have recognized the fact that I'm a sinner, I'm under the judgment of God on my way to hell. But Jesus Christ died and suffered hell for me. He was buried. He rose again. I turn to him in faith and trust. I accept him as my personal Savior. God forgives my sin, gives me a new life. I'm on my way to heaven. And he makes this statement. To believers. We are not our own. So let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts this morning. Father in heaven. Thank you, Lord, for the Word of God and the teachings in here. Lord, there's some amazing promises you give us, an answer to prayer, your protection, your provision, your presence, and we rejoice in all of them as believers. Lord, you've given us some very serious and grave warnings about sin, about uh unbelief, about disobedience. About rebellion towards you. And I pray you'd help us to heed those warnings and take them very seriously. And Lord, you've made some great statements about what it means to be saved. And all that implies and how that affects us. And so I pray that we would learn today. I pray we would understand a little bit more about what it means to be saved and all that that implies. So I yield myself to you, my will. Lord, I present my body anew as best I can, and I ask with all my heart That you fill me with your spirit that dwells within me and speak through me to hearts and give us open hearts and minds that we would be receptive. So how you address our personal situations, our personal issues from your word. So bless Lord now I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. We are not our own. We're studying First Corinthians in the Auditorium Sunday School class. And uh if you don't come to Sunday school, I'd really like to put a plug in here and urge you. Come on out to study school. We got a class for every member of every family, pre nursery, all the way up uh through the adults, and we're in here. We're studying First Corinthians. And 1 Corinthians, for those that were in the class, you're fully aware of this, is a letter, and 2 Corinthians also, but it's a letter that was written by the Apostle Paul to a church that God used him to establish in the Greek city of Corinth. It was a large city. It was a city of great commerce. It was a city of great uh higher education, uh, arts. Uh they had all these things, and paganism was rampant through the city Uh in a lot of ways, not uh in a lot of ways very similar to some of our big cities uh in the world today Where you find every idea, everything is there. And so God used uh Paul to establish this church there, and he's writing to them And um and uh he's addressing some issues that were taking place in the church. Now this week as I was working on Sunday school lesson a little bit throughout the week and we were having our revival meeting And Brother Uh DeLong is preaching on revival and I'm thinking revival. I'm praying God revive us again. By the way, we ought to pray for revival after revival meeting just as much as we pray for it before revival meeting But I was thinking along those lines, I got studying, and it dawned on me that the book of Corinthians is actually a letter. Under given by inspiration, God, preserved for us, but it is a letter on revival. You say, how in the world is 1 Corinthians a letter on revival? Now think about it with me. What kind of shape was the church, those are in my Sunday school class, what kind of shape was the church at Corinth in when Paul was writing this letter? What kind of shape were they in? They're shaky at best. The term Paul uses is carnal. They were babes in Christ. There was division. throughout the church. There was rampant sin. I mean blanton, even what unsaved people didn't do was was rampant through the church. There was ignorance about key Bible teaching. The church was, here's the term I want to use, the church was backslidden to the core. Now, Paul is writing to them, this church that is disaster. By the way, if any of us would have visited that church on vacation, we'd go to that church, we'd leave, we'd say, I would never attend that church. It is a mess. Nevertheless, they were saved. God loved them. Paul loved them. God used him to start it. So he's writing back to them. Here's what I'm getting at. He's writing back to them. Telling them how to get right with God. He's telling them how to get from the backslidden Wicked sin, carnal, uh immature condition they were in, what they needed to do, the steps they needed to take, the issues they needed to deal with, in order that they could be a church. as God intended them to be. So they could be Christians as God the kind of Christian God intended them to be. It's a book on revival How this church could experience revival and get back to what they ought to be. Then he wrote 2 Corinthians to them, and lo and behold, they took heed to what he said. They took seriously his corrections. They responded to his instructions. And when he writes them in 2 Corinthians, he commends them. And he says, you're strong, you're growing, you're what God intends for you to be. They experienced revival. And I thought, man, what a great book, the book of Corinthians is how to help us uh um uh uh to get right and have revival in our hearts and lives God tells lost people in his word, God very clearly makes uh states how a lost person can be saved. Very clear in the Bible. If you're here this morning and you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven, if that is not a settled fact, listen, if I ask you this question, do you know for sure That your sins are forgiven and you're on your way to heaven. If your response is this, well, I hope so, then I got news for you. You can know for sure. The Bible makes that very clear. Very, very clear. Every single person can know for sure that God has forgiven their sins, that when they die, they go to heaven, not to hell. Very very clear, very clear in Scripture. It's not difficult to see and set that out. You say, Well I've had people say to me over I've had people say to me over the years, well, pr Pastor Latherman, nobody can know whether they're saved or not. You're not reading your Bible very carefully. 1 John 5 says, These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that ye have eternal life. We can know. And by the way, think with me for a moment. What kind of God would tell people who have sinned against him they're under his judgment, they're doomed for hell in their natural condition? They're under the wrath of God. John 3 36 and 318 tells us they're already, the lost are already under the judgment of God. What kind of God would say, listen, I'm not going to tell you whether you're forgiven or not until you get to heaven? Until or until you die. Let me take that back. I'm not going to tell you whether you're forgiven or not until you die. I'm not going to tell you until it's too late to do something about it. I don't feel grieved. That's not fair That's not right. No, God says you can know now. I've already paid the price for your sin. I've already took your the judgment of your sin upon myself. You turn to me, you you turn to me in repentance and faith, you trust me I'll forgive you, I'll give you eternal life, and you can know for sure you're saved on your way to heaven. So the Bible makes it very, very clear to the unsaved Folks that have never trusted Christ, how to be saved. But then those of us that know Christ as Savior, those of us that are saved already, got that settled. Yes, preacher, I trusted Christ. I know for sure I'm on my way to heaven. I I got Bible basis for it. And uh uh for those of us in that condition, he says, listen, when you're out of fellowship with God, when you're not living for God like you should, you get backslidden How many people know what I'm talking about backslidding? You know what I mean? I mean, you get out of sorts with God, we get doing our own thing, we let sin creep in. God says very, very clearly, He says, this is how you make it right. This is how you get back in fellowship with me. And uh so that's what Corinthians is. He's telling them very clearly, this is how you get back, this is how you get back. So in that whole context First Corinthians, Paul is writing to this church, hey, you gotta do this, you gotta deal with this, you need to change this, address that, this has to take place, need to understand this. In this whole context of him getting them to the church where it needs to be revived, where it gets to where it should be, in the middle of all of that, we have our text for this morning. Right in the middle of all this that he's correcting and addressing, we have this tremendous statement. Now the immediate context of this passage, and I had Pastor Matt read a little bit here, so So we understand what the context is. He's addressing fornication. How many people know what fornication is? Physical intimacy outside the bounds of marriage. That's what fornication is. Any type of physical intimacy of any sort outside the bounds of marriage. It's fornication. And so he's addressing this fornication. He's addressing adultery that had crept into the church. Crept nothing. It came barging in the front doors of this church, Corinthian church. That church was rife with adultery. That church was rife with fornication. That church was rife with sexual sins. And that's the context that he's addressing. And he says, listen, this is wrong. This is sin. And you need to correct that. That needs to be made right. That needs to be addressed. The church at Corinth lived in a society that was absolutely saturated With sensuality, with fornication on every hand. The city of Corinth was a wicked, wicked, perverse city. As I studied it, I couldn't help but think it sounds a whole lot like the society you and I live in today. You agree with me? We live in a wicked, wicked society. And some of the things that are not only being allowed, but are being celebrated And we are we are condemned because we don't celebrate it with them. That's the society we live in. Now here's the tragic thing about what was happening at the church at Corinth. That that behavior that was that was so characterized the society of Corinth had crept into the church and they began seeing Fornication and adultery and all those types of sin, they saw it the same way the world is. There's nothing wrong with this. And Paul said, this must stop. You're killing yourselves, you're bringing the judgment of God upon you. You're grieving the Spirit of God. And he addresses this very, very strongly. He addresses this very, very bluntly. And that's the context here. And the passage here, chapter 6, and through here, he's given basically five reasons Why the church, why Christians must keep ourselves pure. He gives five reasons here. Now, I'm not going to address the five reasons. What I want to do is notice in verse 19 and 20 what we read. He makes a profound statement. Now, the purpose for him giving this statement here is addressing the sin, these sexual sins that were so prevalent in the church. But in addressing that, in giving a reason why we ought to keep ourselves pure, he gives us one of the most important truths, I believe, in the Christian life. In the Christian life. I believe in verse 19 and 20, there is a truth given to us here that if I'm going to be the person God designed me to be, if I'm going to live the life that God designed me to live I must understand the truth in verse 19 and 20. Now let me make this statement, then I want to look at it Salvation. I already asked this. Let me ask again. How many folks here? You're saved and you know it. Say amen. Salvation is a lot more than simply getting uh is a lot more than a get out of hell ticket. You understand that? Now I think sometimes we might get a little little sloppy in our soul winning and we have to be careful about this and we pr present salvation as all of it is is a fire escape out of hell. Is it some sort of eternal uh lake of fire uh life insurance and uh and you won't go to hell. Now I'll be quick to say salvation is uh uh I do escape hell through salvation Salvation is a get out of hell ticket. It is. I was down at this was I wasn't here too long, maybe a year or two. And um uh I was down at Sheets one day waiting in line to buy um candy bars and soda pop and ice cream and stuff. And uh I was waiting in line there is a pretty good line. It was the old sheets building. Remember before they remodeled it. Remember that other one And I was waiting in line there and I had been running some ads in the paper about the church and um might have been a mistake. I put my picture in the ad and um might explain the slow slow growth early in our years. But uh I was waiting in line, there's a guy in front of me and he kept doing this. I'm just standing there with all my health food and um He kept looking back at me. You can tell when somebody's trying to look at you, but they don't want you to know they're trying to look at you. He would just kind of like You know, he's doing that kind of stuff. And finally he turned around and he says, How do I know you? I said, I don't know. And uh he goes, I've seen you around somewhere. I said, I'm not sure. And uh he goes, I know, I saw you in the newspaper. You sell life insurance And I I laughed he was serious as could be. And I laughed a little bit and um I said and then it the thought came to me, on rare occasions I think of stuff be in time to say it, you know. Usually it's way after it's too late. But on this occasion I thought came to mind and I said to him, I well I said, well I do kind of provide insurance. He goes, what are you talking about? Fire insurance He goes, what? I said, I'm the Baptist preacher. I tell people how to get saved and scared not go to hell. He thought that was hilarious. And I gave him a gospel track and tried to witness and going on It was the fella that had uh Rudy's clothing store downtown. Remember him? And uh yeah, and uh so after that every time he saw him Fire insurance, he do that to me. They were doing a radio thing downtown, I think it was Autumn Glory, and they were interviewing him. KHJ was interviewing him and they're talking a little bit and I happened to walk by And uh he looks and he goes, Oh, there's that preacher that has fire insurance. He said it over the radio station. So salvation does uh a part of salvation is escaping hell. I don't know about you, but I'm glad. I don't want to go to hell Good night. Have you ever read what the Bible says about hell? It is horrific. It is eternal. Once a person dies unforgiven in their sins, they're in hell for all eternity. No getting out. Lake of fire. That's it. Ever for eternity. So I'm glad that salvation is that. But the point I'm trying to make is this, it's a whole lot more than that. It's a whole lot more than that. Salvation is the total transformation of who and what I am as an individual. Um, when I got saved on May 7th, 1979, 1030 at night, it was a Monday night. When I knelt by my bed and I was calling on the Lord to come in my heart and life and be my Savior, I was desperate. I was desperate. But I'm telling you, there was not one thought in my mind about heaven or hell. I was not trusting Christ to save me from hell. That was not my motive at that time. I wanted God to save me from sin. The angel told Mary to name Jesus when she found out she was going to have Jesus. The angel told Mary, name him Jesus, for he shall save his people from hell. That's not what it said. To save his people from their sins. And when I was kneeling by my bed that night, I needed Christ to save me from my sin because I was messed up. I was a sinner. I was a sinner. I wanted God to save me from sin. And then if I got and then, you know, God changed my life instantly. I don't know. Sometimes people it takes a while for their life to be changed. For whatever reason, for me, it was boom, instant. That was a completely different. And as time went on, I started reading my Bible, I started going to a Bible preaching church. I started realizing there's a whole lot more to salvation. Then simply that one aspect, I realized that man, trusting Christ, I'm not going to hell. God has removed his judgment from me There's a whole lot of aspects. When when we were young, at Christmas time, I don't know if Dad remembers this, but mom used to hold presents back. We'd have all the presents under the tree. And um I I enjoyed Christmas a lot more when I was a kid than when uh when you're getting the presents than when you're buying them. You know what I'm talking about? Although when you become a grandparent, that all changes But she would always we'd have all the presents here, we'd open up, we'd be all excited, oh boy, I got an orange, I got a slinky. Nowadays it's a five thousand dollar computer set. You know, we got a bike. Oh, it's great. And she would always do this about half hour after everything's open and we're kind of messing around there. She would go, oh, I forgot. I got another present back here. And she'd bring one out. Oh, we'd open them up. About a half hour later, she'd go, Oh, I can't believe it, I forgot another one. And throughout the morning, she'd be bringing these out throughout the morning. And so it just stretched the whole thing out all morning long. And that's kind of the way it was for me when I got saved. I'd learned something about what it means to be saved and be like, wow, uh, God's taking my sins away. Wow, I'm not going to hell. Wow, I have an inheritance with Christ in heaven. Man, a lot, and I'd learn all these things. And 1 Corinthians 6, 19 and 20 is a truth. A profound important truth in this matter of salvation. And it is this: you and I, when we trust Christ as Savior We are no longer our own. I'm not, this isn't mine. This hunk It's not mine. We're not our own. We're not our own. Now let me let's look at these verses here real quick. And I want to try and go through these real quickly. The first thing I want to notice here in verse number 19 And I just want to briefly look at this one, but I noticed the perplexity of Paul. Did you catch that in the first couple statements of verse 19? Look what Paul says. He says, what? And when I read it and my devotions when I read it, I always read it that way. It's like, what? Know ye not That your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost? What does it mean if someone's perplexed? It means they're what? They're confused or they're puzzled or it doesn't make sense. And I think that's the way Paul is. He's writing to the Corinthian believers, and he goes, you guys are living in this sin. And he says, I don't understand. What what what's the deal? Don't you know this? That implies to me that he had taught this to them at some point, maybe when he was their pastor, he had communicated this to them. He had taught them this from the scriptures. And here they are a number of years later and they're involved in the sin. He's writing back to them. He says, I'm perplexed. You should know this. You should be fully aware this is something that you sh should not be an issue. In fact, I got looking eight times in 1 Corinthians, he makes that type of statement. What? No ye not? Don't you know this? The church and the individual believers in that church had gotten so far from the Lord that some of the most basic teachings, some of the things that Paul had clearly taught them, They had completely pushed out of their thinking. And that challenges me as a pastor and me as an individual Christian before the Lord. That we need to be constantly reminded of basic Bible teaching Over and over and over. I remember I first started preaching in Indianapolis, first started as a pastor, I was an assistant pastor, a youth pastor, and um I preached to the kids one time on tithing. Boy I it was a great message. It I'm telling you, it was fantastic on tithing. I preached to those kids and I told them about tithing and what the I almost showed them the verses and everything and man I made application. It was a beautiful three point outline. I mean it was a model sermon on tithing. And I was done. That's taken care of. I won't have to deal with that anymore. That next week the offerings went down. Huh. Maybe I'll have to deal with this again. And I learned over the years that one sermon on a subject doesn't always sink in And Paul is perplexed here, and he's saying and he's saying, listen, you should know this, that you've been taught this. I've got to address this again. And you know, there are truths in scripture, we've got to hear it over and over and over and over and over. That's a Bible principle. In the Old Testament, the Lord said, line upon line, line upon line Precept upon precept, precept upon precept. I've heard a number of people over the years say Pastor Lom is so repetitive. Just say that thing over and over and over. That's by design. Because I forgot what I said before, and I say it again. No, it's because you forgot what I said before, and I gotta say it again. Dr. Lee Robertson, I was in uh down at Highland Park in Tennessee when I was in school. He taught a leadership class, and he made this statement one time, it stuck in my mind. He said, I have ten basic Bible doctrines that my sermons are about. And he said, I just work my way over those same ten over and over and over. Because we as human beings need that over and over and over. So Paul's a little perplexed here. He says, what? Don't you know this? Know ye not? We need constant reminders. By the way, that's why Christians we ought to read our Bibles every day You say, preacher, the other year you challenged us to read through the Bible, and I read it through. I read through that whole Bible. I'm done. No, read it again. I've read it five times. Read it five more. Lord will, and I'm not saying this to challenge us, but Lord will, and this year is my 39th time reading the Bible through. You know what I'm going to do next year? Lord will, I'm going to read it through again. You know what? I find stuff that I didn't see before. You know what else? I see stuff I saw before, but I forgot I saw it before. And then sometimes I see stuff that I saw before and I remembered I saw it before, but it sure is a blessing seeing it again. So there's a little perplexity on Paul's part here. What? Don't you know this? The fact of the matter is, now they need to be reminded again. And again, and again, and again. Then the next thing I notice here, now we're going to get down to the truth that I think is tremendously profound for you and I as Christians, and that is this. I notice first the perplexity of Paul, second, the presence of the Holy Spirit. Now he's talking to saved people. How many folks who are saved, you know it. Say amen again. That's who he's talking to. You and I that know Christ. Look what he says. Look what he says. Know ye not, look at this, that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost which is in you Wow! I don't know about you, but to me, that's one of the greatest truths of the Bible. Is that God Almighty, the God that spoke this universe into existence? Spoke it into existence. Said the word. Boom! That all-powerful God and the person of the Holy Spirit lives inside this body right here. That's mind-boggling. In fact, not only does he dwell within me, but he says that this body is his temple. I'm telling you, there's a whole lot more to being a Christian than simply not going to hell when I die It is Almighty God and the person of the Holy Spirit moving into my body and declaring this body to be his temple. His temple. Wow, would you agree with me? That's pretty sacred. That's sacred ground. I find three places that the Holy Spirit indwelt throughout Scripture. Initially, he dwelt and dwelt the tabernacle. How many people remember reading or hearing about the tabernacle? Came out of Egypt, got on Mount Sinai, gave Paul gave uh Paul gave Moses uh the pattern to make the temple the tabernacle afterward and the and the uh mercy seat and uh and the uh ark of the covenant and all the labors and all that was there, all that. And the Bible says the the the Shekinah glory of God settled in on that tabernacle. That was the Holy Spirit of God, the Holy Spirit of God moving down and settling into that Holy of Holies. And that was the dwelling place of the Holy Spirit of God. The other place I find, and it's mentioned in Corinthians Chronicles, is when Solomon built a temple. They did away with the tabernacle and he built the temple. And when that was finished, the Bible says the glory of God filled the temple. And the Holy Spirit of God moved down and then dwelled, and that was his dwelling place on earth, in that holy of holies, in Solomon's temple. And the third place we find the Holy Spirit dwelling is when we come to the New Testament. And it's not a temple made of metal and stones. But a temple of flesh. And it is the body of the believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. And the moment you and I accept Jesus Christ as Savior, the Holy Spirit of God, that instant I trust Christ, the Holy Spirit of God moves in and he says, this is my temple. Wow. Wow. Now I don't want to go off on this. I'll let you make your own application. But let me ask you this. Did Israel have a right to mess with that tabernacle, the Holy Spirit dwelling in there? Would they modify it? No, they did it the the way God made it, right? The way God made it is the way it was. Now, you make your own application. I'm not trying to be unkind. God bless you. You know we we do stuff. Sometimes we're dumb. Anybody? Anyone here ever know anyone that was dumb? Look in the mirror. Um sometimes we do dumb stuff. But let me say this. What if what do you think God would have thought if somebody would have got a can of spray paint? on the side of the tabernacle. And they put in there, put a heart with an arrow through it and said, I love mom Or uh or what if they'd have painted barbed wire, spray painted a picture of barbed wire around that thing. You think God'd been alright with that? You know you follow what I'm saying? Solomon's temple. Well, I don't know. I'm gonna put my I'm gonna spray paint my girlfriend's name here. I'm gonna engrave my girlfriend's name on the side of the Solomon's temple Think God would be alright with that? I don't think so. And now, your body and my body. It's a temple of the Holy Spirit. Where God Almighty, the person of the Holy Spirit, indwells with us. The moment I trusted Christ as Savior, the Spirit of God moved in. Let me just throw this out to you real quickly. If you're saved, I mean folks, saved you know it. Say amen. You're saved. You don't have to ask God to give you the Holy Spirit. You already have the Holy Spirit. I I can give you scripture you want. I'll see after where I can give you all kinds of scripture. I don't there they'll be people, good people, I think, sincere, saved, are going to kneel this morning at altars. They're going to sit in their seats and they're going to cry out, Oh God, give me your spirit, give me your spirit, give me your Holy Spirit. And if they're saved, that's a meaningless prayer. They already have the Holy Spirit the moment they got saved. And by the way, Romans tells us chapter 8, if I don't have the Holy Spirit, then I'm not saved. And so I don't have to ask God for the Holy Spirit. The issue isn't me getting more of the Holy Spirit. The issue is the Holy Spirit getting more of me. Me letting go. Me me this isn't mine. This isn't my temple. This isn't the temple of Dennis Leatherman. I saw a phys uh a physical fitness ad and it says, It's your temple. Take care of it. This ain't my temple. It's a temple of the Holy Spirit. It's not mine. It's God's. God's Holy Spirit. And so I notice here the presence of the Holy Spirit Dwells within us. All believers are indwelt with the Holy Spirit. The only ones without the Holy Spirit are unsaved people. Saved people have the Holy Spirit the moment they get saved. And the Holy Spirit permanently indwells the believer. He doesn't move in and move out and move in and move out and move in and move out. When the Holy Spirit moves in, He's there. Locked door. He's in. It's it. You say, well, what if a Christian sins? What if a person gets saved and they commit fornication, they commit adultery? They'll lose the Holy Spirit. Now, what did we just read? He's writing to people who are committing adultery or living in fornication. And he says, What? Know ye not that your body is the town, not was. Here's a very backslidden, wicked, sinful believers. And he says, you have the Holy Spirit. You have the Holy Spirit. You say, well, if the Holy Spirit of God is in my body, this is his temple, and I use his temple to commit sin. The Holy Spirit wouldn't stay there. No, he doesn't move out. It's his. But I tell you, we sure grieve him. I tell you what I can't imagine. I tell you what I cannot imagine in my mind is God weeping. And God looks down and says, there's one of the my children. I died and suffered hell for them. I gave everything for them to have eternal life. Their body is my holy my temp the temple of my Holy Spirit. And look what they're doing with my temple. The Bible says God is grieved. What are they doing? I can grieve the Holy Spirit. My sin, if I take the temple that isn't mine, it's God, and I use engaging sin, indulge in sin. That grieves the Holy Spirit of God and it quenches the Holy Spirit. He can't use me. It's like his temple, and I'm pushing them down and saying, no, no, no, I'm taking over this thing, God. And we quench him. And we don't get his leadership. We don't have his direction. We don't have his blessing. We don't have the joy of the Lord. Tell you, the most miserable person in the world is a Christian who is grieving and quenching the Holy Spirit of God. He begins to chasten us and deal with us. So we have the presence of the Holy Spirit. I'm telling you, that is a profound truth. I don't I I'm telling you, I think if we grasp that, it is life-changing. I remember when it first when I first realized this and I know and Before I went off to college, I know I was taught this. I've been through a discipleship thing. They taught us a lot of things. And I knew this in my head. I knew it. I knew it. You know what I'm talking about? But it it didn't really grasp it. And I still remember as I was in Bible college and we had doctrines class. And that day, he went through the scripture about how The Holy Spirit of God indwells the believer, and for whatever reason, that gripped my heart I remember coming back to the dorm room, I shared a, well it wasn't dorm, I shared an apartment with a fella, Dean Demares, he pastors down in Kentucky. He is He is documented to be totally insane. But um it's a good friend of mine, so we got along really well. But um I came back and I thought, man, I said, his name's Dean. I said, Dean, do you realize God is in our bodies? I said think about what that means. And I made a big poster. I was into making posters back then. I made the big poster and I put it over my bed. His was here, mine was here. We're just a little one-bedroom apartment And I put a big post over my bed. God, the Holy Spirit, is in me. And every morning when I got up, I wanted to see that. Every night when I went to bed, I wanted to be reminded that. Man, that that rattled me. That spirit of God dwells within me. So Paul's perplexed. He says, why don't you know this? I taught this to you. Well, you need to be told again. And then he tells them that they have the presence of the Holy Spirit. And I'm going to end with this, number three. I notice they are God's possession. Notice what he says here. What? Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost, which is in you, which ye have of God, and ye are not your own? The end of verse 20, which are God's. Your body and your spirit are God's. The world says, this is my body, I can do what I want with it. We hear that in the news, don't we? It's my choice. This is my body. Alright, I'll give you that, but the body in your womb is not your body. It's your body should have maybe used a little bit more restraint earlier. You wouldn't be in this situation. You follow what I'm saying? The world says, this is your body, this is my body. Not one Christian can say, this is my body. That is not a true statement. My body and my spirit are his. Are his. When man, the fall of man, when Satan convinced Adam and Eve to sin against God. Satan by default, because of that sin, the separation, Satan by default became the prince and the power of this heir. And he conceived the power of the air. And what he did was he convinced Adam and Eve, you are not gods, you are your own. God doesn't own you. You can make your own choices. You're not God's. You're your own person. Be your own person. Make your own decisions. And they believed it. They brought this whole world into sin. Now it's easy for us to look back and correct them, right? It's easy for us to make judgment on them. I would suggest to you, if you were I were there, we've probably done the same thing. But we look back and we say, you know, it would have been better for them to say, get away from me, Satan. I'm not my own, I'm his. Is. It's not my choice to make. This isn't my body. I was doing a Bible time rally up in Michigan, not Michigan, let me take it back, in Boston We flew into um what's it airport there, Logan Airport. We flew into there and uh we got our stuff. I'm twenty six years old. And uh been traveling a little bit, so I knew a little bit was doing we're waiting there at the baggage, outside baggage, waiting for a pickup, and this Mercedes-Benz Sports Coupe pulls up. I thought, wow, that's a pretty cool car. We got a little Bible time ribbons. How many people remember the Bible time ribbons? We got our ribbons on. We're waiting there. The guy jumps out. Bible time! Yeah. Hop in. Huh? There wasn't no room for our luggage. We piled in there. I'm sitting in the back luggage all over me. It's a convertible. So we get to the house. We went to the church, unloaded everything, said, I'll take you to where you're going to stay. Okay. Flying down there. The most insane drivers live in Boston, I'm telling you, right now. They're horrible. We pulled up this nice house, he goes, All right, here's where you're staying. We got our stuff, got our rooms unpacked, we're gonna be there for the week. And uh he's gone out the door and we're standing we didn't think of anything. And he and he looks at me and he says, uh, Mr. Dennis, yes. He threw the keys to me. He says, Here's your car for the week. What? We drove that little sports coop all week long. Hair blowing in the wind. I tell you what we didn't do. We didn't go, hmm. I tell you what we did do. We were so careful with that thing. We were and my partner, he drove it a few times. I d I didn't let him because he was a knucklehead. And uh he said I said, listen, I made this statement. This car is not ours. We need to treat it with respect and treat it very, very carefully. It is not ours. And by the way, it is he paid a lot for this car. The point I'm trying to make is your body as a believer and my body as a believer are not ours. And he paid a lot. We are bought with a price What was the price that was paid? The blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. Real quick, I wish I had more time. I thought it was interesting. He says, you're not your own. And he says you are bought with a price. You know what God could have said? He could have said, you are not your own. I created you. God created us, you know that, right? We didn't make ourselves. The very fact that you and I exist is because God did it. So I'm not my own. By creation, I didn't create me. He created me. They always have these um They always had these movies where you know some mad scientist creates this robot. Yeah, Frankenstein, stuff like that. He creates this, ah, you are mine. I created you. That's dumb. But God really did create us. And we're his by virtue of his creation. Do you know we're God's by virtue of his sustaining us? You know why you're alive today? Because God made it possible. Every breath I take is God giving me breath. Every heartbeat. Oh, I gotta keep this heart beating. God does that. The ability to work and get food, all this is God sustaining us. God could have said, You're not your own, I created you. He could have said, You're not your own, I sustain you. But he didn't say that. He says, you're not your own, for you are bought with a price. I shed my blood. I suffered hell for your sins. So you could be forgiven. So I could purchase you out of sin. It's called redemption. I could purchase you out of sin. And you are mine. I tell you what, it's a far it's it's a whole lot better to be God's than to be our own. You're mine. Then purchase with a price It's an old story and told it a number of times over the years, but uh well let me say this I have I like old pickup trucks. In fact, the worse they drive it seems like the better I like them. Actually, that's not true. It's just that's what always happens. Yeah, I got one over there. But um I don't do it so much, but I used to like to put bumper stickers on my trucks. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Anybody here like to put bumper stickers on stuff? I'm the only one. But I put stuff, I put our church sticker on, I put about four of them. On the back. And radio station, I had three or four different radio stations, NRA, about five NRA stickers. I had stickers on like um stuff like when guns are outlawed, only outlaws will have guns. Stickers like that, you know, talking about the Second Amendment is my permit to carry, stuff like that. Hillary for prison, uh stuff like that Uh oh, that's on the radio. So I went, I was preaching somewhere, I don't know, I was going for a few days, and for whatever reason, I forget what it was, but my wife and my youngest son had to drive the truck for the week. And I came home and I looked at my truck and all the stickers were gone. I mean every one of them completely gone And I walked in and I said, where'd all my stickers go? We were embarrassed to drive it with all those stickers on there. And I said this, hey, that's mine. You don't have any right to do that to my truck. Now we got counseling and we got over it, all right. His little boy was very good at carving and he carved a little sailboat. I mean he was good. Nine-year-old boy. And he found a piece of wood and it was perfect. And he said, I'm going to make the best sailboat that has ever been made. And I mean he worked that thing, little s threads on there for the ropes, sails, little can he had little cloth. I mean it was a masterpiece He took it down to the river, try it out, painted it. It was it was immaculate. He put it in that river and he kind of poked it around, see if it floats even. What he didn't see was a little current there that he didn't notice. That little boat he made, that masterpiece got caught in that current. Boy, it started rushing it down the river. Man, he went running in that river trying to get it, trying to get it. He got a stick, and it's out of reach, and he's running down the bank, watching where it goes. And he couldn't keep up and it went down the river He wept and wept and wept and his heart was so broke. He invested so much in it. It was a masterpiece. Several months went by and always think about that boat. One day he was downtown. He's walking past a pawn shop. And he happens to look into the window of the pawn shop, and lo and behold, there's his boat. And he said, Dad, that's my boat I made. Dad says, no, it can't be. There's no way. Yeah. Let's go look. And they went in there and they got it up. He looked on the bottom, lo and behold sure enough, there was his initials carved in the bottom where he had put it. He said, Dad, this is mine. I know it is. It was scratched up a little bit, but pretty good shape. He says, oh, I'm so glad. And he took the boat, put it in his arms, started to walk out the door. And the owner of the pawn shop said, son, where are you going with that? He said, This is mine, sir. Thank you. I lost it a couple months ago in the river and you found it. And uh he says, uh thank you very much. And uh he started to go home. He says, You ain't going nowhere with that son He said, month or so ago somebody came in here and wanted to pawn it off and sell it, and I saw it, and it's really good. That's high quality. That's worth something. He said, I paid some money for that sign. And you're not going anywhere with that boat until you pay me for it. I don't care whose it is. It's mine now. The boy was shattered. He put it back. They went running home. He got his little bank out. And he came up short. Give him the money. And his dad said, son, why is that so important to you? And the boy said, Dad, I put so much time into that. He says, that's precious to me. So dad gave him the difference. He went down to the shop, walked up to the man, he said, here's the money for the boat. The man counted it out, wrote out a receipt, says, here you go, son, it's yours. Boy got that thing with tears in his eyes. He walked out the door and his daddy heard him make this statement. He looked at the boat and he says, You're mine now. You're doubly mine. I made you and I bought you. God looks down from heaven at every one of us as believers and he says, you're mine. I made you. I bought you with my own blood. You're not your own. You're not your own That's true for teenagers. Your body's not your own, young people. It's not yours. If you're saved, it's God's. That's true for middle-age. It's true for young couples. It's true for senior citizens. There ain't much left. Ain't much left of this body. Maybe not, but it's God's. And by the way, let me throw this. This is a whole nother sermon. Let me throw this out. God takes good care of his possessions God takes care of it. Father in heaven, I pray you'd help us to see that as believers. And we're not our own. We're yours, Loward, and help us to live accordingly. Help us to find out from your word how we're to use this body and what we're to do with it and why we have it. I pray we'd honor you and glorify you in our spirit and our body, which are not our own Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, I know I'm saved, there's no doubt about it. I've got that settled scripturally, I've got it settled. But you'd say, Preacher, I'm afraid sometimes I'm a little bit like that Corinthian church. I forget that I'm not my own. I kind of take things in my own hand and I treat this thing as if it's mine. Maybe this morning God spoke to your heart and said, Preacher, I need to readjust my thinking here a little bit again. I need to remember, I'm not my own. I can't make these own decisions. I can't decide what's right and wrong. That's God's place. Anything like that, uplifted hand, preacher, pray with me. I need to be reminded that this body and my spirit are not my own. They're the Lord's God bless you, hands all around. Maybe there's some this morning say, preacher, you know, I understand this, but man, it's so easy to let sin creep in. So easy just to neglect. And there's some areas that need to be changed. Some things in my life that need to be addressed, need to be dealt with. Any like that by the uplifted hand. I know they're there. I know they're there. God will help us. God will help us. That we're his. We're his possession. Best thing to do is just come on the altar and say, here, I put my this body, this spirit, myself, I put it back on the altar, Lord. I give it back to you. I take my hands off I want your will to be done with your body, with your spirit. There's some here this morning to say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I can't honestly say I know for sure my sins are forgiven. You see, I'm concerned about that. I don't want to go to hell. I want that settled. Is there anything like that but the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I need to be saved. I need to know that God has forgiven me. I'm going to heaven, not to hell. Anybody at all like that by the uplifted hand? How about it? Now Father, bless our invitation, have your way, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together heads are bowed eyes