Service a little bit this evening just because of uh shorter piano players and whatnot and want to get you out and get home before all that snow piles up on top of the snow that's all piled up out there Actually it's really not bad out in there. I had several people come in and say, you know, it's really nothing. So if that's the case, I'll just preach home for a few hours and Ezekiel 33. And uh I'm going to read verse 7, 8, and 9. Ezekiel 33, verse 7, 8, and 9. Let me get my Cord turned on there. Notice in verse number 7, Ezekiel 33. So thou, O son of man, I have set thee a watchman unto the house of Israel. Therefore, thou shalt hear the word at my mouth, and warn them from me. When I say unto the wicked, O wicked man, thou shalt surely die. If thou dost not speak to warn the wicked from his way, that wicked man shall die in his iniquity, but his blood will I require at thine hand. Nevertheless, if thou warn the wicked of his way to turn from it, if he do not turn from his way, he shall die in his iniquity. But Thou hast delivered thy soul. I want to talk to this matter about being a watchman. We are God's watchmen. And so let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts tonight. Father, thank you for the Sunday night service. Lord, we understand it's tough and this weather and predictions and all of that, but I'm grateful for the folks that have come out tonight And I pray, dear Lord, that you would just speak to our hearts, challenge us. Lord, I pray that you would draw us, myself included, out of our comfort zones And Lord, help us to get out there and live lives of faith and just seeing you do things through us and for us and using us to rescue people from hell and see lives changed and souls saved. Please fill me with your Holy Spirit. Father, speak through me, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. God is telling Ezekiel here, of course, he was a prophet of God in the Old Testament to the nation of Israel, and he's telling him, he's instructing him, he's saying, Ezekiel, I am setting you up like a watchman to declare to my people coming judgment and to warn them of uh of the consequences of their actions and you are going to be my watchman. So he's taking this role of a watchman, and he's saying, Ezekiel, that's the role you have spiritually speaking. Now in the ancient days, in this time frame that it was written here, everybody knew what a watchman was. This wasn't some strange concept. It was Very, very common. The cities in those days, what they would do for the protection of the city is as most of you are aware of this, they would build these massive walls around the city as a defense And this would be from enemies and it was a very in many ways it was a very violent society then. Um and there's parts of the world that are still like this to some degree. And so they would need to defend their city from invasions of enemies and whatnot. And they build these massive walls. You're familiar with the Great Wall of China. That was an attempt to do around a whole country what these cities would do around their cities. And so they'd build these huge walls, and then they would place on top of these walls what I'm calling a very primitive form of radar. Now we live in modern day, we have modern warfare, we have tremendous technology. In fact, most of our technology that we use every day comes from our military using that to defend our country And so uh we have we have modern warfare, we have modern technology, we have great s great uh radar that we can send out there and we can know what's happening out beyond the vision of sight. uh the how far we can see and we can pick up movement and what the enemy's doing. We have powerful telescopes. We can look out there and see we've got satellite We can see what the enemy's doing. Well, back in these days, they didn't have those types of radar. Their radar was what we're calling here is a watchman. They would be positioned on these walls, these elevated walls, and they would be positioned around these walls, and their job was to act like modern radar They were to observe if there was any enemy approaching. They were to observe if there was any attack taking place, where the enemy was, if they were out there Sometimes as I was reading and studying this, uh sometimes, um and I wasn't aware of this and it makes sense though, they would station some watchmen beyond the walls, up on a high hill or on a mountain ledge where they could see beyond what the uh the wall where the men on the wall could see. They were limited. Well they'd have some outposts perhaps stationed on top of hills or mountains. and they could see beyond that. And these watchmen would send the signal back. If you had a fella out on a mountain top And he would have some means of uh you know light or smoke or whatever, and he would send the signal back to the man on the wall and the watchman on the wall, then he would declare to the people in the city that danger was coming And so this watchman was a very, very important responsibility. Their job, listen now this is the point. Their responsibility was to warn the people of coming danger. God says to Ezekiel, you are a watchman. Not on a physical wall watching for physical armies attacking, but your responsibility is to warn my people of the consequences of their actions Warn them from me, warn them that judgment is coming. If they continue on in sin, there's going to be horrendous consequences. And so that was Ezekiel's responsibility. Now, as I get into the New Testament and I see what God has instructed us in the New Testament, I find That God has set us up as watchmen in a very real way. Now I wrote down a few response, a few uh thoughts about a watchman, and I want to apply it to our situation as Christians. I put this down, a watchman is in a position of great responsibility. I want to talk about that. A watchman is also, they were placed in very specific areas. That wall was very strategically broken up and they would have watchmen in very specific positions around the area that would give the maximum coverage Of protection, of that that they wouldn't have no blind spots where they could be snuck uh snuck up on. Is that a word? Snuck? Sneaked Snake, uh where they would sneak up on that. Uh very specific areas. Another thing about a watchman, uh they were to be alert. They'd be very aware of what was going on. The watchman wanted to fall asleep. He wasn't there playing Candy Crush, you know, and uh uh going on. He's supposed to be very much aware and and uh what's going on there to be alert And here's the last one, and I'm going to come back and elaborate on these. The watchmen in this day and age that we're looking at in the Bible here. It did not require any special gifts or special skills. All that was required was just to have a level of integrity. They had to be trusted. They didn't have to be a great warrior. The watchmen didn't necessarily have to have great physical abilities to fight off the enemy. He didn't have to have any special oratorical skills, and boy, what a great speaker. None of those things were necessary. He didn't even necessarily have to have too high of an IQ, although he needed to be aware a little bit what was going around him. All he needed to have, he didn't need any gifts or abilities, he just needed to be a person of integrity that the people could trust him to declare the warning when danger came. Now, you and I are very much like these watchmen. Here's my first thought tonight. Just like these uh uh these watchmen back in this day and a you and I are spiritual uh watchmen, we are to warn men of God's coming judgment. Number one, I put this down. We have a great responsibility as Christians. You and I as believers have a great responsibility. Now, here's a sobering thought, and this uh this weighs heavy on my mind often. That is this my obedience or disobedience to God is a very significant factor in the destiny of other people. Did you get that? My obedience or disobedience to God is a very significant factor in the destiny of other people. If I am disobedient to God and I do not warn people of God's coming judgment, if I do not tell them of the opportunity to escape the judgment of their sin, That has a profound impact on where they may or may not end up in all eternity, in heaven or hell. God has entrusted you and I. Get this God has entrusted you and I with the only message that can bring forgiveness to man's sin. Now we know that all men are sinners. Every person you and I meet tomorrow and throughout the week, every single wee person we meet are sinners. And they're either saved or lost. They've either been forgiven of their sin and born into the family of God, or they're still in their sins, they're still unsaved. Every single we person we meet is one of those conditions, but they're all sinners Either forgiven and saved, or unforgiven, still unsaved. Now, God has said you're a watchman. You have a grave responsibility. And you have the one message That can bring forgiveness to that person's soul. Forgiveness of their sins. Listen, I'm not trying to be unkind, but I want to be honest. The Pope cannot bring forgiveness to man's sins. He can't do that. He can pretend he can. He can do all that. Uh hey, this baptism pool up here, I'm times this time of year, I'm very grateful for indoor baptism pools. Amen But that baptism pool cannot bring forgiveness to a person's sin. We can baptize them every day for the rest of their life. It's not going to wash their sins away. We have Lord's Supper once a month, third Sunday of the month generally, we'll have Lord's Supper. That element, that grape juice and that unleavened bread, that can't take away anybody's sin. There's only one message, the gospel of Jesus Christ, that Jesus died for us, was buried, and rose again. If that is believed and received, that will bring forgiveness to a person's life. And the Lord has entrusted you and I with that message. It is a very real possibility that there are people you and I will meet will never hear that message clearly if I don't share it with them. Very real possibility. So my point is this. We have a great responsibility given to us as watchmen. We have the only message that can bring forgiveness to men's sin. It's the only message that can bring new life and purpose and meaning into that person's life. I've got a fellow I'm working with. I pray every day for him I try to contact him uh uh at least once a month or every other month and confront him about his need of Christ. He respects me, we have a good relationship He's not saved. He knows that. He knows he needs to be saved. I'm working with and encouraging him. But I'm telling you, he is living a life of emptiness. He knows that He's living a life of no purpose. He knows that. He's living a life that if he dies in his current condition, he's going to be separated from God for all eternity. Now he knows that. And I keep thinking, boy, if I can win this guy to Christ, how God could change his life. And give him victory over sin and give him a good, pure, clean life. I shared my test. He's very much in a condition I was in before I got saved. Almost identical And uh, and uh, you know, I'm thinking, man, I have a truth in the message of the gospel. I possess a truth that could turn that boy's life around. That could give him meaning and purpose in life. What a responsibility. And so God has said that we're watchmen. And he's given us this great responsibility sharing the gospel, salvation from God's judgment, salvation from eternity in hell. Now here's the tragic thing. Not everyone that we witness to is going to get saved. In fact, look with me if you would here. Look at verse 9, and we're going to look at this a couple times. Look at verse 9. Nevertheless, if thou warn the wicked of his way Alright, you and I take this responsibility seriously, and we share the gospel with an unsaved person. If we warn them of his way to turn from it, look at this. And he do not turn away, turn from his way, he shall die in his iniquity. You know what the Lord's saying here? The Lord is allowing for the very real possibility, the very realistic reality, realistic reality. How about that He's allowing for the reality of the fact that a lot of people, we're going to share the gospel with them, we're going to warn them, and they're not going to pay a bit of attention to it They're just going to completely ignore it and go on their way. The tragedy is not everybody is going to receive Christ as Savior. Not everyone witnesses. Don't get in your head. Boy, you know, if I go out there and start witnessing giving out tracts, all these people are going to get saved. Not everyone will, but I'll tell you this, some will. Some will. And we need to get after that. It's our responsibility. If I fulfill my responsibility And I've warned someone of the coming judgment of God, warned someone of dying in their sins, unforgiven, and urge them to trust Christ in a tactful, appropriate way. And I do that And they do not receive Christ, they still are uh bear the consequences of that decision. But here's the thing, I've fulfilled my responsibility. I fulfilled my responsibility. So as a watchman, we have a responsibility. And so we try and A witness to people, we try and share the gospel to people, we try tactfully do it. Now let me put a word of caution here, and I thought of this as I was studying this and it comes to mind again Don't get the mindset, oh well, I gave them the message, they don't want to receive it, fine, walk away. That is the wrong mindset. That is the way it plays out in a lot of ways. But Paul said, knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we anybody know what that verse says? Persuade men Paul had the mentality, I'm not just delivering a package, all right, you need to be saved. You don't you don't die and go to hell, all right, you don't want it too bad, walk on. That's not the mentality My mentality is I want to urge that person and trust that person to be saved. If you had a good watchman on the wall back in the day, And that enemy was coming, and you hollered out to the folks, the the uh the uh Canaanites are coming, they've got chariots and they've got swords and they've got arrows and ramrods. They're going to break down the gate. Listen, we got to get to safety. And those people said, yeah, right. Nah, you're just messing around And they made fun of the watchman and and went on. What do you think that watchman would do? He think he'd say, Oh well, too bad. A good watchman would say, No, listen, this is for real. Uh no, and he would urge them and do everything he can to try and get them to believe it. And that's the way the good watchman is in the spiritual condition in the church. We tell people to be saved, they might not receive it, they might just blow us off If I'm a good watchman, I want to press that. I want to urge them and stay after that and stay after that and try and see them to come to Christ. So my first point is this. As a watchman, and we are watchmen in a very real way, we're given a great responsibility. Number two, I put this down. As a watchman, we're placed in strategic areas We're placed in strategic areas. It is not a coincidence that you and I live where we live. I believe with all my heart God has directed in our lives as believers and has us where we are and has us in contact with the people we have in contact on a daily basis for a very uh strategic purpose. There are people, get this, there are people that you know and you interact with that no one else could have the influence for the Lord on them other than you Follow what I'm saying? There are some people that I don't have contact with that you do. And you could be a far, and God knows you can be a far more effective witness to them far more effective watchman to them than I could be. Thus God has you in that very specific area. Back in the day, they would say, all right, we need a watchman on this point right here, this corner here, that overlooks this valley, we need a watchman right there. And watch that area there. That is his area of responsibility. We need a watchman over here. He can see that trail coming down through the mountains up there And that's his responsibility right here. We need a very strategic position. We're gonna put a watchman up on that mountainside and he can see down the back side of that mountain. He can give a heads up He can send this down here. And he has very specific places for each of these watchmen. And God does that for you and I He has us in positions and places that we are so that we so that he can accomplish his purpose and reach the people he's trying to reach. I've said this often over the years. I believe the person that has a job, wherever you work, you ought to be as convinced that it is God's will that you are in that position As you expect your P preacher to be convinced he's in God's will behind the pulpit. Am I making any sense? You have a responsibility and I have a responsibility in our respective areas that God has placed us to be a witness for the Lord. Sometimes they'll move those watchmen around And God will say, All right, I need a watchman over here, on this country, in this city of that country, and He'll speak a heart and touch a heart. Alright, I need you to go over here. We need a watchman in this city. And uh, all right, here's a town. And it'll come down and touch a heart Say, all right, I need a watchman over here in this town, in this city, on this island, in that continent, on this nation. And God has strategic positions. all around the world that he wants to put his watchmen out there so that every man, woman, and child can hear the message of Christ and be warned of what it is to die in their sins. Now here's the tragedy. You look at this world and we see blank spots, blank spots, blank spots. We've got a bare wall over here with no watchmen. Nobody being warned and the enemy is just devouring the people of that area. Just burning them up, taking them to hell We have no watchman there to warn. We have a city over here. We have a country over here. We have an island over here. No watchman. No watchman. No watchmen. Now my question is this. Does God not care? Does God not care if there's cities with no watchmen there? Or does God really care and he has people to go there and the people aren't willing to go? I think maybe that's hitting the nail on the head. And so we have to examine ourselves. I say this all the time. We have to examine ourselves Is it God's will? Is God wanting me to be a watchman in a specific area, maybe where there is no watchman, maybe where there is no witness? We have our missions conference coming up two months. Almost two months to the day. April, April, what's the last day of April? April 30 30th. April 30th, we start our missions conference. That's two months. Maybe we ought to start praying now. God, there's positions out there in the world where there's no watchmen. Lord, we know it's not your will for one person to perish. God calls someone to that city. God calls someone to that country. God use us in some way, capacity. If Lord, you don't want me to go, then show me what I can do to help get someone there. And so God has a specific strategic place for watchmen to be to warn others. I came across this study, and I don't know how they come to this conclusion But they have some methods and they come up and uh I I read this. I thought it was interesting. This study said that the church has reached approximately 25% of the world's population with the gospel. In other words, 25% of the people alive on the planet Earth have heard the message of the gospel, had been warned of their need to trust Christ. That leaves 75% of the world has no watchman stationed there for them. Personally, I'm wondering if that percentage isn't actually lower than that. Um, I don't know. I don't know. But I do know this. God has a place for every one of us. Whether it's overseas or whether it's here in Oakland, Garrett County, surrounding areas, God has a place for us to declare the gospel and be a warning and present that. God has a place for each of us. Number three, I wrote this down Number one, it's a great responsibility. Watchmen on the wall, God has given us a tremendous responsibility to get this gospel out. Number two, he has a place very strategic that he needs watchmen around there to cover that whole place. Number three, we are to be alert and aware. We're to be alert and aware. Now here's where it's a little different for you and I than it is for these watchmen that we're using as an illustration back in the ancient days. Back in the ancient days, they were watching to see if there was any danger. You and I are in a position, we don't have to look and see whether there is any danger. There is danger. It is upon us. The devil, as a roaring lion, is walking about seeking whom he may devour, who he can destroy them and get them to die in their sins, get them to reject the gospel of Christ. get them so engrossed in sin that their heart is so hardened against the Word of God that they never believe and be saved. So it's not a matter of you and I out here. Boy, I wonder if there's I wonder if there would be anybody out in the world that would die in their sins. No, that's already established fact. Our job is to warn them of the danger that is already real. And so we have to be aware. We have to be alert. Not looking for the danger, but looking for the folks to warn of the danger, getting that warning out there. Now what is the danger? And we all know what it is, but I just want to say this it is not global warming. Man alive, I got thinking about it. If all the effort and money was uh that's being put into global warming was put into getting the gospel into all the world, what a difference this world would be Isn't that something? That's not the danger. In fact, I've had enough global warming. You know, if this is freezing us to death. If we don't do something about global warming, we're gonna all freeze to death. I like saying that. But uh it's not global warming. Hey, uh the danger facing mankind is not poverty. Now listen, we want to try and alleviate it. We want to try and help folks. Down in Dominican, you know, we saw some extreme pirates. We can help them, that's great. But that's not the danger We can't, as watchmen, we can't get caught up and get misguided as to what the actual danger is facing mankind. We can give a million dollars to every person on the planet and get them living in $100,000 houses, but if they don't have Christ, they die and go to hell from a $100,000 house And so the the real danger is not poverty. The real danger is not global warming. The real danger is not diseases. And there's horrific diseases out there. And God bless the men and women that study and come up with cures for these things. Thank God for that. But Jesus pointed out in his miracles a number of times he would forgive their sins before he'd ever heal their body. Pointing out the fact that forgiveness of sins is more important than physical healing. I'm really disappointed. I'm almost disgusted with some preachers that go around with this phony healing business and never say a word about the salvation of a person's soul. Every person that Jesus healed eventually died But every person that got saved and accepted Christ, when they died, they went to heaven, not to hell. And so the real issue is the salvation of people's souls Thank God for doctors and nurses that can help get people get well. Thank God for answered prayer that Helen was giving us and poverty and all these things that we're trying to help. And I threw this in there, and I know folks do this just for fun and horse around, but I hear all this talk about the coming zombie apocalypse. And I know people do it just being silly, a lot of that, but I'm convinced, I'm at the point now where I think some folks are taking this seriously. I read an article several a month or so ago where the army actually is doing a little bit of training just in case something like this would happen. And I'm like, come on, man. This fantasy world they're living in, uh, all worked up, if we take as much time and effort and concern and put it into an actual, real, legitimate danger people dying in sin, rather than being all caught up in this fantasy issue, uh maybe we would accomplish a little bit more and see uh the Lord doing some great things. So the danger mankind faces is the judgment of God on sin. That's what we've got to warn people about. From Genesis to Revelation, this book tells me over and over and over, God judges sin. And we have got to warn people that. We've got to tell them how they can escape the judgment of God on sin, and that's the Lord Jesus. Now here's my last thought, and I am with this. Number four. There are no special skills necessary to be a watchman. No special skills. You don't have to have a le a certain level of IQ. You don't have to be a great uh orator and be able to give great speeches. You and I don't have to have some great physical appeal or anything like that. I saw I I saw an interview This is just a little aside, but I saw an interview the other week. Some news person was talking about this movie, Jesus, this Jesus movie coming out that's big in the news right now. And uh she was talking on there. I'm telling you, it was borderline blasphemy. And she was saying about how sexy Jesus is. And she was saying about, boy, you know, I never thought it this way. And I saw this movie, and boy, Jesus is just so sexy. And boy, he's just hot. And I thought, that woman cannot be more wrong. You know what the Bible says about Jesus? He said he had no comeliness that we should desire him. There was nothing fancy about Jesus. There was nothing especially physically attractive about the Lord Jesus Christ. It was not his physical appearance that had an effect on people. It was the presence, the reality of him being God. That had an effect on people. His holiness, his purity. Isn't that something? How the world takes something that is so pure and so good and will take that and twist it and make it something so sensual. And so physical and so fleshly. That's the way the world works. And so, uh There's no special physical appeal that I need to have. I don't have to be physically attractive. I don't have to be super intelligent. I don't have to be tremendously gifted. I don't have to be some special orator. All I've got to do is be able to communicate in some way. All I've got to do is be able to communicate to people somehow that Jesus will save them from sin in hell and give them a new life, and they can live forever, have eternal life with God in heaven and escape hell. Just gotta be able to communicate that. Hey, there are people who are watchmen that cannot physically talk, but they're able to take their hands They communicate with their hands to the deaf. Brother Josh Weston was here a few weeks ago. He'll be back for our missions conference Did you how many folks got to see his presentation that Sunday evening? Did he show the presentation? Anyone remember that? Did you see that guy in there, the fella, the deaf guy, blind and deaf How about that? How do you communicate with a man who is blind and he's deaf? He can't see the sign language. Can't hear your voice. You know how they communicate? And I was there. I was in that man's house. Josh took me out when I was down there last year. And he'll lay his hands on top of that sign language person, and they'll move their hands around, and he feels that, how they're moving their hands, and he responds. And Josh's wife, they met him, lived down in the slum. That guy would walk uh half hour, 45 minutes up out of that slum and wait along the road. Josh come by in the van, pick him up every Sunday Blind, deaf, he makes his way up there. So Saturday, Josh took me down. I was anxious Going down through these houses, just nasty, dirty people everywhere. And I'm just saying Deus Lavend uh I'm saying uh Deus Lavendega, Deus Lavendega. It means God bless you. That way they think I'm not a thug. I'm just Some Christian guy or something. I don't know what I was saying, but I think that's what I was saying. Anyway, we got down there, and uh here's that guy sitting, and and Josh sits down beside him, and he starts doing this And then the guy would laugh. And he'd Josh put go there and he would sign. Josh could see it. And then Josh would laugh. And they'd go back and forth. And I said, how'd that guy get saved? He said, one day we met him, came across him somehow, and Joy, his wife, I believe it's Joy, took that and she communicated to him The gospel of Jesus Christ. And in his blindness and his silence, his mind comprehended the truth that Jesus loved him and died for his sins. And would forgive him. And he made the decision to trust Christ as Savior. Isn't that an amazing thing? She's a watchman. She warned him. He believed it and received it and trusted Christ as Savior. It doesn't require great skills, just an ability to communicate. There has to be a level of integrity there. God needs to trust us that we're going to be faithful and give that warning out, give that promise out to the people we meet. But we don't need special skills. We don't need special talents and abilities, just the ability to communicate to others. Now, I do want to study. I do want to develop my ability to communicate. Uh I think having the soul winning class and stuff like that help people that can more clearly, more effortl more uh efficiently share that gospel and that message. That's a great thing, but we don't have to have that. Woman at the well had no training. She won a whole town to Christ. And so, number one, it's a great responsibility. I don't ever want Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, under me being pastor, I don't ever want us To take lightly our responsibility to be a watchman to this old sinful world. I feel great responsibility for that. Our church is responsible. Number two, we need to understand God's put us here for a purpose. We hold a very strategic place in the plan of God to be a watchman in this community. We said number three, we uh uh are to be alert and aware. Watching for the opportunity, every opportunity, every option we have to be able to get that gospel out. And th number four, we said no special gifts are available. I was reading this week about a truck driver And uh it was a real foggy road and he had a detour, he had to get off the main road. He was going across in this heavy fog And he found himself, he didn't see the sign, the weight limit on the bridge, found himself on a bridge that his truck was too heavy for, and lo and behold, the bridge collapsed and he went down He'd been driving cautiously, he'd been knew it wasn't fair of the road, and because just the way it worked out, he survived the wreck. And got himself up out of that canyon and got back up on the road in the heavy fog They said he went back up the road a little ways and there was other cars coming. He said come up and here, lo and behold, here comes other cars. They're off the main or on this detail. And he began flagging and waving them, warning them as best he could, that bridge is out. I took the bridge out. That bridge is out. It's down, you're going to wreck. The story goes, most of the cars just ignored him, blow the horn, thought he was some nut, went flying by and went off that bridge to their destruction. A couple people would stop and he warned them and told them what was going on, and they would get out there and they began warning people also. So now you have the truck driver, he's trying to flag people down You have a couple folks that believed his warning and realized it was true. Now they're out of their cars and they're waving You know what they found out? The more people that were out along the road warning the drivers of coming danger, the higher percentage people would believe it and pull over along the side. And I thought, boy, how that doesn't apply to our situation. How about in Oakland and surrounding areas? where God has placed us. Somebody gets uh somebody's spoken to, hey, do you ever think about where you die and go to hell? What go to heaven or hell? Do you ever give that any thought? Nah, I don't think about it too. Well here's a little gospel tract, maybe help you Lo and behold, two days later, somebody else comes along. Hey, you never trusted Christ? You know, boy, we need to know Christ to have our sins forgiven. Huh, it's funny. Somebody just the other day said that. that to me. No, the whole couple three days go by and somebody knocks on their door of an evening. I'm from the church, just want to leave a gospel track, tell how you can know for sure you're going to heaven when you die. I can't believe that. You're the third person in the week that said this to me. You see what I'm saying? If all of us fulfill our responsibility to be a witness, I think our folks would take it a whole lot more seriously You got one guy, that preacher out there is knocking on doors, yeah, that guy's a nut. That preacher ever come by your door? Yeah, he's crazy But all of a sudden they've got people at work and at Walmart and at Sheets and all these people are saying the same thing, same morning, same morning. I think just like them down that road, here's a guy, bridge is out, bridges out, you nud Keep driving. Hey the bridge is out, yeah, God bless you too. And finally, there's 10-15 people warning. They're going to say, wait a minute, there might be something to this. And they'll take it a little more seriously. So we are watchmen Those folks in the city, you got one watchman over there. Hey, there's an enemy coming. Hey everybody! Well, I wonder if this is just a practice drill or that's the real deal. All of a sudden you got two or three others hollering the same thing You say, yikes, this is the real deal. I need to do something. And when we as a church give out the gospel in our own respective areas, I believe it has a powerful, powerful effect. So this week, let's get some tracks. Let's give ourselves, let's determine. I want to share the gospel with people. I want to give out the gospel. I want to be a testimony of the saving grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us, Lord, to see our role as watchmen. Help us, Lord, to be faithful in giving out the gospel as a church and as individuals. And I pray you'd use us to see people find forgiveness of sins. How many folks this evening and say, preacher, I'm going to ask God tonight to help me in the next seven, eight days to have at least one person that I can of some way or form share be a witness of the gospel of Christ. How many folks will say that tonight? Within the next seven, eight days, I'm going to ask God to give me somebody that I can be a witness to of some way or for them. God bless you. Hands all over the place. Now, I believe when we pray that prayer, I believe God hears that. That's a prayer God is eager to give us opportunity to see fulfilled. Now, I don't think we have to ask for opportunities. I think they're all over And let's ask the Lord to help us take advantage of those opportunities. So maybe tonight, invitation time, we just want to kneel and say, Lord, show me that opportunity. Help me to see it. Use me, Lord, to be your watchman in the place you've placed me.