And he's focusing his attention now towards the younger people, but in addressing the younger people, his subject is aging. Getting older. Look at verse number 7 of Ecclesiastes chapter 11. He says this truly the light is sweet and a pleasant thing it is for the eyes to behold the sun. How many people like it when the sun is out? Look at verse 8. But if a man live many years and rejoice in them all, yet let him remember that the days of let him remember the days of darkness. For they shall be many. All that cometh is vanity. Verse 9. Rejoice, O young man, in my youth. Now see, he's turning his attention to young people. Rejoice, O young man, in thy youth, and let thy heart cheer thee in the day of thy youth, and walk in the ways of thine heart and in the sight of thine eyes. But Know thou that for all these things, God will bring thee into what? Judgment. You're going to be held accountable. We're going to be held accountable. Then verse ten, therefore, because of that truth, remove sorrow from thy heart, put away evil from thy flesh, for childhood and youth are vanity. I titled it this, We Are Accountable. We Are Accountable. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, thank you for a good day, Lord. My heart's been blessed. And I ask now as we finish out this Lord's Day and go into this new week with our track month, tracks in our pockets, and our purse, I pray you just stir our hearts tonight and help us to see life from your perspective. Help us see others and ourselves from your perspective, Lord. I ask God that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body anew. I yield my will to yours. Pray that you would fill me, as I said, and speak through me and give us open hearts. Help us be responsive to your word. In Jesus' name. Amen. I believe here this passage here that I just read and going into chapter twelve. In fact, I kind of got a feeling studying this That verse number, particularly verse 9 on, really runs into the same subject as chapter 12. Now that's neither here nor there. But what he's doing, he's addressing young people. He's turning his attention to that. And much of what he's been saying up to this point, as we're fully aware, he's sharing his experience He's learned some things through the some of the foolish decisions he made and some of the foolish lifestyle he lived and some of the foolish frame of mind that he had. He got messed up in his thinking That he could somehow find fulfillment and find purpose and meaning with God completely out of the equation, and he says that was futile, that was vain, it was frustrating. And so he's learned from this experience. And the end of the book here, he's sharing what he learned from that experience. How many folks agree with me? Experience is a tremendous teacher. Let me put it this way: experience can be. A tremendous teacher, if we will learn from it. And so he's addressing his focus to the youth, the young man in particular here. And he's sharing with them, he's expressing here some things he learned uh from experience. Um his his The statements he's making are rooted in his experience. And he's trying to convey, this is all in under the inspiration of God, he's trying to convey how to live life How to live our lives here on this planet, how should we live? What is the wisest way? What is the best way to live our lives? And that's what he's been addressing. And he brings a truth out here that we don't think of applying to young people, but I think is profound. And if a young person, and all of us really, but if a young person can get a hold of this truth that he's presenting here, it will help tremendously, tremendously. Part of that truth is this. Age, old age, and death are inevitable. Cannot escape that. We cannot escape that. Old age and death are inevitable. And old age and death, now a lot of us older folks, you'll connect with this statement, old age arrives, old age and death arrives a whole lot quicker than we think. Can I get a witness? We think when we're young, we think we'll be young our whole life. It's hard, it is very difficult for youth to see beyond their youth Follow what I'm saying? Now, once you come out of that stage of life, once we exit that stage of life that is we describe as youth, once we exit that, we look back and say, man. That's screened by. But while we're in that stage, when we're in that stage of youth, it's like w it it's going to be this way forever. I never get out of this. And here's the danger when we fail to realize that I'm going to end up At the end of my life, at the age of my life, a whole lot faster than I anticipate, when we fail to realize that A lot of times we make stupid decisions. We make temporal decisions. We make decisions that are temporary in the decision, but they have lasting consequences. Follow what I'm saying? How many folks here you're older and you made some decisions, you took some actions when you were in your youth, and you're still feeling the consequences from it. Anybody at all? Yeah, yeah. Now at the time we never thought about how this would affect me 25, 30 years down the road. We never gave it any thought because that's that we're we're in youth mode, and we don't think we ha it's hard for us to to see beyond that mode But whether we see beyond it or not, the consequences are still going to be there. We're going to face them. And it's really true throughout all of life, but a lot of times, and Solomon is addressing here the young people Um so age and the end of our life arrives a whole lot quicker than what we think. I've said this often. I'm I'll turn 59 this year. I thought it would take a lot longer, Brother Heinball, to get to this age than what it did How could it get here so fast? James chapter 4 and verse number 14, James, under the inspiration of God, says that life is but a vapor. What is a vapor? Um you go out in the morning, early morning, and uh you stretch, step out in that front porch, you stretch, you take a deep breath. And you breathe out and what happens? That cold air, you have that vapor comes out. I mean, it's 12 months out of the year up here. Middle of August. I can see my breath. He says that's what life is. Man, you see it there just brief. And about the time and uh I'm trying to decide whether to say this or not. But um things I learned earlier. I like to get out when you can see your breath, you know you're out there in the tree standing, you can see your breath, I like to blow vapor rings You ever do that? Anybody that little ring? Um my dad taught me that years ago. But man, that thing's there for a moment, and next thing you know, it's just gone. Brother, that's life. Whether we like it or not, it is just and next thing you know is where to go, where to go. Now Solomon's addressing young people and say, you don't see this. It's like a a little short person that can't see beyond that that hill of youth and they can't see what's beyond it, so they don't even know. But man, you get past that, you look and say, yeah, that's true. Turn to Job with me, if you would. Now, this is all through Scripture, but Job makes some tremendous statements here. Job chapter number 7. I don't know that these are all attributed to Job, but in the book of Job we have some tremendous statements on this subject. Job chapter number 7, and look with me if you would at verse number 6. I believe Job is speaking here and he says this. Job 7, look at this. I underline this in my Bible. My days are swifter than a weaver's shuttle. My days, my life, the days are going by. Now, a weaver shuttle, we don't have these today, you know, we have machinery does all this, but back in the day when the weaver had the big uh what was the machine? The loop. And brother, they'd be weaving that thing. And that little shuttle would just be chok chink chink chink chink chink chok And Job looked at that and he said, Man, that's my days going by. Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. Anybody ever look at this way? You know it's it's it's uh Sunday night seven forty-five. Next thing you know it'll be Monday night, seven forty-five. Then it'll be next week. Sunday night, 745. Then it'll be next month. Come over to chapter 8 and verse 9. It says, For we are but of yesterday and know nothing, because our days upon earth are but a shadow, just fleets by. Look at chapter nine and verse twenty-five. He says, Now my days are swifter than a post. They flee away. They see no good. Now when he says swifter than a post, he's not talking about a fence post. Alright? They don't move very fast When he says are swifter than a post, what's he talking about? Anybody take a shot? A runner, a courier, or somebody, they have a message and man they got it. Anybody uh anybody remember the um The Pony Express? No, I don't mean in your lifetime Man, those guys were on a mission. And he says, that's the way my days are. Look over at chapter 14, verse 1 and 2. Now I know I'm belaboring the point here a little bit, but the Bible belabors this point. David said in Psalms, Teach me to number my days. Help me to keep track of how fast these things are going by. Pay attention. Look at chapter 14 and verse number one. Man that is born of a woman is of what Few days and full of trouble. He cometh forth like a flower and is cut down. He fleeth also as a shadow and continueth not. Last night, uh it was last evening, it was beautiful out and it was nice and warm and I decided to go on the back deck and I broke out the little fire pit there and uh built a little fire and I was sitting there and um I got looking. I had some of the flower pots that I had from last year were setting on the table. I'd put them up under the eave just for the winter, and I got looking And the flowers that were in them were all dead and wilted. They, you know, they were just uh uh annuals, they just lived and died And I got looking at that, not thinking of the message, but I got looking at them and I thought, man, a lie. It seems like I just planted them And here they're all dried up and dead. And Job is saying that's what life is. And Solomon is saying, he's saying, listen, uh uh Old age and death are gonna are inevitable and they're gonna get here quicker than what you think. Anybody ever make this statement, man, time just got away from me? You getting doing something? You just look, ah, I can't believe it's that late. Time got away from me. There's a Puritan preacher back in the 1600s. I have a number of his books And um John Owen is his name. And he was on his deathbed, and he was dictating a letter to a friend of his, he's a secretary there, and he's dictating a letter to His friend, the secretary is writing it down, he made this statement. He was on his deathbed, and he made this statement. He said, I am still in the land of the living. And then he said, then he thought and he said, stop. And he stopped his secretary and he said, wait, don't write that. Change that to this. I am yet in the land of the dying. But I hope soon to be in the land of the living. And life here on earth is really the land of the dying. We're racing, racing, racing towards that grave. Towards that grave. You say, brother, that's a morbid thought. No, it's reality. And we try to live in a fantasy world, and um we're gonna mess up. And so we need to keep in mind this life, I've only got one life. It is going to go by so fast. It's inevitable. I'm going to reach the end of my life. I need to understand that. I need to understand that I have a limited amount of time. I have a limited number of days. They're going to go by very, very quickly. And I need to be aware of that. Now he gives several things here. I want to try and get these as quickly as I can. The first thing he says in verse 7 and 8, he points out with all this context here, what we just spent a little time belaboring on In that context, he he points this out. Number one, life is uncertain. Life is uncertain. Look at verse 7 Truly the light is sweet, and a pleasant thing if it pleasant thing it is for the eyes to behold the sun. But if a man live many years and rejoice in them all, yet let him remember the days of darkness, for they shall be many. All that cometh is vanity. This is a recurring theme through Scripture That life is uncertain. One day, man, that sun's going to be out. It's going to be shining. It is going to be a pleasant day. Everything's wonderful. And the next day, it is darkness. It is clouds. It is storm. And he's saying here, from one day to the next, it is uncertain what's going to be. I read uh Wednesday morning in my devotions. I always read a Proverb first thing in the morning, a chapter of Proverbs. And my devotions I read Proverbs 27, 1, good verse to memorize. Proverbs 27, boast not thyself of tomorrow. For thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. Now that word boasting there we think of, yum, yum, but the idea uh uh behind that verse is kind of like this. Don't think you've got tomorrow figured out. You don't know if the sun's going to be out, so to speak. Or if it's going to be dark. We don't know if it's going tomorrow's going to be a good day, boy, it's going to be wonderful, or if it's going to be an unpleasant and difficult and trial. There will be days of sunshine and there will be days of joy I don't know if you notice it. I uh some people how many people here like fall? People here, man, you are sick. Do you know what comes after fall? That is terrible. How many people like spring? Oh, I want spring. That's my favorite. I should have asked which how many people your favorite season is fall? Yes, it goes. Uh how many people, your favorite season is spring. I want spring. Hey, the days are getting longer, the days are getting warmer, the plants are coming up, there's ramps growing, and um uh You know, it's it things are getting better. And uh I noticed in the spring, especially the first warm sunny day in spring, it would be some of our biggest crowds in church. Anybody ever notice that And people are happy and they're smiling and they're praising oh the sun's oh it's a beautiful day and people are just pleasant and wonderful and Uh but I also noticed about February when we've had six months of snow and clouds and freezing, everybody's a grouch. And he's saying, listen, there's going to be some days that are just pleasant, some days where you're happier, and some days that periods of life that it's just going to be sunshine and pleasure. There's going to be some days like that. Then verse 8, he uses that word. But if you live long enough, he says, remember. That means deliberately call to mind. Keep a record of, keep this in mind. There are days of darkness also. The word darkness there means misery, destruction. You just don't know what in the world's going to happen. Anybody been in days of darkness? Anybody anybody ever get in a situation and you make a statement like this? I don't know what in the world's even happening in my life. Anyone ever been there? I don't even I don't did you ever say this? I don't know if I'm coming or going. It is just the darkness has settled down, and what in the world? And if we're not careful, we think when the sun is shining and everything's pleasant and blessing, we think it's always going to be there. It will be that way. It's not always going to be that way. But the converse side of that is when it's darkness and everything's going and we don't know if we're coming or going and we're in the dark, we think it's always going to be that way, and it's not always going to be that way. I spoke with someone a number of years ago who was going through a very, very difficult time. And they were asking questions, and they're asking questions, and I don't think they really wanted answers. They were just in the dark And I found that the only thing I could say to them was this. I said it over and over and over. I said this. It will not always be this way. Someday the sun will come out again. So we have to be very, very careful. We have to be very careful. Uh and they shall be many. It seems like the dark days are more than the sunshiny days. They're more than just a few. Job said in John in chapter 14, verse 1, man that is born of a woman is full is a few days and full of trouble. Chapter 5, verse 7, he said this, yet is a man born unto trouble as the sparks fly upward Now, this is not a morbid, depressing view of life. It's a realistic understanding that life has its ups and life has its downs. And if we understand that We can deal with it and we can live our lives the way we should. Is the sun shining in your life right now? Things are going good, boy, it's wonderful, my bills are paid, my health is good, everybody's happy at me, nobody's mad at me As a pastor, nobody's cussing me out, nobody's chewing me out, nobody's telling me what a terrible person I am. Man, the sun is shining. Hey, when it's like that, don't get too high. Right? This is the experience talking. Man, everybody's turning on me, everybody hates me, nobody loves me, everybody hates me, I'm gonna go eat worms It's awful and terrible. Hey, when it's like that, don't get too low. When things are going well, the sun is shining, don't get too high when things are going bad. And things are terrible, don't get too low. Here's the danger is uh we get locked in one or the other, we focus on one or the other, and we lose sight of reality. So first of all, life is uncertain. Second of all, I want to give it to you quickly. Accountability is unavoidable. Look at verse nine. Rejoice, O young man, in thy youth, and let thy heart cheer in the days of thy youth. Listen, enjoy your youth. Man, just uh rejoice in it. Um somebody said this: uh Youth is wasted on the young. Did you ever hear that? Man, enjoy it. And rejoice in thy youth. And let thy heart cheer in the days of thy youth. Walk in the ways of thy heart in the sight of thy. But there's that word again. Know thou that for all these things God will bring thee into judgment. Rejoice, be glad, brighten up, let thy heart cheer thee, maintain a positive disposition. Maintain a pleasant disposition. If we're not careful, here's what happened. This is what I was trying to get to a minute ago. If we're not careful, here's what happened. In the days of darkness, if we're not careful, if we If we fail to realize that they're not always going to be this way, we allow that darkness to get in our heart and soul and we get bitter. Did you ever meet a bitter, grouchy old person? I mean nothing is right, nothing is good. They're just old and bitter and miserable. And I think Solomon's saying, listen, don't let the darkness of the dark days get in your heart and soul. Everything's terrible, everything's bad, nothing's gonna work, nothing's gonna Do you ever get around somebody that no matter how good things are going, something ain't right We have to be very careful about that. And then the other side is we need to be careful that when things are going good and things are going wonderful, that we think, oh, I'm never going to have any more problems in my life. He says, you don't know, but know, be assured. He says here, but know that thou for all these things God will bring thee into judgment. The word judgment there has this idea: be held accountable for. That is certain. Regardless of what happens in our life, I'm going to be held accountable to God for how I respond to it. Judgment follows death, and judgment is for all. So I think he's saying here is listen, when the sun is shining, live by faith. Just trust God, keep your eyes on Christ. When it's dark days, you just trust God, keep your eyes on Christ. And keep focused because one day we're going to stand before Him. Some people, if we're not careful, in the sunshine we develop an under-the-sun mentality. And everything that's gone good and we get caught up on this and we get our eyes off of the Lord and we get focused on all these good things that are happening and we rejoice in it, we get our eyes off the Lord. I've found pastoring for going on 26 years now I've noticed some people, prosperity and sunshine hurts them spiritually Man, when it's dark and their things are difficult, and when things are tough and they're struggling and they're not sure, man, they're drawing close to God, they're praying, they're in church. They want to make sure things are right between God and I. Man, this is going tough. But then when that season passes and the sun comes out, so to speak, and things are going well and the needs are being met and it's pleasant and pleasurable, then you can't find them anywhere. You ever notice that? You have to be careful. And then I notice there's people that are the other way around As long as things are going good and the bills are paid and health is good and family's happy and everybody we're all getting along good and and uh we're uh Man, they're in church and singing God is so good and man are just happy as could be and then the dark clouds come over and they get bitter. And you can't find them. I said we've had people come in, doctor said I got cancer, total strangers. Show up, doctor said I got cancer. Man, they'll get saved, baptized, they'll come to church. Then when the doctor says, oh, praise the Lord, it's all cleared up. We've got to take care of them. No more cancer. Zoom. You never see them again. And then the other way around, man, they're healthy, good, and the doctor says something's wrong and they get mad and bitter at God. We can't find him. And he's saying, be very careful about that. Listen, life is uncertain. It's ups and downs, ups and downs. You keep your eyes on Christ. Someday we're going to stand before him. We're going to give an account Have to be very, very careful. And then my last thought, and I'm kind of rushing through these a little bit, but my last thought is this, verse number 10, time is unstoppable. Time is unstoppable. Look at verse 10. Therefore, remove sorrow from thy heart. Put away evil from thy flesh. Don't get bitter about this. Don't let the difficulties in trial's life get in your heart and soul from the flesh. For childhood and youth are vanity. What he's saying is childhood, now we're coming back to, he's addressing the young people. Young man, child and youth are vanity. What does that mean? Does it mean they're meaningless? I want to suggest to you the years of youth are very important. You and I today are very much the result of what we were as a child, decisions we made in our youth, right or wrong? Many of us are living with decisions we made in our youth. So when he says ch childhood and youth are vanities, not saying they're unimportant, they're insignificant. Uh these young people here in church tonight are an incredibly important part of their life. Incredibly important. And our ministries to the youth, as Mark shared a little bit ago, and Pastor Matt involved in and others is incredibly important. We are helping people in some of the most important stages of their life So, what does he mean when he says childhood and youth are vanity? Empty, meaningless? No, no, no. That's not what he's saying. Oh, this is what he's saying. Childhood and youth are transitory. In other words, they go by so quickly, boom, they're gone. Before you know it, they're out. They're just a vapor. That's what I said at the beginning. The danger of youth is not being able to see beyond my youth years. And failing to realize that what is taking place and the decisions I'm making and the actions I'm taking in my youth stage of life. are going to profoundly affect the majority of them. By the way, and and one another thing he means here by youth uh youth and childhood and youth are vanity Another aspect of that is that is not a major part of your life. In your average lifespan, youth is a very small portion, percentage of the life I live. And so the decisions we make in our youth and uh and uh the consequent the effects that those decisions have on the rest of my life are profound. And that youth goes by so quickly. And he's saying to young people, listen, listen, the actions you're taking have profound consequences in the rest of your life. And before you know it, we're going to be at the end of this thing. We're going to stand before God. It's a sobering thought, but it is a profound and powerful thought. What's the old saying? Only one life will soon be passed. Well, that's an understatement. And only what's done, what? For Christ will last. We're going to stand before Him. That's what counts. That's what counts. Daniel Webster was a Secretary of State under three presidents back in the early years of our country. Listen to this statement he made. He said, my greatest thought is my accountability to God. The greatest thought in my mind is the fact that I will be held accountable to God. We think the judgment of God, we think our standing before the Lord and going out into eternity. We think we've got longer than we have, and Solomon is saying, no, it'll be here before you know it. It'll be here quicker than you think. Be wise. Be wise. Use your time wisely. Anybody out here goes shopping? You thought you had more money in your wallet than what you did? Say every day. Man, you get up there, you got all this stuff, and you're thinking, man, I got 150 bucks in here, you pull it out, and you've got $15. And you come up short. I tell you, what's true in money is true also in time. Father, before we know it, we come up short if we're not careful. I hope, let's pray. I hope God uses. Father, help us to be veryware. Of how quickly time goes and how quickly this life life races by. Lord, I know the young people don't see it. I didn't when I was young. That's typical of that's very characteristic. But maybe this truth, these verses, what Solomon is telling us might help a young person to say, you know, I better be careful. I better think, I better listen. I pray you'd help those of us who are older to use what we have left, to use it wisely, keeping in mind all of us that we'll stand before you, Lord, someday. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed How many say, preacher, pray for me? I want to evaluate my life, the decisions I'm making, the direction I'm going, the actions I'm taking. I want them to fall in line with the truth that someday Before I know it, I'm going to be standing before the Lord. And how we would say, preacher, pray with me that I'll be wise in how I use and invest my life. Are you like that by the uplifted hand? I want to be wise. Tell you what, rather than thinking that the whole rest of my life, how about just this next week? Lord lead me and direct me, for I know it'll be next Sunday night. And ask God to help us be wise in our use of this next seven days. Father, bless our invitation. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together.