Seventy one my text of choice. I uh take just a minute to say Brother Leatherman's always been so enthusiastic about uh telling you about getting the sword out here in the community as they've done for years and um You know, sometime after I became editor, I I began getting a bundle for myself. And I get thirty-five copies. Delivered to my desk every two weeks. And I hand deliver those. I have a paper wrap. I hand deliver those in town, in Murfreesboro. Uh places where I shop, places where I do business regularly. Uh in fact some of the people have been giving them to them for so long. If I happen not to be in town, don't get it to them, and I walk in, they say, where's the paper? Where's the paper? And um I give them out, do it every two weeks, and I just I just do it as I go. I don't uh I don't make any special trips. But I go to the bank, I go to McDonald's, I go to the laundry, I I fill up my gas car with gas, I go to McDonald's, I mentioned I go to McDonald's, I do. And uh but but I give the paper out And it's just a little part of what I do making making points and trying to witness in my town. And um And we go soul winning on Saturdays, the weeks that I'm in town when I can. I go with our church and uh and uh we we take them and uh uh every time. I just take a handful of 'em every door, even when we're just going door to door and we we hand them out and I I don't remember I mean I I've had it happen but but it's been a long time now since anybody just refused to take it. And um and I just often I tell 'em, I say, I say, uh I'd like to give you a copy of the world's greatest newspaper. And I think it is the world's greatest newspaper. My opinion. Other people have other opinions. You mentioned you got some other opinions. Uh one other thing that I do, I'm I'm sending like you're doing I think I got the idea from you. I I'm sending there's 140 churches in Rutherford County where we live. And I'm sending the sword to every single one of them, every single pastor. Been doing that for a while. And yes, I've gotten Uh some reaction. The Cumberland Presbyterian pastor wrote me explaining why that their position on accepting homosexuality is is the right way and we should be ashamed of ourselves, etcetera, for for not being inclusive. And then I got a I got a letter from a priest that um had um Well the the the first point he made was, you know, we we just need to be trying to honor the Lord. And in the next paragraph he used so many four-letter words that we would not even pronounce publicly or privately Telling us how bad we were. So you you get some of that. But uh but that that'll that'll be just a little tiny bit of stuff If if we can't take a little bit of that, good night. I mean it's not too uh it's real easy to become a snowflake Right. But if we're not snowflakes, then we can take a little heat. And uh but by and large you'll get good results from it. And uh and I encourage you to think about ways you can do that and use the paper. We want to help you. We want to help you and your ministry. And by the way, the book that I'm offering for the subscription right now, I think this will help your people. It's entitled, Yes, the Bible Speaks. And here is what it says. And I picked out 61 topics. And just printed what the Bible says. No comments from me. Just printed the Bible under it. It's a good source. People say, well, well, what does the Bible say about thus and so? Or some of you new converts, they don't know where to look But this will tell them exactly and give them details. And I did this with our crowd in mind. You you get I I've seen some books, you know, that are so generic But this one I dealt with eternal security, baptism, things that the Independent Baptist crowd ought to be pounding on all the time So uh I think that'll help you. And if you want multiple copies, a lot of the pastors have bought them, uh bunches of them to give out to their people. So, well, so far this morning. Brother Fox got up and he provided for you a big plate of prime rib With a fully loaded baked potato and a I mean a big bunch of steamed broccoli. And that's what I would order if I were going out to eat. And you provided that, my friend, fantastically. Wonderful. Praise God. And then, after a brief interval, Brother Harper. Got up and we got another big old prime rib with a fully loaded baked potato and a big deal of steamed broccoli. Wonderfully, wonderfully blessed of God. Both of you. So I have prepared for you a plate of cornbread With some brown beans. And maybe a little milk. It's one of my favorites. Get a get a a uh a qu about a quart jar Fill it about half full of milk. If my wife is watching, she would she will be fussy but no she won't. But one of my favorites, fill that quart jar, about half full of milk, stuff it with cornbread, and then put brown beans in it. Yes, sir. Oh yeah. Stir it up and yummy yummy yummy. Somebody somebody you gotta try it. Don't try it. Don't knock it if you hadn't tried it. Anyway, uh I appreciate both these men and the messages they gave us. Psalm seventy one Right at the top of the chapter, in thee, O Lord, do I put my trust. I could stop right there. Lord, in thee, O Lord, do I put my trust. Let me never be put to confusion. Deliver me in thy righteousness and cause me to escape. Incline thine ear unto me, and save me. Be thou my strong habitation, whereunto I may continually resort. Thou hast given commandment to save me, for thou art my rock and my fortress. Deliver me, O my God, out of the hand of the wicked, out of the hand of the unrighteous and cruel man For thou art my hope, O Lord God, thou art my trust for my youth. By thee have I been held up from the womb. Thou art He that took me out of my mother's bowels. My praise shall be continually of thee. I am as a wonder unto many, but thou art my strong refuge. Let my mouth be filled with thy praise and with thy honor all the day. Now, if you look back at verse number seven, verse number seven is the text around which we'll look here. It says, I am as a wonder unto many. When the testimony here is of the writer, he says, I am as a wonder. He's just saying the the people are looking at me and they are saying, what is going on with him? They're looking at him and they're saying, I man, I I I just I just can't figure him out. There is something about him Uh his his behavior, uh his I mean there there's just things about him that I I'm just flabbergasted I am amazed. I am as a wonder. Now that that word wonder sometimes in the Bible has to do with the miraculous. And it's like Well, God God has done so many things in my life. I mean it it's I I'm I'm just one little little guy But God has done so much in my life that when other people see what God has done in my life, I mean it's it's like they're saying, you know, they're just they're in amazement. They're w they're they're wondering, and I'm like a wonder to them. And you notice it says unto many, there are a lot of people who just absolutely can't figure us out. Now, we've got it, but they don't get it You say, well, what's the deal? Well, they see us, they hear us, but they just don't get it. They're puzzled by what pleases us. They just can't figure us out. But here are the details. He says in that verse, but thou Aren't my strong refuge. Brother Harper told us last night about growing up across the border over here in West Virginia. Brother Lederman, I think you were Pennsylvania, bo Philadelphia area. Brother Fox, where were you born? Virginia. In Virginia I grew up, born and grew up down in Kentucky. And you say, well, where did Brother Harper come from? Where did uh Brother Letheman come from? Where did Brother Fox come from? Where did you come from? Well, I tell people a lot of times, now I gr when I say Kentucky, you're thinking about East Kentucky, but there's a midsection of Kentucky and then there's a West Kentucky down where the Ohio and the Mississippi and the Tennessee Rivers bleed together And that's where I was born and raised in those river bottoms. I'm kind of a swamp rat. Grew up in those river bottoms. Now Uh you say, but but where what was your address down there? My address was 41 Plum, 41 miles from nowhere and plum back in the sticks Now I grew up in a in an insignificant place Somewhere in Virginia, somewhere in West Virginia, somewhere over around Philly. Now where where where how how how how How do what goes on what goes on with these guys? Well, we get saved. We begin to walk with God. We begin to serve God. God calls, puts his hand upon us, and what What's the deal here? None of you guys are nine feet tall. Nobody in this room's nine feet tall. Nobody in this room has has a big S on his shirt saying he's a Superman What is the deal with anybody that is mightily used of God? I mean somebody that gets a testimony, somebody that gets a reputation for being somebody who's walking with God. How do they get there? It's like I I I wonder what what is this man made of? I can't figure it out, they say. Well the reason That a little short, two before, nobody from somewhere that nobody ever heard of, the reason that somebody like that can be something that God can use is because somewhere along the way Maybe at 9, maybe at 12, maybe at 16, maybe at 22. But somewhere along the way, that man decides that God will be his refuse. God will be the one to whom he surrenders. And that's why in that first verse that I I just, as I read it a minute ago, it it gripped me all over again. The details here The Lord is his strong refuge because, verse 1 says, he has trusted in him. And dear friend, there needs to come a time with every one of us Where that we say sunshine or rain, prosperity or poverty Good times or bad times, we will believe God and we will trust Him. That uh passage goes on, verse one number one goes on to say, let me never be put to confusion You make God your refuge, you put your trust in Him, and you will become convinced about some things and have convictions about it. Confusion will not be your lot. One of the things that those of us who have the opportunity to wear the microphone once in a while, one of the things we have to remember is it's not our job to get up and Scatter doubt. So show I mean it's not our uh create doubt. It's not it's not our job to get up and and wander around through all of the iffy situations that people are throwing around. I mean if we mention them at all it's to expose them. And to show what the dynamics of conviction and courage that we know somebody who's got it right And we've made him our refuge. We've trusted him. We are convinced. And we have convictions about it. Every preacher in this room If you've been at it very long, and not only the preachers, but the rest of you, if you've been trying to serve God very long, I guarantee you there's already been some times when somebody tried to take you down a trail That would have ruined your reputation, would have shattered your testimony, that would have taken you where you don't need to be. But you didn't go Well, why didn't you go? Because there came a time when you said, I believe God, I'm going to trust him. And you became convinced that what he had said was true and the convictions that you had kept you from imbibing the bottle. It kept you from uh putting needles into your arm that should not be there. It kept you from stepping off into some flirtatious situation and into immorality. It kept you from stealing. It kept you from lying. It kept you from doing all of those things that we noted in the previous message that uh was laid out there so clearly. Now Verse number two, he goes on to say, Talk about the details. Why is he a wonder? Well, he says, the Lord's righteousness is our escape from a sin-laden world. Deliver me in thy righteousness. Well, we get to be righteous by an appropriation. Not by performance first, but by an appropriation. The Lord Jesus is our righteousness. His righteousness gets appropriated to our account, and we get our debt paid without working for it. But once we get our debt paid, then it is incumbent upon us that we begin to perform in the light of that uh of that imputed righteousness that has been appropriated to us. And so he says, the the Lord's righteousness allow uh it delivers us. Verse number three, he says, uh our my my habitation is my continual resort. Now I I know here in Deep Creek Lake, I mean folks say, what is it? Well it's a resort area. Well here's a resort I think you'd you'd enjoy not only just vacationing it, I think you would enjoy living in this in this one, just like if if you're in your right mind you'd enjoy living here around the lake He says, continually I resort in my strong habitation. Yes, I mean just putting down roots, build your house, raise your family, make this the place. Where you do what you do. Verse three goes on to say that he is our rock solid foundation. Amen Jesus said a guy that I sometimes just call Sandy because he built on the sand. Another guy Jesus talked about I call Rocky because he built on the rock. Sandy didn't do so well when the storms came and the winds blew. All this stuff that the world tries to sell you All this stuff they try to convince us to go away from God and just run with the world, do all the Hollywood stuff, all that. Listen, that's all building on sand. Right. But whenever we build on the rock And everybody's looking at him saying, Man, we're wondering what's this guy what's this guy made of? Well, the reason that they're wondering is because he is building on the rock and has made the Lord his rock And the verse says, his fortress of protection. Some things come at us and they get stopped before they even get going. Because we have a fortress of protection. Verse 5 says that he's our hope. Verse 6, he says we're going to give voice and praise him And uh Brother Fox's music and not only just the songs itself, but his presentation of it, has encouraged us in giving voice To saying, the Lord's good, the Lord's great, He's our rock, He's our everything. We lift up our voice in testimony to praise Him. And we ought to do it And then in verse 8, he says that we'll praise him, we'll honor him all the day. Verse 8, let my mouth be filled with thy praise and with thy honor all the day. So it's not only here at church this morning, but it's down at the uh shopping place in the afternoon, at the grocery store in the evening. It it's it's all of these things all the day, everywhere, all the time I mean it's that way at home, it's that way when you get up in the morning, that way when you when you're doing laundry, ladies. I mean, all the day. Whatever's going on, we will honor him all the day. Now, if you grab hold Of what he says in this chapter, the details of why everybody's wondering what this guy's made out of. You grab hold of all that, and yes, it will make you different It will make you something special, something blessed indeed, but the world out there, they're going to look at you and they're going to say, that is one more weird dude. And they may say other things about you that you don't even want to repeat. You say, what is going on with them? Well, see, we got it, but they don't get it And the only reason we got it is because we got with the Lord. The reason they don't get it is because they are not with the Lord. And so, consequently, they look at us and they say, a wonder. I'm just amazed. I I wonder about this guy. Now, they they just don't have us figured out. The day I trusted Christ, right at my ninth birthday, my journey began. I rehearse it every day. I want it fresh in my heart every day. One month after I turned 14, I walked forward on a Sunday morning and told the pastor that I wanted to surrender my life to be a preacher. Amen. And as my brother said to me later that day, you did what? He went on to say, This I gotta see. The day I surrender to preach Not just with him, but others begin to look goggle-eyed. It's like, what is going on with you? Who do you think you are, freshman in high school? The day I became pastor for the first time, at age eighteen Like I couldn't figure out why every pastoralist church in our end of the state didn't call me when I was fifteen or sixteen I now know why they didn't. But but you know, at that point I I mean uh uh it was like man uh you know they w they went and got some guy forty years old they could have you know now I was getting all kinds of opportunity But I was eager. And a lot of folks look at that and it's like they say, you were a pastor at age 18? How in the world did you I'm not recommending that. I'm just saying it's what we did. Then a year later at 19, Ben and I were married. And uh high school sweethearts A lot of people looked at us. She grew up a little differently than what I grew up, but we met in high school and we discovered we liked each other. That comes first, you know That's what I'm teaching my grandkids. Find somebody you like. Don't start that loving business. Don't start saying I love them until you determine you like them. Like 'em first. If that works, then you can think about whether you love them or not. But, you know, she she and I she and I signed on. We said our vows And and I'm I mean peop people looking at us, looking at us, and and it's like now and o over the years, so many times, so many times during the years when I was pastor and and now even So many times I have to say no and no and no and no and people even in Christian circles that look at you like what what is going on with you? What do you mean no? What I mean is no And you know, they look at us like you're weird. Why won't you go along with this? Well, we got hold of something, they don't get it, but we got it. Now, why why is everybody puzzled? Well the battle lines are pretty clearly drawn. They're drawn between God and Satan. Everything backs up to that. You you got some folks are giving you stress. I guarantee you it backs up. May not be the front end of it, but it'll back up to the fact that that Satan's in the mix somewhere. The battle lines are drawn between God and Satan, between good and evil, between right and wrong. Yes Between true and false, between Bible Christianity and whatever else Between scripture and culture, between compassion and complacency, battle lines are drawn between hot and cold Traveling across the country as I've done so much these last twenty six years, well even longer than that, but But especially these last twenty-six years, traveling across the country. I've I I go to some places where, you know, the the lights are on, the people are there There's warmth there. I mean I mean the services are alive. I mean ever I mean it's it's it's just a good place. I go to some other places where, I mean, you read their declaration of faith, their statement of faith, everything's in place But it's but it's dry, it's cold, it's it's dried up on the vine, and so little, so little is happening Battle lines are drawn. Satan can take your church down to a cold level, get ice on the on the runway and the aisles so that people have to skate to the altar I mean, somewhere along the way, I mean, somebody needs to take lessons about music, Brother Fox, on, you know, step it up. Amen. You know? Yes. And and and when preaching time comes, you say, well, uh the you know, my my it was a Labor Day weekend and my crowd was down. Well, if you're ever going to preach, preach then. Amen. Don't let the size of the crowd intimidate you. It'd be big or small. So easy to But, you know, it was the biggest crowd I ever had. Well, get up there and throw a holy fit. Amen. Just clean off a spot and do it. Say, well the crowd was down. Do it anyway. Amen. You know, it's part it's part of the reason why we need to do this. I suggested rehearse every day what we got Born again, washed in the blood, justified. We I mean we we're born again. We're in the family of God. Amen. Whenever I read this book, I read the Word of God, and if I cannot, if my heart doesn't have some fire in it when the time comes, I'll let somebody else do it But in government, battle lines are drawn. The networks, battle lines are drawn. Classrooms across America, the battle lines are drawn Entertainment, battle lines are drawn. In sports, battle lines are drawn. NFL started that foolishness. Kneeling, you know, and that kind of stuff I I didn't watch I I I'm not a football fan. I'm I'm convinced in sports any ball that's real ball is a round ball. But just my opinion now. I've got the mics, just my opinion. Uh I I didn't watch their football anyway, but when they started that, I quit doing what I wasn't even doing Yeah. And and some of the others, you know, some of the others are they they're just about to get rid of me too, I'm telling you. Battle lines are drawn, even in sports and in the churches, the battle lines are drawn. What is the difference? Well, the difference is we all have a choice. And we have to decide which side of the battle we're going to be on. You see, what's the difference? Well, we're our worldview. Just recently there have been two or three surveys come to my attention where polls have been taken among Christians. A lot of professing Christians in America do not have a biblical worldview. True. Very true. They've bought into evolution. And a lot of other trashy things? Yes. Well we're we're not evolutionists. We're creationists. Well do you say what what's it? Hey we got we got that nailed down, but they don't get it Our authority. The authority that we have with the Bible, I mean the Bible is God's word. It is our authority. We're Biblicists, but they don't get that. We have to work at that. We have to work with it even with our church crowd. To be sure that they don't slip on that and they know f why we are, who we are, and what we do. Our principles are built off of that. And we live, if we live right, we live by principle our moral values, our whole demeanor, our whole attitude. Brother Fox, I know I've I've teased you a little bit before about the way you laugh. Yes. Now I I don't mean that in any negative way. You understand that? I understand it. I was in another church that you and I both are in just recently. And one of the men there on the staff told me that you were coming there. And he said He said, you know, he said I'd be tickled just to have Brother Fox come just to hear him laugh. Now That's a happy sound. You just gave it to us again. And the fact is, our demeanor I mean we we say, oh yeah, I got moral values, I got principles, I got my worldview nailed in, I got my authority nailed in. Well it ought to show. You know I mean we ought to let our brain tell our face what to do about that, amen? It ought to show. And uh my my grandfather Smith had a laugh somewhat like you have. I I could try all day long and I somehow or other I can't do it quite like that But I always loved to hear him. He I mean he laughed all the time you could hear him all the way across the building. And that y I mean somewhere along the way and whether you got to laugh like Brother Fox Or whatever. I'm telling you, you can tell your face to let the demeanor of a good solid Christian show. Amen. You can do that. Our countenance, uh the difference with us, I mean our vocabulary. I've had several people over the years tell me they got saved and lost half of their vocabulary. You know? A lot of this old job, I mean there's just a lot of stuff that just even in private, it doesn't need to come off of our lips. We just don't do it. Our parents. I'm telling you folks, we we get to heaven, we're not going to be waltzing down Hallelujah Boulevard in a bikini Our appearance ought to tell someone uh in town. I think I just I may I don't hope I didn't lose you there, but anyway. Our habits Our habits I mean it ought to tell uh folks ought to look at the things we do and don't do and they ought to be bug eyed and say, You you you you don't drink at all? I mean you you don't you don't go to the dances, you don't go to All of that stuff. You don't do no. Our amusements and our labors ought to cause people to wonder Mentioned the vacation in Bible school, the bus routes, door knocking, radio station, helping drug addicts and alcoholics. All the things that we do, our labors, teaching Sunday school, singing in the choir. The psalmist said, I am as a wonder unto many. What's the deal there? Well, we we got something. We got it. Now I'm a wonder then because they they don't get it. Now let's let you and I remember how to handle this. The only reason we are a wonder to them is because of him. Amen. What he is to us, what he taught us. Now he's blessed us because of him. We're happy. We're excited. We're ready to buck the tide. We're willing to take the guff. We're willing to stand up in a hostile world and be who we are and what we're supposed to be because he is our strong refuge. I mean, he is everything to us that he is. And because of all of that You and I can have a testimony, we can have a witness, we can have a ministry, we can have an impact where we are. And whether you be here in the neighborhood, Around the lake, or whether you be in one of the larger cities in an urban area, whatever, where wherever that you are. You can demonstrate the grace of God and the goodness of God and stand for the Word of God and make strong to-do about the God of the Word, and there will be people. There will be people. I can travel just across the way here to Carroll County, where I lived and worked for a number of years. And I can I can take you to some folks who for several years they looked at me, they looked at our church, and they just they just kept looking and saying, you know. In fact, our mutual friend down in New Zealand, I had not heard the full story until I preached for him via the live stream. When he was an unsaved man, he was working in Westminster, Maryland, in the office building immediately adjacent to our church campus. His office faced our campus and he had a window. Even during the workday, he saw The church people. He saw our school in operation. And he said for a year or two working there, he said it with every passing day he got under conviction more and more, just watching. And amazed is what he saw going on on that campus. He wound up getting a date with a gal at another church down in Baltimore City. And uh went with her to church, got saved there, and they've been in New Zealand as missionaries now for twenty years. Now, you know, I I haven't I haven't uh I I have held that story back. I haven't even told Dr. Belcher that story 'cause I want to tell it the next time I preach for him But but you know the fact is sometimes just by our coming and going, by the way we present ourselves, by the behavior, by the noises that come off of the campus, whatever, or wherever that we are. There'll be people who will just look and they'll they'll they'll be bug-eyed and amazed. The psalmist said, I was a wonder unto many But thou art my strong refuge. And if you and I'll stay connected, if we'll stay hooked up like we ought to, if we'll walk like we ought to with Him, there'll still be people. There'll be people in your neighborhood You know, I have some neighbors that uh I want to impress. And that's why I walk out on my way to church Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night. I walk out with my Bible showing. It'll remind them. They they they'll be peering out the window. They'll say, There he goes again. Yeah. Wonder what makes him tick. Well, you and I know what makes us tick. They'll say, I I don't I don't get it. What what pleases us puzzles them We got it. They don't get it. But they could get it the same place. We got it. Yes, Lord. Because the Lord's so generous and so merciful and so good. Dear Lord, thank you for your blessing. Thank you for this morning, the time we've had together. Thank you for these messages. Thank you for every song that's been sung. And thank you, Lord, for this good place, this great place, the ministry here. I pray your blessing to be upon us. Give us, I pray, a full measure of your good things in Jesus' name. Amen.