We are excited. We have everything already set up, ready to go for this week of meetings. We're going to assemble 15,000 books of Romans. uh for the country. It's going they're going into the country of Sierra Leone in West Africa. They will be distributed there into a couple countries, I believe Ghana and a couple others that are around there. There's a missionary has a little warehouse facility there that's going I believe we're going to send a quarter of a million of them over there. So this is just a small portion of that, but we are excited about doing that. kicking it off in our own church and I'm kind of excited about doing this on my own. I d I don't I don't wish anything bad on Brother Dan. I feel like I'm missing half of my team, but uh At the same token, I'm kind of excited about doing this on our own, and uh we've been looking forward for an opportunity to do that. Uh wish it was under some different circumstances Uh we uh talked with spent about an hour on the phone with uh Brother Dan this afternoon and he really wants to be here. Uh you could tell it in his voice and uh it's on. Okay. It's on. So was the other one. Is it working, Dan? He doesn't know. He's not even paying attention. Okay, anyway. Uh but uh he he wants to be here uh some kind of bad he said hey brother chip if we can get there we'll get there and uh so we're looking forward to him joining us sometime in the week most likely. But uh I want to encourage you to check out the display back there. There back there on the table is some of our Challenger newsletters. We want you to pick this up Check out what we're doing. There's a little update about everything in here we're doing. We've got a new piece of equipment. In the newsletter, it was saying that we're praying for that, we're raising money for it. We have that purchase now We're going to be using it in Elkton, Virginia, at Barolithia Baptist Church. Pastor Don Leatherman down there. We're going to be assembling New Testaments on the road. This is going to be a first for us. Starts next Monday. So you guys pray for us as we uh endeavor to take that out. It's a lot more machinery that has to go out, uh increased personnel. Uh it's something we've never done before. So I'm sure Satan is going to try his very best to get in there and just scramble everything up so that we can't accomplish that. So please pray for us that all that would go well. We're excited about doing that. They're also going to try to assemble f as many uh books of Romans as what we are, in addition to I I think they're going to try to do five hundred New Testaments. Don't quote me on that, but uh they're gonna try to do the five hundred New Testaments plus the fifteen thousand books of Romans. So uh they've got their hands full down there Uh things are going great down there. Pray for the church and pray for us as we travel. Also back there on the on the table is our prayer cards. We ask that you would pick one of those up and remember to pray for Vicky and I Um just like uh this health issue with Brother Dan, uh I've been through them, Miss Vicky's been through them, uh Miss D's been through 'em. Dan told us when we came on board that if you want to see Satan fight you, if you want to see things go wrong, do something in the Bible ministry. And he was not kidding us. We've had break failure trying to get to meetings. We've had uh sicknesses and illnesses, we've had uh job interference, we've had just about everything possible try to get in our way. But praise the Lord, we have a God that's more powerful than that. We have a God that's setting on the throne tonight And he has enough power and enough care and enough love for us that he's going to see us through that. So we ask that you would continue to pray for us, however. I do also encourage you to come out and get involved this week Um if you've never done this, give it a shot. Just come out. Give it. I mean if nothing else, just come out and see what's going on. If you just got five minutes, breeze through, at least see what's happening here at the church this week You know, uh the commercial printing industry has had control of the publishing of the Word of God for far too long. God never intended for commercial Unsaved businesses to be printing the Word of God. He intended for us to take care of getting the Word of God out to the world. So that's our challenge. That's part of our commission, as you're going to see tonight in the message So get out and at least see what's happening at the church. Get familiar with your s with it. If you can spend 30 minutes, that's great. If you can spend five minutes, just kind of walk through and see how it's done, that's great too, because I'll guarantee you once you see it, you'll want to get back and do it again. We need the most participation we can get. We love to finish up early, and we love to have a lot of people involved. The fellowship is the some of the sweetest you will ever have. I heard somebody talking uh about the fellowship down in Burgu and how special that is among the guys, and I agree with that. I like to go down there. I tried very hard. to get down there this week, but it's it doesn't appear like it's gonna happen for us. We've got a pretty busy schedule this week. But you know, that fellowship down there is sweet and it's something special. But it's nothing like gathering around the Word of God and putting together the Word of God and putting it together together with your Christian brothers and sisters and seeing that going out to help someone. So we ask you would get uh get involved this week, clear your schedule out, make a little bit of time, and come by, at least come by and see what's going on, and then you can know to clear your schedule for the next time that we have a meeting here I also would like to thank my pastor this evening for the opportunity to speak. I have to say that I'm just a tad bit nervous. Uh I found out the last time that I preached that uh he was listening on the internet and I j it just rocked me to my core. Now he's setting behind me. So You all hang on tonight. I don't know what's about to happen. Um, but uh we're gonna try to give you a message from the Word of God tonight entitled, Why Must We Publish? The Word of God. Why must we publish the Word of God? Why are we doing what we're doing this week? What is the big deal about us putting together the Word of God and sending it out to the world? We're going to see what God's Word has to say about that tonight. So uh if you would open your Bibles to the book of Acts. We're going to kick off from the book of Acts in chapter ten tonight. Uh we're going to read a few verses there. And then we're going to uh it's gonna be you're you're you're gonna need your Bibles tonight, so take all that stuff that you have piled in it and lay it on the bench beside you. And get ready to thumb through it because we're going to bounce around tonight. I challenge you to uh try to keep up with me. I have to confess that I have them all written in my notes So if I go a little bit quickly, it's because I want to get you out of here tonight at a decent hour so that I can see you back in the morning at nine o'clock when we start to assemble. So uh if I get a little bit fast, just try to catch up if you can and uh at least write them down and you You can check them out later. But Acts chapter ten, let's uh let's pray first and ask God's blessing on the message tonight. Dear Lord Jesus, I thank you, God, for the opportunity to stand before your people tonight. Lord, I thank you for uh your salvation and lord your great gift and lord your power that's evident Lord all around us and everything we do and your love and your mercy for us. God I pray tonight Lord that uh Uh you would fill me afresh and anew. God, everything that comes out of my mouth I pray would be straight from you tonight. God, I surrender to you and I ask you, Lord, to use me tonight to encourage you and stir up your people God, and if there be one here tonight that does not know thee as their personal Savior, or Lord, within the sound of my voice tonight, over the internet or somewhere, God, we just ask that that person, if they do not know you as personal Savior, would come to know you tonight as their personal Lord and Savior, that they might have hope of an eternal home in heaven. Bless the message tonight, Lord, may you be honored and glorified, and everything that's spoken here tonight is my prayer in Jesus' name Amen. Acts chapter 10. We're going to begin reading in verse 34 and read down through verse 43. Begin reading in verse 34 and down through verse 43 The Bible says, then Peter opened his mouth and said, Of a truth, I perceive that God is no respecter of persons. But in every nation, he that feareth him and worketh righteousness is accepted with him. The word which God sent unto the children of Israel, preaching peace by Jesus Christ He is Lord of all. That word I say ye know, which was published throughout all Judea, and began from Galilee. After the baptism which John preached, how God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Ghost and with power. who went about doing good and healing all that were oppressed of the devil, for God was with him. And we are witnesses of all things which he did, both in the land of the Jews and in Jerusalem. Whom they slew and hang on a tree. But God raised him up, but him God raised up the third day. Him God raised up the third day. I want to say that again. Him God raised up the third day and showed him openly Not to all the people, but unto witnesses chosen before of God, even to us who did eat and drink with him after he rose from the dead And he commanded us to preach unto the people and to testify that it is he which was ordained of God to be the judge of the quick and dead To him give all the prophets witness that through his name, whosoever believeth in him shall receive the remission of sins. You see This talks about the word that was published even in that day. The word of Jesus Christ was published. They still had the Old Testament. It was in scrolls, it wasn't put together in a combined in a combined Bible like we have. But even then, they were going about publishing the Word of God. Where they didn't have it written, they proclaimed it Whatever they could do to get the word out about Jesus Christ and what Jesus Christ had done for us. But the first reason that I have tonight that we must publish the Word of God is found in the book of Jeremiah and chapter 5. Jeremiah chapter 5, verse 14. Jeremiah tells us there through, or actually God tells us to Jeremiah there in Jeremiah chapter 5 and verse 14 that His word is a devouring flame. It says this. It says, Wherefore thus saith the Lord God of hosts, because ye speak this word, behold, I will make my words in thy mouth fire. And this people would, and it shall devour them. Now you see, if you look and you read and you study the book of Jeremiah, you'll find out that Jeremiah was called to the people, and he was he was also known as the weeping prophet His heart was broken for his people, his people Israel, they were away from God. But you see, God is making a statement here that if Jeremiah will speak his word, God will make his word as fire in his mouth and it will devour the people. I've done a little bit of study on that word devour. I thought I knew what the meaning of it was. I was correct, but I just wanted to verify that I had everything there. And it simply means this: to burn up or to consume. It's also referenced to eat in some places. But think about that, to burn up and consume. Now, I'm having a little illustration here tonight. I'm going to get a little bit dangerous. But I brought a wooden toothpick because in Jeremiah it talks about the people being made as wood and his word as fire. And I realized this the other night. We were lighting some candles on a birthday cake and I used a toothpick. Now, I want you to see something. This happens pretty quickly. You turn that up there. Now, what's happening to the end of that toothpick? Can anybody see it? It's being devoured. It's gone. It's disappearing. Right in front of me as it goes. It's happening pretty fast. The longer it goes, the hotter it gets, and pretty soon it just kind of disappears That's what God's talking about in the book of Jeremiah. He's talking about the people being absolutely consumed by the Word of God Being devoured, being taken up. You see, the people in sin tonight are under God's wrath, and they're about to be consumed And there's people in this world tonight that are going to die and they're going to split hell wide open and they're never, ever going to see. The Word of God. The answer to all of their needs. The answer to everything that they need to know about eternity. And they're never ever going to have an opportunity to see But that's not going to take them out from under God's wrath. You say, well, how can that be? That doesn't seem fair. You see, it doesn't seem fair because as Christians, it's our job to get the Word of God to those people. We are the ones that are going to answer for why they didn't have the Word of God. We've had 2,000 plus years now. To get the word of God to all the world. And we look at that 1040 window, Brother Pat, how many are in that 1040 window? Billions. And they don't even Kazakhstan, is there any of the scripture in the in the in the Kazakh language? Any of it? There is some of it in there? Okay. So that's that's amazing to me. I mean, but why are those people so errant? Why are they so far from the truth? It's because we've neglected them with the Word of God. We've got it in our house. I mean I have several copies of the Word of God in my house. How many do you have in your house? There's Kazakhis that have never seen it. They don't even know what it is. But it's a devouring flame, and it's going to consume them. Also, tonight, we see in the book of Romans, you'll flip back to the book of Romans in chapter 1 You'll find out that we need to publish the Word of God because it is a saving power. It is a saving power. Romans chapter 1 and verse 16 says, For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ For it is the power of God unto salvation, to everyone that believeth, to the Jew first, and also the Greek Paul was not ashamed of the story of Jesus Christ. He was not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ. He was proclaiming that even in Rome. He wound up losing his life for it. Why? Because he knew that it had the saving power. In fact, the Apostle Paul went so far as to say that if his brethren could be saved, he would be willing to die and go to hell. What a love for the people. But what's happened in the last since the day of Paul is all of a sudden we've become complacent with what we have, and all of a sudden we don't have that love for the other people that Paul had. I think Paul had a special connection. We often refer to Paul as probably the greatest apostle or one of the greatest Christians that ever lived. And I think probably he was. Because if he could make a statement like, if my brethren could be saved and go to heaven, I'd be willing to go to hell, that tells me he was a whole lot closer to God than what I am. I don't know that I can make that statement tonight. I'd like to think that I could, but if I'm honest with myself, I'll tell you, I d for my study of the Bible, I don't want to go to hell. I don't want to go to hell. But I've sure decided that I'm going to do everything I can to see that nobody else does. I'm going to do what I can to see that the Word of God gets out and that people can get saved. You see, in re in uh Romans chapter 10 and verse 17 says this: So then faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. Our very faith comes from the Word of God Without the Word of God, we don't even have faith to even start towards salvation. And Robbie, tonight, in 1 Peter 1 and verse 23, it says, being born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible By the Word of God, which liveth and abideth forever. There is no salvation without the Word of God That just, man, that just thrilled my soul. I was sitting up here on a pew and he said that there's just no salvation without the Bible. I thought, man, that's a child standing up and Testifying in church and realizing that there is no salvation without God's word. We talked earlier about the people in foreign lands that have never seen the Word of God. And they're condemned to a devil's hell. They need to have the Word of God tonight. There is no mission that we have, no thing that we do. On the face of the earth tonight, that is more important than publishing the Word of God to see souls saved. Nothing that we do is more important than that. It's our task. It's our job. It's our responsibility. Number three tonight, we see that we need to publish the Word of God because it is a probing instrument. It is a probing instrument. Hebrews chapter 4. In verse 12, it says, For the word of God is quick and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword. Piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and of the joints and morrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart It's a probing instrument. You see, the Word of God, when you study the Word of God, it probes around in your soul. It finds out what's contaminated, it knows the very thoughts and intents of your heart. The very inner thoughts that no one else knows, the Holy Spirit and the Word of God will probe those into your conscious thought And help you to realize what's wrong. This, my friends, is why people in the world today don't want anything to do with the old King James Bible. That's exactly why they don't want to hear it. That's exactly why they want their perverted copies of Scripture. Because it doesn't have that power. It's not really God's word. And they don't want that thing probing around in their heart and bringing to their conscious thought the deceitfulness and wickedness that's inside their heart. The fourth thing we see tonight is because it purifies. We need to publish the Word of God because it purifies Brother Charlie, I thought you were gonna steal some of my thunder tonight when you started quoting Psalms 119. Turn with me tonight back to Psalms 119. I'm gonna give you a chance to get there. I want you to see this one. He was really close. Psalms one nineteen verse nine. Psalms one nineteen verse nine. Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? Question. By taking heed thereto according to thy word. Verse 10. With my whole heart have I sought thee. O let me not wander from thy commandments. Thy word have I hid in my heart, that I might not sin. Against God. You see, the Word of God purifies your heart. It purifies your life. It purifies your mind Once the Word of God probes through your life and through your heart and it finds the contaminated area, it begins to deal with that. It brings us to your conscious thoughts so that you can confess that sin, forsake that sin, and purify your heart in the world. mind. Now let me ask a question. If tonight, as a Christian, we realize that the Bible is our saving power, So we've accepted Christ as our personal Savior, and we're Christian tonight. Now, if we don't get in our Bible every day. If we don't study our Bible every day, if we don't read our Bible every day, what happens when we lose that probing power? And we lose that cleansing power out of our life, and we no longer have those contaminants brought to mind. What happens to our heart? If I if I took this bowl of water that I have up here and I started dumping black paint into it and I never removed any of it, what would happen to the water? It would turn black, wouldn't it? But if I continued to dump paint into that small bowl of water until it overflowed, it wouldn't be very long until The water would just be absorbed. You wouldn't notice the paint was even the water was even there. All you'd have would be paint. It might be a little thinner. But you see, our heart, if we starve ourselves of the Word of God, can turn right back in to the evil heart. Oh, you'll still be saved. You'll still be saved. The Bible says there's a sin unto death. Paul says you should not pray for it. If we don't feed ourselves the Word of God, we're not going to have that purifying power. We're not going to have that probing instrument. Oh, it's not pleasant when the Holy Spirit probes through our hearts. But it's necessary that we can be purified and that we could move up and that we can take the next step in our Christian life. Fifthly, tonight we see that the Bible needs to be published because it gives hope. Because it gives hope. You know, we're in perilous times. Our economy, to say the least, is in a mess. And our government seems to think that if they just throw enough money at it, money they don't have, by the way, or we don't even have, if they keep throwing it at it, that it'll fix itself. Well it doesn't take a rocket scientist for me to I don't have a rocket scientist degree, I don't have a degree at all. But it doesn't take me long to figure out that who's going to pay for all that debt? Where's all that money going to come from? It's got to come from somewhere. Sooner or later, somebody's going to have to pay for that. What happens then? When there is when the taxes are so high? What kind of recession are we going to be in then? We're in perilous times Some people have, like this fellow down in Frederick, just outside of Frederick this past week, gave up hope. He lost hope. He had no hope. He was $450,000 in debt, lost his job, killed himself and his entire family. Why? Because he didn't have any hope. But what do you have in your laps tonight? You have hope. You have the hope that this world needs. You have the answer like for people like that. You know, I had to ask myself when I read that, did anybody ever knock on that man's door? Had that man ever heard the gospel of Jesus Christ? Did he realize there was hope? We'll never know. We'll never know But the Bible gives hope. Romans 15, chapter 14 says, For whatsoever things were written aforetime, were written for our learning. That we, through patience and comfort of the scriptures, might have hope. Might have hope. Have you lost hope tonight? Are you starving for hope? Maybe you've lost your job. Maybe you're you're fixing to lose your job. Maybe you're about to lose your home tonight. Are you in the Word of God trying to get that hope from Jesus Christ? Christ. You see, he promised he'll never leave us. He'll never forsake us. He'll provide our every need. Well we might have to get down to bare bones operation. We may have to get back to where we're only living on the necessities. But Jesus promises us that He will provide what we need. It may not be a BMW, it may not be a half a million dollar home on the hill, but he will provide what we need. He will provide that. It gives hope. You see, the Bible tonight is full of God's promises. And he's never failed in any one of them. He's never failed any one of them. I was reading in my devotions this morning about Elijah, and I was thinking about Elijah. The story was in the I was reading the story there where where uh the king sent out his captain And Elijah simply called down fire from heaven, consumed them, they were gone. Man, what kind of power would that be? That kind of power is right here tonight The same power that Elijah had when he slew all the prophets of Baal, when he called down fire from heaven, the same power that he had is right here available to us tonight through God's word. And it came It gives us hope. The sixth reason tonight that we must publish the Word of God is because it is profitable. It is profitable. 2 Timothy 3, verses 16 and 17 says, All scripture is given by inspiration of God, and it's profitable. And then it lists a list of items here. It's profitable for doctrine. It's profitable for reproof. It's profitable for correction. It's profitable for instruction in righteousness. And why is it profitable for all that? Verse 17 says, that the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. It enables us. It's profitable for us. It enables us to do these things. I heard this preached somewhere, I don't know, Pastor, you may might be able to take credit for this, I don't know. But I wrote it in the margin of my Bible when I heard this preached. That somebody was preaching out of 2 Timothy chapter 3, verses 16 and 17. And this is what I wrote down. Doctrine equals That which is right. Doctrine is that which is right. Reproof equals that which is wrong. Correction equals to right a wrong. Instruction equals to keep it right. So you see, tonight, the doctrine of the Word of God is that which is right. And when we fail, it reproves us. And then, once we're reproved, we correct it and make it right. And then we continue reading the instruction that we may keep it right. The King James Bible is so hard to understand, isn't it? It's written in that old English and it's just so hard to understand. That just about covers it to me. That covers everything we need to know. Everything we need to know. But lastly, tonight, the seventh reason we must publish the Word of God is because it's commanded. It's commanded that we publish the Word of God. Matthew chapter 28, verses 19 through 20 says this. Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Teaching them to observe all things, whatsoever I have commanded you. And lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. Amen. Those words came out of the mouth of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. A command, folks, is not optional. We do not have an option with a command. A command is a requirement You see, in Romans chapter 12 and verse 1, the Apostle Paul says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. That's just only reasonable that we do this. But it's not required. But a command is required. A command is something that must be done. A command is something that we have to do. How can you teach someone if you cannot show them? If they cannot see what you're teaching them, how can you teach them that? They can't study it. They can't read it. We simply must publish God's word. I say that again. We simply must publish God's word. It doesn't matter what it costs. It doesn't matter how much effort it takes. It doesn't matter how much sleep we lose. It doesn't matter how much we personally have to give up. The cost is too high. One soul burning in a devil's hell is too high. We must publish God's word. We have it The world needs it. And it's our responsibility to get it to them. You're going to have an opportunity this week. To come in here and work on that goal. You've got to have an opportunity this week to put together scriptures so that someone in West Africa May be able to open up the book of Romans and read it for the first time. It was incredible to me to find out that the official language of Sierra Leone is English. And they still need the Word of God. They just don't have it over there. We have it. The world needs it. And it's our responsibility to get it to master. Lord's dealing with our hearts tonight about getting the word of God to people around the world. All month we've been given the Word of God, smaller portions, of course, in gospel tracts all through our area, our part of the world. Maybe God's dealing with heart about being having a greater burden for this, maybe being involved. As Chip said, we have the next couple, three days a very practical way we can do something very real. And getting, helping get God's word to another country to people who don't have it. How about your daily Bible reading?