One more message in Psalm 139 with David. And as you're turning there, let me, my glasses broke this afternoon. And so I'm very gingerly going to put them on my head, and you pray the rest of this services that are service that this lens does not pop out, alright? Because that's my bad eye, or that's my yes, I don't know. But um as you're turning to that psalm It's a great psalm. Probably you're familiar with Psalm 139, or you will be, as we begin to read it. But I want you to understand a little bit about the circumstances as we prepare to talk about what David reveals to us through the Holy Spirit. David has been branded a rebel. He has been called disloyal. They started by saying he was disloyal to Saul. That he was just a gold digger, if you will. He was just trying to usurp the king and take the kingdom from Saul. Couldn't have been more untrue. The truth is that Saul was a jealous and bitter man, and God had made a decision that he could no longer be king, and God himself had sent Samuel to anoint David to be king. But it went on beyond just being disloyal to Saul. They now started to say that he was a rebel against the God that he claimed to love. And that he had been unfaithful to the Lord, and that that he was rebelling against God, that God wanted him to serve Saul, and now he wanted to be the king, and so he was being disloyal to man and disloyal to the Lord who had saved him. Now I'll tell you, it it broke David. And this psalm, if you understand as we read this psalm That it's from the heart of a man who is saying, Lord, what they're saying about me is not true. But then I love what the result in his life is, and we'll talk about that. in just a moment. But I want to read some select verses, get to our text, we'll pray and we'll make our sermon. Notice with me in verse 1. O Lord, Thou hast searched me and known me. Thou knowest my downsetting and mine uprising. Thou understandest my thought afar off. Thou compassest my path and my lying down, and art acquainted with all my ways. There's not a word in my tongue, but lo, O Lord, thou knowest it altogether. Thou hast beset me behind and before, and laid thine hands upon me Such knowledge is too wonderful for me. It is high. I cannot attain unto it. This man is saying, God They're saying I've done these things, but Lord, you know every thought that's in my head. You know every word I'm about to say. You know every emotion in my heart And Lord, I don't think what they're saying is in me. I've not been that. I'm not being rebellious. He goes on in verse 7. He changes now from the Lord knowing his heart to the Lord always having been with him. Verse 7 says, Whither shall I go? from thy spirit, or whither shall I flee from thy presence? If I ascend up into heaven, thou art there. If I make my bed in hell, behold, thou art there If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there shall thy hand lead me, and thy right hand shall hold me. If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me, even the night shall be light about me, yea, the darkness hideth not from thee But the night shineth as the day, the darkness, and the light were both alike to thee. God You are with me all the time. Not only do you know my words and my thoughts and you know my heart, you see my actions. In the dark you see what I do. The dark is as a bright daylight to you. Nothing can be hid from you. And God, they're making these accusations. And I don't think they're in my heart, but but they're wicked, evil Oh, wait a minute. David does not do what we are so prone to do. David does not begin to blame everybody who has said something about him. I want to skip down to verses 23 and verses 24, and I want you to notice what David says. Search me, O God. And know my heart. Try me and know my thoughts. And see if there be any wicked way in me. And lead me in the way everlasting. God, I don't want to presume anything. I don't think that I have done that, but but I know something about me, Lord. I know that sometimes I think of myself better than I actually am. You ever been there? Can I make a confession to you tonight? I love me. I really like me. I really think I'm very lovable. I think sometimes you're rascals But I think sometimes it's just, well, just a little mistake in my life. You know what we're all prone to do? We are all prone to defend ourselves and excuse ourselves at the sake of others. And if we ever want revival in our lives Revival is a matter of examining ourselves and seeing the things in our lives that need to be changed. when it is our nature to see what is in other people's lives that need to be changed. We will never have revival if the motive of our heart is to make sure everybody else is where they need to be. Revival will come when we take a look at our own heart and say, Lord, it's not my brother, not my sister, it's not my mother. It's me standing in the need of prayer. And so the most important part of this psalm is where David ends up after he believes he's been falsely accused. after uh others have said about him what they've said. And he comes down to this point and he says, God Would you examine me? Would you take a look at me and expose what you see in me? I want you to see three points to an outline. Search me, try me, lead me. Notice number one, search me. The truth is that you and I cannot honestly search our own hearts. Not only do we not have the capacity to know and to discern our hearts, But we also tend to overlook the more serious flaws of our own character and our own lives. I've learned something about me, I have a serious conflict of interest where I'm concerned. I use this illustration all the time, but it's very true. Years ago, my wife came to me and she said, we need a full-length mirror. I said, I'm not sure I agree with that. I don't think I want to see this. But she said, no, I need a full-length mirror. I need to see the hymns and I need to see all the way down to where my dress is. And I said, okay, but don't you buy that mirror without me. I said, I want to be with you when you buy that mirror. And we only shop at the finer stores. And so we went to Walmart And you know how they'll have sometimes those inexpensive mirrors kinda leaned up against something. And I said, Now, sweetheart, your job is to hold the mirror up And I'll stand and and and I'll be able to discern if that's the right mirror for us. Well, she held the first mirror up and it was really not the right mirror for us because the way the way the glass was bent I was three foot seven, but I was eight feet wide. And I said, God would not have us to have that mirror So we went through about three or four or five mirrors, and finally we pulled, she pulled one up, and in that mirror I was 6'2, 170 pounds. I said, that's our mirror Now I don't know if you've noticed it, but I'm not 6'2, and it's none of your business if I'm 170 pounds or not. Well, what am I trying to illustrate? I wanted something to say back to me what I wanted to be true rather than what was true. And I fear in our generation, and especially in our church generation, we have come to the place where we want to think of ourselves better than we actually are. How do you say that? How do you know that, preacher? Well, we're changing hymns. We took that word worm out of one hymn because we don't like to think of ourselves as worms. We go to churches, people shop for churches not on the basis of them preaching biblical truth, but on them preaching sermons that make them feel good about themselves. I'm saying that it's actually become part of our psyche in our generations that we don't like to be told the truth about ourselves. And I'm telling you that revival will never come to the life, it'll never come to the home, it'll never come to the church where we are satisfied to think of ourselves In a way that God does not agree. Can I remind you about something about our heart? That they're deceitful above all things? There's a lovely picture. Think of the dearest saint in this room. You know a truth about their heart? They've got a deceitful heart above everything else in their life. Think of a guy preaching this this message to you. I've got a deceitful heart. You say you shouldn't say that about yourself. Hey, listen, it's true. And I'm not afraid to say it to you because I know it's true in your life too. Quit telling yourself it isn't true. We tell ourselves lies about ourselves. We excuse ourselves We justify ourselves. We defend our actions. We minimize our sin. And we maximize what we see in others. That's just true. And revival will never come to that heart. Well, we'll play the game, we'll go to the meeting, we'll check the boxes. But revival will not come to that heart. The Bible says the heart is deceitful above all things, desperately wicked. Then it asks this question, who can know it? Well, evidently not me But the Lord answers the question, I the Lord search the heart, I try the reins, even to give every man according to his ways and according to the fruit of his doings. I'll tell you who can examine Edwards' heart. God. I was reading a book written a century ago by a man named James Vaughn, and he said this, and I quote Self-examination is not the simple thing which at first sight it might appear. No Christian who has ever really practiced it has found it easy Is there any exercise of the soul which any one of us has found so unsatisfactory, so almost impossible as self-examination? The fact is this that the heart is so exceedingly complicated and intricate, and it is so very near the eye which has to investigate it. And both it and the eye are so restless and shifting that its deep anatomy baffles our refute our ref research. Just a few things here, a little thing there. Broad, open, unfloating upon the surface, a man discovers. But there are chambers receding within chambers in that deepest of the deep things, a sinner's heart Which no mere human investigation ever will reach. It is the prerogative of God alone to search the human heart. We don't talk like that. But that's how they wrote in the 1800s. And my friend, if it was true then, it is true and maybe more true today. David invited God into those deepest recesses of his heart, and that took real courage. That word search is a strong word. It means to examine thoroughly. It means to be found out. David is saying, God, I want all the masks moved away. I want all the pretending and all the pretense. I want it all moved away. I want the disguises removed. And I want you to show me who I am. That word know, David says, search me, God, and know my heart. Understand this. God already knew David's heart. David was not saying to the Lord, hey God, I've hidden this from you. Nothing is hid from him. What David is saying is, God, search my heart and make it known to me. You show me what's in my heart. And God, you expose to me what needs to be changed in my heart. As hard as it is for us to admit, the only way we will ever grow is to know the truth about ourselves and to have God help us to change it. You know your own emotions? I know men who have an anger so violent That their wives are fearful. Their children quell when they see the redness come to Dad's face. I know men who are Christian men who watch every word they say in the presence of God's people and then swear like a sailor on a bad day at work. I know men who profess to love their wives like Christ loved the church, but walk around with a hidden lust in their heart that they think no one is aware of but themselves. I've known ladies who claim to be submissive, but if you could see the way they roll their eyes when their husband speaks. I know people who are so ungenerous towards the Lord. I've known people that claim to be great Christians, but they have no prayer life. I know people who claim to be wonderful believers, but they have bitterness rooted in their heart. They have grudges that are 50 years old. And they think because they don't smoke, and because they don't drink, and because they don't go to movies, and because they carry a KJV, and because they've got all the outward things Where they need to be, they think they're ready for revival. You know what we've gotten pretty good at in fundamentalism? The sins of the flesh. You know what we're pretty bad at? The sins of the Spirit. We'll rip apart each other in gossip. Well backbite. We have more corrupt communication that isn't cursing than the world even knows exists. And we think somehow That behavior in our lives is consistent with God sending us revival. And it isn't. David says, God, I don't want to check the boxes. God, I'm pretty good at writing Psalms. I'm pretty good at leading at worship. Not too bad on the battlefield. Lord, I can lead men, but God, I know it's in my heart. I know the possibility of things that can lay in my heart, and I don't want to get accustomed to them. I don't want to get used to them. I don't want to excuse them. I don't want to hold on to them. And so, Lord, I'm asking you, will you search me, not because you don't already know, will you search me for the purpose of exposing to me who I really am? He goes on, not only search me, Lord, but would you do me a favor? Would you try me? Notice what he says here. Try me and know my thoughts. David's not satisfied for God just to search his heart He asked him to try him and to know his thoughts. And David knew that he was calling for another level. Not just an examination of his heart, but a testing of who he was, and a testing of what he believed, and a testing of how he lived his life. That word thoughts is an incredibly important word. Here we go. Another strong concordance lesson, okay? Hey, if you don't have one, get one. And sit there and study that rascal. That word thoughts is an interesting Hebrew word. It is the Hebrew word Sarif. S-A-R-I-F comes from that word. And what it's this, it it it is the word for divided, for division You know what David is saying to the Lord? David is saying to the Lord, God, I'm asking you to try my thoughts, and where my thoughts are different than your thoughts. Tell me. Expose me. Literally, when our thoughts are different than God's thoughts, notice what it is. Try me, know my thoughts, and see if there be any wicked way in me. You know what it is when you think different than God? It's wicked. It's a wicked way. When you decide something different than God decides something, it's not just an excusable thing. It's a wicked way. People, listen to me. I've talked to people for fiftieth year of ministry. And for fifty years I've talked to people and they say, well, you know, that's what you think, but here's what I think, and and I say back to them, Well it really doesn't matter what I think, and I don't want to be offensive, it doesn't matter what you think. If I'm saying what God thinks, it matters to both of us. And they might be having a conversation with me and saying, well, you know, you say that I'm supposed to tithe, but I don't think that's true. Well, honey, read your Bible. Because tithing was before the law, tithing was in the law, and tithing was commended of Jesus after the law. Now you can think what you want. I'm just telling you what God thinks is your tithe. I wonder how many of us are willing to say to the Lord, Hey Lord, here's how I'm parenting my children. Here's what I think. I don't think that we ought to be paddling our children. I don't think we ought to be disciplining our children anymore. And God's going to say back to you, well, you know what, that's not what I think I wonder how many would say, well, I I think this is how I'm going to uh go to church. I think this is how I'm going to date. I think this is how I'm going to act at work. And when our thoughts are different than God's thoughts, when we think differently than the Lord, it's not okay. It's a wicked way. The Bible actually says it's idolatrous. When I set myself up to disagree with God and I become self-satisfied and say, well, here's what I think I'm going to do. Now again, you have that prerogative. Anybody has that right. But I'm telling you, God's not going to revive that heart. Can two walk together unless they be agreed? And I said this morning, and I'll say again, this may be a shock to you, but God is smarter than all of us. God knows better than all of us. And what God thinks is right. And one of the things that David was saying is, look I've got a lot of opinions on being king. I've got a lot of opinions on how I ought to raise my boys. I I think God might have interrupted David and said, well, you know, you might want to think how I think about raising your boys You might want to think how I think about taking another man's wife. You might want to think about how I think about the pride that made you number those people. David, you think and think, but it's not what I think. And where my thoughts are divided from God's thoughts, where my thoughts are different than God's thoughts, I don't care how smart you think you are. God's not going to send revival to that heart. Then David says this would you lead me? Lead me in the way everlasting. If the trying of David's thoughts expose a difference to God's way, he wants to be brought into God's way. David wanted his life changed if it was a change to godliness. He wanted the Word of God and the Spirit of God to govern his life. You know what an everlasting, when it says everlasting, lead me in the way everlasting, here's what David is saying. God has always been right. God is right. God is going to be right tomorrow. God is going to be right in eternity. I want to be brought to God's way. Lead me in the way everlasting. Lead me in the right way. Lead me in your way, Lord. I don't want to think like I think if it's not your way. And God, I'm sometimes I get so satisfied with myself, and I get so stubborn in my spirit, and I get so set in my ways, and sometimes it aggravates me when the preacher says you think something else when I think this, but God, you show me. And God, I'll humble myself. If I'm not thinking right, I don't want to stubbornly go on my way. God, if I'm not thinking right, with your help I'll get it right. Because God, I want revival. God, I want your favor. God, I want your blessing more than I want my own way. That same man who wrote that last paragraph wrote this paragraph. There is a hypocrisy. By which a man does not only deceive the world, but very often imposes on himself That hypocrisy which conceals his own heart from himself I could be that foolish. I am what's called a choleric. What is a choleric? It's a type of personality. I'll define it for you. I'm right. I know I'm right. Just ask me, I'll tell you I'm right. I don't want to think I'm right if I'm wrong before God. And I don't want to live so stubbornly, so willfully So unaware of God trying to deal with me that I stubbornly go on in my own way. I know this has been a scolding sermon, and forgive me for it. But let me say this. Our generation, we're living in what's called the Laodicean generation. The key word in our generation is not serve itself. And you can't tell me what to do. No kings. No pastor's gonna tell me what to do. No husband's gonna boss me around. No boss is gonna get in my face. No God is going to tell me how I have to live. And the truth is we've become insensitive to sin. Oh, oh, oh. Not theirs mine. And we've actually come to the place Where we excuse and accept things in our life that if we would open up to the Lord and say, Lord, is that how you want me to be? God would say, no, that's wrong. I don't know if I've ever told you this fairy tale, but I'll tell it tonight. You ever had a preacher tell you a fairy tale? Yeah, lots of them, no. You ever heard of the princess and the pea? It's one of my favorite stories, and I think it illustrates our generation more than any other backwards. Here's what I mean As I understand the fairy tale, the Queen Mother wanted to find a bride for her son who was going to be king. And you know how mothers can be. She had to be perfect. She didn't want just anybody for her boy. She had to be perfect. So she announces in the kingdom, I'm searching for the right wife for my son who will be king, you will be queen in my place, and we're looking for that gal. And man, you know The beauties showed up at the palace and they were interviewed and oh they were lovely and all of this. And there was one little young lady precious young lady who from out in the outskirts of the kingdom had made her way to the palace and she got caught in a rainstorm And by the time she got to the front door of that palace, she was a mess. Her hair was bedraggled, much like mine Her makeup was running, her clothes were wrinkled and soaked and wet. She was a mess. And she knocked on the palace door and they brought her before the Queen Mother and she said, I'm here to to w to see if I could be uh uh the the wife of your son uh the prince. And the Queen Mother looked at her and said, in her heart, I said, I don't think you qualify, but you made the trip. We'll we'll test you. And so, unbeknownst to the young lady, she said, You go get cleaned up. We're going to put you know, it was late, and you'll sleep here tonight, we'll interview in the morning. And unbeknownst to the young lady, she said to her servants, I want you to go get 15 mattresses. And I want you to stack those mattresses up, and then I want you to get those duvets. that women like but burn us men up in like ten minutes. And I want you to stack ten devays and then a beautiful blanket on top. But before you stack those 15 mattresses and those twelve devets and that one beautiful blanket. I want you to put a P underneath the bottom mattress. A P They do exactly as they're told the young lady goes to bed that night, anxious for what the morning holds and Boy, she comes out and to be honest with you, she doesn't look a whole lot better. And the Queen Mother said, Did you not sleep well? And the young lady's answer was this: no, there was something poking me in the back all night. It was the pee. You say, wait a minute, 15 mattresses, 12 devets, a beautiful blanket, and she feels the pee Yeah, she was a real princess. You say, preacher, does this have a point? Nah, it's just a great story I thought I'd tell you. Yeah, of course it does! You know who we are? We're people that no longer fill the pee. We've become insensitive to sin in our lives We let it lay, we defend it, we excuse it, we coddle it, we compare ourselves to others and say, hey, I may not be perfect, but I'm not a You're right. You're not perfect, and you're right. You're not as bad as somebody else. But can I finish the sentence? But you'll never experience revival. You'll never be all that you could be for the Lord Because you've come to the place where you're insensitive to that which separates. I don't mean we lose our salvation. I don't mean we lose the love of God. I mean that God cannot bless us as he once when we walk around with defended and excused and accepted sin in our lives. I may look great on the outside, but if I'm holding that thing inside David says God. Not worth holding that thing. Father, all these people have said these things. I maybe they're there. I don't know that they're not there But God, you're with me. You know my thoughts. You know my heart. You've seen me. You go everywhere with me. So God, will you do what I cannot do? Will you please search me? God, I know you know is there, but will you show me my own heart? Will you reveal to me why I am the way I am? And then God, where where my thoughts are different than yours, I don't want that wicked way in my life Will you expose that to me and then God, please will you lead me in a right way? Will you help me in the smallest matters of my life? Well, preacher, you can say all this and you can preach like that, but man alive, the little things I have in my life, stop it. Stop it. They're not little things to God. Well, you think I need to be perfect? Well, that's what he tells us to be. We'll never make it till we get to heaven, but we ought to be working on it every day. Holiness ought to matter to us I'm just saying to you. Preacher scheduled a revival meeting, and he is sincere in his desire for revival in his life and this church. I know that you're not just talking about it. You're serious about it. But I'm telling you, if we're serious about it, then we've got to deal with serious stuff. And we can't just come in and get fluffy messages that say, Well, it's okay if you're a little bit bad It's okay if you hang on to your cussing. It's all right if you just keep that one little lustful swat right back there. Just, you know, just nobody knows. Well, it's okay if you don't love your wife, you know, in every way like you say that's okay if you blow up and blow everybody out of the water, because you say you're sorry later I'll get off. How does God send revival? That's our attitude. Hey, you say, is there a day you're perfect preacher? Not one! I'm not talking about sin in life. I confess every morning. I confess when I sin through the day. And I have a purposeful time of meditation at night where I say, God, don't let me pill on my head if I missed one And I blow it every day. I'm not talking about being perfect. I'm talking about caring about it. And I'm talking about not being willing to walk as if we were revived, if we're not To say, Lord, here it is. God, will you look at it for me? And God, will you show me where I'm kind of defending things I shouldn't be defending? And then God, will you help me? Will you lead me in the right way instead of leaving me to go the wrong way? I'll tell you, when we get hearts that are willing for God, we're willing for God to touch them, that's the heart God can revive. And by the way, That's why we're not seeing a lot of revival in our generation. Because we want to be told we're okay. Well, I don't know if I'm coming back tomorrow night, preacher. I'm kind of I don't kind of like being taught that like this. Well come back. It'll be a little worse tomorrow night Let's just tell ourselves the truth. We need his help. Search me. Try me. Know my thoughts. Well, if there's a thought that's divided from yours, that's wickedness. I don't want to go my own way. God, would you lead me? That heart, God, can revive. Would you pray with me? Father, there's a sinful man who preached this message tonight. Lord, I don't want to play games. I don't want to check boxes I don't want to act like I'm doing this thing if it's not real in my heart And this imperfect, sinful man who preached this message on sin will go home tonight back to a hotel room. Too old to get on my knees, but I promise you I'll sit in the chair by the side of my bed and I'll say, Oh God. Help me, know me, show me God, if I'm going away, if I'm thinking things that aren't what you want me to think, deal with me and help me Because God, I do want the power of your Holy Spirit. God, I do want your favor on my life. God, I want your favor on my family. I want your favor on my church and on my pastor. And God, I don't want to be the roadblock. I don't want to be the hindrance. I don't want to be the stubborn man who thinks he's good enough. Who spends more time seeing the faults of others than he's willing to take a look at himself? So, God, here's my heart. Would you take a look at it tonight? God, would you reveal it to me? Would you show me where I need to change and how I need to change my thinking? And then Holy Spirit help me go right. If that's your heart tonight, would you just ask God for help? Lord, would you look at my heart? Let's stand to our feet quietly, the preaching's done.