If you would, look with me, First Corinthians chapter one, look with me if you would, at verse number eighteen. The Bible says, for the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness. But unto us which are saved, it is the power of God. Preaching of the cross. If you would come down to verse number 23. This is our text verse. This is our memory verse for the month, and it's our text for the message this morning. It says, But we preach Christ crucified, unto the Jews a stumbling block, and unto the Greeks foolishness. I have for a number of years now, quite a few years, we've tried to choose a theme for our year, just kind of keep our focus. keep our minds set on a specific subject or truth from Scripture. And I pray over these. I pray earnestly back about about July, August, I start praying, ask the Lord to lead what would be a good theme for our church last year was worship the Lord. I think a couple years ago it was maybe today. We were looking forward, emphasizing the return of Christ. We emphasize the word of God, standing on the promises. We had one year was our theme. This year, our theme for Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is we preach Christ and Him crucified. And I just want, my whole thought behind this theme is just getting us back and staying focused on the Lord Jesus Christ. Our motto for our church, and we adopted this back in nineteen ninety-three when I came, we was living in Colorado in a youth ministry and Bible time ministry out there. Saw the Lord was leading us here, and um I asked the Lord to give me something. The Lord laid on my heart Hebrews chapter 12. Where it says, looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith. And that's been our motto here for all these many years now, going on 33 years. Looking unto Jesus. Looking unto Jesus. And this year we're just emphasizing we preach Christ. We preach Christ. Let's pray. And I'll try and share some thoughts here this morning. Father in heaven, I thank you for the Word of God. And Lord, as we look into your word, we see one message stands out from your word above all other truths given us. All the information you've given us in your word, Lord, we see one man. One person stands above all the others all the way through. That's the Lord Jesus Christ. And I ask, as pastor of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, and as a member of this church I ask, Lord, that you would help us in the next 12 months to preach the Lord Jesus Christ, not just from the pulpit. But in our classrooms, in our fellowships, in our communities, in our homes, in our individual lives, to proclaim the Lord Jesus Christ and Him crucified. I yield myself to you now. I pray that you would take me and fill me with your Holy Spirit, guide my mind, my thinking as I preach. I ask, Lord, that you would be the preacher and that your Spirit would speak through me and touch our hearts and challenge us, encourage us this morning. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. The book of Corinthians, I'd like to try to give a little background on the passage that we're preaching from. The book of Corinthians was penned by the Apostle Paul. He had started the church about 50 A. D. , which would have been about 20 years after the Lord Jesus Christ ascended. In that 20-year time, Paul had persecuted the church intensely. And of course, as we know from Acts chapter 9, the Lord appeared to him on the Damascus Road And uh Paul turned to the Lord Jesus Christ, trusted him as his Savior. He was dramatically transformed. Instantly, God changed his life And he became a great preacher of the Word of God. In fact, God used him to pen, record, huge portion of the New Testament. He would go, he went on three missionary journeys that are recorded in the book of Acts. And he would go on these trips out of the church at Antioch there, the church that was established in the city of Antioch would send him out uh him and Barnabas and p then later Saul, uh Silas, I should say, they'd send them out on these missionary journeys and they'd go into regions where there was Christ had not been preached. There was no gospel preached. They'd come into communities and the cities. And they'd first their their method was first they'd go to the synagogues and they would have an open door there and they would go to the Old Testament and they'd show those Jews in the synagogues. How that Jesus Christ fulfilled the requirements of Messiah, fulfilled the prophecies of Messiah, that he was indeed the Savior. Who had come and gave his life to die for their sins and our sins and the sins of the world, was buried, rose again, and then he was coming back again. Most of the times the Jews in their synagogues rejected the message. They pushed him out. He'd go out into the communities among what they would refer to as the Gentiles, the non-Jewish. He preached Christ And people got saved. And he had established a church and organized it there under the leadership of God and under the power of the Holy Spirit. He's established that church. Then he'd move on to another community And he did this over and over and over and over, all across that whole region. Well, the church at Corinth was started by the Apostle Paul. On his second missionary journey. He had come into that city, primarily Gentiles, and a lot of paganism and false worship there. And he uh confronted them with the message of Christ. He stood boldly for the gospel, and he would proclaim it and preach that Jesus was the Savior, He was God, become flesh, he died for Our sins was buried, rose again, he's coming again. And a handful of people believed. They got saved, they got baptized. And they have organized into a church and they established this church. Years went by. Paul moved on. He spent some time there, got them up and running. He moved on to other cities, other areas. Four years went by. Four years. He got a message. He got two messages back from that church there in the city of Corinth, that Greek church, that Greek city of Corinth. He got two messages back 1. If you would look in verse 11 of chapter 1. Here he references this person that sent him a message, giving him some information about the church. Look at verse 11 of chapter 1. He says, For it hath been declared unto me of you, my brethren. by them which are of the house of Chloe. And we don't know anything about Chloe or their house. We know nothing about them other than they knew the Lord as Savior. They'd been baptized. They were a member of this church there at Corinth. And they were very concerned about the spiritual well-being of the church. They were burdened. There were issues. And they contacted Paul. Notice what he says. It's been declared unto me of you, my brethren, by them which are of the house of Chloe, that there are contentions among you. There's a lot of fussing going on in that church. Four years had gone by since Paul was there, and I don't can't say definitely what the exact reason why the church had deteriorated so, so rapidly. Dr. Lee Robertson used to say everything rises and falls on leadership. Perhaps the pastor leadership was at fault. Maybe they were negligent. There was tremendous influence from the pagan society they were around that had gotten into the church. If you study the book, you can see that very clearly. But nevertheless, this household of Chloe was burdened, and they wrote to Paul. They said, Paul, there's contentions in the church you've started here. There's fussing and division. And then he had also gotten a letter from the church itself had written to him. This is four years after he left, after he started church. He's out starting other churches, going all around preaching the gospel, and they contact him. Look at chapter 7, if you would, verse number 1. We find out that the church itself, under whoever the leadership was Had penned a letter to the Apostle Paul concerned about some issues. Chapter 7, verse 1. He says, Now concerning the things whereof ye wrote unto me And he goes down, and they had apparently had asked him about some issues about marriage, about intimacy between men and women. About fornication, adultery, and these types of sins, these sensual sins that had just gotten in the church and were just eating the church up Rotting from the inside. The church was concerned, and they wrote to Paul. This church was a mess. This church was in Desperate need of revival. By study, we study the book, and we worked our way verse by verse through this in Sunday school a number of years ago. You study the book of Corinthians very carefully, you find a church that is eat up with pride. They were the Katz Meow. Boy, they had all the answers. They knew how it was. They knew the way it ought to be. And they were eaten up with pride. Now let me just throw this out. Pride is the enemy of any church. Pride is the enemy of Christianity. You say, well, the devil's main tool is pride. If Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church starts getting proud of ourselves, we're in big trouble. My Bible says God resisteth the proud, but he giveth grace unto the what? Humble. Our our our our chief endeavor ought to be to maintain humility before the god before God and before one another. So the church at Corinth is eaten up with pride. You can't help but see that as you read through what Paul is addressing. They're eaten up with self-will. Well, I wanted it my way. Their prayer was not like the Lord Jesus' prayer. Jesus prayed, not my will, but thy will be done. Their prayer was, not thy will, my will be done. Church at Corinth, proud, self-willed. Church was eat up with sin. Again, if you study through this book, you become appalled. At the sin that they not only tolerated, in some cases they celebrated. Vile. Even sins that Paul says even the unsaved would be ashamed of. And yet God's people, the people that made up the church of Christ, were celebrating it, indulging it, engaging in it. The church, as I said, was in desperate need of repentance and revival. So Paul writes them That's what the book of 1 Corinthians is. Paul writes back, responds to this household of Chloe, their concerns about the division. He writes back in response to the letter he got from the church about immorality that was going on in the church and in the lives of the members And he addresses these and a number of other issues. It's a lengthy book in the New Testament, 16 chapters. And he goes through very methodically And he addresses the issues that were plaguing this church, serious, uh uh awful issues And he gives a scriptural, bold, fearless answer. He confronts them. He rebukes them. He instructs them. He encourages them. And lo and behold, The church repents, and the church humbles themselves And the church, as we read 2 Corinthians, the next letter he sends, sometimes later, after he had sent 1 Corinthians, they got it. They came under conviction, evidently They humbled themselves, they repented of their sin, and revival came to the church. And Paul writes a follow-up letter, 2 Corinthians, addressing that. Maybe folks might not look at it this way, but I kind of look at 1 Corinthians as a manual on revival. How to address sin in my life. What sin is, what dangers there are to the church, and how to respond to it. 1 Corinthians is a powerful, powerful book. Written to a church that was in an absolute disaster situation, condition. And yet they responded in faith, in humility, and God restored them. Now I don't know what that does for you, but that brings hope to my heart that if I'll humble myself before God, trust Him, do what He says, God can bless me, God can help me, and God can make me what I ought to be. Corinthians. Paul writes to them. They humble themselves, they repent, they make things right. They make things right with God. The church does as a whole. They make things right with God. They make things right with one another. They mend wounds and restore relationships They choose to love each other and to forgive and encourage and help and be a blessing. Now, if you notice in chapter 2, verse 1 and 5, Paul does something before he addresses really to any detail before he addresses any of their issues, he makes a statement here in chapter 2. Look with me at verse number 1. And he's referring back to when he first showed up in the city. He's going back to when at this point in verse number one, none of the people that made up this church were saved. They were in paganism, they were in wickedness, they were in idolatry, unsaved, without God, without hope in the world. And he says in verse 1, he says, I, brethren, when I came unto you, when I first showed up, I came not with excellency of speech or wisdom Declaring unto you the testimony of God. He said, I didn't come with a lot of philosophy and theories and opinions and ideas I came to tell you about God. And he says, verse 2, for I determine not to know anything among you. Now look at this. Say Jesus Christ. And him crucified. And I was with you in weakness and in fear and in much trembling. And my speech and my preaching was not with enticing words of man's wisdom But in demonstration of the Spirit and of power, that your faith should not stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God. I think what Paul is doing before he goes and addresses in in any specificity specificity in any specific way Before he deals with any of the issues, he it's like he's saying this. This is the way I this is the way I see it. He's saying, wait a minute, I want you to go back in your mind to remember what I first when I first showed up, and I want you to remember what my message was. How this whole thing got started. Wherever you're at, you're in a mess. You're in a muddy pit of sin and pride But I want to bring you back how this whole thing got started. And he said, here's how it started. I showed up and I did one thing and one thing only. I preached Christ in the power of the Holy Ghost. That's how you got saved. And that's how your lives were changed. And that's how you got eternal life. And that's how this church was established and grounded. In the preaching of Jesus Christ. And then from there, he goes, All right, now let's fix things. Let's make these things right. But we need to remember where we started and what this is all about. We preached Christ. We preached Christ. Um He's pointing out, I believe he's pointing out here, that Christianity, biblical Christianity, is Jesus Christ. You remove Jesus Christ from your Christianity and you no longer have biblical Christianity. You can call it whatever you want. You can call it a Christian church, but if Jesus Christ is not the head and the center and the message of that church It is not a biblical Christian church. Christianity is Christ. Salvation is Jesus Christ. Jesus showed up and Simon in the temple said, Mine eyes have seen the salvation of the Lord, looking at the little baby, Jesus Christ. Salvation is Christ. It's not the church. It's not the preacher. It's not the baptistry. It's not the ordinances. It's Jesus Christ. If you remove Jesus Christ, if your salvation is based upon anything other than the death, burial, and resurrection of the person Jesus Christ, you do not have salvation. It's Christ, and Christ alone, is our salvation, is our hope. That's our message. Paul said, that's all I had. I preached Christ. I preached Christ. Not philosophies, not ideas, not theories. Christ and Christ alone. And the power of the Holy Ghost. And so he's telling them Christianity is Christ. It's Jesus Christ who saves us. It's Jesus Christ who keeps us saved. I didn't save myself. I can't keep myself saved. Jesus Christ is the one that saves me. We were kept by the power of God in the person and presence of Jesus Christ. It's Jesus Christ, Jesus Christ, Jesus Christ. It's Jesus Christ that enables me to live for God. I can't listen, we can't brag about how great a Christian we are. Don't go and brag about What a super great Christian you are, how strong you are in the Lord, and and what a great fine example of Christianity. Listen, I can't brag on any of that, because anything in my life that pleases God is a result of Jesus Christ. Paul said, for I am crucified with Christ, nevertheless I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. He's saying Christ is the one that lives this life. It's not something I'm working up. It's not some ability I have. It's not my It's not my determination. I'm going to live No, no, no, no, no. I die. In my flesh, so I'm no good thing. I'm the oh wretched man that I am. I'm nothing. But Christ is all in all If anything good in Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, anything that we have done that pleases God, we thank God that we can have a part of it, but it's because of Jesus Christ. Christianity is Christ. The Christian life is Christ. We can't brag about I can't, you know, uh uh nobody can brag about what a great preacher they are, what a great soul winner they are, what a great teacher they are, what a great worker they are, what a great Christian they are. We can brag on one person and one person only, Jesus Christ. Christ. Christianity is Christ. It's Jesus Christ who revives us when we get dull in our Christian life. We gotta start finding ourselves going through the motions. We get in a rut, and it's just uh just routine, our walk with God and going to church and singing hymns and having our ba daily devotions and it all just becomes routine. It just becomes a rut And I found one thing happens. When I allow my walk with God to just become routine, my walk with God starts to fade away. My personal devotions become just routine, and routine devotions are better than no devotions, but when they just become routine, one thing I found is they start dropping off And my faithfulness to church starts to drop off. When I lose that enthusiasm, when I lose that love, when I lose that first love and that that uh zeal for God and that enjoyment of his presence and it just becomes routine and it's Jesus Christ that can revive me It's not some evangelist we bring in. I try, I'm telling you, I try my best to bring some of the best preachers I know in through our pulpit, in our church. And we've had some great, great men of God come through and preach. But I'm here to tell you not one of them can revive a dull Christian life. Only Jesus Christ can do that. He revives us when we're dull. He rebukes us when we're wrong. He restores us when we sin. I tell you, the devil is such a devil He is so s he is so slick. He's got billions, millions, maybe billions of people around the world when they sin. And he'll redirect them, he'll deflect them. And not come to Jesus Christ for forgiveness of sins, not come to the cross for the cleansing of sin, the cross of Christ. He'll get to go to some little confessional and uh some quote unquote priest will sit behind the window and Father I have sinned and confess our sins to a man. I'm here to tell you that guy behind the window can't forgive your sins any more than a Canadian goose on that pond back there can. Amen or not? It's Jesus Christ that can forgive me when I fail him. Tis blood that cleanses the sin that creeps in my life as a Christian, as a believer, and it drags me down and it breaks my fellowship. But I come to Christ. I confess and humble myself, and Jesus Christ forgives me. I can't forgive your sin. Sometimes people come Listen, you know, I don't want to know what your sin is. God bless you. I got enough of my own I'm dealing with. Now, sometimes people come, can you help me? And I can try and show from Scripture how to address it, how to come to Christ, how to deal with it somewhat. But I can't forgive your sin, neither can anybody else Christ and Christ alone. Christ and Christ alone. What's the message out at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church? What's their message? I'll tell you what our message is. We preach Christ. Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. Christianity is Christ. That's what Paul's telling them. Now we come to his statement here in verse number 23, verse 18 and 23, kind of Says the same thing. He repeats himself a little bit. And I want to give you some real quick observations I made from these two verses about preaching Christ. And Christ crucified. Number one, I want us to notice the preaching of the cross, as he says in verse 18, for the preaching of the cross, verse 23, but we preach Christ. I noticed first of all the preaching of Christ, the preaching of his cross. I got looking up the word preach, as I enjoy doing, and The word it comes from, how it's used, it's actually used five or six times right here in this part of the scriptures. Used throughout the New Testament quite a bit, book of Acts. So I got to look at how it's used and the word it comes from. And it has this idea, and I and I like this definition I kind of put together. To preach means to proclaim a truth or proclaim some information. And here's the one idea that came as I studied In uh f it's to it's to proclaim formally a formal proclamation Now, what does that mean? I notice later on in the 2 Corinthians, Paul's second letter to the church, he says, he refers to them, he says, we are his ambassadors. Now, what does an ambassador do? An ambassador resides in a country where he is not a citizen Not a citizen, and he represents the country that he is a citizen of. And he communicates to that country the policies, the position of his country where he's a citizen. You follow so far? It is a formal position. And he pronounces to the ambassador, let's say, just to Spain He pronounces to the nation of Spain, this is the policy and position of the United States of America. And God says that you and I, not just the preacher, believers, we are ambassadors. Of a nation, a country that we are here in a nation, a country that we are not citizens of Now we have dual citizenship in extent, but I'm telling you, our kingdom, the kingdom of God, supersedes all kingdoms of men, as great as they may be. The kingdom of God transcends all of man's kingdoms. And you and I, as believers, are ambassadors. And we are to proclaim formally to this world we live in, Jesus Christ and Him crucified. And so the word preach means to have a formal proclamation. It has the idea of authority behind it. When we preach Christ, when we proclaim the Lord Jesus Christ that He died for us, was buried, rose again, He's coming back. When we proclaim that, we are proclaiming the message of heaven, and it's to be done with authority. Jesus Christ, the Savior of the world. And so preaching has the idea of formality, it has the idea of authority. One of the definitions used this term to proclaim with gravity. Now, what does that mean? It means soberly, earnestly. It's not a joke It's not a myth. It's not something to be taken lightly. The fact that Jesus Christ is God Almighty, come down in the form of a man. And gave himself as the sinless Son of God to die for the sins of all of mankind, be buried and rose again. That is not a joke. That is not something to be taken lightly. That is to be preached soberly, seriously, with authority. Whether it's from the pulpit or it's on a street corner or it's on someone's doorstep or it's in front of a crowd on a bus or it's in a Sunday school class, a children's church. Doesn't matter where it is, when Christ is preached, he's preached with authority and with seriousness. Amen? That's what Paul's saying. The preaching of Christ Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church ought to preach Christ. Notice, if you notice there, he doesn't say, but we discussed Christ. Well, let's just sit down and discuss whether Jesus Christ is really who he claimed to be or not. You never find Paul doing that Brother, he stands up. Jesus Christ is God Almighty, the Son of God. Wasn't there discussion involved? He doesn't say we debate Christ. He says, we preach Christ, we preach Christ, proclaiming with authority the truth of the Lord Jesus Christ We don't discuss it. We don't do it. Now that's not to say people have questions. We can answer questions and stuff like that. But listen, it's not up for discussion as to whether Jesus Christ is the only way of salvation or not. It's not up for discussion whether Jesus died on the cross, was buried, whether he rose again or not. That's not up for discussion. It's established, we proclaim it. We preach it. We preach it. On street corners, on bus routes, on pulpits, and Sunday school classes, wherever man may be. We preach and proclaim Jesus Christ. So I notice here the preaching of Christ. Notice he says there in verse 23. This word caught my attention while I was studying this. He says, but notice he doesn't say, he doesn't say I preach Christ. He says what? We preach Christ. Why did he use the term we Because he wasn't the only one preaching Christ. Everybody was. All the believers were. We preach Christ. The whole body of Christ was preaching Christ. All the members, all the deacons. All the choir members, all the Sunday school teachers, all the bus workers, all the nursery workers, all the trustees, all the cleaning crew, all the everybody. Was preaching Christ. Preaching Christ. Counselors at the altar, preach Christ. Soul winners out on the streets, preach Christ Choir members, every member, every member, preaching Christ, preaching Christ. Keep your place here if you everybody doing alright? Everybody out there? How's the new year going so far? Good? Good. Come with me if you would. Go to Acts chapter number eight. Acts chapter eight. Brother, read the book of Acts. They preach Christ everywhere. Just preaching, preaching Jesus. Jesus, Jesus. That's all they were about. Jesus. That's all it was. Jesus. Chapter 8. Because of that, and if we get time, we'll get to this. There was a lot of opposition And they started getting persecuted pretty severely, thrown in jail. Some of them were being killed, a lot of them being beaten. No other reason than their preaching Christ. Look at verse 4. Therefore, they that were scattered abroad, now that's the whole church, they're running for their lives. They're scattered because of persecution. Therefore, they that were scattered abroad went everywhere, look at this, preaching the word. Now what is the word? The Bible. What is Jesus? He is the word of God. You study Acts carefully. They went everywhere preaching Jesus, preaching Jesus. The whole church did When they assembled together, they sung Jesus Christ. They preached Jesus Christ. When they left the assembly, went out, and persecution, they went everywhere, preaching Christ, preaching the word, preaching the word, everywhere. I was visiting down, this was a number of years ago, maybe ten or so, I don't know, it's been a while. Anybody older you get, time just seems to just blend together. And so it's been if I say recently, that could be up to twenty years ago, all right. But I was over here in Mount Lake Park, just going door to door, just knocking, different houses go up, knock doors, introduce myself, invite him to church. You know, try and talk to him about the Lord if I can. So I was on the other side of 135, down in Mount Lake Park, down by the train tracks, if you're familiar down in there. So I was just going knocking door This guy comes to her, young fellow, probably in his twenties, mid-twenties, I would guess. There's sever several other people in the there's like a duplex area, there's several other people And Mr. Came and said, hi, I'm Pastor Leatherman from the Mount Lake Baptist Church, and I just want to, and I got that far. And he says, I've heard of you. He said, I've heard of your church. He goes, I know what you do. I said, I know what you guys do out of that church. I said, What's that? You guys preach the Bible, try and get everybody saved and baptized. I said, well yeah, pretty much sums it up. That's what we're about. You know what he was saying? That was one of the greatest compliments I've had since I've been here You know what he's saying? He's saying we preach Christ. We preach Christ. I was visiting a fellow, it's actually from another church, asked me to visit one of his family members. that wa that he thought might be unsaid, he wasn't sure. And he asked if I'd go by and visit him. He was way out towards Matiki, out that way somewhere. I mean back in there So I found the mailbox and there's a driveway about thirty-nine miles long way back in there. I'm winding around, come up to a house and come in there. The fellow was very sick and was pr what prompted him, asked me to go by and talk to him about the Lord. And I knocked on the door and they said, oh, they said, before I could even say it, they said, oh, Brother Leatherman, Pastor Leatherman, come on in. And I said, okay. And they came in and we talked a little bit and the wife The fellow was pretty sick, he stayed seated. The wife said, Listen, Pastor Leatherman, I know why you're here. We're already saved. We're just we we already know the Lord. We know that's why you came by to make sure we were saved I said, well, actually that's why I came by. You know what she was saying? We know about it. You guys preach Christ. You guys preach Christ. Listen, Ed Wilt came to Oakland, Maryland, in 1962. You know what his message was? Christ. Jesus Christ, the Savior of the world. And here we are, 60 whatever years later, 63 whatever years later. Is it more than that? Sixty. But somewhere twenty years ago something. And we want to keep preaching Christ. Amen. Preaching, preaching, preaching, preaching. It's not a discussion, it's not open debate. We're not going to debate. This is what the Bible. Thus saith the Lord That's our message. Christ. Christ. Number two, I notice here the person of the cross, the preaching of the cross of Christ, the person on this cross. We preach, says verse 22, but we preach Christ. We preach Christ. Crucified. That's our sole message. Jesus died for us. Preaching Christ means preaching his deity. Jesus is God in the flesh. He's the only one ever walked this planet. 100% God, 100% man. Jesus Christ. No one else like him. No one else was born like Christ. No one else died like Christ. No one else suffered like Christ. No one else rose from the dead like Christ. It's God, the deity of Christ, the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. Paul said, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation. The deity of Christ, the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ, the gospel. We preach the definite return of the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus is coming back again. The message of Acts over and over and over. He rose from the dead. He's coming back. He died for us. He was buried. He rose again. He's coming back. And he's going to make all things right. He's going to judge the world. He's going to make all things right. As believers in Jesus Christ, we have every reason in the world, regardless of the heartaches of life and the difficulties of life and the storms of life. We have every reason in the world to hold out hope that someday Jesus coming back again, he's going to make everything right. Christ, Christ, Christ. And so the preaching of the cross of Christ, the person on the cross is the Lord Jesus Christ. Then the problem of the cross. Look with me quickly at verse 23. But we preach Christ crucified Looks like it would be, man, and everybody believes and everybody accepts it and everybody rejoices in the fact That God paid the price for our sins, that we can be forgiven. We can have new life. We can have the presence of God in our lives. We have a home in heaven. We don't have to fear hell. Looks like everybody would be excited about that, but it's not that way There's a problem. Notice what he says. Unto the Jews, a stumbling block. Unto the Greeks, foolishness. Anytime Christ is preached, there will be opposition. The devil will fight it. The world will mock it when we praise Christ Come with me if you would keep your place here just real quickly. I'm bringing this thing around to land it. But come with me if you would to Acts chapter 4. And again, we go back to Acts because they're doing exactly what Paul is saying all through the book of Acts. Acts chapter 4, and notice with me if we would, verse number 18. They're preaching Christ boldly, fearlessly. Effectively, people are getting saved, lives are being changed. And notice, if you would, verse number 18 of Acts chapter 4, it says Well they're taken in. If you go back to the beginning, it says that the Sadducees and Pharisees, priests, the leadership was grieved that they taught the people, verse 2, and preached through Jesus. The resurrection of the dead, so they're upset that they're preaching Christ. And in verse 18, yeah, he kind of elaborates on that. Then in verse 18, it says, And they called them, the leadership of Israel called them the disciples. And commanded them not to speak at all or teach in the name of Jesus. I wrote in the margin of my Bible, Satan's Great Commission. Our Lord's great commission was to go into all the world and preach the gospel. Satan's great commission is: don't you preach in the name of Jesus. I find it interesting here. They didn't have a problem with them preaching. They just had a problem of them preaching Christ. That's what got them. That's what the devil hates. That's what the world rejects. The preaching of Jesus Christ. We can preach and exalt man, the devil will be just fine with that. We could preach and exalt churches and denominations and exalt people and man-made things, and the world would be fine, the devil would be fine. But when we preach Christ, the devils of hell will fight it every ounce of their be Um when we we we have a booth at the fair every year, I thoroughly enjoy that. We set up little, I call them gimmicks, just little things to catch people's attention. One of the little things we put up says, three things God cannot do. I love it when people walk by, they'll look at it and they'll say, oh, God can do anything. I said, oh yeah, look open the little doors, see if I'm right or wrong. And without fail, every time they're done, they'll say, well, yeah, I guess maybe God one of them is God can't let anyone into heaven unless they get saved Right? And we have a big banner we put up, and it has the word I shouldn't tell you this 'cause you come by and I'll spill the secret. But it has the name Jesus, but it's reversed. Not backwards, but Like um exposure. It's reversed. The dark part is light, the letters are light, and the backgrounds are anybody have any clue at all what I'm talking about? Somebody explain this to me. I don't understand. It's like a negative, yeah. And so if you just look at it, you see this jumbled background, you don't make it out. And so one of the things is I get them to stop. If I can just get them to stop and look at that, then I can talk to them a little bit. And I'll ask him, I said, can you tell what that says there? No look at it. And I'll say this is what you need to do. You need to cross your eyes just a little bit. And then I'll tell 'em, I say, Do you see it? No, I don't see it. I'll say, Turn your head sideways a little bit, so and I'll say, stick your tongue out And they don't get it. They can't see it. And then I'll say this. I'll say it is a name that the devil hates. Oh, Jesus. Devil hates the name of Jesus The world rejects it. We preach Christ, power of God, authority of God, power. We're gonna have a minute. I want to talk about the power of that name. But I'll tell you there's a problem comes with it. The world hates it. The world rejects it. Jesus says, and I'm putting this in my own words, so I'm not quoting it directly. But he says, don't be surprised. The world hated me. It's going to hate you. You know what the world's problem is with your faith and my faith? It isn't us, it's what our faith is in. It's Jesus Christ. It's Jesus Christ. You know what we're ashamed of? Well, I hate to say this, but you know what we become ashamed of? Not that we're a church member, not that we're religious. I tell you what we get ashamed of is Jesus We can talk about everything in the world. You can talk about religion. You can talk about church. You can talk about anything in the world. But why is it so hard to bring up the subject? Jesus. The world hates it, the flesh rejects it. But that's our message. That's our message. Problem with the preaching of the cross. The problem of the cross. The Jews are offended by it. The Greeks think it's absurd. Here's a tragedy. This whole world is rejecting their only hope of salvation. They're ridiculing the only way of forgiveness. They're dismissing their only hope of escaping hell. They just dismiss it. Reject it. And then the power of the cross. He says, for we preach Christ And him crucified. Notice verse 18, he says, But unto us which are saved, it is the power of God. The gospel of Jesus Christ is the most powerful truth that has ever been proclaimed. Man can put uh man uh can do many things. Man can set make rockets, he can make computers that boggle our minds. Evan got a watch for Christmas that basically cooks your meals for you and predicts the future. I mean, it's amazing. Man can do a lot of amazing things, but I'll tell you one thing: man will never ever be able to do. Man will never be able to wash away our sins. All the artificial intelligence in the world can never change the sinful nature of man and give us a new nature. All of man's inventions in the world can never keep a soul out of hell. But Jesus Christ can. Jesus Christ can. He can change our life. He can lead us. He can help us deal with the issues of life. I put a list of things down. He has power to cleanse a guilty conscience. He has power to make a drunkard sober. He can make a liar honest. He can make a fornicator pure. He can give hope in the darkest hours. He can melt the hardest heart. My wife and I were talking the other day talking about people getting saved in different situations and There's not a sinner in the world. I don't care the depths of sin they've gone into There's not a sinner in the world that Jesus Christ doesn't have the power to forgive and save and change their life. There's no heart so hard Jesus Christ can't meld it and humble it and come to Christ. There's no problem you and I are facing. There's no circumstance so overwhelming. That Jesus Christ and the person of the Holy Spirit of us can't strengthen us and help us deal with it. We preach Christ We preach Christ and Him crucified. We're not the biggest church in Garrett County. We're not the richest church in Garrett County. We're not the most popular church in Garrett County. I put this one down. We're not maybe we're not the smartest church in Garrett County. Everything rise falls on leadership, right? But I tell you what, we do have the most powerful message this world has ever known. We might not be the biggest, the best, or the most of anything, but I'm telling you, we got something this world can never produce, and that is Jesus Christ. And that's our message. That's our message. I don't know why I thought of this guy. Several years ago was we were voting, it was a primaries, I think. And we were down voting, my wife and I went down voting, we were coming out, and there was a fellow there and he came over, and I didn't recognize him at first. And he came over and started talking to me. Pastor Lemon's talking to Leonard then I remembered who he was And he said, I need to tell you something. I said, okay. He goes, I listen to your services every Sunday morning early. He actually goes to another church. He told me. He said, I listen to you guys, whether online or the radio, I'm not sure what he meant. But he said about a year and a half ago, this was a number of years ago, about twenty years ago maybe. It wasn't that long, but he said uh he said about a year and a half ago, when he was talking to me, he said about a year and a half ago, I was listening to you, and he said, I accepted Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. I said, I'm glad to hear that. I said, oh yeah, so listen to you online. I get up in the morning, I listen to you, then I go to my church. And um He said, and God saved me. And he said, my life is completely different. And he didn't say it this way, but we sing it with the kids. He basically said to me, the things I used to say, I don't say them anymore. The place I used to go, I don't go, I don't want to. He said, God changed me. I'm so different. My wife comments, how different? He said, God did that. And then he made this statement. He said Trusting Jesus as my Savior has affected me physically. I don't put things in my body I used to that were harmful. He said, my behavior is different. He said, it actually affected me physically, how I behave physically I tell you what that is. That's the power in the name of Jesus Christ. It's not any man, it's not any program, it's Christ. Here's our statement, the first Sunday of 2026. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we preach Christ. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd help us to keep our eyes on Jesus. Lord, help us to bring all our problems, all our burdens, all our needs to Jesus Christ. Lord teach us to preach Christ, to live Christ, to share Christ, to trust Christ. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if any of this morning would say, Preacher, I know I'm saved. I trust in Christ as Savior. I have some burdens in my life. I have some needs. I need Jesus to help me. Maybe nobody in the world can, but I believe he can. This morning you say, preacher, pray with me that I'll trust Jesus. To help me and lead me and guide me. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you, hands all cross the auditorium. We need Christ I wonder if there's some, now this is between you and God, so I'm not going to ask you to respond to this physically, but in your heart, you have a guilty conscience. Something has crept in, you've messed up, you've slipped. You're carrying a guilty conscience. And this morning I say to you, you bring that guilty conscience to Jesus. He'll take it away. He'll cleanse it. He'll change it. If you know the Lord is Savior, you confess that, you bring it to Christ, He'll correct it. I wonder if there's some this morning say, Preacher, I know someone that's not saved, and it just looks like I don't see how in the world they'd ever come to Christ. But I'm not going to discount the power of Jesus Christ. You say, preacher, pray with me that I'll see that friend, that loved one saved. Is there any like that? I'm going to trust God. I'm going to trust that name Jesus that He can save him. God bless you. Hands all around. We've got to do our part. Pray Be a good testimony, share Christ, live right, but God will do it. God will do it. One last question. Is there someone here this morning to say, preacher, I don't know for sure that my sins are forgiven, that when I die I go to heaven, not to hell. You say, preacher, I've got to get that settled. I need to know that my sins are forgiven. That God accepts me in Christ. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. I've never trusted Christ. I need that settled. God bless you. Now, Father in heaven, I ask you bless the invitation in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together