And I want us to go in our Bibles with me, please. And uh we're going to be in two places. We're going to start in Philippians chapter 3. That's one of my favorite books in the Bible. And I want you to understand, missions giving, faith promise giving, grace giving, it's a commitment that's made to God, not the pastor. Not to the deacons, not to the missionary. Alright? It's of the church, in the church, and through the church. God's already laid that out. Number two, it's a commitment to be carried out through the year You'll find all these answers. The first one's 2 Corinthians 9. 7. This one here be carried out through the years. 2 Corinthians 8, verse 10 and 11 Number three, it's a commitment to be given above our tithes. All right. It's a different ministry than the bus ministry. It's a different ministry than the youth ministry. I want you to understand, the Great Commission tells us what to do when it comes to reaching the world. Preach and teach the gospel to every creature. Baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, and teaching them whatsoever I commanded you, that that's what we're what we're supposed to do. Now where are we supposed to do that? Acts chapter 1, verse 8 says, Go where sorry to Jerusalem. Samaria or Judea, Samaria, and then to the uttermost. So he wants us to do it going all over the world, alright? And so he tells us what to do, where to do it, but then how do we get that done? Well, we're in this together. These missionaries are here to get support. They're here to connect with you. You already support me. You connected with me. But we're in this thing together, alright How many of you folks have ever played a volleyball game, a mixed group with guys and girls? Okay? And usually the guys kind of knock the girls down to get them out of the way, and nine times out of ten, the girls are better than the guys. And there's not a lot of teamwork going on, amen. Uh I want you to understand in in our in our church, and what I'm going to preach about tonight. I want you to catch something. I titled this message, we're going to press. Press. P-R-E-S-S. It's used 45 times in the New Testament. Different connotations for it, but this press that I'm talking about tonight, it is where Paul tells us we have to be focused as we run our race together. And you have to press towards the mark. You know, when I see the word press there, and it tells me I'm going to read it to you in just a moment before I get into it, but you've got to understand it is a deliberate Focused, stressful, of pushing oneself relentlessly, watch this, to catch a person To reach a goal, to get there first. Not this kumbaya stuff. It's something that has to be, and why do we run this race together? So Paul talks about things in ministry, and he lays this out here to his church of Philippi. He's telling this what you need to do. You get to the end of this chapter, and you go to chapter 4 of the same book. It's all about missions. I want you to understand that in local church. So let's pick up the story with me, please. Let's start with uh let's go back to verse, uh let's go back to verse 12 Now not that I had already attained, neither were already perfect, but I follow after uh if that I may apprehend for uh that for which I am apprehended of Christ, Jesus. Now you say, what's he saying here? I I'm trying to be like Christ here He's trying to tell that church, I want to be like Christ in this. I want to move forward in it. There's more to it than just coming to hear the preaching. There's more to it than just meeting in the synagogue. Verse 13, he says, His brethren I count not myself to have apprehended, but this one thing I do. Now you've got to catch this. And do not let the devil get in this service tonight. You have to be focused. Forgetting those things which are behind and reaching forth into those things which are before, I press toward the mark For the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. Let us therefore as many as be perfect Stinkin' thinking. That's what he's talking about. Don't you have that stinking thinking? These missionaries aren't about your money They aren't about your prayers. They're not here to get you to connect with you. They're here to serve the Lord and God puts you in the line of things and how to take care of them. And I want you to understand, he says, I'm going to press towards that mark. And as many as be perfect, be thus minded, and if any if if in in anything ye be otherwise minded Now you better better think up on this. That's what he's telling them. If you've got anything else on your mind about this, God shall reveal even this unto you. He'll straighten your thinking out. Amen. I want you to I I didn't write this. I'm just a newspaper boy delivering it. We'll get into the message. Verse 16 Nevertheless, whereto we have already attained, let us walk by the same rule, let us mind the same thing. Brethren, hey church, be followers together of who? Paul says, me. Now he's not being arrogant. He's not being boastful. He said, I'm living what I'm preaching You need to follow that. And mark them which walk so as ye have us for an example. Ooh. Mark them. I want us to keep on verse 14 and 13. I press towards the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. I press towards the mark. Today, as we gather, I want to reflect on this powerful message articulated by Paul in this letter under the direction of the Holy Spirit. This is a profound statement, and I want you to understand something. It encapsulates It captures Paul's determination to do what God put in his heart, but he also is focusing this determination and purpose of the local church to get his job done. Amen. I want you to catch this Paul needed them. He had to have more going on than just making tents. And he wasn't thinking small time just in in Jerusalem. He wasn't thinking just as uh Judea or Samaria. He he's thinking way out there, and he's thinking in the future. The Holy Spirit of God is directing Now I want you to understand what does it mean to press towards the mark. Now can I stop over here? How many of you folks have ever ran a race? Not drive a car, but ran one. High school track? You did track? Okay, I did two. I did the hundred. I did the two twenty, I did the four hundred, and uh I I tried the hurdles but I was worthless as teeth on chicken 'cause I was too short, you know. And uh uh but I pretty good at hundred. I could get her done about ten one, ten two and And uh the 220 and my twin and I get about 2122. But that 440 was my race, you see. My best time ever, I got her down to 51. 8. Man And that's pretty quick for a little short uh little sword white guy, amen, and uh had to run from my dad a lot, eh? I'm just saying, okay My first track meet when I had worked out a little bit and I was pretty quick and there was eight of us going to run this race and a little guy beside me and and uh gets in his blocks and I get in my blocks, the gun goes off and we take off down that track and we're doing a four hundred and I'm running just as hard as I can, you know, and And and uh uh like a my hair was flying in the wind when I had hair, amen. And I'm just going like that, you know, and and uh and I'm just running as hard as I could, you know, and and then I I saw this guy come up beside me and start laughing. And I'd never been taught how to run. I just ran. And I was just a freshman. And I'm running as hard as I could. He by me. And he beat me from here to the sound of. And he turned around. You're with the big boys now. And uh, oh, I was mad. He beat me. He laughed at me. About a half hour later, a preacher knows this. I went up to the parking lot going to get something out of the car and so I went behind a bus, he's sitting back there smoking a cigarette and drinking a a Budweiser between races. He wasn't but sixteen years old. And uh these cigarettes give me power. You know, maybe you'll learn how to run it. You want one? I said, no, I don't want one. And I wasn't saved yet. I'm going, I'm going to get to you. Enjoy those cigarettes while you can. Enjoy that liquor while you can. Boy the next week I'm running with the cows and I'm running up and down the hill and I'm working out and we didn't have backpacks in those days and We just uh uh put a feed sack on our back and fill it full of seed and run up and down the hill, my twin and I, we both lost our races and uh we're running and our and our and our Listen boys, you got you're fast. You just don't know how to run the race yet. Well what do you mean? Well you've got to run the first half of the race as fast as you can. And you've got to be smart. You've got to set them up. Well, what's the last half-life? You run it as hard as you can. And you better have some steam left in that engine. You don't hold back You get them the last 220 yards. You don't care how you land, you just want to get across that finish line first. We'll pick you up after the fact. You will not die. Now how many of you folks have ran races and you thought you were going to die? And you got to the finish line and you died a couple of times, but you're here. You know I bought into what that old coach was telling me. He's still coaching today. I bought into that guy, bought into it, and the other guy brought into it. There's four of us that bought into it. Next time I raced that guy, I was in shape. That gun went off, and I'm running that first thing as hard as as best I can. I'm being smart, going as fast as I can. I get about ten yards on the other side of the hat and what they what that's the term we use, kick it in. Man, I kicked that thing in the gear I didn't know I had. I looked like a Bugs Bunny roadrunner, woof, I was gone. That little guy's trying to catch me. He's trying to catch me. He's trying to he's trying now my dad smoked three packs of cigarettes a day because I knew what this was I got across that finish line. That guy come across about two seconds later and turn around and said, the is for not puffing on cigarettes. Well, it felt good to win. Amen. Now how many are smart? How many are smart? Well, I don't even want to get in the race. You need to enter the race. You're already supposed to be in it. And you're supposed to learn how to run the race. But that way, don't let it easily beset you. Now, as you run that race, God Almighty is going to speak to you. And He wants you to be part of this missions program. And He wants you to press towards the mark. Now what does that mean to me as a local church? That means he wants you to press to get the gospel out around the world. He's calling you to Spain. Why don't you go to New Guinea? You don't even know where it is. You don't care. God hasn't called you. Your race is what? There. Now you think I'm cold-blooded, but I'm in Papua New Guinea He and he he oh brother long I'm glad you're there. But his heart is where? Spain. And the other guy's heart is is it Paraguay? Where's he at? You know? And uh Morris, his is down there in the DR And mine is what I do here in the States, but also in Papua New Guinea. That's the race that God's given us to run. And there's three things I want to bring out tonight. And and it's very easy, but you have to press towards the mark. You know some people believe they get saved and Learn a little bit about God and join a church and get discipled, just kind of sit comfortable the rest of their lives. That's not what it's about. And number one, here's what I want us to put down. If you want to put something down, you need to make a decision Paul declared, he said, I press towards the mark. But before that, in verse 13, he says, but this one thing I do. Forgetting those things which are behind, reaching forth of those things which are before. Now watch this. He's made a decision. I'm not going to worry about the future. I'm not going to live about in the laurels of my past. I'm going to move forward from right here. And he says, I'm making a conscious, deliberate decision to press forward. In our lives, we will certainly face distractions and obstacles that can easily lead us astray, taking our attention, watch this, off the mark. I'm telling you. I praise God for my wife. I met her in my junior year at Bob Jones University. And uh and uh she's pretty. Uh you want to see a picture of her? I'll show it to you tonight. See to me she's still about 18, 19 You know, and and uh and uh sh I mean she she's a good woman and God took care of me. She's the opposite of me. And when I told her I'm gonna be a youth pastor, she didn't flinch. She said, I know God's called me in the ministry, let's go. You know, and uh good to hear that about Tori. She's gonna do it whether you're gonna do it or not, amen. That's a good thing. And I want you to understand I told this what I want to do is be a pat uh youth pastor, assistant pastor, be a pastor. But I'm going to go wherever God leads me and I'm not going back to the farm. Now I can make money, but I'm not going to be big about money. I want to be big about serving the Lord. She said, let's roll And she had more faith than I did. She was, I hate to say this, she was tougher than me. And every once in a while she said, Don't you think you need to do that just a little harder? Don't you know you need to do that just a little better? You know, when you make a decision to follow God, it's not always easy. And well, I want you to ask this question: what direction are you heading If God asks you to move forward in the missions. Ooh. You know, I I hate to say this, being younger and dumber, it's easier to do Being older and settler. Remember the guy said this, Lord, I'll be your disciple, but I need to go home and bury bury bury one of my parents. What did Jesus let the let the dead bury what? Well I get nobody died yet. That boy was making an excuse. Wait till daddy dies and I get the inheritance, then I'll have enough money to serve Jesus. Now you don't want to that. Hey one guy say hey I married a wife. When I get done with that, I'll No, I don't want that. I mean what did he buy? A yoke of oxen? You know, and he's gonna go out and prove them and it's dark? Are you kidding me? We make excuses when God comes knocking at our doors. You need to make a decision now in your personal life, from no matter who the oldest person is here to the youngest teenager in here. You need to make a decision. Here am I, Lord, send me, but don't ask me till I'm 35 or 40 or 50. No, no, no. Right now. Right now. And then you need to press that. Press towards that. How many's ever had the Holy Spirit deal with you? We all have And he gets after us and he tells us and he directs us. And I'm telling you, and I was at Fairhaven Baptist Church, that's where you met me. I had it made. Did I have it made in the shade with all the lemonade? Good night. I had five secretaries. I I just did stuff and I loved them going twenty-four-seven and then I heard this guy preach about do you love Jesus with your shoes on? An old missionary from Suriname spoke in Dutch. And he got my attention. Well yeah, I love D. Are you willing to take your shoes off? To go where God wants you to go instead of where you want to go. Oh my goodness. And I sat there and listened to that. I got the tape and listened to it again. And God Almighty began to work on my heart. I was happy. Good night. You talk about Chick-fil-A Baptist Church. I I I I mean I had Dunkin' Donuts on both sides of my house I am telling you. And I'm in full-time ministry. But I made a decision when I was younger, made a decision. I will do what God puts in my heart to do. What say you? The Holy Spirit comes knocking. Have you made the decision? I'll do what he wants me to do. Or I'll just sit here and not say anything. Be not deceived. God is not mocked. Whatsoever man soweth as he thinketh, and he out of the heart comes out what the issues of what? Tie it together life. You don't have to go to a bar. You don't have to get in deep sin. You just say, no, Holy Spirit, I know what you want and I know what you want me to do. But I'm going to decide and just kind of can I not make a decision to or not to. I just want to sit here. God have mercy on us That's what our societies, that's what our Baptist, independent Baptist churches are full of today. Sit and wait and hesitate. Then they complain about there's other people that are doing it. Oh, don't be that way. You need to have a thing inside of you, an angst that'll have you pressing towards the mark of the prize. It's not a physical prize. It's not a number of people. It's a piece that passes all understanding in here. Amen. Uh my home church, I was offered it four, five, six years ago. I was offered it ten years ago to consider going there to be the pastor. No, God wanted me in missions, and I said, No way, Jose, I'm gonna do what God wants me to do Uh four years ago another church of over twelve hundred asked, can you come be our pastor? No, I can't do that. Why? Because God has me in missions. I love what I'm doing, but more importantly, I'm not done yet in Papua New Guinea. I'm not done yet in Australia. I don't know why I'm telling you this, but I want you understand. I decided a long time ago, don't keep score, but it doesn't pay not to be honest with God. When it comes to faith promise giving, let's be honest with God. My wife and I, we were poor Job's turkey on third day three with one leg left leaning up against the only post on the property. His buddies had turned against him, his wife had turned against him, he didn't want to say, I mean, we were that low, and God began to work on our hearts not only to tithe, but give to missions. And I'm telling you, we didn't have it, but we trusted God with it. And we I tell you, we haven't looked back, and God has blessed this for over 40 years now. You can never outdo God. Make the decision to trust Him. Number two, when Paul writes this, or he says this to us, I press toward to the mark for the prize of the high calling, Paul is saying you've got to make a decision, and every decision you make is going to take you in a direction. Look with me what it says in verse 12 on our text Not that it says, but I follow after if that I may have apprehend for that which I also am apprehended of Christ Jesus. I'm in Christ, I know what's happening Brethren, I count out myself to have apprehended, but this is one thing I do. I'm going to forget everything else in the past. I'm going to be leaning forward. I'm going to reach forth. I'm going to press forth Towards a mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. You know, I'm a uh At the church here. And Pastor Leatherman, this is his high calling. And Biggie, this is your high calling. And Lions, Spain, is your high calling. And uh the young man back there, it's Paraguay and uh Morris, it's the DR. And yours is right here in this church. I want you to understand when you make a decision to follow God, number two, it's always going to take that decision. To you in a direction. Look what it says. Press towards the mark. It's not an aimless, purposely journey. Press towards the mark. It's a pacific destination. You know, and uh Paul writes the mark that represents the goal, the prize that awaits us. For Paul, the prize is the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. That's where that peace comes. And as we press towards the mark, as we go for the mark, as we look for that thing, we must focus on the ultimate destination. And that's to get people to Jesus. Now, you know, the focus of pressing towards the mark, you gotta have some perseverance. And you gotta have some faith. And that journey sometimes is going to be challenging. And Paul writes in verse 13, this one thing I do. It's amazing stuff. This is one thing I do. And remember, every step taken by faith brings you closer to the fulfillment of God in your life. But some of those steps Can I say this? Are very, very hard. And I've been through some of those steps. And I want to make this statement to all of us in here tonight. Choices have consequences. Amen. You don't have to do this, you don't have to be part of it. When you close, uh chose to do something for the Lord, and the Lord gives you a direction and The Holy Spirit of God speaks to your heart. He wants you to press. He wants you to strive. He wants you to have the mind of Christ in this. And he wants you to get get uh moving forward into it. Let me explain it to you like this. Can you slide in your Bibles to 2 Corinthians chapter 4? Maybe you get a better picture of it. In 2 Corinthians chapter 4 More pressing towards the mark, look what it says in verse 1. Therefore, seeing we have this ministry. As we have received mercy, we faint not. Translated, we're going to press. God's given us a ministry So we're going to press in this ministry. Look what it says in verse 5. It makes this statement. For we preach not ourselves but Christ Jesus the Lord, and ourselves our servants for Jesus' sake, for God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, had shined in our hearts to give light to the world, uh give uh light to uh uh of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ But we have this treasure in earthling vessels. It's inside you. This thing that I'm talking about. And Paul says, you know, I've got to do it. It's a treasure he's given us. So I'm going to serve him. And he says this, the power may be of God and it's not of us. You cannot explain the power of man. Or we can say men do things, but the Holy Spirit does it out there in the in the mission field. He does it here. And I say that not only do you make a decision to go in the right direction, but in that direction, look at verse eight. Look what Paul says he had We are troubled on every side. Man, it it wasn't hunky dory. It wasn't Kumbaya. It wasn't Disney World tonight. It wasn't even, you know, uh the amusement park in Pittsburgh, I'm telling you. Look what it says here, yet not distressed, we are perplexed. But not in despair. Man, we we I mean the devil's after us and we're not doing well, but we know we're going to stay in high hopes. Verse nine. Persecuted but not forsaken. Cast down but not destroyed. Not amazing stuff. It's going to be hard. It's gonna be hard on the lions once they get to Spain. It's gonna be hard on those folks when he gets down to Paraguay. It's gonna be hard on that. They think they think it's gonna be not they're gonna have battles, they're gonna have situations. They've made a decision to go on the devil's playground They've made a decision to follow God in their life, and in that decision-making it leads them to a destination, and you may write books about it. May read all those stories of all the things happened in years past, but I've never seen God ever greatly use anybody in missions or ministry unless He greatly cuts them up And Paul said, that's going to happen. But you have to do that to get to the destination. Joseph of Egypt? He had to get, you know, David. You know, before I got a sermon I preached before Goliath, there was cheese. David had to do some things before he got where God wanted him. I want you to understand when you make a decision to follow God, He has a destination for you, and I hope you have the heart to follow that destination. Greater is he that's in you than he is in the world. I've been in New Guinea for about three years. And uh I uh the head deacon I had there, his name was Alan Penya And uh he was a captain in the military, and he had trained with the Marines in in California, representing the country of Papua New Guinea. Good man, smart man, he was a toll eye And uh he uh was in the Bougainville Rebellion. He was representing the military for Papua New Guinea. He had 48 guys in his unit. And he told them, no Kuru. K you are you. Now what is Kuru? That was a Bougainville rebellion against New Guinea. Kuru was man-eating And Kuru, when you eat a man or a somebody's body, you'll usually get what they call, you understand the term mad cow disease. How many understand that? That's where your body's been exposed to a protein it should not have been exposed to, usually through food or an accident. Bob Kelly, that's how he died. He was in a car wreck. Protein got into his head. Within 12 months he's dead And Alan Pena made every 48, all those 48 men under his leadership, his command, those privates to sign a paper that they would not commit Kuru. Now it is to kill one of the enemy and eat him in front of the soldiers that they you know the enemy to agitate him, make him mad. Hey, by the way folks, the world's not fair. You'll start running some rough things out there And Alan said, sign that and do not do it. It's against our law. It's not right. People do it, but it's not right. It's wrong. They went to battle. Two of his boys did not listen to him. They signed a piece of paper. They were under his command. They knew the rules. They knew the regulations. They knew what was right. They knew what was wrong. But they chose. And their choice had a consequence. Eleven months goes by and he calls me and I got these two young men and a unit at the military hospital. Can you come and witness to them? They're in the last throws or the agitation of a guru. They've got about three to five days to live. They have uh we have them chained. uh with their feet and leathered tethered with their hands. Uh uh the the the they go crazy. We give them morphine. It's losing its effect. Uh they're not going to live much longer, but we can give them a shot of morphine You have ten minutes where their minds are lucid and they understand. And would you come and witness to them? Uh uh they've heard of you. Would you come give them God's plan of salvation? And and I said, yes, but I don't know what I can do And that deacon said, well it's not you that can do it, but God can. Wow. You're supporting me the way I'm doing this So I went over there to the hospital the next day, military hospital, and they were in a room, hold about the size of your platform, one was here in a bed. One was over here in the bed and they were chained. They could not get to me. They could get up and sit and lay down. And uh the doctor went in there and give them both a shot of their morphine. Had to wait a couple of minutes. It hit them both And uh you got ten minutes. And I said, Young men, you know you're gonna die. They knew that. You both are gonna be in eternity here shortly. Yep I want to give you the plan of salvation. And I gave them both the plan of salvation. I laid it out in about eight minutes. Then I asked them, would you trust Christ as your personal Savior now? I will do your funerals. I will tell your families that you got Jesus in your heart. One guy said, sure, preacher. The other one said, nah, muskie. If I want to go to hell, that is my business. And I pleaded with him. And Alan began to cry and he pleaded with him. He just rolled over, turned his back. The other guy, we prayed with him. 72 hours later, I buried both of them. At the same time, in the Bomana Cemetery, over here the boy that was saved, over here the boy that was unsaved, no one came to the funerals. Choices have consequences. It's amazing, cold-hearted stuff. I could not believe that guy would say no when he knows he's going to die. You know what's just as hard as when an independent, Bible-believing, born-again Baptist church member knows what to do for God, and they choose not to do it. Whoa. See every decision you make And serving or honoring God is always going to lead to a destination. Remember Lot's wife? In a fiery furnace. Remember Daniel in the lion's den? Hey, Judas, not so good, huh? Prodigal Son, not real good, huh? But everywhere in Scripture, I hope and pray that we will make a decision this week that will take us in that mission's direction. There's my last thought. It leads to a destination. Manny's got a destination for you. I can't see the future. But I can see the now. Join me, please. Look what it tells us here as we look at this last thought. Look at verse 17 with me in chapter 3 of the book of Philippians. All right. It makes this statement Verse 17. Brethren, be followers together of me, and mark them which walk so as ye have us for an example. Follow the right thing here. Don't do what Dan DeLong says. Don't do what Pastor Leatherman says. Do what God's Word says. Do what the Holy Spirit, how He directs you. Greater is he than you than he that is in the world. If I can press this last point, Paul's journey was not just for his personal benefit. Paul's journey was to get the testimony of Christ around the world and also to be a witness to that, to those churches. Paul lived a life that exemplified the commitment of pressing on. He even says, you know, you run that race, you don't beat the air. As a boxer, you don't beat the air. You're running a real race. And he says, stride forward in that thing. Because you're gonna it's gonna lead you. To a destination. God has somebody. God has a ministry. And today our lives are so on display for everyone to see How we navigate the challenges and pursuit of gold reflects and shows our faith and commitment to God. When they ran these races in the Olympics, they had to follow a couple rules. Start the race and finish the race and stay in the lane. Stay in the lane. When the guy finished the race first, he he got it was not you didn't get you didn't get a trophy of just showing up. Only one person could win. And when they ran those races, they strived to come in first. I went to the state finals after I beat this boy racing there at Shenandoah High School. I made it through the counties and uh I got first and I got first in the semi-state and and then we uh or the quarter state and then I got the semi-state and I finished third And then I got to the state finals, and there was 32 of us. It would not post our times, because when you saw the times in real life like it would show today, there'd be 31 of us not even get on the track. So I got in the first heat. I thought that was the fastest heat. Ended up, it was the slowest heat. And when it came down to the last heat, there were six guys, and one guy fell down, got up, and finished the race. And six of those guys in that last race, they had eight in the final. Not one of us others ever qualified. You talk about being outclassed. But I'm telling you, when you run a race for God, you're never outclassed. You're going to finish that race. He has a destination. Now, how we navigate. The challenges what God has for us in this church and through this church shows our faith and commitment. Are we showing and presenting, can I say this, as a person that's pressing forward in the faith Our actions can encourage and inspire those around us. How we think and how we have the successful journey. You know, reflecting on Paul's words, we must remember that pressing is a conscious decision. I don't like dentistry. I don't even call the dentist. My wife does it. And she'll set an appointment. I don't want to do that. All right. I've had so many root canals I get nervous just driving by, dentist office here in in Oakland, good night. I'm not committed to that at all. By the way, it's a commitment to follow a path that leads to where God wants you to be. Paul's determination and faith, he said, I press towards the mark of the prize of the high calling of God. Tells me several things. God's got something for you. Maybe not to be a preacher, maybe not to be a missionary, but God has something for you in this church. And I want you to understand this, and I wrote down the word press, it's personal, the P. Or it's real. How many of you folks have ever been up against it? And you're asking God to show you real? That that this is going to be okay. How many's ever done that besides me? Had cancer. He gave me more time. I was supposed to die in 09. I'm still here. Uh just raising money to build a building in New Guinea and continue ministry there and I've never done that before and I ask God to before I go next week that I at least You know, we we'd have ten thousand come in so we can get things started. And uh and last week uh on Monday we had two thousand in. And uh and that's good, that's great, praise God, you know. And but I was asking for how many? Now God, if you want this done, it's on you, not me. You told me to ask for this. I'm putting it together. You know, and next day I got a phone call, hey preacher, we're sending you ten. Not dollars, ten thousand. I'm doing a Sunday school class, the preacher's spouse right in the middle of Sunday school class. And said, let's move to the church. We're just going to give him give you five thousand. Take that with you. Didn't mind I should have asked for five hundred thousand. Amen. How many of you have had God show you to be real? You be real with Him. In this press, it's personal. It's real. And I wrote for the E. This is amazing stuff here Engagement. You've got to be engaged. You've got to be engaged in church. It just don't happen by accident. You've got to be engaged in God's Word. Not just beating the air, not just like a boxer practicing shadow boxing. It's a real fight. It's a real race. And then I wrote that first as a sacrifice It's going to take a pressing, sometime you have to sacrifice your time, sometime you have to sacrifice your what you want to do, do it for God. And thirdly, the third S is the fourth, the second S is this. It'll bring a sure victory, a surety. You know, um I have I went to get a suit the other day And I knew I was right at that point. And I went in there and I used to wear a 46 chubby. Jacket and 45-inch waist, 28-inch inseam, and I'd lost a few pounds and I told the girl, I said, uh, I want I want a I want a 40-inch waist And I knew it. She said, now you're smaller. No, no, I I'm 40 inch. Now you're smaller than that. She looked at me and said, uh, you're about 35. Now no way, man. I've been 45 for the last 50 years. It's not my weight, man, it's my height. If I was taller, I would be at 35. She said, nah, nah, I can I can see. I could. You know what? That seamster guy measured me. She was 35. I was ten inches off. I didn't know what I was talking about. Just because you come to church sometimes, you think you know what's going on, but you need to learn, need to understand, a good church is always pressing forward. When you but before you press forward, you have to make a decision. And in that decision, you're going to have to go in a direction. And people will see it. You don't have to talk how hard you run. And other people that's in this race will know if you're really doing it or not, and it is always going to lead to a destination. As you close your Bibles tonight, this young lady was very close to me. She was my younger sister. Her name's Rhoda Carpenter. She was twelve, eight years younger than me. I was the youngest. She kicked me out of the throne, become the queen of our little house. And she was growing up, and I'm in the ministry. I even did her wedding, her and her husband. And in 2005, she got cancer. Runs in our family. And uh she knows about my ministry, she knows I'm in New Guinea, and and I fly home and do raise some support or do some deputation stuff. And I see her, and she says, Dan, I got into 12 months. I was leaving in three months to go to Australia. To do the ministry God's called me to do. So he said, I want you to meet with me. Let's go. And we went for three days. I'll never forget this. We're sitting at a little restaurant over there on the other side of Wheeling, West Virginia. She's 5'2 in her prime. She's got a 12-year-old daughter and a 16-year-old son. Got money, got a farm, got a Christian husband. But she's got cancer. And she found out she only has 10 to 12 months to live. And uh I'm talking to her and she told me shh I don't want you to go on to New Guinea. I don't want you to be here for my funeral. I don't want you to feel bad about not coming back. In fact, I'm putting it in my goodbye letter at the church That I told Dan to stay where he is, where God's called him. Because he's committed to that. And I said, I I can't do that. I need to come. No, no, no, no, no And she said in her dying last meeting we had, she said, Dan, God's got a hold of me and I got a hold of him. And he told me to meet with you for three days. We say our goodbyes. I'm never going to get in the way of what you've pressed your whole life for. Because that's getting in the way of God. All God's people said, whoa And these missionaries you bring in here, they don't know you that well. But God has called them. You have soft hearts. You got to get in this press and run this race with them. And you'll never go to Spain, maybe some of you. You'll never make it to New Guinea. But that's why you deputize us. But we cannot do this unless you make a decision. Now listen to this thought that takes us all together in a direction as a church and a missionary that the destination that God has for us. She died on November 12th. 2005, 2007, I'm sorry. When they had the funeral, she had this letter written, and she said, I Told my twin, my my old twin brother, to stay on the mission field. That's where God wants him. And I want watch this. I want to make sure sure he keeps pressing forward. I don't want to get in the way of that. Yeah, that's a good sister, isn't it? We'd fight over checkers. Uno, we'd play rook and she would cheat. Good night. And she would talk back to me and my dad had died and my twin was killed and I was the old man and uh had to give her away to get married and had to hold that first baby and I was with her daughter last week at a church and had to commit to raise her a little bit and she's got a good Christian home, got three kids. Good night. I've got to live through this, but that that sister of mine said, I'm not going to take away the opportunity God's given you as you press forward. The next time you read that scripture where Paul says I pray us towards the mark for the prize of the high calling. Oh, I'll be distressed, Paul said. I'll be pushed around. I'll be so discouraged. Stay with it. I'm going to press with it. And I want you to do that as a church. I want to encourage you. I can't tell you what to do. For you, what Paul told the church of Philippi to do, to press towards that mark with him. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Lord, we come to you tonight and thank you for this church. Thank you, Lord, for your word. And Lord, I pray tonight as the best I could to get this across. I want you to understand, as in closing here tonight, I want to invite everyone in here to make a decision tonight to go in the direction that this church is going, whether you go. Whether you send, whether you pay pray or support and pay for a missionary, but they'll press you'll press forward. For that mark that God has for this church, that prize. The emphasis this week is a missions conference. Who could say, Brother DeLong, I need to make a decision tonight, maybe to be a missionary Maybe to start faith promise giving. Maybe to give more. Maybe to pray more. Maybe to engage more. Maybe to make it more personal and real in your communication with missionaries in the ministry here at the church. Who could say, Brother Long, I want to be that. I want to be part of that. Could you raise your hand and say, pray for me? I will do that tonight. Thank you. Put your hands down. Secondly, preacher, I I want to I want to go in the right direction. This is new to me. I want to trust God's word and his will and his way in and through this church. And I want to be part of this missions program. And Lord, and the emphasis of it. And I want to go in that direction with a renewed spirit, a renewed focused heart with an angst that's going to do something for God in 2025, who can raise their hand and say, I won't do that. Thank you, sir. Thank you, ma'am. And lastly, a destination. I know life can be tough and hard. Who can say, Brother DeLong, I want to be part of the missions program here at this church? I want to understand the fact that I want God to know my heart that I want to be part of the emphasis As I read the scriptures tonight, as I learned from what was preached, that that this uninterrupted, deliberate, conscious focus of Paul telling this church This one thing we need to do, forget what's behind, reach forth into that which is before, and press toward that mark. I want to be part of the missions program in this church. Who can raise their hand and say, Lord, I spoke to me tonight? I want to be part of that. Lord, we give you this invitation. We give you this moment. We pray that you'll touch the hearts of the folks in here. And every time they read the scriptures, they go forward in their lives. They understand what Paul's pressing, not only soul winning and reaching the world, but he's pressing that church to join with him, to go for that mark, for that high calling of reaching the Gentile world for your honor and your glory. Pastor, that's standing