And um he is uh this is the second letter we have uh preserved for us, and he makes this statement referencing himself along with other believers. He says verse 8, we are troubled on every side, yet not what? So there's trouble, but it's not distressing us. And he says, we are perplexed, but not in what? Despair. Persecuted, but not what? We're cast down but not destroyed So he has these things happening to him. For sake of the context of my message, let me put it this way. Paul says, we as believers have these things happen to us. They knock us down, but they don't keep us down. They affect us, but it doesn't destroy us. We fall down, but we get back up. So to speak. Come over to Psalms chapter number 37 with me if you would Psalm 37. I hope you found that there. And I want to read verse number 23 and 24. Psalm 37, verse 23 and 24. And I have this passage underscored and highlighted in my Bible. Psalm 37, look with me if you would at verse 23. The steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord. Now that gives us a picture, a mental picture of somebody walking, correct? Steps of a good man being ordered by the Lord. God's leading, God's directing. This guy's walking. So to speak. And he delighteth in his way. He enjoys the way God is leading him. It's a blessing. His heart is full. He's rejoicing in God. He delighteth in his way. Now look at verse 24. Though he what? Fall. He shall not be what? Utterly cast down. For the Lord upholdeth him with his hand This is a good man. He's God's leading him and directing him. He's rejoicing in the Lord. And yet he gets to a point where he falls in this progress, in this life. He falls. But the Lord is quick to point out he's not utterly, completely devastated, cast down, for the Lord upholds him. The Lord upholdeth him. Now back to our passage that Pastor Matt read a few moments ago, I want to zero in on verse number 16. Proverbs 24 and verse 16. And this pa this verse has meant so much to me personally over these many years. And I don't know how many times I have come back to this thing and rejoiced in what this verse is telling me. And telling us. Look at verse 16. In fact, tell you what, let's read this together in unison. Would you do that with me? Verse 16. Ready? Here we go. For a just man falleth seven times and riseth up again, but the wicked shall fall into mischief. What kind of man falls seven times? A just man. Now, we're going to talk about this, but notice the order here. He doesn't say a wicked man keeps falling, falling, falling. He says, what kind of man? A just man falleth seven times. But then he adds this, and he what? Riseth up again. Wow. What an encouragement I've entitled the message, and I'll explain in a minute here my title. I've entitled the message this: Weebles wobble, but they don't fall down. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd uh bless our message this morning. I pray your spirit would fill me And you would take your word as this is what you do, Holy Spirit. I pray you take your word and apply it to each of our hearts and lives as if this was written directly for us individually. Or I believe it has been. And I pray you'd help us wherever we're at. Lord, I have no doubt I'm speaking to a lot of just people this morning. Lord, I'm sure I'm speaking to some just people that have fallen. Lord, maybe perhaps we're speaking to some wicked, unsaved people, never trusted Christ, and they're facing destruction, mischief. Or whatever the condition is of those under the sound of my voice, I pray that your word would bear fruit, that the lost would be saved The fallen would raise up, and Lord, those that are standing and walking in the way, being directed by you, that We would rejoice and be on guard. So again, I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. With all my heart, dear Lord, I pray you fill me and speak through me. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. When I was small, or at least I know when the when the boys were small, and I think these had these had these when I was a kid. I think if I remember correctly, I might have had some. But a little toy, it was a little toy dog called a weeble. How many people know what weebles are? Got asking around. Lo and behold, we have weebles in our nursery. They are not bugs. It is not a disease. It's a little toy, a weeble. Somebody hears, they got weebles in the nursery. That's terrible. I found a couple back there. I've got two weebles. I've been having fun. A weebull, for those that don't know, a weeble is a little egg-shaped, I don't know, what do you call it, a doll? Little person object thing, little toy. But it has a face and it represents a person. It's egg-shaped, as you're probably aware. And the interesting thing about weebles is this: the bottom is weighted has the weight in the bottom, and you take that weeble, and I don't have a flat surface up here, and that thing, you can push it over, and that thing bounces right back up. Isn't that something? That's captivating. I could do this for hours. You have a very simple pastor. You knock them over, they come right back up again. You can sling it across the floor. It bounces back up. You can juggle them, and I tried back there. You can juggle them and drop one. Bing, bounces right back. Doesn't matter what you do to the things, they bounce right back up again. And their motto is what the title of the message is, their motto all these years has been just that: Weebles wobble, but they don't fall down. Well I got messing with this thing and thinking about that title. I overthink everything, I think. But I thought that's not really an accurate motto because they do fall down I pushed them over, they fell down. But the the thing is, they fall down, but what? They don't stay down. That's the fascinating part about it. They don't stay down. Now they wobble, and they actually technically do fall, but they bounce right back up again. I think weebles are a good illustration of what Proverbs chapter 24 and verse 16 is teaching us. Maybe we could put it this way. Christians wobble and they do fall down. But they bounce right back up. They bounce up again. Proverbs 24, 16, and this is important to understand this, and I've kind of already highlighted it, but Proverbs 24, 16 says, a just man Falleth seven times. That's an important statement who he is identifying as the one that gets back up again. A just man. Psalms 37, 24, we read a moment ago, it says, a good man A man that is good in the eyes of God. Now, of course, we understand that there's none good, no, not one. He's talking about positional goodness, our standing before God, with the goodness of Christ, the righteousness of Christ. And then in 2 Corinthians chapter 4, it's the Apostle Paul, none other than the Apostle Paul, that says that things have happened to him that have rattled him, that have shaken him, that have knocked him down. But none of them destroyed him. He never in none of those situations did he end up in despair. None of those dis situations was he destroyed. None of those situations kept him down. God always brought him back up. Now here's my first point this morning is this. Falling is a reality of the Christian life. Falling is a reality in the Christian life. Now some people don't like to admit that, and there's certain groups around that I don't think there's a whole lot of them, but Some would try and deny that, but the fact of the matter is, every single let me back up here a little bit. Let me ask you this question. How many folks here this morning you're saved and you know it? Say amen I believe that's the at least the majority of us would claim to know Christ the Savior. By the way, if you're here this morning and you cannot honestly say that you know for sure your sins are forgiven on your way to heaven You can't honestly say that. If you don't have that assurance in your heart and life, this message really isn't for you. The sermon, I should put it this way, the sermon isn't necessarily for you. We're addressing Christians. However The most important decision a person needs to make is to accept Jesus Christ as Savior. So if you're here without Christ, it's vitally important you get that established. It's vitally important you know for sure Jesus Christ is your Savior that you have eternal life. Now when that day comes that you go out in eternity, you go to heaven, not to hell It's the most important thing in the world. I was thinking this morning I was getting one over w I was come over early and um kind of get things set up and everything ready and then I run back home, get changed cleaned up a little bit And uh while I was over there getting cleaned up and ready for the church service, uh, a verse kept going through my mind. And I don't know why this is, I didn't read it in my devotions today, but a verse kept going through my mind, boast not thyself of tomorrow. And then that last phrase, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. And that phrase, thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. We have no idea what may happen today. We have no idea what may take place tomorrow. You have no idea where you and I may be tomorrow. Well, we anticipate we got a pretty good idea, but there's no guarantee. My dad made a statement to me years ago. We were talking about somebody that had passed away unexpectedly and made this statement. It stuck in my mind. He says, when you put your shoes on in the morning, you have no idea who may take those shoes off that night Might be the Undertaker. And so if you're in your air and you're under the sound of my voice and you don't have the assurance that the Bible says we can And must have that your sins are forgiven on your way to heaven. Most important decision in the world is to trust Jesus Christ as Savior. Know that God has forgiven your sins, that the price has been paid, the judgment has been made On Jesus Christ and that you've ex you're accepted by God into heaven when you stand before Him But the message, the text, the verse is for a just man, for a good man, even an apostle in the New Testament church that was used of God to lay the foundation stones and used of God to record a Huge portions of the New Testament. And he says, you know, I've been knocked around a little bit. Romans chapter number seven, Paul says, Man, I struggled. This is the Apostle Bo. He says there's things that I know I should not do, I end up doing. There's things I know I should do, and I find myself not doing them. And he expresses this great frustration that he finds himself. Now, I hope I'm not stretching what he's saying there, I don't believe I am, but he finds himself falling. Over and over and over. The Apostle Paul, a just man, a good man, struggles. A person that's saved, I'm started this statement here a moment ago. Every person that genuinely gets saved, that is born again into the family of God by faith in Jesus Christ, every person that receives this new life at some point under their after their salvation, they come to the painful realization That they're capable of falling. They come to this realization that not only am I capable of messing up, not only am I capable of falling, we actually do. Paul. I heard a preacher, this is years ago, a preacher out of Texas, and he was commenting um about a Christian in sin and how a Christian deals with sin. Uh he was flying somewhere and there was a uh lady beside him. They got talking. He's tried to witness to her a little bit and she said that um uh if I remember the scenario correctly, she was a preacher or something of some sort, quote unquote. And uh he got talking to her and he and she asked him about him and he says, Oh, I'm a Baptist preacher And um she says, oh, you're a Baptist. You guys believe in backsliding. He goes, not only do we believe it, we practice it. The fact of the matter is it doesn't take long after you've been born again. I'm talking about not just making a profession of faith. I mean genuinely born again. Life transforms. Hey, you find out. Hey, I'm still capable of messing up. Can I get a witness? And so the reality in the Christian light, falling, is a reality in the Christian light. In Proverbs 24, 16, a just man falleth seven times. In Psalms 37, 24, though he fall, it's the exact same word. That word fall there Has this idea, and you know what it means to fall. The word itself means to uh end up prostrate on the ground. It means to have your feet knocked out from underneath you. Kloom. How many people this winter have fallen at some point or another in the ice or snow? The older you get, the more serious that is, right? Little kid falls and they just get up and go on. I fall and it's fifteen minutes later. I'm pulling myself up the wall. Uh a couple of years ago I was getting um the mail. I was coming across the road to get the mail and the road was ice. I didn't realize it I'm kind of rushing out there. I got to the middle of the road and I hit that ice and whoom my feet went out from underneath me. Wham Now why do we always laugh when someone falls? You know, do you ever see the videos people falling just laughing? I mean I went down. You know what the very first thing was I did? Looked around to see if anybody saw me But that's the idea of this word here. A just man falleth. His feet go out. He is down on his back, on his face, he is on the ground, prostrate. He is down. And the point I'm trying to make here, when he says a just man falleth, and when he talks in Psalms about the good man falleth, he's not talking about stumbling. How many people know the difference between falling and stumbling? Right? You go up the steps, you might stumble a little bit. But you generally what? You catch yourself. You don't go all the way down. Do Christians stumble? Sure. Sometimes, boy, something throws us. Somebody does something. Amen. But we'll catch ourselves. Sorry, I'm not going down that road. Do you ever have a situation maybe where somebody says something to you that's very offensive or they do something unkind? And boy, for a split second, I just want to You know what I'm saying? But I catch myself, God bless you, and go on. Right? That's stumbling. That's not what he's talking about. He's talking about falling, boom, going down. It's not just struggling with something. Now I'm not going to ask anybody to respond, but I know I've been around this long enough. We all know this is true. Every believer struggles with temptation. Some sort of another. Every believer struggles with it. It's there. Boy, I'm struggling with that. And I know I know what I should do, but boy, and I know I shouldn't do that, but boy, that sure is enticing. Know what I'm talking about? That's struggling. Stumbling and starting to react, starting to go for it, and then catching myself, and I don't get into it. What he's talking about here is wham. I mean all in. It's serious what he's talking about. Here, can I give a word of caution? I've said this many, many times, and y'all understand this. I'm sure you probably said it yourself. But we need to be very, very careful that we never make this statement. Oh, I would never do that. Right? Oh, I can't believe she did that. I would never do that. Better be very, very careful about that. I was told as a young child, never say never. You'll be doing it forever. I don't know how accurate that statement is, but The point is this: the seed of the worst sins ever committed rests in the heart of every single individual. Sin. Struggle. Doubt. Unbelief. Oh, I would never do that. Psalm 20, uh Proverbs 24, 16, a just man. Psalm 37, 24, a good man. Romans chapter 7, we didn't read, but I referenced it. Paul, the apostle. Can and do fall. It happens. And then notice what he says here for a just man falleth once Is that what it says? No, he falls what? Seven times. Why does he use the number seven? Why didn't he say a just man falls four times? Why didn't he say a just man falleth thirteen times? Bad number. Bad luck. Why does he use the term seven? Now we're not told, so but I'm going by what it implies. The term seven generally in the Bible has the idea of completeness. Remember when uh Jesus, remember when Peter came to Jesus and he asked Jesus, he says, How many times? Should I forgive someone that sinned against me? And then Peter offers this suggestion seven times Uh Chuck sins against me and I forgive him. He sins against me and I forgive him and it sins against me. And he does it seven times and I keep forgiving him. Did you ever notice in my illustrations I'm always the good guy? And finally I get to seven. This was Peter's thinking. Man, a good grief. I've forgiven the guy seven times. Or crying out loud. That's pretty generous. Seven times, Lord, pretty good, huh? What was the Lord's response? He says, I say not unto you seven times, but seventy times seven. So what was the Lord saying? Is he saying keep count? No, the Lord was saying the exact opposite. Don't keep count. And I think when the Bible says here that a just man follows seven times, he's not saying, Alright, after the seventh time, that's it, you've lost your justification, you're unsaved, there's no hope, you're done with, forget it. No, God's not keeping count here. The idea is this: the number seven, I believe, is an indefinite amount of times, number of times. In other words, it happens over and over and over and over and over and over and over. There was an idea that goes around, it's probably still floating around out there, but there was for a while it was a little more popular, but it had this idea that it is possible for a Christian to attain sinless perfection. I've gotten to the point where I no longer sin. I've gotten to the point where I no longer fall. And that is a delusional thinking. If somebody ever comes to you, I've said this many times, if somebody ever comes to you and says, I have attained sinless perfection, I no longer sin, ask their spouse if they agree with that. I would venture to say they do not. In fact, if you counter somebody like that, they generally get very angry at you for suggesting they sin. And so it's a just man that followeth an indefinite number of times. A just man Falling is a reality of the Christian life. Now, these falls can take various forms. People fall different ways. Sometimes they fall off a ladder, sometimes they fall on ice, sometimes they Trip over a track in the on the ground. Sometimes they trip anybody here ever trip over your own feet? So I've put down a few forms that falling takes. One, I put this in when we give in to the temptation of our own heart. Jeremiah tells us that our hearts are deceitful and desperately wicked. Now, when a person gets saved How many people can remember the time when you got saved? Anybody here remember that? Maybe not the day or the hour necessary, but you remember there was that specific time. How many folks remember when you got saved? My wife doesn't remember the exact day and the hour. She knows it was, I believe it's the summer, they were having a revival. She doesn't know the exact dates, but she knows where it was. There was a definite place and time where she trusted Christ. That's important. For me is May 7, 1979, 1030 at night. I remember it very specifically. But regardless of that When a person gets saved, when a person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, and this is a whole nother message, but when a person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, God imparts into them a new nature. I become a new man, the Bible refers. Peter references this divine nature God has given to us. And that new nature comes in and it changes us. It changes the way we see things. It changes our perspective. It changes our values. It changes our and many times it changes our understanding of God and ourselves and on our standing before God. It changes things. How many people, can I get a witness? Anybody know what I'm talking about? I see things differently. I value things differently Now for some people that that well for everybody when we accept Christ that new nature is imparted instantly. But for some, it takes a while for it to develop and grow and bring about the external changes that are inevitable. And then for others, and myself, for whatever reason I can't explain other than God just did it, it's an immediate transformation. And so when I accept the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, I have this new nature, this new desires, these new perspectives. How many folks here, before you got saved, you weren't in the least bit interested in going to church? And then after you got saved, now you wanted to go to church. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Anybody here before you got saved, little or no interest in the Bible, after you got saved, suddenly the Bible became the most important thing in my possession. That's that transformation that takes place. That's that new nature that God puts into us. However, that old sinful nature was not eradicated. It is still there. Um those old desires, that old perspective on the world, that old way of understanding and thinking is still in my soul. It's still part of my being. But now I have this new nature, this new divine nature of God, this holy nature that desires the things of God, that desires to please the Lord, that sees things the way God sees and wants to please the Lord. And that old nature is still there, still wanting to please self and live for self and fit in this world and be accepted by the world. And so now I have this tension. In my heart and soul. How many people know what I'm talking about? Anybody here know what I'm talking about? Galatians chapter 5 talks about it. The spirit lusts against the flesh, and the flesh against the spirit, and they're contrary one to the other. Somebody asked an American Indian years ago, a chief, and he had gotten saved. And a missionary is talking to him and they were talking about the Christian life and he made this statement. He says, Inside my heart there are two dogs. A good dog and a bad dog. And they fight each other constantly. And a missionary asked, which one's the one that wins? And he said, the one I feed the most. He had a good understanding of sinful the the uh the human uh the Christian makeup of this c this tension between the old nature and the new nature. One of the great things about heaven is we get to heaven, that old nature is gone, it's all new nature. I can't wait for that And so sometimes falling is when a Christian gives in to the temptation, the enticement of that old nature, and I give in to that And I fall. I sin. It wasn't long after my salvation, God transformed me. It wasn't long. I realized Though I was a new Dennis and things outwardly and these big sins that so enslaved me, God had delivered me from that. But it wasn't long until I realized that old Dennis was still hanging around. That old Dennis still lived in the same house as the new Dennis lived in. Um again, Paul and Romans chapter 7 references that. He said, the things I would not, I do, that old sinful nature, and the things that the new nature that I want to do, I find myself not doing. And he describes this tension, this tension. So sometimes a good man falls from giving in to the sinful desires of my old nature. And I go back and Do that. We see see people throughout the Bible that did that. Samson, we mentioned this Wednesday night. Samson, it said of Samson more times than any other person, I believe. Uh says that the Spirit of God came upon him, but Samson kept falling, falling, falling. He would give in to that old sinful desire. He'd see some some Philistine woman and boy she was beautiful and he wanted her and he'd give in to that and commit adultery. And he'd see some other gal, he had a weakness for women, and he saw some other gal and boy he wanted her and that enticement was there and He'd go commit adultery. Then he'd get right and get back and spirit of God come on. Then he'd fall. Then he'd get up and fall. He'd get up and fall. Would you agree with me? King David was a good man. Right? He was a good man. He was a just man, a man after God's own heart. And I wish I had more time, I don't, but we could study, and we're studying life of David on Wednesday nights. But we could study him very carefully. Do you know what I found? David fell into sin seven times. That's interesting. So sometimes following it's a reality in the Christian life, it's a reality for the believer, and sometimes it's when I give in to my own sinful temptations of my heart I give in to them Sometimes falling consists of being overwhelmed by the trials of life. I mean, anybody ever find this? Life can be tough. For a young person, it's hard to believe that, although I tell you, some young people go through some tough stuff. Life can be tough. I like what my favorite one of my favorite theologians, John Wayne, said He said, uh, life is tough. And it's even tougher if you're stupid. And sometimes just the trials of life become so overwhelming that we begin to doubt and we begin to question God, and to some extent we fall. What about Job? The Bible says he was a just man. Perfect and upright in all his ways. And God, for reasons known only to God, lets him go through these trials, unbelievable, overwhelming pain, unbelievable, overwhelming heartache, unbelievable, overwhelming loss, betrayal. And Job fell. Not into open sin, but he began questioning God. He began defending himself. In fact, there's a few statements in the book of Job where Job makes some statements that are awfully close to making accusations against God being unfair. So Job struggled with this, Abraham Abraham is an amazing man. I wish we could do a study on the life of Abraham. I'll be 722 until we get all my studies done that I want to do. But um Abraham hears the call of God. He takes his family and he leaves Ur of the Chaldees. He leaves his home and his family and he goes out and he doesn't know where God leads him. He's just trusting God's leadership. Finally he gets to the land of Canaan where God has promised and he gets there and he's anticipating, God has led me here. This is going to be wonderful. It's going to Oh, my needs are going to be met. It's going to be blessing and just uh uh it's gonna be great. And he gets there, and the very first thing he faces is famine And Abraham falls. His faith staggers and falls. And he leaves Canaan and he goes where? To Egypt. And down there he lies. He picks up this little Egyptian girl, Hagar, a handmaid. He ends up committing adultery with her. So sometimes just the disappointments in life and things don't play out the way I pictured they would, and things aren't the way I anticipated. And if we're not careful, we can get overwhelmed by that, and we can end up falling and doing things we wouldn't normally do, and saying things we wouldn't normally say, and thinking things we wouldn't normally think We could talk about Israel in the wilderness. How God did so many things and they would murmur Then things get settled. Then they murmur again. Then they did this. David, the man after God's own heart, we referenced his enticement to sin, but there were times where he doubted God. God said, David, you're going to be king of Israel. Saul's chasing them all over. Finally, David says, I'm going to die by the hand of Saul. No, we won't. But he fell, and he runs off to the enemies of God's people and allies himself to some extent with them. Peter No, everybody denies you. I won't deny you. I'll die before I deny you. Also, when everybody's gone, a little maid comes up and Peter says, I don't know him, I deny even knowing him. Jesus is being crucified. Everybody else is abandoned. This isn't the way Peter anticipated it. And he falls. He falls. Sometimes we give in to the temptation of our heart and it brings about a fall. Sometimes we're overwhelmed by the trials of life and it brings about a fall. Fall of faith and fall of our faithfulness. Sometimes we're offended by the treatment of others. Would you take your Bibles with me, please, and turn to the book of Luke, chapter number 17. And the Lord made a statement here in the beginning of chapter 17 that I think is so relevant to the day and age you live in, particularly in our country and all that's going on in our country. And notice in chapter seventeen and notice with me verse number one. Luke chapter 17 verse number one. He says this. Then said he unto the disciples, so he's talking to believers, his folks that are following him. It is, what's that next word? It is impossible, but that offenses will come. What's he saying? He's saying, listen, accept the fact, deal with it. People are going to say and do things that offend you. It's going to happen. It's impossible. But offenses are going to come. People are going to say stuff and they're going to do things. And it is absolutely going to grate you and offend you deeply. I tell you what, what New York City legislation passed this past week in murdering a child up to the moment of birth is incredibly offensive. When the Supreme Court said that same-sex marriage is a legitimate marriage, that was unbelievably offensive And the Lord said, listen, those things are going to happen. People are going to do and say things that are morally Spiritually common sense-wise are unbelievably offensive. It is impossible. You live in a fallen world, people are going to stay and do things that are incredibly offensive I was at um I I I met one of my New Year's resolutions was to lose twenty pounds this year. So so far I only have twenty-five to go. And I stopped at that little Castleman cafe there at the lake. I gave in to the sinful d enticements of my sinful heart and I got those donuts. And I'm not gonna tell you how many ate But while I was there there was some folks came in and they're and and I don't want to stereotype or or just broad brush paint anything, but they were out of town, they were coming, they were vacationing and tourism. I'm telling you they were very r So the dear lady behind the counter and others around, they were just rude. And I thought, who do they think they are? And so being a very brave and courageous person, I didn't say or do anything. I just sat there and ate my donuts. But the Lord says, listen, people are going to stay and do things. People are going to do stuff that can offend you, that can throw you, that can knock you down. But notice his next statement there. He says, It is impossible that offenses will come, but woe unto him through whom they come. Can I just paraphrase this the way I understand what he's saying? He's saying, listen, in a fallen world, people are going to say and do things that hurt you, that offend you, that are going to want you, you're going to want to react to. It's impossible. It's going to be that way. But you make sure you are not the one being offensive. Because woe unto the person through whom those offenses come. People are going to be rude, don't you be rude. People are going to say and do things that are wicked and wrong and sinful and fly in the face of a holy God. But don't you react sinfully. You don't be the one that offenses come. Am I making sense? And sometimes people say and do things, and it absolutely throws us out of wet, and we fall. I'm telling you, I don't I'm I don't know anything specific, anything uh uh individual, specific individual, I don't know any. But I've been doing this long enough. I guarantee you there are some folks not in church today because of something somebody else did that offended them. And they fell. And they're out of church and they're away from God and they're out of fellowship with God. So, what I'm trying to say here in this point is this it is a reality. Falling for a Christian is a real, very real thing. It's reality. And that the falls, the cause of the fall can come from various sources. One of them is our own simple heart. We give into temptation, we get out of the will of God, and we fall. Other things that may just be events that God allows in our life for various reasons, and we don't deal with it correctly, and we fall, our faith fails, falls, our doubts come in Sometimes people do stupid stuff and we let it get to us and we fall But falling is a reality in the Christian life. I have probably talking to some folks at this past week, you have fallen in one way or another. Because it's a reality in the Christian life. Just men fall, good men fall, apostles fall. Paul warned the Corinthian church. He said, Let him that thinketh, he standeth, take heed, lest he what? Why? Because folly is a very real danger. Folly is a very real part of Christian life. It's not necessary, but it's real. I got studying the Bible. Not one of God's greatest servants were faultless. Not one of God's greatest servants were faultless. Somebody put it this way, even the best of men are men, the very best. In other words, we're capable of falling. Not only are we capable of it, it's a real part of Christian life. Number two, this is my second thought, real quickly. Let me give it to you. And I like this one. This is what I was wanting to get to. Falling is not final for the believer. You would come back to Proverbs 24. And verse 16. And this is the part of this verse that encourages me as much as anything I have Proverbs 2416, I have it underlined and read, I have it circled, I have it highlighted For a just man followeth seven times. If he stopped there, I would say, Yes, I've experienced that. I know what he's saying. That's true. But then he adds this on, and riseth what? Up again. That word riseth there means simply got get back on his feet. Gets back up on his feet. And he says he adjustment followeth seven times, and he doesn't say this, and riseth up. He says he riseth up again. And that little word again there has this idea behind it. Again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again. He just keeps getting up and he just keeps getting up and he just keeps getting up. A boxer says, man, you can't win against somebody that keeps getting up. You knock them down, they get back up. You knock them down, it gets back up. You knock them down, it gets back up. And the Bible says, a just man that falling is not final for a just man. He keeps getting back up. In Psalms 37, 24, we notice the good man shall not be utterly cast down. That phrase utterly cast down means knocked down and not getting up again. I mean he is utterly cast down. He is down, he's out, he's done. He says, that's not the case for the good man. That's not the case for the just man. They get back up again. And they get back up again. And they get back up again. And they get back up again. And they get back up again. Now come to Psalm, if you would, come back over there to Psalm. I know we're jumping around here a bit. 37. And he tells us how, why they don't stay down, why a just man doesn't stay down. They just get up and they just get up and they just get up and they just get up. Well, I gotta somehow drag myself up. No, no, no, no, no, that's not what it says. The steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord. He delighteth in the way. Though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down. He's not going to be knocked out, laying there, not get up. For the Lord, what Upholdeth him with his hand. Whoo! Praise the Lord for that. How many people ever heard somebody make the statement, you gotta hold out You just hold on. The Christian life that involves falling, unfortunately, is just a reality of life, it involves falling, is not me holding on to the Lord. It is what? It's the Lord holding on to me. Woo! That's where if I was a if I was charismatic, that's where I'd run around and carry on a little bit For it holdeth him with his hand. Jesus told the disciples in John chapter 7, he said, I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. Neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. I and my father are one. Neither any man plucked them out of my father's hand. Phew! If it was us holding on to God, the first time we fell, we'd be lost, we'd be doomed, it'd be over. But it's not me holding on to God, it's God holding on to me. I spoke with a family that just trusted the Lord recently. I was busy with them. And I was read that passage in Psalms there, or uh in um John chapter 10. And I said, listen, when you accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, Jesus Christ got a hold of you And I said, whether you sense it or not, the biblical truth is this: you are in the hands of Almighty God. And it's not you holding on to the Lord. It's the Lord holding on to you. And you and I are going to slip. You and I are going to go down. But the Lord is not going to let go. The Lord is not going to let go. And he will lift this up every single time. Now we can preach a series of sermons on how the Lord does that, chastening. Gets us back up. How the Spirit of God stirs us, convicts us, say, I gotta get out of this. God puts something in us, I'm not gonna quit, I'm not gonna quit. Lord keeps us, he holds us, he brings us back up. I've told this before in some other sermons that use this illustration, but it's so profound. We lived in Indianapolis, we had a nice little house, we lived in Beech Grove. uh Indiana, just the suburb of Indianapolis on the southeast side of the city. Nice little rancher, two two bedroom, and just a nice little place. It was just a nice house. Little garage. And when you come out, there was like just there there aren't any mountains in Indiana. Alright, they got little upgrades. They call them mountains. It's out that mountain there. And so if it became out our sidewalk, along the sidewalk there, and you went, it was just a slight grade up. So one winter, Sam was probably, I don't know, three or four. If that, usually some all, we decide we're gonna go out for a walk. We've been in for a while, so we bundled up and we're walking out that sidewalk and we're going towards this upgrade. And a couple houses up from us, I believe it was their wash their washer and dryer The washing machine drained out their driveway and it ran down the d side of the driveway and then it went out across the the um sidewalk. And so it was cold, it was all frozen, so the whole sidewalk just covered with this where the water drained out, just covered with this ice and there's lint and all stuff stuck in it, you know. It's just ugh So Sam and I are walking, and while we're walking, you know how little kids are. You put your finger out, they hold on to your finger. Anybody know what I'm talking about? So Sam's there, hold he's just little, he's holding on to my finger And we're walking up there and I saw that ice and I knew what was going to happen. We hit that ice, he's going to slip and fall, and he's holding on to me. He's not strong enough to hold himself up. He's just a little just more than a baby, just very, very small. And when his feet go out from underneath him, when he falls, his hand, it's gonna this is what's gonna happen. And he's gone down. And so before we hit that ice, I pulled my finger out. And I got a hold of his hand. And we hit that ice, sure enough, his feet slipped, they went out from underneath him, and he went down. You know what happened? Old Dad pulled him back up and set him on his feet. We went a little farther, his feet went down. Dad had a hold of him, pulled him up, put him back on his feet. Four or five times. Boink, boink, boink. When we got past that, I thought, that's God in me. That's God in me. And I slipped. I mess up, I fall, every single time, God boom, boom, God picks me back up. God picks me back up me back up. So falling isn't final. Oh, I slept and fell. Listen, if you're saved, you're in the hands of God, you trust him, you let him get you back up on your feet. Let him have his way. Do what he says. Trust him. Get him back up on his feet. Get him back on his feet. It is a lie. It is a lie when people say you have to hold you've got to live it or you're going to lose it It is a lie when people say if you sinned, you lost your salvation. That is not true. If that was true, nobody would ever be saved. I am secure in the hands of Christ. I am secure in Christ And as weak and as frail and as sinful as I am, even as a child of God, it is not me holding on to God, it is God holding on to me. And Jesus never fails. And when I fall, Jesus does not fall. He stands. I'm secure. I'm secure. And then my last, and I've got to quit, the last one was this. Falling is not the believer's final assessment. Falling is not the believer's final assessment. Read Hebrews chapter 11, and God praises all these people, and every one of them that he praises fell, at least recorded at least once or twice, some of them numerous times, and he says, by faith and by faith and by faith When you and I stand before the judgment seat of Christ, it is not going to be a count of how many times I fell. It is going to be a count of my progress in my Christian life. Because that's not our you say, preacher, I fell, I'm I'm it's over, it's done, I've lost it, and I'm judged of God. No, no, no. We're in the hands of God and He'll restore us. Now we need to confess and acknowledge there's a whole lot involved. But I will not lose my salvation. I can and will be restored by the power and grace of God. There's three fellows, if I if I have this correct, there's three fellows that have have hit more than seven hundred home runs in their lifetime. You know who there are? Three batters in Major League Baseball. One is Barry Bonds. He is the most. 765, I think. Anyone know who the other one is? Hank Aaron, 700 and something. And the third one is Babe Ruth. Home run heroes. These guys hold the world record smacking it out of the park. Babe Roof Boom! And you say, yeah, they never strike out. They just hit home runs all the time. They never fail. Wrong Every one of those guys also lead the record just about on strikeouts. But you know the difference was? Now this is from the human end. You know what the difference was? When they struck out, they didn't throw the bat down and say, oh pff They go back and they go again and they go again and they go again. And what I'm saying to you this week, you may have fallen, you may have messed up this week. You let God get you back on your feet and you go at it again. And you go at it again, and you go at it again, and don't you quit, and don't you quit. That is a lie of the devil that you have to quit. That is a lie of the devil to say I've fallen and I cannot get back up again. It is a lie of the devil to say I've fallen and I'm of no use to God. That is a lie of the devil. A just man falleth seven times and rises up again and goes on. My one of my favorite poems in all the world. Let me give it to you real quick. When things are wrong When things go wrong as they sometimes will, and the road you're travelling seems all uphill, when the funds are low and the debts are high and you want to smile but you have to sigh When care is pressing you down a bit, rest if you must, but don't you quit. Life is strange with its twists and turns, as every one of us sometimes learn, and many a fellow turns about when he might have won had he stuck it out. Though the pace seems slow, you may succeed with another blow. Success is failure, turned inside out. The silver tint on the clouds of doubt. And you never can tell how close you are. It might be near when it seems so far. So stick to the fight when your hardest hit. It's when things seem worse that you must not quit God enables us to get up and get up and get up and get up and get up. Say, I've messed up this week. Okay, get up Don't give out. Don't walk out. Don't give up. Get up. I like that. Don't give up. Get up. Let's pray. Father. I ask, Lord, you take this verse and this truth and help it to grip us. Lord, there's no justification, there's no excuse for sin to fall. We have no excuse. We cannot justify it. Lord, we understand it happens, and you know that. Those of us that know you as Savior, help us to get back up and start winning souls again. Help us get back up and start reading that Bible again. Help us get back up and start fighting that sin again. Whatever it is that knocked us down, Lord, lift us up. Help us go forward. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, I'm not going to quit? I'm going to get up again, I'm going to get up again, I'm going to get up again, I'm going to get up again. And by God's grace, I want to press on. Is there any like that by the The uplift hand by God's grace Now, I don't know who or how, probably all of us have fallen in some way or another this past week. That's between the individual and God. But I know this, if you're saved, God will lift you back up. Just let him have his way. Do what's right. Trust him. Keep on going. There's some here this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm on my way to heaven. Listen, you don't want to go to hell, trust me. You need to get that settled. Is there anything like that? Preacher, pray for me. I need to get that settled. Know for sure my sins have been on my way to heaven. Any at all? Now, Father, bless our invitation. I pray you'd take these thoughts and stir us and help us In Jesus' name. Let's stand together, our heads about eyes are closed. Jennifer's plan our image