Matthew chapter 25, I want us to notice three uh two passages in particular here, verse number twenty-one and verse number twenty-three. I read this in my devotions all a week or so ago, and there was a little phrase stuck out in my mind that caught my attention. In verse 21, the first part it says, And his Lord said unto him, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Come down to verse 23. His Lord said unto him, Well done, good and faithful servant Well done. Well done. I underscored that phrase in my Bible, and I prayed And I ask God to help me that when I stand before the Lord someday, that I'd be able to hear Him say, Well done. Well done. I'm probably speaking to more than a few folks this morning, and you feel like I do. I want my life to count for the Lord Jesus Christ. And I want God to be pleased. When it's all said and done, I'd like to hear the Lord say to me, as many of you do, and I'd like to hear him say about our church. Well done. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now as we study this event here, this story the Lord told. Believe there's a lot of lessons for us this morning, for us as individuals, personally. I know you've dealt with my heart in this passage, and I pray you would deal with us as a church. And Holy Spirit of God, I ask you with all my heart in this hour that you would please fill me With your spirit, I pray you'd help me get out of the way. I ask you to take control of my thoughts and my mind as I speak, and you would guide the words that come off my lips. Present my body to you as a conduit for your Holy Spirit. Take your word, speak through me, and to each of our hearts and lives. And Lord, I believe I speak for no doubt most, many, if not all of us, and we want to hear you say to us, well done, when that day comes. And so help us to do our part now. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. These events here in verse chapter 25 are I like to get the context of a passage. Sometimes I think it helps us. understand a little bit more what what's going on, what the Lord's doing. Chapter 25, this passage that Evan read a little bit ago, the whole chapter, this takes place Just a day or two before Jesus Christ is going to be crucified. He has just a few hours left before Judas betrays him to Pilate and to the Romans, to the Jews. Peter's going to deny him in just a few hours, a day or two, a couple days maybe. The disciples, every single one of them who are so in love with him now and so committed to him at this point and so devoted To Jesus Christ, they're convinced He's the Messiah, He's their Savior, He's their God. In just a few hours, every single one of them is going to abandon Him and forsake Him. It's going to be beaten mercilessly, brutally, violently. It's going to be condemned unjustly Sentenced to the worst form of execution known to man, at least up to that point, crucifixion. And so it's taking place here, as I said, what we read here is taking place just a few hours, a few days maybe, before all this takes place. After he is crucified and buried, of course, the third day he rose again. There's a 40-day period of time. Between the resurrection of Christ from the grave and his ascension to heaven. After the crucifixion, burial, and resurrection of Christ, after those three events Everything's different. There's no more miracles performed in that forty day period After his re he doesn't perform any miracles. In that 40-day period after his resurrection to his ascension, that period of time, there's no sermons preached. There are no parables told. There's no in-depth teaching on God and The discipleship and the things of the Lord, not like there was before. It's changed. It's different. After the resurrection until his ascension. What he does during that 40-day period is he verifies his resurrection to the disciples. He reveals himself to them on a number of occasions. He eats food with them. They're trying to They're trying to comprehend the fact that he's arose from the dead. He eats food with them. He presents himself to them. He interacts with them, reassuring, hey, this is me. It's for real. I'm alive from the dead. He reveals himself, he shows himself to over 500 people, we're told, at one time. And so in that 40-day period, he is verifying the fact that he did indeed rise from the dead. We studied this in Sunday school here in the auditorium the last couple of weeks. The resurrection of Jesus Christ is one of the most provable events in history that there is in history. And so he verifies that, and then he makes some final statements in that forty day period. He makes some statements about The coming of the Holy Spirit upon the disciples. The Holy Spirit of God is going to come on them. And he talks about the power of the Holy Spirit. Acts chapter 1, verse 8, he made this statement. He said, Ye shall receive power. After that the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses unto me. He told them, remain here in Jerusalem and wait for the coming of the Holy Spirit, the power of the Holy Spirit. So in that period of time, he doesn't perform any miracles, he doesn't preach any sermons He doesn't give any teaching or parables or anything like that. He just goes around verifying I'm alive, I'm alive, I'm alive. And the Holy Spirit's coming. And he's going to give you power. And then he reiterated his great commission to his disciples and to the church in particular. It's during that period of time, he says, Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. He restates that numerous times during that 40-day period. And so Our passage here, this story of the men and the talents given by the master, takes place just a day or two before he's to be crucified. After that, no more teaching, no more parables. No more miracles. That tells me that what he's saying in this text is vitally important. He's wanting to clarify to his disciples what it is to live for the Lord Jesus Christ. What he's saying and teaching his disciples these last days is profoundly important. When he came into Jerusalem just a few days previous, And that triumphal entry, and you remember he rode into Jerusalem on an ass, and they uh threw the palm leaves out. I think it's back in chapter 21. And uh as he's entering into there, the Jews had in their minds that him coming into Jerusalem in such a manner, and they're singing Hosanna to God They're praising God. They are anticipating what they're what's happening is they are anticipating Jesus Christ coming into Jerusalem and re-establishing the throne of David. And he is going to overthrow the Roman government who was ruling over Israel Jerusalem at this time, the people of God. And they anticipated him throwing off the Roman government and establishing The kingdom of David, restoring the kingdom of David to Israel. And it seems to me in this section here, he's clarifying that's not what how this is going to play out I'm not entering into Jerusalem to be enthroned and be uh anointed king of Israel and restore the kingdom. That's not what it's all about. At this point in history, Jesus Christ is not setting himself up as King of Israel. That will come later. But right now, in this context here, and throughout this age that you and I are living in, he's not setting up a political kingdom. He is setting himself up as Lord and King in the hearts and lives of individual believers. He said the kingdom of God, they were anticipating a political kingdom Like David Solomon. He said, that's not what I'm establishing. I'm not establishing a political kingdom. He said, the kingdom of God is within you. The spiritual realm where Jesus Christ is King of kings in our hearts and lives. You follow? And so he's much of his teaching during this week before when he enters Jerusalem and before he's crucified, he's Trying to clarify that. I'm going to re- Oh, by the way, the Jews rejected that. He told them, I'm not coming to be a political king. I'm coming to be king of your heart and life. The political will be later. And the Jews, for the most part, rejected that. They turned on him. One day, when he comes into Jerusalem, they're singing his praises and throwing palm leaves in front of them. Husannah to God. Glory to God. In their minds, the king has come. We're free from Rome. He goes, No, I'm set I'm not here to set you free from Rome. I'm here to set you free from sin From self. And so they rejected that and they demanded his crucifixion. During this age in which you and I live, I want to remind you: Christ has no political government. Christ has no political government. He is now head of the church. He seeks to be king on the throne of our hearts. Not to be king in some uh national capital. Christ's concern uh and and uh I'm uh don't misunderstand what I'm trying to say here Christ's concern, I think, isn't so much what's going on in Washington or in London or any other capital nation of the world. Christ's concern is what's going on in your heart and my heart That's where it starts. That's where his kingdom is. Is in our lives, in our relationship with him. Now that's not to s that's not to say we shouldn't Be involved, we shouldn't be salt, we shouldn't be light, we absolutely should be. But that's not where Christ is. He's he doesn't have a political kingdom. Now someday he'll come back and he'll set up his kingdom and rule the world In Matthew chapter 25, in the first thirteen verses, he is talking about his second coming. If you would, in fact, if you would, come back to chapter 24 And look with me at verse number one. Again, just setting the context, the immediate context of this of his teaching here. Matthew chapter 24, verse 21, it says, And Jesus went out and departed from the temple. Now that he's entered the city and uh he's uh there at the temple. Everybody's anticipating him setting up this political kingdom. And his disciples came to him for to show him the buildings of the temple. They're impressed by these buildings. And Jesus said unto them, See ye not all these things, the temple, all its surrounding? Verily I say unto you, there shall not be left here one stone upon another that shall not be thrown down. Well, that wasn't what they were anticipated hearing And as he sat upon the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to him privately, saying, Tell us, when shall these things be, and what shall be the sign of thy coming and of the end of the world? And so chapter twenty-four, he goes through and he tells all these signs what the world conditions are going to be like when he returns. What society is going to be like. And a fascinating study all through 24, chapter 24. You get to 25. And he tells this story, this parable of these ten virgins. They're waiting on the bridegroom to come, take the bride, and go off to the wedding. And um if you know, remember, and again this isn't our message, but uh while they're waiting on the bridegroom and there's a lot of traditional Jewish wedding ceremonies being uh uh referred to here. We don't have time But they're waiting, waiting. And uh five of them had their lamps trimmed and bright. They were ready. Because it's gonna it may take place at night, so they're prepared. If uh the bridegroom comes at night, they got their lamps there already to join him in the procession to the bride, get the bride. Five of them are foolish, if you notice there in verse number eight Uh uh in verse uh actually fur uh verse uh five, while the bridegroom carried the all slumber and slept, dah da Ah, they trim verse 8, and the foolies said unto the wise, give us your oil. So they weren't ready. Five of the ten were not ready. They didn't have oil in their lands. So the lesson he's telling us here in this first 13 verses is we ought to be watching and we ought to be prepared for when the Lord comes back. That's the point of the first 13 verses. We ought to be watching, we ought to be prepared for when the Lord comes back. And let me just throw this out. Again, this isn't my message. I'm trying to give the context here. But the most important issue in life Is that we know for sure our sins are forgiven, and that when we die we go to heaven, not to hell. Most important issue in life is that we prepared For meeting the Lord, whether it's through death or through the rapture, that we be ready. The worst thing that can possibly happen to a person Is to either die with my sins unforgiven or have the rapture take place and not know Jesus Christ as Savior and be left behind after the rapture takes place. And so he's saying, listen, you need to be prepared. Five of these uh virgins They were ready. They had the lamps. They were all prepared when the blind groom comes. Everything's in place. They were prepared. They were watching and waiting. The five of them were foolish And they weren't prepared. They weren't watching. They weren't ready. And when the bridegroom came, it was too late. They were left out. Won't it be awful? How foolish, how foolish to know that I need to be saved and not settle that And not make that decision. And so, first thirteen verses, we have this parable of ten virgins, and the point is, watch for the Lord's coming and be prepared. Now we have verse 14 through 30, which I've been read here a few moments ago, and this is the talents. We have these three servants, and these talents are given unto them. And the point of this parable here of the servants and the talent is that we are to work while we're waiting on the Lord's return. We're to work and promote his interest. Advance his kingdom. I think the most important issue in life is to know that I'm saved. Once I'm saved, the most important issue in my life as a believer is to trust God and fulfill His will for my life. Our purpose as a church, as I understand it in Scriptures, is a twofold purpose for as far as people are concerned. Twofold purpose. Number one, we are to do everything we can to get people to trust Jesus Christ as Savior. Right? That's our purpose. That's our job. Do everything we can to get people to trust Christ's Savior here in our own community, extended areas, around the world. Everything we can get people to know Jesus Christ Savior. Once people know Christ as Savior, then our second The second aspect of our responsibility is help them determine the will of God and help them live for God. Right? Get them saved. Then help them determine God's will and live for God. A major part of my responsibility as a pastor and as a preacher of the Bible is to help every one of us, myself included To determine God's will for each of our lives. And God has a will for your life, and He has a will for my life. So I feel part of my responsibility is to help us determine God's will for our lives, and then help us encourage us, instruct us how to fulfill that will. And I think that's the lesson here on these parables. Work for God, promote his interest, determine his will, and then fulfill that will. Invest my life in the things of God. We've been singing this song's been on my heart. We sang it on a mission trip a year or two ago, and it just stuck in my heart. I want my life to count for Jesus. I want my life to count for Jesus. I think that's what this parable is all about. I want my life to please my Lord and Savior. There's a lot of lessons. If you know me, how many people any notice over the years I tend to micro-dissect every verse in the Bible? I mean I look up every word. We'll do a we'll do a series and it'll end up somebody said to me, are you doing a verse-by-verse series? No, it's more a word-by-word series So I approached this passage of Scripture and I started, I felt like the Lord had me preach on this and I started breaking it down, dissecting, good night. It would be a five-year study if we did this the way I normally do. I just want to pull a few observations out of it. I'm not going to try and dissect everything in this text in this here. There's so much here. And to be honest with you, there's some hard things to understand in this. But there are a few very clear lessons. We can't look at all of it, but there's I have three observations. Three observations. That statement, well done, well done, well done. That's what got my attention. Three thoughts. Number one, very quickly, I noticed the presentation of these talents. The presentation of these talents. Look at verse 14 with me He says, for the kingdom of heaven. Now again, remember they were anticipating a political kingdom. And Jesus is saying, no, it's not what it is. This is what the kingdom of heaven is like The kingdom of heaven is as a man traveling to a far country. So you've got this fella, and he is going to a far country. He call who calleth his own servants and delivereth unto them his goods And then it goes on and describes what these goods are, what they consist of, and his presentation of them to his servants. Now, the one thing I want to explain here is what these servants are. Sometimes the word servant here is translated other places slaves. Slavery. Now it's important to understand Slavery in Scripture was very, very different than our understanding of slavery in the United States of America. Now, of course, we don't have it now, praise the Lord, as an awful, awful thing, but as part of our history. It was a fact. We had uh slavery was a huge part of our nation's history. I thank God we're able to work out of that, get rid of that, and correct that. Slavery in Scripture is very different than our understanding of what slavery in America was and other countries in the last couple hundred years. Slavery in America back years ago was primarily race based It's because of the color of your skin, you were a slave. If you had black skin, you were a slave. There was a little bit of Asian slavery out west, I think. There was a little bit of that, not to the extent of a of a of race-based slave or black slavery here in the United States. That's basically what it was. It was based on your race In Scripture, it was very, very different. When they talk about servants here and slavery here, it had nothing to do with their race. Slaves could have been red and yellow, black and white, purple, green, and orange. Had nothing to do with their race. Slavery or the servants here were most likely, they could possibly have been maybe prisoners of war. Where they had attacked the nation or been in a war with the nation. They were taken as prisoners of war. And rather than killing them, they would take them in and be their slaves. They would work as servants for the masters. Many times, when they became a servant, in the case here, many times, they would end up way better off financially and health-wise than what they had been before. It would for many of them it ended up being a good thing. Sometimes they were prisoners of war. Sometimes these servants or slaves uh w became a servant out of poverty. They were very, very poor. They uh they had nothing. And so they would give themselves over to somebody who was very wealthy, said, I'll be your slave, you feed me, you take care of me, I'll be your servant. It was somewhat of a occupation type thing to an extent. And um and they would give surrender over to the authority of whoever they were trusting to meet their needs. So sometimes the result of poverty, sometimes it was a result of great debt. For whatever reason they had gotten in debt to somebody and they owed them more than they could ever pay back And they say, tell you what, I'll just work, I'll just be your servant, I'll just be, and to work off that debt and pay that debt. So it was a little different than what we understand today. Some of these servants were very highly educated. Uh some of them were very skilled uh at different um uh vocations Some of them became very, very successful. You think of Daniel. Daniel was taken as a slave in Babylon. He was a prisoner of war. He was very, very successful and he worked his way up the ranks and became basically the vice president of all Babylon. As a slave. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Others, Joseph worked his way up as a slave. As a servant. And so some of the servants had their own servants. They became very wealthy, became very successful as a servant of a under somebody And they would get their own and uh bring in their own servants. So it's very, very different than what we're used to here. Now notice this master, he has these servants And he gives his goods to three of these servants. Notice there verse 14. He says, he delivered unto them his goods. The word goods there means his wealth, his possessions, his property. He trusted these fellows. He cared about them, he known them well enough, and He's going to travel off for a long time. And he goes, while I'm gone, I'm going to give my goods to you, some of my wealth, my property, whatnot, and I'm trusting it to you So that's the goods there. Now I notice in the presentation of these talents, he's extremely generous to these guys. Look at verse 15. And unto one he gave five talents. Now we hear that word talents. We think of what? If somebody is very talented, they are what? They're what? Very gifted, they're a lot of abilities, and she's a talented artist. Man, that guy's a talented singer. We think of gifts or abilities, that type of thing. The word talents here is not talking about that. It is a form of money A talent, as I studied this, I came to find out, one talent is the equivalent of twenty years income. One talent, 20 years income. Now I don't know what the average income is in Garrett County. I'm going to guess maybe 50,000. A year, somewhere around there. I may be high, I may be low, I'm not sure. But let's say let's say the average income in Garrett County, annual income is fifty thousand Twenty years income would be what? How many people are thinking this morning? If the average income is $50,000 a year and one talent is 20 years income, it would be what? One million dollars. Now look what this guy gives to his servants. Verse number 15. And to one he gave five talents. So how much would that be? Five million dollars. Would you agree with me? That's pretty generous He's giving he's giving here's five million dollars. I'm trusting you with it, the dope. Um notice uh the next one, he says um Unto one he gave five. To another two, two million dollars. And to another one, one million dollars. Would you agree with me? This guy's awfully generous Good night. He's unbelievably wealthy. One servant, five million dollars. Uh another servant, two million dollars, another servant, one million dollars. He's given it to his servants. So, uh very generous. Very generous. I notice the exercise is discernment. Verse number 15, the last part. He says, To every man according to his several ability. In other words, he knew these servants very well. He says, here's servant, uh, here's servant Bob. I know Bob. He's pretty good. Uh he he's very able. He he's very good at dealing with money and investing. This guy, if I give him five million dollars, this guy can make some money with it He can advance my well-being. He can do right. I'll give him five minutes. Here's uh Joe. Joe, he's pretty good Now he don't he's he doesn't have the skills that Bob has, but he's still pretty good. I'm gonna give him two million. I think he could do something with it I think he could advance this corporation here and this household and uh he could this would be I'm going to give him two million Then he comes over here to, let's see, we got who? Uh Bob and Joe, and over here is um Larry. Now Larry, he's not bad, but he's not as good as Bob is, and he's not he's no Joe. I'll give him a million. Here's the point. The master knew these servants very, very well. He knew what they could handle. He knew what they were capable of. I'm here to tell you, our God is a good God. And you and I, and in this parable here, this story here, the Master is obviously our Lord. And you and I, as believers, are the servants. And God looks down, and He knows you and He knows me. And He knows what we're capable of, He knows our strengths, He knows our weaknesses. He knows our potential and he knows our limitations. And God, in his wisdom and in his plans and his purposes, he gives to some greater resources than to others. Some he gives much, some he gives not as much. But even the one that got the least is still pretty generous. That's a million bucks. Amen or not? You say, brother, preacher, uh God didn't, I don't have as much as what God gave somebody else. Listen, the very fact that we're not in hell, God's been awfully generous to us. And so he knows us. He knows our downsetting. He knows our uprising. He knows our strengths. He knows our weaknesses. He knows how you and I can best glorify him and use him. So in his wisdom and in his plans and purposes He gives us different resources. In Philippians chapter 4 and verse 11, Paul put it this way: I have learned in whatever state I am therewith to be content. He said, I know how to be rich. Sometimes God pours it on me, and I have all kinds of resources. I have all kinds of, and he says, I know how I know how to abound, and I know how to be poor. I know how to go without Paul said, I've learned to be content. If God gives me a lot, praise the Lord, God's been good to me. If God doesn't give me much, and I just barely get by, praise the Lord, God's still been good to me Timothy said, he told Timothy in 1 Timothy 6 and verse 6, he says, godliness with contentment is great gain. If you and I can learn to just be content with such things as God has given to us, we'll be a whole lot farther down the road in this matter of happiness. Amen or not? You know how to be rich, you know how to have everything you want. You said, Preacher, if I could just have everything I want, man, then I'd be happy. Tell you what, turn it around. Why don't you just decide you want everything you have? Right? You're rich. Say preacher, are you rich? Yep. I want everything I have. I got I I got it. And so uh he gave he gave some a lot, some a little But the point is we need to be content. James chapter 1, verse 17. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above Everything we have. Say, preacher, I worked hard for what I got. I b I uh I sweat of my brow. I worked this is my do, and I b I made something of myself. I'm here to tell you you couldn't make nothing of yourself if it wasn't for God's goodness. It's God's grace, God's goodness, that we're even able to get up and walk. It's God's grace, God's goodness. We can do anything. Every good gift, every perfect gift is from above. Job chapter 1, verse 21, he lost everything. I tell you, listen to what he said. He said, Naked came I out of the womb, naked I shall return. The Lord gave, and the Lord taketh away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. If we could just get to the point where we're content, whether we have five million or one million, whether we have five or one Whatever God gives me, I just thank God for it. I've got more than I deserve. And so I see the I see the presentation of these talents. It's incredibly generous, extremely generous And God in his wisdom gives to Dennis Letterman, uh not the same thing he gives to Helen Harsh or to uh Ken R uh uh spranza or uh he he gives to each of us in his wisdom what he knows is best for us and what we can do, what our potential is God's given us all good things. Some more, some less, and we praise the Lord for it. We rejoice in Him. And by the way, God won't ask for me something that He hasn't given me He's given it to me, and then he trusts me with it. So, number one, the presentation of these talents. Number two, I noticed the purpose of the talents. Why did he give five million dollars to Bob? Why'd he give two million dollars to what was his name? Job. Why do you get w what was the whole purpose of that? Just so they're gonna have tons of here, I'll just give it to you. No, no, no. There was a purpose. Look at verse 19. It says, After a long time, the Lord of those servants cometh and reckoneth with them. There was something they're supposed to be doing with all this great riches This tremendous amount of money. There was something to be done. He had a purpose. That word reckoneth is an accounting term. It means tally up the books. He's holding them accountable. I have given to you this. You are a steward of it. You are to use it for a purpose. And I'm going to come back and we're going to reckon on how it was used. Now the thing to keep in mind here, this money was not theirs. It was the master's. And he gave it to them for a purpose. It was to advance his interests, it was to advance his kingdom, his glory. It was not theirs, it was the master's, and they were to use it for his. And it was a long-term endeavor. Look at verse 19. After a long time. This wasn't just, well, I'm coming back next week, see what you can do with it. No, this was basically their whole life. That word long time means many, many years. This is their whole lifetime. He's investing. I'm giving this to you. This is my plan, purpose for your life. Use it. I'm coming back. We'll see how you did with it. See how you did with it. Alright, so preacher, alright, big deal. What's that have to do with me? If we know Jesus Christ as Savior, we are his servants. We're his, right? We're not our own. We're his. Everything we have is God's He's the creator. He made this whole thing. He's the one that gave us life. This is all his. And we're his What God entrusts us with, we are stewards of what God has entrusted us with, and we are to use it for His glory and to advance His kingdom. We're not our own. Take your Bible, if you would. Turn with me to 1 Corinthians chapter 6, real quick. 1 Corinthians chapter 6, and notice with me verse number 19. Just like this master gave the steward, the servants, differing amounts of finances, everything we have is given to us. It's not our own. We are stewards of it. Look at verse 1 Corinthians 6. Look with me if you would at verse number 19. What Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost which is in you? Now look at this, which you have of God, and ye are not your own For ye are bought with a price. Wherefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. We're not our own. We are his. He's God. He's the one that created us. He's the one that gave us life. Everything we have, everything we are is the Lord's. Is the Lord's. The New Testament church understood this, and we won't take time to turn here, but Acts chapter 4, verse 32, it makes this statement, speaking of the believers, the church. It says, no man, and I'm putting my own words here, I'm not quoting this exactly, but it says to the effect, no man considered what he had as his own. The New Testament church understood everything we have is the Lord's. Everything we have is the Lord's. Somebody said there's three ways to approach, to view our possessions. One is everything I have is mine. It's my house, it's my money, this is my body, this is my time, these are my talents, my abilities, my gifts. It's all mine. The second attitude to have as far as ourselves and our possessions is 10% of what I have is God's. The tithe is the Lord's, right? We've heard that all the time. Alright, so I've got I've got he gave uh Larry million dollars, alright, million dollars gave 10% is my master's, alright, 90% is mine. 10% of my time is the Lord's. 90% of the rest of the time is mine. 10% of my possessions, the Lord's, the rest of it is mine. That's one way to look at it. One is that it's all mine. Mine, mine, mine, mine, mine. The other is 10%'s the Lord's. He is some of it. I recognize. All right, Lord, here's your percentage. Then there's a third approach. And everything is God's. It's all the Lord's. If it wasn't for him, I wouldn't have anything. I wouldn't even exist. Everything I have has been given to me. Everything I have has been given to me. My life. Everything It's God's given to me. And Lord, it's not mine. It's all yours. It's all yours. Everything these guys got. Was their master's. None of it was their own. None of it was their own. My time is not my own. It's the Lord's. You know God could take us like that. By the end of the day, we could be gone. This time I have is not mine, it's the Lord's. God has given to all of us, every one of us here have different gifts, different abilities God has given them to us. They're not ours. They're not to be used for our purposes, for our advancement, for our pleasures, for our well-being. They're His. I'm a steward, they're his. My treasures, my finances. And so the presentation, the master gave them everything they have. He gave them generously. For the purpose to use it for his advancement, for his kingdom, for his glory. And then last of all I am with this the praise of the Master. Look with me at verse 21. Again, we started off with this. Come back here. to Matthew. He says in verse 21, the Lord said, Well done, thou good and faithful servant He says in verse number 23, he said, Well done, good and faithful servant. And then you get to 26, and you have Larry here, the third fellow. And his Lord answered and said unto him, Thou wicked and slothful servant, thou knewest that I reap where I sowed not, and gather where I am not strawed. Therefore oughtest thou to have put my money to the exchangers, then at my coming I should have him received of my own. This third fellow, Larry, rather than investing it, rather than using it for the purpose it was given to him He just stashed it up. His concern wasn't for the well-being of his master. His concern wasn't pleasing the master. His concern was about me. Oh boy, he's tough. He he don't treat her fair. In fact, notice there it says um Uh verse twenty-four, he's ex given why he didn't make any money off of this. He said, When he had received the one talent, came and said, Lord, I knew thee that thou art a hard man That word hard there means cruel and unjust and unfair, selfish. He said, the guy gave him a million dollars And he says, you're not very good to me. You're not very good to me. I tell you, God's been awfully good to us. We have absolutely no justification to look at God and say, God, you're unfair. You're not good to me. God is good to us. And he's judged sharply for it. Two, the first two, they got different amounts. One got Five million, the other guy two million. But they both took they both made the same actions. The five million guy, Joe, here, he did the set he did and the two million guy uh No, Joe's over here, right? This is Bob. Bob's got five hundred five million dollars. Joe's got two million dollars. They both did the exact same thing. Two different amounts, but they both invested it They did the exact same thing. The other thing I noticed that I thought was interesting is they both got the same reward. They both got the same praise. Listen, I may not have all the talents of uh Norris Felcher or some of these great preachers. I mean this is what I am, I'm a preacher. So I look at these other guys, man, they're so talented, they're so gifted, man, God is just there's something And I look at them and say, God hasn't given me the abilities that God's given them. But you know what? The abilities God has given me, I can do the same thing with the abilities God's given me that He's that they do with the abilities God's given them. And you may not have something that you look at somebody else and say, Well, I can't do that. But you can do with what God has given you the very same thing they do with God has given them. In other words, we can all be faithful. Whether we have ten gifts and abilities and talents, or we got five, or we got two, or we got one, we can all be faithful to God with it. And so they both did the exact same thing. They both, I learned years ago, I can be just as obedient to God as anybody else with big big uh I used to you've heard me say this before I got where uh I got thinking, man, these big churches in the cities and we're out here in Garrett County and we're doing the best we can. We're trying to reach people, but man Those guys get to the judgment of Christ and they're going to get so many rewards. They got thousands and they're going to get so and I God rebuked me And we can have just as many rewards as Mountain Lake in Garrett County as these big churches do in the big cities around the world. We can be just as faithful. We can be just as loving. We can be just as earnest as the big ones, the little ones can be as the big ones. And by the way, we get the same rewards. They both got the exact same reward. Both said, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. So here's the point. This is what I took from my when I read this in my devotion. I talked away. I said I want to take what God has given me, and I want to use it for His glory. I want to use it for something that is more than just now temporal. Back in 1979, leading up to my salvation in May, I'd been reading my Bible. You've heard me tell the story many times, but I was reading my Bible and God was dealing with my heart and I was seeing things I never understood before And I came across a verse, this is before I was saved, several weeks before I was saved, I came across a verse, 2 Corinthians 4:18, and it says this And this is one of the first verses I memorized after I got saved. It says, while we look not at the things which are seen, but the things which are not seen. The spirit world. For the things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal. And I was driving down the road in my I had a Chavet. Anybody anybody remember the Chevets? I called it a vet. So what do you drive? A vet. Oh wow, yeah. You gotta shove it to get it started. Uh I would pull in the gas station, say, all right. Check the gas and fill the oil. But um anyway, I was driving down and I had eight track remember eight track players? And you know those were notorious. That thing would eat it. It would just eat the tape. And so I'm driving down, I can t I can take it to the intersection. I can see it in my mind where I was at a stop sign at the intersection, just down from my house. I was sitting there. And that tape, I was listening to this music, ungodly music, and that eight-track tape player just ate the tape. I pulled it out, it's all this tape. And that verse came to mind Everything I was living for, and everything I was investing my life in was temporal. It was just for stuff here and now. And God spoke to my heart and said, Dennis, there's a whole world that's eternal. You need to trust me. You need to live your life, not for the temporal things now. But invest your life in the eternal that lasts forever. You follow me? And that's what he's saying here I've given you so much. Invest it in the kingdom of God. The kingdom of God. Um, we have missions conference coming up. We're going to ask, and I don't apologize. And I ask the same from myself. I'm not asking anybody to do anything that I'm not doing. We're going to ask folks to pray and seek God about investing Money, time, and effort into getting the gospel around the world. What are we investing in now? I'm asking people to pray. Am I investing in just temporal pleasures and stuff now, or can I invest in something that is going to last forever and hear the Lord say, Well done, a good and faithful servant In other words, take what God has given me and invest it in his purposes, invest it in his plans, and there's great reward, great reward. I was going over this last night. I told my wife I was going over this last night, and I thought, how does this apply? How do I apply this away? And I got a message, and he's probably listening right now. But I got a message from Steve Matthews up in Pennsylvania. You all know Steve and Hannah. Went up there to pastor a church. Illness struck his tremendous physical challenges. And he texted me yesterday and he said, Where do you get your tracks for track month? I said, well, beacon of truth, a couple other places. I sent him the information. He goes, okay. And he and he's in rehab right now, and again he's probably listening. He said, um, preacher, he texted me, when I get out of here in a couple weeks, I'm gonna lead our church to have track month. He said, we could never give out as many as what Mountain Lake does, but we can get some out. He says, I think I'm going to try and do that, Arthur. Now Steve has tremendous physical challenges But here's the point I'm trying to make. He's taking what God gave him, and he's wanting to use his body, his life. His resources. He wants to use it for God's glory and God's kingdom. Now here's my question. What are you doing? What am I doing with what God has given us? Are we investing it in the kingdom of God? Are we investing it in his glory? Are we investing it in his purpose to reach souls around the world? Father, I pray you'd take this message this morning. I don't know how you might use this. But I know, God, you've been good to us. And Lord, I pray that you would help us. To take that which you've entrusted us with and use it for your glory, that souls would be saved, and you'd be glorified. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many would say, Preacher, God stirred my heart this morning. And I want what He's given me and how He's blessed me. And I want to use that, invest that In his kingdom and that which has last beyond just here and now, but something that lasts for eternity. Is there any like that? Heads bowed, eyes closed. How about it? God bless you. Hands on. I want to invest in that Now I'm not going to ask you to raise your hand, but I do ask our church. I'm asking our church folks, will you pray earnestly between now and next week, two weeks? Our missions conference, what God would have you use, how God would have you use the resources He's given you. Some of us would be that five million guy, some two, some one But whatever it may be, I want God to use it for his glory and for the salvation of the lost. Father in heaven, please bless our invitation now. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together hands