Realize Philippians chapter four is a common passage, but don't let that commonality produce a complacency in our our Christian walk here because This passage is just, the Lord's really raked me over and over again about this particular matter of prayer. I love the book. of Philippians, because it even though this book was written, if you know your biblical history, it was written in the dark darb dungeon, so to speak, by Paul. It's a book, as we read in our text there, it's a book of rejoicing. In this short four-chapter book, you see lots of proclamation, you see lots of praise, but also a lot of prayer. And that's the subject I'd like to consider this morning. Philippians chapter 4, verse number 6 and 7. I'd like to just reread that very quickly to get it ingrained in our minds. You likely you have this passage memorized, but this is where we're going to focus this morning. Be careful for nothing. I'll point out just a couple words. Be careful for nothing but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving. Let your requests be made known unto God. And then this conditional aspect to the promise here, this command given. And it says, and the peace of God which passeth all understanding shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. I'll tell you what, this is a timely message for us even today, especially with the world kind of almost sort of turn upside down. I don't know if you flip on the news channel that much. Probably is not all that good for you to get a a lot of dose of the news. But I'll say this bit our our world has a lot of lack of uh peace in their hearts and their minds. But as Christians we have sealed for us in the eternal word this conditional promise. If we just make a habit of a prayerful life, we'll have peace that passes all understanding. Let's pray. Lord, I pray with the disciples that you would teach us to pray. Help us to not only see the importance of prayer, But understand the instruction you give on prayer and become inspired to pray more as we ought. We know it's not the hearers that are promised to be blessed, but the heeders. And I pray this morning that we would all be in the latter category and heed, not just hear. Use your word to convict my heart and the heart of the hearers in Christ's name. Amen. Let me ask you a very simple yet probing question. We ought to do this when we approach the Word of God. How is your prayer life? Simple question. How is your parallel? Let's put us in the context of school this morning and you had to issue yourself a letter grade. What sort of letter grade would you give your prayer life? Say, Pastor Brah, we would give it an A for awesome. I'm doing a great job. It's vibrant. I'm seeing answers to prayer. Maybe a B because I'm a little above average, but I'm I'm I'm headed in the right direction. See uh it's it's okay, there's some improvement. Maybe you would give yourself if you were honest, I hope that you are. You'd give yourself an F because your prayer life you've been very much failing, knowing what you're supposed to do, and just not there. But the question this morning is, how would you or how is your prayer life? Notice I didn't ask you how much do you know about prayer? I didn't ask you how many verses do you have memorized concerning prayer. I didn't even ask you How much do you pray in today? Because the Pharisees, they prayed much, only it did not avail much. You see that there? So I'm asking you how simple question, how is your prayer life. Only one person on this in this world can can answer that, and that's you. I read a story recently about a farmer named John Walker who lived on the tail end of the Great Depression He farmed that same lot of land that he lived on since he was six years old, but year after year he struggled to make ends meet and to even put food on the table for his family. They were asking and interviewing him from the article that I had read about him that He noticed that as the years went on it got worse and worse, and he actually watched as both he and his wife dropped weight, thinned down, it became even hard to do the physical manual labor that a farm would be. requires as far as upkeep. One year was particularly bad and he said without exaggerating, our our family had hardly any food and we nearly starved to death. Till one day a knock came at the door and there was a man dressed in a very nice suit and uh offering Mr. Walker and his family five million dollars for the use of his property with the promise of more to come. To give you an idea, that's I looked it up approximately $50 million today. Okay, so we're talking about lots and lots of money. See, little did Mr. Walker know, but he was living on top of one of the largest oil fields. out west. In in one day, so to speak, he went from surviving to thriving. He went from rags to riches in a hurry. We could say something like that. But what had what was the difference? This farmer realized the resources that were on his land And he used that. You know something for us today, uh, as children of God, we realize the wealth of resources that we have in this thing called prayer and we need to use it. Mr. Walker received a knock on the front door and as disciples of Christ today, you and I receive an invitation from Christ to knock the on heaven's door according to the gospels to say to receive that same sort of blessing. Just how many of us use I I read a s very sad statistic uh in preparation for this that On average, the average Christian prays approximately four minutes every day The average preacher is just a little bit better than that. He prays on average seven minutes every day. Let me give you an idea of what that's like. That's less than one half. of one percent of the time in an entire day. Why is that? Especially when the Bible says by the word of Jeremiah the prophet, call unto me, I will answer thee. I will show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. Hebrews 4 16 reiterates, he says, you can come boldly before the throne of grace that you can obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. Pastor Brent, if I were honest, I would not give myself so hot of a grade when it comes to my quote unquote prayer life. If I if I had to be honest, I I want God to do something. I want to see Bible answers to prayer. But I I'm just a little confused. I I I've tried this before. What exactly does a prayerful life look like I'm thankful Paul gives us the answer in this text, Philippians chapter 4, a verse very, very common to you. I have no doubt about that. But if you're, that's the challenge this morning is what does a prayerful life look like? Teenager all the way onto the back there. What does that actually look like? God, I want you to give me a prayer life the way that I should. But what does that look like? I'm so thankful. Paul answers for that. And I would say, first of all, you'll notice without a doubt, look in verse number six. He says, be careful. for nothing. We'll get to what that means. But you know what I noticed first of all that a prayerful life looks like. Get this. A prayerful life looks like a worry-lessed life. Okay. So a worry less. You know, you worry all the time. We tend to do that, especially in our society, fast pace and all. But uh A prayerful life is a worry-less life. You can think of it like a worryless life or a worry-less. I need to start worrying less. It's amazing, just as light dispels darkness at the flip of a switch, so prayer dispels worry in a Christian's life. Be careful. That word that you notice that that Paul writes to the church at Philippi, he says, be careful. That word is anxious. Or troubled. It's one verb. It's the idea of being just troubled. Here Paul's saying, listen, be careful for absolutely nothing. There's no reason. The literal translation from the Greek to our vernacular Or our common day language, if you would, is get this. Don't worry about it. That's exactly what he's saying here. So therefore, just by I'm just using very basic deductive reasoning and and in uh the teen Sunday school class we're going through Bible interpretation and just making very simple steps, common sense steps. That if we use basic deductive reasoning from this, then when we worry, we displease God, don't we? When you worry, Mom, Dad, when you worry, Grandma Grandpa, when you worry, teenager, about what's coming ahead, what you're supposed to do, when you worry, plain and simple, based on our text, you displease God. The Bible calls that sin, not just a lack of faith or a lack of maturity. Furthermore Uh when we were worry deductive reasoning, we're not praying. The two cannot exist together. You understand his very basic reasoning there, but do you realize this God never excuses worry in a Christian's life. I would invite you, challenge you That uh search the scripture and show me one place in the Word of God where God says, you know what, as a child of God, I'm gonna give you permission just this one time to worry about it. You know what? It doesn't happen. There's not a reason or a problem that can come in our lives that God gives you permission to worry. Now how would that truth change and transform your life? The problem is that we rely too much on and I'm saying from my own perspective how God's worked in my heart We rely too much on our own understanding, don't we? Isn't that an easy thing to do? But look at verse number seven, dispels that. Here Paul says, and the peace of God which does what? Fill in the blank, passeth all understanding. Dad, you may be extremely smart and gifted and everybody comes to you at work with problems that they have because you you know the the lowdown on it all. But when it comes to this peace of God, it's way beyond you. Mom, you may have done this over and over again, and you have advice that would fill 40 volumes of books, but I got news for you, the peace of God. passes even your understanding. The peace of God passes a teenager. You may think you have your life all planned out. Listen, I've been there, I've done that. Paul uh clearly writes here, he says, Listen, you need to uh get your life saturated with prayer, and that peace of God is going to pass all understanding, so we don't have to fret what's going on. That's the idea here. But I mentioned uh this a little bit earlier. We live in a fast-paced society. I get that. Uh as ministers, uh pastor and I we're we're we're called to uh minister to uh Folks that I listen, I I I mean I've I've been there, I've done that, I I see the world, it's his uh all the technology and things going on and busyness and our schedules getting full fuller and fuller, but we get bogged down with a lot of worries and a lot of cares that God never intended for us to have. Plain and simple. That's why I believe stress and looked up a lot of statistics. regarding stress and all the problems that that causes in a human being's body and the actual mechanics of a human being. It it does they're not supposed to go together. Even nature teaches us that. But here we have the very word of God that's saying the exact same thing. You are not built to carry a bunch of stress in your life. You just need to stop it and say, God, I want a prayerful life. What does that look like? Well, it's a worry-less life. Stop worrying. Finances, family, future. Uh uh the three F's that it seems like everybody worries about. Stop worrying about. Interesting, the word careful, it says be careful. also denotes the burden of caring or looking out for or promoting your own interests as if the whole matter rests on you Who promises to be your provider? God does. This is why I believe Paul says the exact opposite in our text here. You just drop down to verse number nineteen. Look at Philippians four nineteen. I love this verse. But this ties perfectly into what he's saying here. He says, But my God shall supply all your need according to his riches in glory by Christ Jesus. There's n God's given you the equipment. I love this illustration with the teens that when you when in football, you don't dare s step out, whether practice or otherwise, you're not going to step out on that field without the proper equipment, or you're going to get killed. I never actually was on a football team, but uh trust me I did it with my cousins and they were they're rough and tough and I had no equipment and I felt like I got killed, okay? Um but you you would dare n you would never dare step out on the field with proper equipment. You you you God's given us the equipment to succeed. He's given us what we need. When you say, Pastor Brett, I do want a prayerful life. Well, I've got news for you. Then it starts with that conscientious choice of yours to say, I'm gonna stop where I'm at right now worrying, and I'm gonna say, you know what That is not what I'm supposed to be doing. God's given me the wherewithal to stop this and instead replace it with a perfect life. That's what he has intended. Also, verse number four, look at it says We love to quote this verse, rejoice in the Lord always, and again I say rejoice. Do you want to know how I feel that most Christians live this verse? Rejoice alway, and again I say rejoice. Uh-oh, we got a problem. Because we missed out the m missed the most important part. Rejoice in the Lord. When we're talking about prayer life, we're talking about an intimacy with God. Okay, I'm not talking about a cool formula for the the young crowd and uh hip and let's have a prayerful life and be super spiritual Now I'm talking about an intimate relationship, rejoicing. A prayerful life is a rejoiceful life. I think you understand that in context, but it's rejoicing in the Lord, having that Walk with him. If you find that you're just worrying and stressing out about a whole bunch of things and all these physical problems are mounting up with you, I'm not saying every physical problem is related to that. I think you understand that. I am saying that a lot of we do uh we have a undue amount of pressure on us that God never intended. When I first got here I appreciated pastors morning message that take Christ's yoke upon us uh coming into this year and the rest of our lives. That's what what Paul is saying here. We need to rejoice in the Lord, have a a prayerful life is a worry-less life. I think you can understand that. So a prayerful life is not only a worry-less life, but it is also a worshipful life. What do I mean by worship? How do you see that? Well, the word uh worship or prayer pray here actually is the same word that's translated worship. In other passages. How about that? That be careful for nothing. Don't worry about anything. But in everything by prayer, worshiping God. The way that you ought to. Pastor, I don't see how a prayerful life is a worshipful life. Well that's exactly what this is saying that our life ought to reflect worship. He says, um, you need to pray without ceasing. It doesn't mean that we're constantly bent over, keel over, praying. It means that constant living our life in that state of prayer A readiness of mind, a closeness, walk with God. That's what we're talking about. A praiseworthy life, a worshipful life, a prayerful life. You want to know what it looks like? It's not just a worry-less life, it's a worshipful life. How do wh how do I say it? Well praise. Praise is just simply acknowledging who he is. I appreciate the word supply in our text. You notice that in verse number six. But by everything by prayer and supplication, that word supplication there, it demands a supplier, doesn't it? Uh it's uh when was the last time you simply praised God for who he is, the question I jotted down. How about this that God promises he is our salvation? He promises he'll he's our father, even if we don't have one on this side of eternity. He promises that he's our friend, even if all others have forsaken. He promises that he is our king. that we can come to with extreme amount of authority. He is our Lord, our master. He dictates how our life ought to be. He's so many things. When was the last time you just praised God? for who he was. That's what he's getting at. A prayerful life is a worshipful life, praising God for who he is. The word prayer can also is the idea of an oratory. That's like a a musician who prepares for a recital. He spends hours or she spends hours and hours practicing, rehearsing, getting a piece down into absolute perfection. so that it sounds great to the listener. That's this idea of oratory. That's why the psalmist I believe says that um Psalms is a book of Psalms. That's what the word means. But that's why I believe Psalm The book of Psalms mentions praises over a hundred times. It's like arranging a song. The psalmist, uh in the same way that the psalmist would arrange a song, the psalmist uh arranges praise to God. Just a simple kind of interesting thought as I was studying this out, that when was the last time you prepared something in your heart to approach the throne room of God, just praising him for who he is? God, I've been thinking about this, and I need to share this with you. Wow, how come we don't do that? The psalmist did. This is exactly what Paul's saying. I want a prayerful life. Well it ought to be a worshipful life, full of praise. How about full of Thanks, not just acknowledging who he is, but what he has done. How easy is it to skip over this part? Please fill in the blank. Be careful for for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication with What was the word? Thanksgiving. With thanksgiving. How easy is it to skip over that word? But so much of scripture includes thankful. We all like to be around people that are thankful and those that are opposite we don't like to be around. Okay, you understand that. Paul instructs believers again in uh to the church at Colossian, uh Colossians 4 2, he says, continue in prayer and watch in the same with thanksgiving. Psalm uh sixty-nine thirty, I will praise the name of God with a song and magnify him with Thanksgiving. Psalm 95, 2. Let us come before his presence with thanksgiving. Psalm 104, enter into his gates with thanksgiving and into his courts with praise. and be thankful unto him and blesses me. Psalm 107, 22, let them sacrifice the sacrifices of thanksgiving. And declare his works with rejoicing. Hebrews 13, 15 says almost the same thing. Let us offer the sacrifices of praise to God continually. That is the fruit of our lips giving thank you. Thanks to his holy name. You know, unthankfulness is something that God expects out of sinners, not his saints, according to Romans 120. I read a story a little while back ago now about a pastor in his congregation that just desperately desired revival in their church, in their community. Hopefully that's your desire too. But this pastor um for years, literally years, had been praying for uh this revival to take place with little to Really no results from his account until one Sunday he preached on prayer from the exact same passage that we're reading this morning. And everything was going great until he got to this part with thanksgiving. The Spirit of God so convicted him about this missing element in his life. He had to get it right that very instant. He began thanking God for everything that he had done right in the middle of the service. It flowed to the congregation. One by one, people began to testify and give God thanks for what He had done in their life. Thanks for saving their soul. Thanks for the blessings of family. Thanks for everything that there is in salvation. Thanks for the promises of God. Just thanks for anything and everything that they could think about. It began to overflow soon. It began to reach out to the community, and someone felt the difference. The whole community felt what was going on there. Many people as a result came to know Christ as their personal Savior because of this revival that took place because they got a hold of one concept. They had a worshipful life that was full of thanksgiving. Are you a thankful person? A worshipful life that's full of praise for who he is. It's full of thanks for what he's done. It's also a worshipful life because of dependence. Right? You understand worship uh pray or worship the word is proste, so that means like prostrate, we get that idea in the in the English where we get down really low as if we would before a magistrate or a king or a queen and honor them in independence upon them. Evangelist Owen Carr said this a day without prayer is a boast against God. The word prayer denotes, as I mentioned, of prostrate or dependence. And the key to revival in the Old Testament, you remember the uh promise given to the children of Israel in 2 Chronicles 7. 14, if my people which are called by my name shall humble, there's that word, humble themselves and pray. What could God do? I've got news for you. It still works today. The same exact same thing. But I I I would say this that some of us don't experience the answers to prayer because of our approach to prayer. See, we don't come bossing God, we come begging God Big difference, isn't there? This dependence is a worshipful life. And uh some of you who are parents, you'll probably understand this. My mind thinks an illustration, but um some of you That uh you you that our parents you will definitely understand this, but we were on a family vacation and I was upset because at this point we had gone all day and I was getting very hungry. I don't know what possessed me, but I blurted out, Dad, mom, we're going to McDonald's. I knew better than to talk to my parents like that and I I paid for it, but that's another story. Okay. So Guess where we ate that night, Burger King Yeah, that wasn't gonna fly. Um my dad was military. Yeah, that just wasn't gonna go. Okay, so well later that week I worked really hard to help my mom get things packed up around our site and so forth, and I came and I asked my parents with a slightly different tone of voice Uh would that be okay if we went to Pizza Hut? I've been trying to help my mom this uh I've been trying to help mom this week and so forth. You want to guess where we went that night? Oh, we went to Pizza, okay. But all that to say, so what was the difference, my approach, to my parents? Our approach to God in prayer makes a big difference. If you've been taught that God hears every prayer that we whisper and God answers every prayer, you've been taught. incorrectly according to scripture because the Bible says by the word of Isaiah that your uh sins have have removed God, that he cannot hear you. that uh he conscientiously makes the choice. He'll not hear you. Sometimes you may not experience the answers to prayer because of your approach in prayer. And we a uh a prayerful life is a life that's uh worry less life. It's a worshipful life. We can see that. And then thirdly, I would say this a prayerful life is not only a worryless life and a worshipful life, but also a watchful Life, right? You can you know I can have you fill in the blank. Jesus told his disciples then to watch and write watch and pray. Tell his disciples uh he tells his disciples today the very same thing to watch And pray. Watchful, be alert, see the need around you. Be mindful of the where of warfare going on around you, the spiritual warfare, you and others Um, that will overtake you if you're not watchful in prayer. This has become extremely evident to me as we've recently made the transition into full-time Christian ministry. You just begin to see things from a certain perspective Wow, there is spiritual warfare going on. Undoubtedly, there are people in this size of a group that are broken over uh those that are lost, those that are unsaved family members, talking with some of our teens of Brandon praying for his grandma. and so forth and others that just are without Christ and your heart is broken. But what if I asked you men, just making it practical here this morning, what if I asked some of you men to stand up and show me your list of people that you're praying for as a family to get saved? Or if I asked you to list some of them off, would you be able to do that? Are you being watchful? I don't know how many times I've heard this saying that we're just not seeing young people Any amount of young people surrendering to full-time Christian service anymore. And we're just not seeing them sticking around in church at all. And man, I don't know what in the world's going on. Are you being watchful? In prayer. I imagine if I asked this morning, how many of you are thankful? I know he's not here this morning, but how many of you are thankful for Pastor Leatherman? I hope that you'd raise your hand and say, yes, I'm thankful for him this morning. I'm thankful for and you ought to be, because um even as my uh big bad boss, so to speak, now I'm just teasing that he uh he's not that at all, but I'm so thankful. for him. Do you think to pray for him? As I mentioned, we just began, uh had begun in ministry, and let me tell you, I see some of this warfare going on. But the weight and the target is right on Pastor's back, his his uh Miss Kathy's back. You can see these things take place. Are you praying for them? Are you lifting them? Are you being watchful? Um In fact, just a few weeks before I came on staff here at MLIBC that I uh my last days at work, I worked for some of you know shape welding factory. Um but through my time there I had s made some really good friends and was uh saying some goodbyes uh my last day, but I'll uh what would have been my last day that Friday I had uh one friend in particular that I had spoken with her a lot about Christ, many opportunities to witness to her, and I was anticipating being able to say goodbye to everybody, probably wouldn't see them. Again, except for Facebook and that sort of thing. But she wasn't there. The week just a week from them to the day, that next Friday. I was attending Tira Spencer's funeral. She had OD'd on some sleeping pills and And I knew she had it rough back home and that sort of thing. But what was coursing through this mind is if only I just maybe had been a little more watchful. Pray for I I tried to talk with her as often as I could, but just praying, being watchful, seeing the need around, and I just think, God, help me to always be watchful, lifting other people up in prayer. There is a Enemy, an adversary, just like a real-life roaring lion, will tear you to pieces and as a predator of the jungle, same thing that we have going on today, someone who is out there trying to steal souls away, and I think it is too late For Tira Spencer. I still have her picture up there on the refrigerator just to remind me. I need to be watchful, constantly watching. This year Marks the hundred and fifth anniversary of the sinking of the Titanic. You're probably f somewhat familiar with the story, but the Titanic was the largest steam liner built up to this point in history, and on one chilly night of April 14th. 1912, all was quiet as the ship cruised through the uh Atlantic Ocean. So the watchman decided that he would break from his post and warm up for just a few minutes. You know the tragic result of that. The Titanic collided with an iceberg, mate making multiple, from what I understand, lacerations in the hull part of the ship. and the uh six out of the sixteen airtight compartments causing it to take water into those compartments and approximately two hours, forty minutes later This unsinkable ship plummeted to the icy depths of the Atlantic, taking 1,517 men, women, and children with it. Because of one person's mistake, he did not watch the way he was supposed to That's a physical death, folks. We're talking about spiritual death, life and death How much more needful to be watching and to be praying? This is extremely serious and very fresh on my mind. I noticed that Paul's saying, if you want a worshipful life, Hey, it's a worry-less life. It's a worshipful life. It's a watching. And I would say lastly, briefly, it's a waiting life. A waiting life. When you wait on the Lord, the Old Testament says that we shall mount up with wings as eagles, but this idea here That he the and the peace of God which passeth all understanding shall keep your hearts. That word keep is a watcher in advance. It's a sentinel, someone who's out in front, and the idea is this. This isn't me and putting this in the scripture. This is what Paul is communicating. by just using the word that God is there to keep your heart and your mind. Not just mine, not just those in full-time ministry, not just those that are very involved and can do all these different things. No, he's talking about every single believer can take hold of this promise. That we can God's there to keep your heart and mind. And that is that he knows everything. He's a watcher in advance. He'll make sure that nothing gets by him and gets to you that he has not already planned. Wow, that'll change the way that you live I I my life's not been exactly the way I like it. I've been going through some hard things, trial after trial. I've experienced loss like what you just said earlier, Pastor Bret. I've been going through really hard times and Just really a lot of disappointment and family and these sort of things are just adding up. This promise still applies to you. God has allowed that To slip by, so to speak. He's allowed that into your life. And promised not that he'll deliver you from all those things, but he's going to deliver you out of that. So that you may go through some of those kind of dark times. You know, I have no doubt being young, I'm headed that way to experience some of these things. Have experienced some of these things. Some of you folks that have been there done that so to speak Maybe gotten away from it a little bit. God welcomes you, instructs you, a prayerful life is a waiting life where God will keep your heart There's rest. There's peace. My mind goes to Horatio Spafford, the author of It Is Well with My Soul, who had some terrible tragedies. having lost basically his entire family at sea. And when he got to that very spot in the sea where his family had uh plunged After colliding with another ship, they were dead, they were gone. He would never see them on this side of eternity. His livelihood. He was a well-to-do man, but he would give everything from his testimony just to have his family. You know what he said? It's well with my soul. He got a hold of Philippians 4, 6 and 7. A prayerful life is a waiting life. God can keep your heart Way better than you can. He can protect you. That's what he's there for. Peace is one of the names Christ gives to himself, isn't it? The Prince of Peace. I've done a little study of religions around the world and from my knowledge a lot of them are promising peace, peace, but there is the I can think of a major major religion that's growing in the United States of America today that promises peace. But I've got n news for you. The only peace comes through knowing the author of peace. I like that bumper sticker that says uh NO Jesus, no Jesus, no peace, forget it. You don't have it. But if you K N O W, you know Him. You'll know peace. Maybe that's been a little bit of a problem in your life is that you just have not been experiencing the peace of God that passes all understanding. I would encourage you, get back to a prayerful life. A prayerful life is first a worry less life. It's a worshipful life. It's a watchful life. It's a waiting life. I'll conclude with this. It's fresh in my mind since we've been praying for Pastor, as he's on a missions trip to Mexico, but I've taken several mission trips to Central America, Costa Rica, Honduras, Nicaragua. And if you know anything about this region of the world, then you know historically the main religion is Catholicism Right, you know that. But in almost every major city, with almost without exception, it's not a courthouse in the town square. It's a large ornate Cathedral. And I'll never forget, I visited one particular cathedral in Ala Juela, Costa Rica, and I was immediately struck with a sense of darkness, almost demonic. I could see and almost choked on the incense that we're burning. Really dark. Actually literally dark But spiritually dark and heavy. Way whatsoever. And then as I was taking this all in, grabbing a couple pictures, I felt something bump me on the back of my leg. And as I turned, it was a very elderly lady. Maybe in our late 60s, on our hands and knees, going up and down that center aisle. And as I um As I kind of examined and took the everything in, I noticed that behind this elderly lady there were there was a subs blood from her knees because she had traversed that aisle up and down over and over again. She thought that's how she gets close to God, how she approaches God. When I began to share Christ and that intimate relationship these folks can have. with God. It was a foreign concept to them. But you know, not one of them was distracted. Not one of them looked away. Not one of them fidgeted with their phones. They were glued on that message. I can have a personal walk. personal access to God. And it completely blew their mind. But here today, you and I as Christians know all about that access almost all too well. And we don't Don't use it. I started with this and I firmly believe this. The greatest privilege a Christian has is prayer. The greatest problem. Many a Christian have. It's prayer. How are you doing this morning? Father in heaven, thank you so much for your word. I pray that again we would not only hear your word, so to speak, but we would also heed your word May you change us when we talk about this specific area of our prayer life. And we pray that you'd cause us to even be more like Christ who found the need to be. Lord, I pray that even more so we would find that same need to be praying and follow the instruction that you leave here. We ask in Christ's name. With your head still bowed, eyes closed, I'd encourage you, as Miss Jennifer comes to play the piano, just a simple song of invitation In this quietness, that if God's spoken to your heart about this area of prayer, I would encourage you to not put it off, but rather to uh Do business with God and settle it. Maybe make a commitment to God. I need to be more prayerful based on what his word says. Would you do that as Ms. Jennifer plays the piano here?