1 Corinthians 15. Notice I want to read verse 51 and 52. 1 Corinthians 15, verse 51 and 52. The Bible says Paul is writing to the church here at Corinth, and um he's dealing with chapter 15, he's dealing with the the fact of the resurrection from the dead, that one day we will be resurrected. Those that are saved unto eternal life, and those that are unsaved, the resurrection be to damnation. And he's he's giving these facts and he's presenting his argument, presenting the case that yes, the resurrection from the dead is an actual event that will take place. It's truth, because there were some people in the church denying it And he uses the resurrection of Christ as a basis for his argument, because Christ was raised from the dead, you and I that know Christ, if we're in Christ, we will also one day be raised from the dead. So that's the context. And then in verse number 51, he says this, writing to the church there in this context, he says, Behold. Now he wants to get their attention. What he's about to say is significant. Behold. I show you a mystery. We'll talk about that here in a bit. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed Now let me stop there just for a second. That word sleep, you have to pay attention in the Bible and look at the context. When words are used to understand what he means by that word. And so, particularly in the New Testament, sometimes when the Bible uses the term sleep, It's not talking about going to bed at night or taking a nap or resting or falling asleep. What he's talking about, the context brings this out, he's talking about dying So, particularly in the New Testament, the word sleep will sometimes be used to refer to someone that has died. They're asleep. And so that's the idea. He says, so we shall not all sleep Not everybody's going to die. But we shall all be changed. In a moment, verse 52, in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, At the last trump, for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead in Christ shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed. He says, not everybody's going to die, not everybody's going to sleep. There's a generation of people, believers, that are going to be changed. are going to be, here's the term, raptured up off this earth and uh and be with the Lord. If you would, keep your place here. I'd like for you to come over to 1 Thessalonians. Now keep your place here because we're going to jump back and forth a little bit between these two passages. Keep 1 Corinthians 15. Now come over to 1 Thessalonians. If you would. And chapter number four. First Thessalonians and chapter number four. I want to begin reading in verse number 15. Again, Paul is addressing a church in Thessalonica. is the name of the city, Thessalonica, and there's a good, strong church there. Soul-winning, missions-minded church, just a good church. And he's addressing, he's writing there to address an issue that came up about the return of the Lord. And he's giving them some instruction here and some information about this event. That a future event that's going to take place where believers will be caught up off this earth, be raptured off this earth And rather than dying, going through the grave to see the Lord, we'll go by way of heir. Now look what he says there in verse 16. Alright, let's uh um let's look at verse 14. For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again. Even so them also which, here it is again, sleep, even so them which sleep in Jesus, those that have died in Christ, they were saved, will God bring with him? For this we say unto you, by the word of the Lord, that we which are alive and remain unto the coming of the Lord shall not prevent. Now that word prevent there means to precede or go before. We're not going to go before prevent them, them which are asleep that have died. For the Lord Himself, now get this, the Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout With the voice of the archangel and with the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first. Now look at verse 17. Then we which are alive Those that haven't died, believers that haven't died, when this event takes place, then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds. To meet the Lord in the air. And so shall we ever be with the Lord. Then he adds a little statement there, verse 18. Wherefore, comfort one another with these words. Caught up! Those that are alive when this event takes place are going to be caught up to be with the Lord. We call that the rapture. My question, my message this morning is this: what is the rapture? And I want us to think for the next little bit of time we have about the rapture of the church and the coming of Christ. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven We thank you, Lord, for the first day of spring, Lord, a new season beginning in our world. I pray that you would meet with us this morning, and maybe today would be a new season in somebody's life. Some decisions made and maybe there would be, Lord, maybe you would give victory. But over some old besetting sins that have haunted us for so long, we can begin a new season of life in victory with a clean heart and a pure mind. Lord, maybe some this morning under the sound of my voice do not have assurance of their sins forgiven. Maybe some do not have assurance of a home in heaven And Lord, maybe today they'd see what you've done for them and the offer you have and the free gift of eternal life, and they would receive that by faith today and begin a whole new life. So Lord, we want you to meet with us. And God, I ask that you would speak to our hearts. I ask, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will and present my body and pray that these truths we're looking at, you would speak through me and apply to every one of our hearts as we need it. And then help us to respond and make good decisions and make whatever adjustments need to be made in our lives. So bless Lord, meet with us, I ask, in Jesus' name. Amen. Abraham, back in uh the early political years of Abraham Lincoln, he was speaking to a large audience and he was um uh making some uh a political speech. And in his speech, he wanted to make a point. And he asked this question. He asked the audience this question. He says, how many legs Does a dog have if you call its tail a leg? How many legs does a dog have? If you call its tail a leg, how many legs does a dog have? Well the audience responded, five How many legs does a dog have? If you call the tail a leg, it has five legs. Abraham Lincoln responded and said incorrect A dog only has four legs, doesn't matter what you call its tail, it only has four legs. And we live in a world, listen, we live in a world today where we want to call things something other than what it is, and the world thinks in just calling it that Therefore that makes it whatever they want it to be. And that's not how it works. That's not how reality works. It is what it is, regardless of what I call it. We live in a world that calls the Bible, oh, that's just a book written by man. You can call it that all you want. It's still the Word of God. We live in a world that says that the return of the Lord Jesus Christ is just a fanciful, old-fashioned teaching that is not based in reality. Listen, you can call it whatever you want, but I'm here to tell you, Jesus Christ is coming back again. Even a world, and even within quote-unquote religious circles, that says that heaven and hell are just a myth. That hell is just some old fashioned teaching that the church would use to manipulate people to do what get them to do what they want. Listen You can call heaven and hell a myth all day long. The reality is there is a real place called heaven and hell. Whatever we want to call it. So you can call a tail a leg all you want. A dog only has four legs. And we can apply that across the board in so many areas. Years ago I was reading about Dr. Lee Robertson. He was my pastor for years in the Great Highland Park Baptist Church down in Chattanooga for all these years, just Tennessee Temple. I went to school there. And in the early years of his ministry, he hired a fellow to go through the, he brought up one of the men in the church, but he hired him to go through all that Chattanooga area, southeast Tennessee, North Georgia. North East Alabama, that whole area there. He said, I want you to go to every church and ask them what their beliefs are about the Bible About the second coming and about heaven and hell. And I I'm not sure what the purpose was behind that. He didn't explain I would imagine it had something to do with starting the school and see what churches would support them. And he said he sent the fellow out and he said he was out one week and he went to all churches, all denominations, across the board. Methodist, Presbyterian, Baptist, say you just went across the board, every church in the area. And after a week, he said the fellow came back and said, I'd like to be relieved of my duties. And he said, why? What's the problem? He goes, he said, Dr. Iverson, I'm going to so many churches where the leadership of the churches, this is back in the 40s. The leadership of the churches tells us that they don't believe the Bible is without error, that there are mistakes in the Bible, and much of it is simply written by man, and it's not necessarily the inspired word of God. He said, I'm talking to pastors of churches all across the board that say they don't believe in a literal hell. They don't believe in a literal resurrection from the dead. Preachers. He said, I'm talking to pastors and leaders in churches telling me they don't believe in the literal return of the Lord Jesus Christ. And he says, I'd like to just stop. I don't want to do this anymore. He said the fellow, you know, was a good guy, and they eventually hired him on as a professor at the college and was very, very faithful to the Word of God. But I'm telling you, you and I live in a day when that which is true is declared to be a lie And that which is untrue is declared to be truth. Isaiah put it this way: He said, There's going to come a day. When they will call evil good and they will call good evil Now Paul is writing to these churches, and he's addressing the fact that Jesus Christ is coming back again someday. That there's going to be a series of events in the future at some point where Jesus Christ comes back for his believers, for his church. He's going to judge the world. He's going to establish the kingdom that he had promised Israel for hundreds and thousands of years. He's going to finally establish that kingdom for a thousand-year reign. And there's going to be a new heaven, new earth, and this old earth is going to melt away. Now that's the truth. Regardless of what we may think, regardless of what the world may say, regardless of what theologians may say, that's what God says, and that's the truth. Jesus Christ is coming again. Jesus Christ is coming back again. Jesse Horse I think of him often. How many folks here had had the opportunity to get to know Jesse Harsh here, who was here member here for years, uh Helen? He's, I think, one of the oldest men I baptized. When he joined the church, I baptized him and he m married Helen. And uh what a what a great man. When he first started coming, uh Elsie was still alive. When he first started coming, he would attend another church in our community, in our area, in the mornings, and then he'd come over here at night and sit in. And um I remember it so distinctly. If I remember they they used to sit back over here and we'd do handshake. Remember when churches used to do handshaking times? I'm telling you, I'm seriously I'm wanting to do that again. But anyway We'd shake hands and come back and he'd grab me. I said, Jess, I'd say, Jesse, how you doing? Oh, he'd say to me, hey Henry. So I said, hey George. We'd talk a little bit and he'd say, I got a question for you. He says, Um, do you think that Genesis, the first eleven chapters of Genesis are just a myth and not literal historical account. I said, no, it's exactly what the Bible says it is. It's a historical account of the creation of the world and God's judgment with the flood. It's not a myth. It's It's an accurate historical record. He goes, that's what I think. So then the next week comes by, a week or so, he pulls me aside. He says, I got a question. I said, all right. He says, do you think that Jonah was just a myth, or is it something that actually took place? I said, no, it's not a myth. Jesus said, took it literally. It's an actual event. The man was swallowed by a whale for three days, three nights. He survived, spit them out, smelled like bell- the whale gut, the whale guts. And um It's exactly what the Bible says. He goes, yeah, that's what I think too. And I started wondering, why in the world is he asking me these questions like this? He came to me again. He says, uh, I got a question. I said, all right. He says, do you think, do you believe that revelation is just an allegory? And not, it's just kind of mythical and not really literal events that'll take place, and just teaching us lessons and not to be taken literally. I said, I'll tell you what I think. I think you need to quit going to that other church in the mornings and get in a church that believes the Bible. And he says, that's what I think too. And he ended up joining and being so faithful. And what a blessing. There's nothing more sure. There's nothing more sure than the authenticity of this book right here. You mark it down. This book's the Word of God. And if the Bible says it's so, it's so. And this is our sole authority. And everything we do, and everything we believe, and every ministry we have. Needs to be based on the teachings of this old book right here. The Word of God The Word of God. You say, well, the world doesn't look at it that way anymore. I'm not too concerned about how the world looks at things. I want to know how the creator of this world looks at things. The Word of God. Nothing more clearly taught in this old book than the fact that Jesus Christ is coming back again. God has a plan for the future. And God has a schedule for the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, if you've been around Bible preaching long, if you've been around here or anywhere that preaches the Bible faithfully and accurately You understand that the return of the Lord Jesus Christ is in two stages. Or you could say two phases, maybe. How many people understand that? Anybody how many people know what I'm talking about when I say that? Sure. There's a lot of a series of events that are associated with the return of Jesus Christ to earth. But the two phases or the two stages of the return of Christ, the first one, of course, being the rapture. The rapture of the church, which we're going to look at here in just a moment. The rapture of the church, then The second stage, the first is the rapture of the church. We meet the Lord in the air. So shall we ever be with the Lord. The second phase Or the second stage of the Lord's return is when he returns literally, physically back to earth And every eye sees him, and that's associated with the Battle of Armageddon, and there's a s a seven-year tribulation period between those two uh events, the rapture of the church and then the return of Christ to earth, physically, visibly to earth. And the seven-year tribulation, and this isn't the message this morning, but I do I want to mention the fact that that seven-year tribulation is the most horrific time that this earth ever faces, ever has, or ever will. And the judgment of God poured out upon this old world, and the judgment of God poured out upon this old planet, and those who are alive in here during that period of time Jesus said there never has been a time like this before, and there never will be again, the horrific time of the tribulation period. So the return of Christ, nothing clearer taught in Scripture than the fact Jesus Christ coming back again. It's in two stages or two phases: the rapture, Seven-year tribulation period, and all the events associated with that, and then the physical, literal, visible return of Jesus Christ to the earth. And he establishes his kingdom. Now that's a fact. And liberal preachers and this unbelieving world Can say all they want, and they can mock that teaching all they want. But I'm telling you, there's coming a day when that trumpet's going to sound. And God's people be caught up out of here, whether they believe it or not. The Bible is There's nothing more sure than the authenticity of this book right here and what it says Some horrific events are prophesied for the future. And you can get sensational about it, but I'm telling you, preaching the truth, it's not whether it's sensational or not, it's whether it's true or not. And the Bible prophesies some horrific events in the future of mankind. But here's the thing. Jesus never one time, look at this. Jesus never one time was troubled about what the future holds. In fact, in John 14, 1, we just preached on this not too long ago. He said this in verse 1, John 15, he says, Let not your hearts be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. And then he referenced his return. My father's house are many mansions. If not so I would have told you, I go to prepare a place for you. If I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again. And receive you under myself. And as you study that event where he comes again to receive us, to rapture us, to catch us up to be with him. All the horrific events associated with this, but he begins it by saying this: let not your heart be troubled As a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, and we look at the future and we see the events the Bible prophesies taking place, it should never trouble us It should never, we should never get fretting about that. Because we know the Lord is Savior, and He's coming for us. And we'll be with him. I had a lady call me here just a few months ago We talked a little bit and she was distressed and I knew her. I'd met her before and we had interacted before, an older lady And she'd been listening to somebody on the radio, not our station, and they had her convinced that we are right now in the midst of the tribulation period And they had all this documentation. She had gotten CDs from them. I'm telling you, this dear lady, and I believe she's a believer. I'd talk to her at length previously and again. At least she knows the Lord is Savior, but this false prophet, I use that word deliberately This false prophet has her convinced that she and you and I are living in the tribulation period now, and she was absolutely distressed. She goes, we need help. We need to let people know we're in a tribulation period. I'm here to tell you, we are not in the tribulation period now. As horrific as things are out there, and as scary as the world is, this doesn't hold a candle To what the tribulation period is going to be like. We are not in the tribulation period. We're not appointed to wrath. We're not going to face that as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ. And I tried to assure her, I said, listen, you say you know Jesus Christ as Savior, and I have no reason to doubt your testimony And I said, if that be so, we're not in the tribulation period, and you will not go into the tribulation period because the Lord's going to rapture us out of here. Now that's my message this morning. What is the rapture? First of all, my first point is this: the meaning of the rapture. What do we mean? When we use that word rapture. Are you there in Thessalonians? Keep your place. 1 Corinthians 15. We're going to jump back and forth. But I want us to look at Thessalonians chapter 4 and particularly verse 17. Now I paused when I was reading through there and pointed something out. I want to come back to that. Verse 17, then we which are alive and remain. Shall be, look at these next two words. The we which are alive and remain shall be caught up. I circled those two words in my Bible. That is a reference to the rapture of believers. Now, the word rapture is not found in the Bible You say, oh, well, if the word rapture is not found in the Bible, then it mustn't be true. Well, the word rapture isn't found in the Bible, but the teaching of the rapture is found in the Bible. Did you know the word Trinity is not in the Bible? It's not there. But the teaching of The great three and one, God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, yet one God, that's clearly taught throughout Scripture. But the word Trinity is not there. The word we use to refer to that truth Did you know the word substitution is not in the Bible? But the Bible clearly teaches that Jesus Christ is our substitute. He was the substitutionary death in our place. So the word's not there, but the teaching is there, and same thing with the rapture. So don't let some liberal or somebody likes to twist scripture around and come and say, well, that word's not in the Bible, it's not true. No, no, no. The teaching is there. And the word rapture itself means the exact same thing as what that little two-letter word phrase there we highlighted just a moment ago, caught up, means the exact same thing It means to snatch up. It means to seize suddenly. To catch up. Um The way uh I was trying to think how would you illustrate that? Uh that's the only thing I could think is like fishing. A little fish is swimming along and it eats a little worm and next thing you know, whoom, it's ripped up out of the water and brought That is a dumb illustration, but um I don't know about you, but the idea of being Caught up suddenly and seized and snatched up suddenly. That kind of has a little disturbing aspect to it I I don't think, yeah, you know, I don't know. Just whoa, ripped up out of here. Now, but the fact of the matter is, in the Bible Every time the rapture is referenced, it's always in a positive sense. It's always in a sense that it is good. Normally, the idea of being snatched away suddenly would be a little fearful, but in Scripture it's always associated with joy, delight, and anticipation. In Titus chapter 2, verse 13, it's referred to as a blessed hope being with the Lord. In Hebrews chapter six and verse number nineteen, it's referred to as a sure and steadfast hope. In 1 Peter chapter 1 and verse 3, it's called a lively hope, an exciting, anticipating hope. That my Lord's going to come for me and rapture me up out of here. And so the meaning of the word rapture is to catch up, to seize, to snatch away suddenly. So the Bible teaches there's a day coming when all believers, believers, shall be raptured up to be with the Lord in the air. I believe this is one of the most spectacular events. In all of history, when hundreds of thousands, no doubt maybe hundreds of millions of people around the world, believers in the Lord Jesus Christ Caught up. Boom! Outta here. You know, we like to use our imagination, I do, and try and imagine how the world responds. To such an event? How will the media respond when millions, perhaps hundreds of millions of people gone Banished. What kind of spin will they put on that? I wonder I think in certain segments of society, they realize that the only ones missing are Bible-believing Christians. There might be an element of celebration. Oh, finally. I don't know what happened to him. Good riddance. You know? I think there's an element of society it's going to be that way. Can you imagine a world? Without any believers, without any salt, without any light And what society will become. No Bible brief preaching churches, no word of God being proclaimed. And so the rapture, the meaning of rapture means to be caught up, boom, removed. By the way, and uh won't touch on this in any part of the message, but I want to throw this out. At the rapture, all believers are raptured. No believers are left behind. And only believers are raptured. There's no one saved in that, in that exit. Out of here. And so the meaning of rapture is to snatch up, to catch away, to seize suddenly. What about the mystery of the rapture? Now keep your place here and come back to 1 Corinthians. I said we're going to jump back and forth here a little bit. And come back to 1 Corinthians 15 and look at verse 51. There's a word here that I want us to take notice. The first is the meaning of the word rapture to catch up. Next is the mystery of the rapture. Look at verse 51 of 1 Corinthians 15. Behold, I show you a what? Mystery. We shall not all sleep, we're not all going to die, but we shall all be changed. Both dead and living are going to be changed. They're going to be resurrected and get a new body. In a moment, the twinkling of an eye, the last trump, the trump shall sound, the dead in Christ shall be raised incorruptible, and we'll be changed. But that word mystery there, he said, I'm going to tell you something that's a mystery The word mystery itself simply means this, something that is hidden. Now we think of mystery, we think of when I was young. Uh I mean young teen, um twelve, twelve years old, thirteen, I used to ri like to read Agatha Christie books. Anyone ever read Agatha Mysteries, you know, Who Done It? And then there were nine. You know. That's not what mystery is talking about here, is trying to figure out who done it The mystery, as it's used here, has this idea, something that is hidden, something that has not yet been revealed. Information that has not yet been given. And Paul says, I'm going to show you something that has been hidden up to this point. I'm going to share with you a truth. A teaching that has not been taught up to this point. It's some information that God is now making available to you and I. I show you a mystery. In this case, what he's talking about here is something that was not revealed in the Old Testament. Now we're in the New Testament And what he's saying is this: the rapture of the church that we just tried to describe was a mystery to mankind until God chose to reveal it in the New Testament. I don't believe the Old Testament prophets and the Old Testament believers, the Jews, I don't believe they understood and comprehended this teaching of the rapture of believers. In fact, the whole concept of the church age was a mystery in the Old Testament. So Paul was saying this. Now get this. You and I are living in a dispensation. You and I are living in a period of time in mankind's history where an event is going to take place As never heard of before. During this some point, during this church age. Now it may be in your lifetime, in my lifetime. Hey, it may be today. We don't know. But it's not something that could have happened in a previous age, and even aware of it, it was something for our time. In other words, the rapture of the church is not a man-made idea. No church council came up with this. No archdiocese Convened a conference together and we're going to come up with this teaching of the rapture of the church. No, no. This is something God Reveals to us through his word. It's God's plan, it's God's purpose, it's God's doings. And so it is a mystery, not a man-made doctrine, not some Bible college came up with this, but God revealed this through the Apostle Paul, the inspiration of his New Testament. So we have the meaning of the word rapture to catch up, to seize up suddenly, the mystery of it, it's for our time. God has revealed this to us. The third thought I have very quickly is the moment of the rapture. Now come down to verse 52. 51. Will not all sleep, will all be changed. Now look at verse 52. In a moment. And then he describes what he means by the word moment. He kind of expands on that. In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye. Now, how in the world do you describe the twinkling of an eye? How many people in your mind say, oh, I think I know what that is, a twinkling of an eye. Anybody here? Yeah, you see someone and boy they got a twinkle in their eye. You think, you know, how do you what is that? Well he's trying to describe, he's trying to expand a little bit our understanding of the word moment he used there. Now the word moment, what it's translated from, that word is not used anywhere else in the Bible, nowhere in the New Testament, the only place that That word that it comes from is used. And it's a mind-boggling word. How many people like to have your minds boggled? Well if you're due, listen up. Because I got something that is mind-boggling for you. The word moment there means Something that is so small that it cannot be divided. Something that is so minute That it is impossible to break it down any smaller. How many minds are boggled right now? And in this case, it's in reference to time, a measurement of time. So if you have an hour and you're going to divide that hour, then you'll have two what? Half hours, right? I know some of y'all have been watching the clock very closely. If you have a minute and you divide it into two, you have two 30-second segments, right? Everybody with me? This is profound. If you have a second, you have a half a second I guess there's measurements for smaller than that. I don't know what they are. I'm sure t time scientists. Milliseconds. Nanosecond. Anything less than that? A decosecond. Who I didn't know that. I'm learning something in church That word moment is smaller than a decasecond. And the word itself literally means an indivisible Amount of time. I don't know about you, but that's pretty quick. That's pretty quick. When the rapture takes place, when that trump sounds and the archangel shouts, Moment out of here. You say, well, what does that have to do with anything? I tell you it's pretty significant If the rapture is going to happen in a moment, in an indivisible segment of time, so short, so brief, you know what that means? That means we don't have time to react. That means if I'm going to be raptured up and go into the immediate presence of Christ in a moment, that means I have no time to make arrangements. I have no time to make any adjustments in my life. Good heavens, there's the trumpet. Clean up, quick! It's not that way. Uh no time to make a judgment uh adjustments. No time no time to make things right If I'm out of sorts with the Lord, when the rapture takes place, I'm out of sorts when I meet the Lord. Because I'm not going to have any time to make that right. If I got somebody I'm God's been pressing my heart to witness to them and share the gospel with them, and I've been putting it off and putting it off and putting it off. That rapture takes place. I have no time to quick run over there and say, hey, listen, I heard the trumpet. You need to get saved. No, no, no. No time for that. Can I say this? If you don't know Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, that rapture takes place. You're not going to have time to quick run get saved. You won't have time to even make a decision in your heart and mind. It's left behind. Left behind. Missed it! The moment of the rapture. So we have the meaning, every believer caught up at it here. World can mock it. We can doubt it and question it and disregard it all we want. It's a fact. It's going to happen. The mystery of it, our time, this is something man made up. This is God's. The moment of the rapture, it's unannounced. It's going to take place. Lewis Howe, I like what our missionary in New Zealand, Lewis Howe, said. We are listening for a sound. There are no signs. Oh, Russia is rising up. And I look around, I see all this stuff happening. I look at the Bible. It's like, man But the signs isn't what indicates us whether Christ is coming back or not. That's been established 2,000 years ago he's coming back. We're listening for the trumpet. We're listening for the trumpet. Here's the problem. Some Christians are more worried about the Antichrist than they are about the coming Christ. Who's the Antichrist? I think what you need to worry about is making sure you know the Christ. In a moment. In a moment. Number four, the manifestation of the rapture. Take your Bibles, 1 Corinthians, go over to chapter 3, just real quickly with me, if you would. Chapter three and notice with me verse number thirteen. He's talking about the judgment of Christ, judgment seat of Christ, which is immediately following the rapture. Verse 13, he says, every man's work shall be made manifest. Now look at this next statement. For the day shall declare it. Now I think I can include, I think I can be biblically sound and include on that phrase the day, I could include the rapture. Because the rapture and the judgment seat of Christ are connected. One follows the other. And he says here, the day shall declare it. That word declare it means to reveal To make manifest, to make plain. The rapture is going to reveal some things to us. The rapture is going to make some things very, very clear. For instance, the rapture will reveal who the genuine Christian is and who the phony Christian is. Every genuinely born-again child of God is going to be raptured. Those that only put on a show are going to be left behind. There's going to be a manifestation of who's for real and who's phony. Now be very, very careful. It's not our place to go around and try and figure out who's for real and who's phony. It's not my place. God knows that. You know, God knows that. We we see, you say, well, you gotta look for fruit. Yeah, fruit is a testimony. But God ultimately is the one that knows the hearts. There's people in the Bible that I thought knew the Lord and they didn't. There's people in the Bible who I thought didn't know the Lord and they did. Lot, I would have never guessed Lot was a saved man until I got to Peter, and the Bible says he's had a righteous soul. I said, huh? Lot? Yeah. All we knew about Judas, other than what the Lord told us, he looked like a disciple just as real and genuine as all the others. But he wasn't. And here's the thing about the rapture, it's going to reveal who's for real and who isn't. I knew I I met a preacher years ago in Indianapolis and has a little book that he wrote. In fact, I know another preacher, a friend of mine, pastored for years. He's never saved. He knew it. Putting on a show, preaching, pastoring. Never saved. He's out in California. Pastor over in Winchester, Dave Martin's his name. Some of you all know Dave Martin. He gives his testimony all the time. He said, I was lost. Knew I was lost, putting on a show. He said finally I couldn't take it anymore. He had to humble himself and come to his church and say, I got saved this week. I nailed it down. I got it settled. He stepped out and worked under a man for a while. Until he got things grounded and everything re-established a testimony. He's a great man, great preacher, great pastor, and loves the Lord. But my point I'm trying to make is this If you're just putting on a show. If your Christianity is just an act The rapture is going to reveal that. Left behind. Left behind Did you ever wonder what it would be like if the rapture took place during a church service? With a hundred percent boom out of here? Or would there be some people sitting there? Left behind. See, there's a manifestation. That day is going to declare some things. It's going to declare whether who is real and who's phony, who's putting on a show and who genuinely in their hearts. Jesus told his disciples of a field that they went out and sowed wheat. Good crop, good good uh uh seed. And that wheat grew up, but the devil came and threw tares in with the wheat Now if you know a little bit about it, a tear has zero nutritional benefit. It is a weed. It is a parasite on the ground. It produces nothing of benefit. And he said, the tares and the wheat grew up together. And the thing about a tares, what we're told, is a tear looks just like a wheat. And it responds to the wind and it responds to the soil, just like a wheat, but it ain't a wheat. It's a weed. And he says, and he says, shall we go out and pull the tares out? He goes, No, no, no. You can't do that. You'll you can't tell the difference sometimes. You'll pull up good wheat with it. That's why we need to be very careful about going around trying to make judgment on other people, whether they're saved or not. We may condemn some people who are genuinely saved. We'll get it wrong. And so what the Lord says, he says, let it go until the judgment. Let God sort that out. That's what the rapture is. It'll reveal. It'll reveal. The real and the phony, the wheats and the tares, the genuine and the those putting on a show. In Matthew chapter 7, verse 21, Jesus says In that day shall men say to me, Lord, Lord, we've done all these wonderful things. And the Lord says, Depart from me, I never knew you. It's possible to put on a show. It's possible to be phony. And so we need to make sure our salvation is genuine. We need to make sure that we have Bible salvation. Settled on the Word of God. I would never, ever, ever in my life would I want a genuine, would I want to cause a genuine believer to doubt their salvation? But neither would I want someone who is phony to be content with being phony. So we need to settle it. We need to settle it. If you don't have a Bible basis for your confidence in eternal life, you need to get a Bible basis for it. Well, my mom and my daddy were Christians, and so I suppose I'm a Christian too. Uh don't work that way. Well, I got baptized when I was four. Listen, you can be baptized every year. Baptizing never saved a person. It's trusting Jesus Christ as Savior. Alright, you follow what I'm saying? I know I'm hammering that. But that's what the manifestation of the rapture is. And last of all, I am with this the message of the rapture. The fact of the rapture should rearrange our priorities. I'm not going to expand on these. Let me just list them for you. Number one, the supreme importance of salvation. Nothing more important in life than knowing I'm saved. There's nothing more, no greater issue in life than the salvation of my soul where I spend eternity. By the way, there's nothing more important our church can do than get the message of salvation to those that need salvation. So the fact of the rapture ought to motivate us, ought to rearrange our priorities that we make sure we got our salvation down, and then commit ourselves Getting as many other people saved as we can. Here and around the world. That's what faith promises. That's what Roman scripture booklets are. That's what FBN radio station is. That's what soul-winning training is. That's what the bus ministry is. That's what visitation is. That's what gospel tracts are about There's a rapture coming. And those that don't know Christ to be left behind, we've got to reach them. So our priorities need to be arranged. That's the message of the rapture for you and I. The supreme importance of our salvation, I don't have time. The salv uh separation from the world in sin. Just think of the situations we put ourselves in. And imagine the rapture taking place when I'm in that situation. Sit in front of the television, what am I watching? Out at some place of worldly indulgence, sinful. Huh? I mean you fill in the blank That's what our memory verse is. Now, my little children, that we be not ashamed at his coming. So separation from the world is sin. Listen, I know preaching on separation from sin in the world is not popular in churches today, but it's biblical. God has called us out to be distinct. Separate from this world. Not looking like it and sounding like it every way we can. And last of all, we need to be serving the Lord faithfully. And I kind of touched on this Believers only we're the only voice for the gospel in this world. We're the only salt in a world that is corrupt. We're the only light in a world in darkness. We're it. So we've got to shine. We need to be out in the world influencing it, not vice versa, sharing the gospel. A little girl, her mommy went to church, and the preacher preached on the second coming and the rapture. And on the way home, they got home and mama was getting lunch ready. And the preacher didn't preach so long that her roast burned. He let them out in a decent time. And mom's preparing. And the little girl came up and said, The preacher said Jesus coming back. She goes, yep, sweetheart, he sure did. She said, Mama, do you believe that? Mama said, I sure do, sweetheart. I believe Jesus is coming back. He said he might come back anytime You believe that, Mama? Mama said, I sure do, sweetheart. That's what the Bible says. I believe that. He could come back anytime. He said that Jesus might come back today. You believe that, Mama? Mama said, I sure do, sweetheart. Jesus might come back today. The little girl grabbed her mama's hand and said, Will you comb my hair? Will you comb my hair? That little girl wanted to be ready. When Jesus comes back, I want my hair combed. I want to be ready. You know what some of us need to do? Some of us need to comb our hair. Spiritually speaking. Some of us need to stop and think. Where am I at? Am I ready for this? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to be ready. Help us to understand. You've got a plan. You've got a schedule. Help us to be ready. With heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder if some this morning would say, Preacher I know I'm saved. I've trusted Christ, Bible basis. I know that's settled. But you'd say, in the figure of speech, you'd say, preacher, I've got to comb my hair. I got some things that need to be rearraised, some priorities, some things that need to be made right. Some stuff in my life I know is not the way it ought to be. I want that right. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand preacher? I've got to. Now sometimes when it takes hard decisions, sometimes these are major adjustments. But I'm telling you it's important. Do any others say, preacher, there's some priorities in my life I need to rearrange. Any others? Preacher, pray with me. God bless you God bless you. If we were honest, probably all of us have areas that need attention. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I've got some folks that are unsaved, and I want to be a good witness. I want my light to shine very clearly. Or maybe I'd be able to share the gospel with them if the Lord would help me. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. I've got some folks I'm burdened for. And I want to be a good witness. Any like that? I want to, God bless you, hands all around. Let me ask this: is there some here this morning to say, preacher, I don't want to be phony. I want to know my salvation is real genuine Uh, these doubts, I'm not sure if I I just need to get it settled. Maybe you know you're not saved Journey like that. Preacher, pray with me. I need to get this settled. I've got to get this settled. I don't want to play with this. It's too important. Too important. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. Have your way. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed.