Do this week. And I think the majority of our people in the church understand this. I hope I've been able to convey this in twenty almost twenty-five years of pastoring. What we're about to do this coming week is, without a doubt, the most important thing this church does. The most important aspect, and that is investing ourselves in getting the gospel around the world, fulfilling and carrying out the Great Commission. I think it's, I just think how the Lord brings this together, just the schedule together, how we just spent three weeks trying to saturate our area with the gospel, and then we lead seamlessly almost, I think, into missions conference. and now getting the gospel out around the world. And that is what the church exists for. Matthew, or Matthew, Romans chapter 10 I want to begin reading a verse that many of us have committed to memory. We're very, very familiar with this. Verse thirteen, Matthew er I keep saying Matthew, Romans ten, verse thirteen And ver uh starting in verse 13 says this, for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. How many people are glad for that verse? And then look what he says. He goes on from there. That's where we always stop. But look, he goes on from there. He says, How then shall they call on him, call in let me start up, how then shall they call on him In whom they have not believed. That's kind of a rhetorical question, but what's the answer to that? They can. If I don't believe in somebody, I'm not going to put my faith in them, I'm not going to put my trust in them if I don't even believe in them Then he goes on. And how shall they believe in him of whom they have not what? Can't believe in somebody I don't know exists. And by the way, we're finding in our soul-winning, our witnessing, we're finding more and more people who know little, sometimes nothing, of the Lord Jesus Christ here in America. And so how can they believe on someone that they've never heard of? Then he goes on. And how shall they hear without a preacher? And of course the answer to that is what? They can't. If nobody tells them about it, how would they ever find out? And how shall they preach, except they be what? That's where we come in. That's where the local church comes in. God calls people to the mission field. We preached this morning that there is no call to missions We're commanded. Missions is a command, but God calls us to locations. God directs us as we acknowledge Him in all our ways. He directs our ways to where He have us to serve in So these missionaries were all called to m we're all commanded to be a part of missions. Missionaries come in have been called to specific areas And how can they go to Japan? How can they go to Holland? How can they go to Philly unless a church sends them? Unless they have support behind them. That's the idea here. How beautiful are the feet of them that preach the gospel of peace and bring glad tidings of good things. You want to be attractive to God? Want to be attractive to God? Get soul winning, get sharing others. He says, that's beautiful to me. How beautiful are the feet of them. So what is faith promise? Let's pray. I'm going to try and cram as much of this in as I can. Let's pray. Father, we had a little bit of fun tonight. Lord, we worked hard this past few weeks. A lot of us have worked really hard. And uh we just want to see people saved, Lord. We're not, we don't want glory, we don't want uh accolades for us. We just, Lord, we just want we sincerely want to see people saved And now as we look forward into the regions beyond, I pray you'd stir our hearts in this matter, in getting behind those whom you've called. and um with our prayers and our financial investments. So please hear us tonight, help us. I yield myself to you. I pray you'd teach us. And um Clear this up in our minds in Jesus' name. Amen. This is what we did this morning. We kind of gave a little definition. The faith promise missions offering. Faith promise offering for missions is the amount of money I promise to give by faith above my tithe during the coming year to the missions program of our church. This week we're going to take up our faith promise. Next Sunday, it's for one year. It's from next Sunday, May 6th All the way through the last Sunday of April of 2019. We go to a one year, then we pick up again. So whatever faith promise you've given this evening, Whatever you've given tonight, that is it for this past year. Whatever you've promised last year, committed last year, now you're done. You fulfilled that. Now we begin anew And so it's a one-year term through the local church. The money does not go from the individual directly out to the missionary. It comes from the individual through the church, the body of Christ. Then out to the missionary. And so we talked about, we said faith promise offering is a biblical plan or method of giving to missions. I believe it is solidly biblical, and Dr. Creed will talk about this a good bit. We pointed out that faith is a biblical concept. We're saved by faith. We live by faith. And so faith is a key part of the Christian life. In fact, the Bible says in Hebrews, it's impossible, without faith, it's impossible to please God. And so when we talk about faith promise giving, we're talking about something that is solidly biblical. It's faith. Giving by faith. Making a promise has definite biblical support. We looked at that. There's people throughout the Bible made vows, made promises. You and I make promises all the time. When you took a job, you promised you'd be there at certain hours and do certain responsibilities. The employer promised that he'd provide you so much an hour or whatever, salary. When you got married, you promised your wife you would love her and cherish her and be faithful to her, right? And she promised the same And so promises are part of life, and so we can make a promise to God, a vow to God. Now Ecclesiastes cautions us, we pointed out, that it's uh don't take that promise flippantly Now this is what I wanted to emphasize this morning. I didn't get on it. When we come to this faith promise, I know many of us, hopefully all of us, are praying about what God would have us to invest in faith promise. I want to urge you, do not make that decision flippantly. That ought to be prayed over. That ought to be thought through. It ought to be considered before the Lord, I believe, with an open Bible And God direct me and lead me. Ecclesiastes 5 cautions us it is better not to make a vow than make a vow and not pay it. Now it's not telling us we shouldn't make vows. Other scripture verify that, but it is saying don't do it flippantly. Don't just fill out a paper with no intention to carry it out. And so uh promise is biblical And then offerings are certainly biblical. I'm going to come to that here in a bit. We didn't get this far this morning. But giving offerings over and above our tithe is a biblical concept And we'll look at that here in a moment. So everybody got that? That's where we pretty much got through today. So what is the faith promise giving? One, it is a biblical plan or method for giving to missions. Number two, missions is at the very heart of our faith promise offering. We take up these faith promise cards next week, and again, most of us, I think, completely understand this, but that money is designated, is between you and God, what is invested, is invested directly into missions. None of that faith promise offering comes to pay my salary. None of that faith promise money is used to pay light bills Or buy gas for the buses. None of it is used to remodel the church. Not a dime of that is going to go to build a new building That is all for what? Missions. Period. And I'm telling you, we guard that money very, very diligently. Make sure that missions money goes to missions. And that's an important concept. Missions is the very heart of faith promise offering. Now we'll do fundraisers, raise them fund for the teens, go to camp. We've got our building fund, we're trying to raise money, all these different opportunities to invest. in the cause of Christ, but faith promise is missions, missions, missions. Let's look at a few things. I put down seven mission facts. Now this isn't in your outline there But seven missions facts. Let me give you a few facts about missions and why faith promises designated for missions. Number one, I don't know if you want to jot these down. Number one, Christ died for the whole world. How many people believe that? There's a terrible teaching that goes around in circles and a lot of Baptist circles. I just read an article, I think it was this afternoon, or might have been yesterday, could have been four months ago, my memory, I don't know when it was, but I read an article just recently, I think it was this afternoon Um where there is a big issue going on in the Southern Baptist movement. In the Southern Baptist denomination, and they got a big convention coming up And there is a huge riff there between Calvinists who believe that Jesus only died for those who would believe. It's called limited atonement. And those that believe Christ died for everybody. Now, to me, it's incredibly obvious the Bible teaches that Christ died for all men and women. He signed for everybody. Does that mean everybody's saved? No. Only people are saved who put their faith and trust in him. But he made that available. It is available for everyone. And that's a whole nother thing. We could preach on that for a while So, one, Christ died for the whole world. Does that apply to missions? Sure, absolutely. The whole world, Christ paid for all their sins. Every little kid in in Ahmadi in Kazakhstan and little slums of Mahmadi and in in Ulambatar in Mongolia. I saw them with my own eyes, the little sewer kids they call them. They live down in the sewer pipes In the wintertime in Almaty, every one of those little kids, they steal, they lie, they're nasty, they're sinful. Every one of those kids, Jesus died on that cross for their sins. Every single one of them. So this is missions. Number two, a second missionary fact is that um is that it is not God's will that any should perish. Again, this abominable doctrine called Calvinism teaches that God elects or chooses certain people to go to hell. That is as unscriptural as you can get as far as I'm concerned God's not willing that any should perish. God does everything he possibly can to keep people out of hell. Somebody says God's going to send them to hell. That's not true. God doesn't send anybody to hell. God does everything he can to keep people out of hell. It's by not trusting Christ, hardening our heart and rebellion against him is what sends people to hell, not Christ. The next one there, number three, we need to be told, they need to be told of Christ's provision for their salvation. This is what we just read in our text. How shall they hear? Except there be a preacher. Somebody's got to go tell them. Question, is that missions? Sure. Jesus died for everybody. He doesn't want anybody to go to hell. Somebody needs to go and tell them about Christ, how to be saved. Number four, they cannot hear without a preacher. They cannot hear without a preacher. That's where missionaries come in. The preachers need to be sent. Somebody, somehow, they need to get the resources together and the materials together and the and the uh um uh finances together so that they can go from point A to point B where the gospel needs to be preached. Now I'm telling you, there is a gazillion point B's in the world today There's billions, not hundreds, not thousands, not tens of thousands, not millions, not hundreds of millions, billions of people that need to hear the gospel. Now that's mind-boggling And so they need to be sent out to these cities and these communities and these neighborhoods and these nations. They need to go. They need to be sent. The local church are the senders You know what Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church is and should be? We should be a missionary sending center. Sending them out, sending them out, sending them out. Somebody look at somebody got a bulletin handy there. Look in a bulletin. How many missionaries are born out from our church? What's the number? 78, something like that? 78, is that correct? Anybody have it there? What? Is that correct? 78? Alright, 78. All right, there's billions and billions of people out there. You say 78 missionaries, that's not even scratching the surface. That's not a drop in the bucket. No, it's not, but it's something. Amen. It's something. And we want to do all we can. We want to invest ourselves, give ourselves 100% to do everything we can to get that gospel out. And if we're not going ourselves, then we'll get folks that are going. We're going to get behind them and get them out there. So this is faith promise missions giving. Sending means more than praying. Means more than praying. Should we pray? Absolutely. I wish we could figure out a way. to incorporate prayer more in our faith promise, our missions. We tried different things. We ought to pray, we ought to pray diligently and earnestly and consistently and a lot. We need to do more than pray. We need to get behind and support with material means. I've changed my thinking about faith promise giving. I've been saying, well, give this money, give this money, give this money. I I'm changing my thinking on that. You know what I'm calling it? I'm calling it investing. Investing. I'm investing in souls. I'm investing in the Great Commission. And so, missions as at the very heart of faith promise. All right, let's get to number three here. Faith promise offering is over and above our tithes. And this is important. Now, I'm not going to ask you to raise your hand, but I think a lot of us would probably understand that. Would you come back to Malachi chapter 3? Last book of the Old Testament. Now you've got to learn how to fill in blanks and turn in your Bible at the same time. Malachi chapter 3, I want us to look at verse number 8. Now there's a principle here. Now I'm not going to preach on tithe. I'm not going to Deal with that. We're going to begin with the assumption we all understand tithing is God's beginning point for our giving. It's the standard for giving. It's a starting point for giving. Chapter 3, Malachi, verse 8. Will a man rob God? Yet you've robbed me. It's God speaking. But you say, wherein have we robbed thee? The answer is what? In tithes? Now we always stop there. In tithes, but that's not where he stops. And what? And offerings! In tithes and offerings. That's interesting. The biblical concept of giving, I believe, and I believe I could defend it from scripture pretty easily. The biblical concept for giving is this: the tithe is the standard. That's the beginning point. That's just where it starts. And then you have offerings. over and above that uh for sp uh special uh projects maybe going on. For instance, the building fund Maybe I haven't said enough about this, but we must not give our tithe to the building fund. It's not what it's for. The tithe is for the local church. The tithe is for the function of the people of God. The building fund is a tithes and offerings. So it's special projects. And man, I wish we had more time. I wish you guys didn't never mind. Break this down, 2 Kings chapter 12, verse 4 through 5 and verse 9. They're repairing the temple. They're repairing the temple. And God's moving among his people. And they said, we need to get this temple the way it'll be. This thing's terrible. It's all falling apart. They don't have room for stuff. We need a building project here And so God instructed them. What they did was they didn't take the tithe to repair the temple. They didn't take the tithe to build and expand the temple, to build an activity center. That was the tithe, it was for the function of their service and their worship. So they put a box out there. If you read it, you'll see it. They put a box out there. When the people would come and go, they put their money specifically for that project. And so, and Fred Schindler pointed this out to me years and years ago. I never noticed it. He says anytime there was some special project going on, they always had special offerings for that project. And somebody says, good night, you got an offering for this, you got something going on there, you got teams going to camp, you got building fund, you got this, that. That's just following a biblical pattern. As those needs are there, you set up these different things. So he says, you've robbed me from tithes and offerings. So uh Faith promise is over and above your tithe. Dr. Pat Creed says this, I'm sure he'll say it this coming week, probably several times. He always says this: you can't give the faith promise until you're giving your tithe. If you do that, you're robbing from your tithe. And so we get our tithe in place and then faith promise. Number four, the faith promise offering is based upon faith. It's based upon faith. We see and hear this over and over. Come with me if you would to 2 Corinthians chapter 9 I don't think I've been in hardly any missions conference where somebody didn't preach from 2 Corinthians chapter 8 and 9 at some point. Second Corinthians. Go to chapter nine. Look at verse number eight. Faith promise is faith It is based upon faith, trusting God. Look at verse 8. And God is able, I circled that. God is able to make all grace abound toward you That ye always, having all sufficiency in all things, may abound to every good work. As it is written, he hath dispersed abroad And hath given to the poor, his righteousness remaineth forever. Now what is he saying here? He's saying, God in grace, when we trust him, and it's talked about throughout this chapter here, he's saying, God in grace, when we trust him and say, Lord, I'm going to give this, I'm going to invest this amount on a weekly basis to faith promise. And he says, God will provide that. God will give grace and show grace, enable that to take place. You follow what I'm saying there? It's by faith. God, I'm going to trust you on this matter. And so we'll talk about this here. Let me move on real quickly. Now, why do we use the faith-promised plan of giving? It's missions. Let me go through here. Some of these are a little repetitious. Everybody okay? Everybody bearing with me. And like I said, I was a little hesitant to do this again tonight, but I just want to go through this and touch on this here again. Number one, why faith promise plan? Number one, because again, it's based on faith Hebrews 11, 5 and 6, without faith it's impossible to please God. Without faith, it's impossible to please God. Number two, I like this one: it exalts the Lord. It exalts the Lord. If I'm giving by faith, who gets the credit for that being that need being met? If I'm giving by faith, it's God. God made this possible. And we'll touch on this here in just a bit. Number three, the potential is greater. The potential for giving to missions is greater. Let's take a church. Let's say here's a church. And there's churches like this. And by the way, There's good churches, good men. I'm not trying to disparage anybody that doesn't differently. I believe this is biblical. I believe it's solid biblical. I believe God honors it and blesses it. But let's say there's a church and they're going to support missions and what they're going to do is they're going to take a certain percentage of their general income, their general fund. They don't do faith promise all that just everybody throws it in the pot. And we're going to take a certain percentage of that. And we're going to give that to missions. That's pretty locked in, isn't it? But if I open that up and say, wait a minute, we're going to have everybody seek the Lord. And let everybody determine between them and God what God would have them invest specifically in missions, that opens that door up tremendously. You follow what's taking place here? And now it's not locked into some little percentage that maybe a board decides or church we're going to give this much. It opens that thing up and the potential there is tremendous. It's not limited to some number that we choose ahead of time. That's why I'm hesitant, and we've done it in the past, but I'm really hesitant to set a financial goal for faith promise A numerical goal, I should say. What we want is we want God's will to be done. So I don't know what that is Years ago I had a fellow, when we first were introducing this in the back, we were shaking hands, and I was preaching on it, we were talking about it, he came up and says, Well preacher, what should I give the faith promise? What do you think I should give the faith promise? I said, I can't answer that. I said, if you come up to me and ask me what should I give on my tithe, I could answer that very easily. Tell me your income, 10%, that's your tithe. Settle. What should I give on my faith promise? That's between you and God. That's something you need to term as you think it through very carefully, don't flippantly think it through, figure it out, pray, seek the Lord. God leads and directs you. And then it goes from there. And that to me, that to me is God deciding what the faith promise is going to be, what the support is going to be. As we all trust them in faith. Alright, number four, put this down, because it brings more people into the giving. To me, in my mind, setting apart a certain percentage of the general income, we're just going to use that for missions, to me that's very impersonal. To me, that's all just paperwork on the books. But when everybody's kneeling, when all God's people are kneeling at an altar and say, Lord, show me how much should I invest in missions, how much show missions, now all of a sudden, man There's individuals involved in this. There's individuals one-on-one. And I don't know about you, but if I know that I'm giving X number of dollars specifically to missions, and that's heading out to missionaries that I've met and I've prayed with and I've eaten meals with and we fellowship together. Man, that suddenly becomes much more personal. Right? Sandy Schofield made a statement. They sit right here and I end up picking on them all the time. And um But they they like it. Um Sandy Schofield made a profound statement long before. Brian never does, Sandy does a lot But she said the thing I appreciate about our missions program here at the church, it's not just missions-minded. Remember saying this? It's not just missions-minded, and I'd like to believe we are missions-minded. Right? I'd like to believe that's true. But she said this. We are missionary-minded. I like that. And what does she mean by that? Well, this is what she means. She means that our burden isn't just for the concept of missions, but our love and concern, our interactions, is with the individual missionary. And when we get faith promise and individuals, each of us giving of ourselves between God and me, deciding that and giving, suddenly it's it involves so many more people and becomes so much more personal. By the way, I'm throwing a bunch of other stuff in here, but when we have these little fellowships afterward and we do all these little activities when the missionaries are in, there's a purpose for that. We're not just trying to fill time There's a purpose for that. What that is, is God's people sitting down with God's called missionaries, and we can interact with them, get to know them We'll laugh with them, spill drink on their laps, you know, hold their babies, go back and forth, and we walk away, and when it's all said and done, we go home Sunday night, you know what? Hey, I feel like I got to know them I got to know them. I I've got some preacher associates that they don't have missions conferences. They don't hardly bring missionaries in. They just say, oh, let's send this. some money out to this missionary. It's just a name on a piece of paper that nobody ever met, don't know anything about him. I'm telling you, that's terrible. And so we can interact with them this way. It involves more people. By the way, when we do faith promise, the individual members of the family get involved. I think parents ought to encourage their children to give faith promise. Now I think you need to supervise that, right? Need to watch over it, you know, help them come to that conclusion, pray with them, but um you know uh help them, let that child give a little bit of money. What's that teaching the child? Now talk to me a little bit, what's that teaching the child Let's teach them to have a heart for missions, right? They're investing. Now, mom and dad, if the child does make a faith promise and you help them provide some guidance there for them, but if they make a faith promise, don't you pay that for them? Let them seek the Lord. Now, if they get their allowance or whatever and they give it out of that or whatever, but let them learn to have faith in God. Let God teach them that He answers prayer and that He provides. I have this fantastic story. I love it. I told it so many times you all probably know it. But this just stirs my heart. We were in Indianapolis. I showed up in the spring of 1987. Previous century. And the first Sunday I was there, the pastor had me preach. I preached on hell. That set the tone for my ministry. And there was two little twins that were riding the bus in. They were probably 12, 13, just coming into the youth group. And um Somebody had brought them that Sunday night to church. They rode the bus normally, but somebody brought them in Sunday night. They were there. They were lost. And I preached on hell and give the invitation. Those two girls, Amy and Bobby. And you talk to Kathy, she'll tell you about it. Most two girls came, and I mean Amy was absolutely sobbing, weeping over her conviction of sin. They took them out, those two girls got saved. First Sunday was there. And uh they began coming faithfully and and they got baptized. And it began to grow, and Kathy and I would go Sunday nights and Wednesday night, pick them up in our car. They were in the rough area of Indianapolis and we'd bring them in. I tell you, I fell in love with those girls. We had missions conference. We had Faith Promise. They listened And when they took up faith promise, I didn't know this at the time, but the girls had filled out a faith promise card and they were trusting God. Their parents didn't come, as far as I remember, if I remember correctly, their parents weren't safe. It's a rough home, broken home. Unbeknownst to me, they had filled out a little card. Oh, several months went by. I didn't know it. We're driving, we picked them up and we're driving to church that night and they're sitting in the back and uh one of them, I think it was Amy. Might have been Bobby. It was one of those two, I'm sure of that. She leaned up and she goes, Pastor Dennis, I got my dime. I said, what dime are you talking about? She goes, my faith promise dime. I said, what do you mean faith promise dime? She goes, at missions conference, I promised God that if he would provide it for me, I would give a dime every single week to missions conference. Now you need to understand a dime for her is like a $1,000 bill for you and I. This is 1987. They're inner city, bro. She has no income. I said, Amy, how do you get that dime? She goes, every week since missions conference, God has given me a dime to give to missions. I said, where you where are you coming up with the? I thought she's stealing them great She goes, Well one week I was in school and there was a dime on the hallway and I saw it and I knew right away that was God getting a dime for my faith promise. She goes, the other week I was at the bus stop and along the road I saw a dime. picked it up. And she goes, there's a lot of weeks where I again come to Saturday and I don't have my dime. So I just go around the neighborhood, collect cans up, and take it down to the 7 Eleven and they smash them there until I get 10 cents worth and I bring them up. She says, every week God provides that dime for me. You know, that's faith promise missions teaching a little girl that God honors faith. And so I believe in faith promise. It brings people into the picture. What if we wouldn't have had faith promise? Just say, oh, we're going to give a certain percentage. She would have never learned that. She would have never experienced that. That's something. Uh let me move on here. Uh because inevitably there's more money with which to carry on God's work I learned Faith Promise when I was in Highland Park. They didn't really do Faith Promise, and Dr. Krieg can explain this to you also, but and I didn't fully grasp it while I was there. They didn't really do Faith Promise. What Highland Park did was all offerings on Wednesday night went to missions. So it was kind of a convoluted version of faith promise where this everybody knew whatever money I'm giving on Wednesday nights is going to missions and people would designate Wednesday nights I'm going to give so much money And they supported 500, I think when I left when I got there, it was like 510 missionaries they supported. And so I was introduced to that, and that gripped my heart. And then when I was in Indianapolis, I learned faith promise, and I it made sense in my mind. I saw how it all works, and we then I shifted over to that. And when I came here, as I said the other before, whenever it was, I was struggling to introduce it to Mountain Lake. Some of y'all were here then, and I just couldn't convey it. And then Dr. Creed said, I'll help you, and he did. We set it up as we have it now, and God has blessed it. But here was my concern. We were talking, I said, Dr. Creed, I have one concern about introducing faith promise. He goes, what's that? I said I'm a little concerned that people that the general giving will go down when we go over. I'm afraid it'll take away from what the general giving is in our faith promise. You follow what I'm trying to say? And I I was concerned about that. He says, you trust God and you see what happens. You just wait and see what happens. And you know what happened? When we started Faith Promise, our general giving skyrocketed. It went up. You know why? Because faith promise is a stewardship mentality. I am investing in the things of God. And as God blesses an honor that, then it's Then boy, our hearts are stirred to give in other areas. Our heart is stirred to give. And so I found that the act actually the opposite thing became true. Rather than the other areas of giving went down, they actually increased. When we started giving the faith promise. And I think there's various reasons for that. And so inevitably there's more money with which to carry on God's work. Number six. Because it brings more blessings to the giver. We memorized a verse a week or so ago, Luke 6. 38. Anybody remember that verse? I know it's been a long time, three weeks, four weeks ago Anybody remember 638? Don't look it up. Give, and it shall be given unto you. Good measure. Pressed down, shaken together, and running over shall men give into your bosom. How many people believe John 3. 16 is true? You know it's true. How many people believe John 6 or Luke 6. 38 is true? Given shall be given unto you. You know what I found out? God bless us. God blesses. God blesses that. There are people all around here who could stand up and testify, you know, God has blessed us tremendously. When we got involved in faith promise. So I know what some of y'all are thinking, you're thinking, oh good, I'm going to give the faith promise, I'll get rich Here's the difference. God's definition of blessing and the world's definition of blessing are two different things The world says, oh you're blessed if you have a mansion, you drive a Rolls-Royce or a Mercedes-Benz, a Z-23, you drink flameignon, drink flame you eat flameon. Oh, that's blessing. Now that maybe God may bless you, and if you do if God bless you with a Mercedes Benz and a mansion and you eat flameon for meal, God I'm wonderful for you. Invite me over But you know what that blessing might entail? The joy that God is using me to bring souls into the kingdom. You know, I've found I've found some folks, and I've found, and I know this, I'm thinking specifically folks who live in. poor situations as the world would describe it, and are as happy and filled with the joy of the Lord. Something that some of these multimillionaires do not have. And there's nothing wrong with multimillionaire. Don't misunderstand what I'm saying. But I'm saying the blessings, don't limit the blessings of God just to financial. Spiritual peace, joy, fulfillment. God's using me. I know folks could live in a nicer house if they didn't give as much money to missions. I can name you folks could drive nicer cars if they didn't give us so much money to missions. But you know what? Their heart and mind is not on the things of earth. Their heart and mind is the things of eternity. Follow what I'm saying? And so it brings blessings. Ay, ay, ay. We got the first one there. Why should I make a faith promise offering? I'm going to stop here. Maybe we'll pick this up. If you think that something like it should go on afterward when we're talking, come on and tell me. Maybe we'll try and work it in. But I'm telling you this is important. What we're going to do, what we're starting Wednesday night and going through Sunday, could very well be four or five of the most important days of our calendar year. So we hear these missionaries, we pray, we ask God to lead us and direct us, and then for the next 12 months we invest in getting that gospel out. This is what I want to do for our invitation. This is what I want to do for the invitation. I want to ask us as a church, maybe find a place in the altar tonight, and just ask that God's hand would be upon this meeting in a great way. God's hand be upon this meeting in a great way. That God would lead us and direct us individually what role we have. We get these missionaries out there. We have no idea how that's going to impact people when they get out on the field and start preaching. And we have a part of that. There was a point in this next section I really wanted to get to, but we'll have to save it. Father in heaven. Lord, a little different service tonight, a little fun laughing and a little bit of talking here now. But I pray you'd stir our hearts in this matter. Lord, my heart is. And I ask God that you would meet with us this week. Lord, I believe with all my heart we're touching something that's very dear to your heart. Convict us of sin, Lord, that would hinder. Convict us of indifference, cold hearts, lack of love. Or maybe some of us are out of fellowship with a brother or sister in Christ, maybe a spouse, and it's hindering your prayers. It's hindering you from hearing our prayers. It's grieving your Holy Spirit. God, you can't do what you want to do in our hearts, our homes, our church. I pray there'd be real repentance this week. I pray, Lord, there'd be faith, trusting you on our part, submission. And God, you do a work. We want you to use us. This matter of missions, we pray. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed.