I've been coming back up and uh I like brook trout fishing and that's springtime and and so uh but I like Christmas also and I like fall and I like summertime I like being alive. Amen. First Timothy two is where I'm going to start. The next in line as we work our way through These verses will be 1 Peter and then we're going to go to Genesis. We're going to look at a few verses in Proverbs. So if you'll keep your Bibles handy, I just want to share a few thoughts with you tonight on this subject. What is government? How many people here have ever griped about our government? Anyone here? Yeah, guilty? And uh I'm telling you, uh as as frustrated as I am in so many ways with our government I still think we're dealing with the best setup that's that man has come up with so far that God has allowed. But I got thinking about that. We're very frustrated with our the direction our country is going. We're frustrated with decisions that our leaders are making. and laws that are being posed upon us um were frustrated and rightly so. But I got thinking about, oh, a month or so ago, I thought, you know, it might be good for us, just stop And look at what God says in His Word about what government is and the role it has and uh how we are to uh uh deal with government and face it. So that's my attempt tonight. Notice second notice 1 Timothy Chapter 2, I want to read the first four verses. Paul says, under the inspiration of God to Timothy, I exhort therefore that first of all supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks be made for all men, for kings, and for all that are in authority. Why? That we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty. For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God, our Savior. Who will have all men to be saved and to come unto the knowledge of the truth? What is government? Let's look and let's pray and then we'll look at some verses here. Maybe help us. Father I am grateful for our land, the freedoms we have. Lord, is uh we as Christians are concerned, rightly so, for uh the spiritual state of our land. We're concerned for the spiritual frame of mind of our authorities over us. But Lord, we look beyond them and and we look to you, dear God. to meet our needs and to keep us safe and Lord direct us and bless us. Help me as we look at this subject tonight. Lord help me to be true to your word I pray your Holy Spirit would fill me and speak through me and that we would have a right perspective on this. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Just by get us started, get the ball rolling, as I look at these four verses, I see, first of all, that uh we are to pray for our government authorities. And I notice in verse 1 that our prayer is to be a priority. He says, first of all, and that is uh when we're dealing with government, when we're dealing with our government authorities, the beginning point is to pray for them Uh of course voting and interacting and expressing our opinions and having an influence there is all part of it. We're allowed and our government uh uh allows us that opportunity But first of all, we are to pray for them. And so I see a priority there. Then in verse 2, the second part, I see the purpose for our prayers. It says that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty. We want to pray for our government authorities so that we can live good Christian lives And that we can do it peaceably and not be able to deal with uh persecution and opposition and all that. So that's the end, that we can live in freedom and peacefulness and we can live out our Christian lives as we see fit. Then in verse 3 I see that our prayers for our government leaders is pleasing to God. Notice he says there, he says, for this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior. And so God addresses that. Now, the interesting thing is I was looking at these passages, there's no condition given as to uh the competency of are of the kings that are over us, those are in authority. He doesn't say pray for them if they are very competent at their job. Probably the less competent they are, the more we ought to pray for 'em. And uh so he doesn't put a condition here. He doesn't put a condition on their morality. Uh he doesn't put a condition on their spiritual well-being He says, you pray for them. Whoever is in authority over you, you first of all, you pray for them so that we can live peaceable lives. That's pleasing to God. And uh if you stop and think about it, what was the government, what was the government leaders like at the time of this writing? Who was ruling the land at this time? Yeah, Caesar, Rome was. What do we know about Rome and Nero and all these guys? They were about as ungodly as you can get. And uh I mean morality was absolutely out the window. The most ungodly men, dishonesty, corruption was rife. In fact, that was one of the Jews' issues was uh with the taxation, how corrupt that was. And nevertheless, God inspired Paul to record here, inspired this, that we are to pray for our authorities. We are to pray for our government leaders. I'm going to make this statement. To be a good Christian is to be a good citizen. If I'm a good Christian, I will be a good citizen. Now having said that, turn over to First Peter with me, if you would, and chapter number two. First Peter, chapter number two. And uh verses 13 through 17 is what I'd like for us to look at, 1 Peter 2, just a few pages back in your Bible. Get past Hebrews and James. And notice 1 Peter 2. And I'll begin reading in verse 13. Submit yourselves. Look at this. That's a powerful word. That's a strong word. Submit. Submit yourselves unto every ordinance of man. What would that be referring to? Laws that man comes up with. He's not talking about God's laws here. Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man. Why? For the Lord's sake. Whether it be to the king as supreme, or unto governors, as unto them that are sent by him for the punishment of evildoers, And for the praise of them that do well, notice he's saying not just to the fi the big shite authority, but those down under him that he delegates authority to For then, look at verse 15. For so is the will of God that with well-being ye may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men, as free, not using your liberty as a cloak of maliciousness, but as the servants of God. Honor all men. Love the Brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the King Now how about that? Now again, what was the king like at the time of this writing? Very ungodly. This is not a saved king. This wasn't a This wasn't a Hezekiah, one of these guys. It wasn't one of the godly kings of Israel. This was an ungodly Roman king. And nevertheless, it's clear in Scripture here that it's God's will that we submit to and respect the government authorities that are over us. Now the first thing that comes to mind as I'm looking at this and I'm I'm studying this and writing out my notes First thing that comes to my mind is, wait a minute, what if that government tells me, instructs me, or requires of me to do something contrary to God's law Well, then there's other portions of Scripture come in. When our government leaders require of us something that clearly violates God's law, then we ought to obey God rather than man. Acts chapter 5, verse 21, 29 makes that very clear. Peter said, again, under the inspiration of God, we ought to obey God rather than man. So when God, when government passes a law that contradicts the clear law of God, the clear instruction of God, I'm to obey God and not that government. Everybody, we understand that, correct? Now we have to be very careful there. I've heard a lot of guys, a lot of folks, preachers even saying they're not going to obey this, that, and the other, not because it's a clear law in Scripture being violated, but because they don't like it Listen, there's a lot of laws that I think are unconstitutional. There's a lot of taxes I think are unconstitutional that I don't agree with, but they do not violate God's law, and I'm obligated as a Christian to pay that tax and obey that law. So just because I don't like what the government says, just because I don't agree with the reasoning behind it, that does not mean I have a right to disobey it. But If it clearly violates the word of God, then I need to obey God rather than man. Can you think of any illustrations in the scriptures of somebody that obeyed God rather than man? Daniel, exactly. That was the first one that came to my mind. And they forbid to pray to any God except uh was it Nebuchadnezzar or Belshazzar, I forget which one. And uh any and Daniel, just as his custom was, knelt down by the window, facing towards Jerusalem, and prayed three times a day. And he uh he obeyed God rather than Man. Somebody else. Can you think of anyone else? Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Those are the three I thought of also. And again, asked to commit idolatry, required by the law of the king, to commit idolatry. And they said, listen, we're going to obey God. You can do what you want to us. God can deliver us, but even if He doesn't, we're not going to bow down. And we're not going to do that. So there is a principle in Scripture That when the government requires of us to do something contrary to God's law, we obey God and then suffer the consequences. Whatever the government says, if you don't do that, then it's the consequences Okay, I'll suffer the consequences, but I'm not going to violate God's law. Now we see different laws in our country being instituted that you and I would take great issue with Uh, what would we do if our government would require of our church to pay a tax that funds abortions? That's a clear violation of God's will. Thou shalt not kill. What if the government we require of us that we hire on sodomites onto staff if they would come and desire a position? We ought to obey God rather than man. So there are clear principles in Scripture where uh there are clear laws in Scripture that we are to Obey God rather than man. But generally speaking, it is God's will that we obey our authorities put over us. The government authorities are important to God And so we should be very, very careful about our obedience to the government, and we should understand a little bit about what government is. And what how God views it. So here's my first thought tonight, my first point. Number one, government authority is ordained by God Government is God's idea. I was thinking earlier this week as I was preparing for the message and putting thoughts together, I thought, can you imagine what a world would be like without government? What there's a word for that. What is it? Anarchy. Israel tried that for a while. Every man did that which was what? Right in his own eyes. How'd that work out? That didn't work out at all. It was chaos. And it was horrible. So government is God's idea. If you would come back to this is where our Genesis chapter 9 passage comes in Now it's a little obscure here, I'll grant you that, but this is the introduction to the idea of man having authority over man. And this is authority is given by God. Genesis chapter 9, and look with me at verse number 5 He says, And surely your blood of your lives will I require at the hand of every beast will I require, at the hand of man, and at the hand of every man's brother will I require the life of man What's he saying? He's saying if you kill something, you're going to be held responsible for that. Look at verse 6. Whoso sheddeth man's blood, now watch this carefully. Whoso sheddeth man's blood by Man shall his blood be shed. For in the image of God made he man. Here is the very first concept of man having authority over man. If somebody sheds someone's blood, man, the authorities, the man has the authority to take that person's blood. So here's the introduction. to the concept of government. In Romans chapter 13, verse 1, the Bible says this there is no power, or we could say authority, there is no power but of God. The powers that be are ordained of God. They are put in place by God. Let me read to you Colossians chapter 1 and verse number 16. Let me find that here quickly. I want to read that to you. Colossians 1. And verse 16, the Bible says, for by him, listen to this, for by him, Christ Were all things created? Things that are in heaven and things that are in earth, visible and invisible. Look at this. Whether they be thrones. Or dominions, or principalities, or powers, all things were created by him and for him. Bible says here that thrones, government authorities, are created by Jesus Christ. So government authority is ordained by God. God created three institutions uh throughout man's history. What's the first institution God created? The home, the family, the home. In the Garden of Eden. That's the only thing that came out of the Garden of Eden with uh with Adam and Eve was their marriage. The establishment of the home. The home and marriage, one man, one woman, married together for life is God's idea. God established that. Then God established the government. It's God's idea, and then God established the church. In that order, as history developed, we have those three institutions So, uh government is not invented by man and is considered very important to God. Now, here's something else that I thought was interesting as I was working on this God does not address different types of government. There are various types of government. What are some different types of government? Dictatorship is one, and we see some of those down in uh Cuba is a version of that and various other countries. Communism is another borderline with dictatorship. Communism is another form of government. What? Republic is what we have here really. Monarchy would be a king. England had that for years. Many European countries had that for years. I think there's some forms of that still in the Middle East. There's some uh is Saudi Arabia, is that a monarchy, I think, uh maybe there And so you have a form of that. How about another one? A theocracy. That's what I was waiting to hear. What is a theocracy? That is where God is the king. God rules supreme. That was God's intended government for the nation of Israel. He was to be their king. And they rebelled against that. And they said, we want to be like the other countries and have man as a king. And God allowed that, and boy, they suffered for it. Nevertheless, God here's a neat, here's where God's sovereignty is so beautifully displayed, where man rejected, Israel rejected God's kingdom, kingship. And wanted a man, yet God allowed that, and he took that and turned that around, where one day his son will be king Through their system that they rejected of God, God allowed it, and yet God turns that around and still ends up being their king anyway Isn't that a neat thing? God can take our foolish decisions and turn them around and somehow still accomplish His will. Our God is an awesome God But God doesn't address various kinds. He doesn't say, well, if it's a democracy, then uh uh then you submit to it. If it's a republic, then you submit to it. If it's a theocracy, if you submit to it God says you submit to a government and he doesn't address the kind of government. And so that means, as hard as this is to swallow, if a Christian lives in a dictatorship They are to submit to that dictator, in as much as they don't violate the laws of God. If they live in communism, they are to submit to that authority, that government, in as much as it does not violate the laws of God. And so that's a tough pill to swallow, but nevertheless, God ordained government. Number two, here's my second thought. God in his sovereignty raises up governments. Turn with me, if you would, to Proverbs chapter 8. I'm going to qualify this a little bit. I want to give my thoughts here a little bit on this, but come back to Proverbs. Chapter 8. And it's amazing if you pay attention how much the Bible discusses government and how many times this is addressed. Proverbs 8 and verse number 15. Proverbs 8 verse 15. Look, this is the Lord speaking. He says, by me, kings reign, and princes decree justice By me, princes rule and nobles, even all the judges of the earth. Now look at that carefully. What's he saying here? Look at the first verse, verse 15. By me, kings reign. What's he saying there? God's the one that puts that king in the position where he can reign. But look, he expands on it. And he says, and princes decree justice. What's he saying there? Not only is that person in the position there by the sovereignty of God, but it looks to me he's saying even the what? Even the laws that are established, God in his sovereignty is bringing that about. By need princes rule. Their leadership, their administration is by under the sovereignty of God. Even nobles, even the judges of the earth. Now My take on this is I do not believe that that means that God approves. of all authorities. This is not God's stamp of approval upon all the laws that are made and how a communist dictator might run his country slaughtering innocent people or a fascist run ruling a country slaughtering God's people. That doesn't mean that God approves of that. It simply means that God is final authority. You follow what I'm saying? Is it God's will for this president to be the president of the United States? Uh God in his sovereignty allowed it. I cannot say it's God's will that abortion be legal. That violates clear scripture. God's Ten Commandments, thou shalt not kill, eradicates that. Does that mean it's God's will that our country allow uh abortion? No, but it God allows it. In his sovereignty, he allows it. Let me try and help us get a better grasp on this. God has ultimate control over the affairs of government. And I am convinced from Scripture that the authorities that God allows into these positions in his sovereignty will be held accountable ultimately by God. God will hold them accountable. We read in in the New Testament of the judgment of nations and how the decisions those nations made and the laws they held and their interaction particularly with God's people Israel. Nations that place those particular people into authorities and positions will be held accountable. We are unique in the United States in many ways, in that we, and there's other countries similar, very similar, but we are allowed by God and by our government to choose our authorities. That's a good thing. Amen. And you know the way I view at it, I see who our m governors are and who our senators are and our representatives and our president and those uh uh that are in authority in our country, I see them not as so much a reflection on the the the the morality of that person, but I see it more the reflection of us as a nation in choosing people like that to rule over us Am I making sense? There's always been people immoral. There's always been people that want abortion. There's always been people that that want a socialistic type thing. Those people have always been around But we as a nation have now chosen them to be our leaders. So it's more a reflection on us as a nation. And I believe God holds nations accountable for this. All throughout Scripture, you find God putting or allowing good and evil authorities, and every one he uses to accomplish his purpose You look through the Old Testament. Nebuchadnezzar was an ungodly man. Babylon was an ungodly government. Yet God says they were my servants to accomplish my will in the experience of Israel as a nation In fact, the Jews, you read Ezekiel and Jeremiah, they had a hard time with Jeremiah. Jeremiah was saying, hey, submit to Babylon, hey, submit to their overthrow. And they say, what? We're God's people. And they say, God's using them. to chasten us and to develop us and help us be a better people of God. And so often God will in his sovereign and his wisdom allow or in a degree place someone in authority that is ungodly To get God's people right with him, and God will use them. And so am I making sense? Are you all with me And so government is important, and God is ultimately in control. As frustrated as we are, and as emotional as we get, we need to stop and think, wait a minute, God has allowed this And God can and will and is using this government to develop his people and get us closer to him. Here's my last thought, real quick. Obedient Christians Respect, obey, and pray for their government and their leaders. Do you get that If I'm going to be obedient to God, then I must respect, obey, and pray for my government and my leaders, understanding that God in his sovereignty has allowed this to be in place And God is accomplishing His will. We are to obey every aspect of the law without violating clear commands of Scripture. Now, as I finish this out, I can't help but come to 2 Chronicles 7. 14. What's it say? My people, which are called by my name, shall what? Humble themselves, pray, seek my face, turn from their wicked ways. Listen, then will I forgive their sin and Heal their land. What's he talking about when he says, I will heal their land? Is he talking about the dirt? You know what I think he's talking about? He says, I'll clean up their government. I'll give them a godly Moral, God fearing government. How heal that land. I think that's included in that statement And so you know what the answer to having a good government in the United States is? It's not a political It's a not a particular political party. Here's the answer. Let me summarize it. It's God people getting right with God. It's us coming, getting thoroughly right with God. Now don't misunderstand. I think we ought to exercise influence. We ought to vote. I think every Christian ought to vote. I'm just telling you, I believe you should. I think we're making a terrible mistake when we as Christians do not vote our conscience. But um and we ought to do that. I I think we ought to write letters. I wrote a letter this past week to one of the representatives and uh an issue they were going. I wrote and expressed my opinion And uh respectfully and kindly, but very clearly. So I I try to do that on a regular basis. I think we ought to do that. But you know what the answer to America's government and the direction we're going, it's right here in this house right here And you and I getting thoroughly right with God, humbling ourselves before the Lord, praying, seeking his face, getting sin and garbage out of our life. And then God heals the land. God makes it the way it ought to be. If our nation doesn't change, I believe if we get thoroughly right with God, humble ourselves, repent of our sin, pray earnestly. I think that's the only way to change our nation. But if our nation doesn't change, we still ought to obey God. And regardless of what type of government we have in ten, fifteen years from now, it's full-blown socialist, we still need to respect it and honor it and pray for those men and people in charge, and then we submit to God and do what God says. Amen. Does this make sense? I hope this helps us a little bit. And we need to understand that God is ultimately in charge. And I'll tell you, the best government I can think of that I can come up with is a dictatorship when the dictator is Jesus Christ. And that day's coming. Amen. The great millennial reign of Jesus Christ, what a day that will be. And so in the meantime, we trust God, we obey the laws, we do right. If the laws violate God's law, we obey God's law, whatever the consequences are. We just say, Praise the Lord, and we start a jail ministry. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us, Lord, to have a great perspective. Help us to have a biblical worldview on what's happening in our country and Lord we just get so frustrated. But Lord help us just have peace and trust you and do right. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, I am frustrated with our government? I wish we had a better moral, uh more biblical government, but uh what I really need is to get my heart right with the Lord. And that's what it boils down to. Is there any like that, preacher? There's areas in my life I just really need to get in tune with God Boy, if we were as concerned about our walk with God as we are about who's in the White House, maybe we would see revival. And maybe tonight, God's people, just a handful of us here tonight Maybe we'd want to kneel before an altar and say, God, please send revival. God, please have mercy. Turn my heart and life around and use me to be a light in this old sinful world. Father, you know where we're at. You know what we need. And we look to you and ask you to stir our hearts in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Maybe tonight As I said, you just want to kneel at an altar and say, God send revival. God help us. Have mercy on our country. God stir revival in our churches. Maybe there's some sin that God's dealing in your heart about right now. Let's come and forsake that. Humble ourselves. Turn from our wicked ways. Seek God's face and boy what God could do. What God could do. Some of us have been around long enough, we've seen changes in our land. I think that's a direct result of changes in our churches. And just as we've lost the blessings and power of God on us, it's allowed. Changes take place. And maybe God has put these people in place as a form of chastisement for us. To stir our hearts to seek the Lord anew. Oh yeah. Lord, we recognize you as King of Kings, Lord of Lords. We recognize that you are all powerful. You're the final authority. And so, Lord, we want to submit to you, and we trust you, God, that you will lead us and direct us. Don't leave us alone, dear Lord. When we're out of sorts with you, when our heart gets cold, our love for you gets lukewarm. I pray your spirit come and stir anew, that we'd be faithful to you unto death. Regardless of how this old world turns out, Lord, we just pray you'd help us to be faithful. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you. Maybe seated ushers, if you would come on down. We mentioned the prayer request this morning. Jack Connington really needs our continued prayers Uh Heather Adams is again, I don't know what's going on. She needs our prayers. Ms. Rinker. I failed to mention this morning a couple others. Pat Bowser has surgery on her eye.