Chapter 25. Shouldn't be too hard to find, because it's the first book, and it's between chapters 24 and 26. So when you get there, you're there. In all seriousness, I'll in all seriousness, um I'll I'll read this in just a second, but we do have such a good time team soul-winning We really do. And what I enjoy is we did we did a little area over in Krellin today and uh it was three at three of the teens were coming back, it was Bella's group And they were coming back to get on the bus and they were like, oh man, we only got to talk to like I forget what she says, like three people, it's one one person and it was like it wasn't very many houses either, right? It was like that's what it was, three houses And she was like, oh man, and I was like, well you can do that row right there. And they got so excited because they got to go knock on more doors. And I like that. I think that's good. And I'm real proud of 'em. Um, they get bummed out when we're done soul winning Um that's a good thing to be bummed out about. Anyway, I'm I'm proud of them. I know you are too. So chapter twenty-five, verse twenty-one. And Isaac entreated the Lord for his wife, because she was barren. The Lord was entreated of him, and Rebekah his wife conceived, and his children struggled together within her, and she said, If it be so, why am I thus? And she went to inquire of the Lord. You already know what story we're talking about, right? The Lord said unto her, Two nations are in thy womb, two manner of people shall be separated from thy bowels, and the one people shall be stronger than the other people, and the elder shall serve the younger. And when her days to be delivered were fulfilled, behold there were twins in her womb, and the first came out red all over like a hairy garment, and they called his name Esau, and after that Came uh his brother out, and his hand took hold on Esau's heel, and his name was called Jacob, and Isaac was three score years old when she bare them. Sixty. And the boys grew, and Esau was a cunning hunter, a man of the field, and Jacob was a plain man dwelling in tents. Isaac loved Esau because he did eat of his venison, but Rebecca loved Jacob. And Jacob sought pottage, and Esau came from the field, and he was faint. And Esau said to Jacob, Feed me, I pray thee, with some red pot with the same red pottage. For I am faint, therefore was his name called Edom. And Jacob said, Sell me this day thy birthright. And Esau said, Behold, I am at the point to die, and what profit shall this birthright do to me? And Jacob said, Swear to me this day, and he swear unto him. And he sold his birthright unto Jacob. And Jacob gave Esau bread and pottage of lentils. Lentils. And he had eaten drink and rose up and went his way. Thus Esau What's that word? Despise. His birthright. You know the thing about the word despise, that's like a strong form of hate. You know, if you could just gloss through the story, he despised his birthright, you might think, oh, he didn't really care much about his birthright or whatever, you know. It says he despised it. So, um I'm going to pray. And then I struggled with the title for tonight. One, I mean there's a bunch of different ones, but I think what I'm going to go with is this. What value do you place on your birthright? What value do you place on your birthright? Lord, I thank you for your word. I thank you um for giving it to us. Lord, I pray you would be with uh the service this evening. Lord, I pray that you would fill me with your spirit. Lord, I don't want to say anything that goes against your word. I don't want to say anything that would contradict the word. I pray you'd fill me with your spirit, God. I pray all of us to be filled with your Spirit as both I deliver this message, but then also as all of us hear it. Lord, I'm I pray you would just take over the service this evening. And it's in Jesus' name. Amen. So I think most of us are pretty familiar with uh this account, this story of um I say story, it's a true story, but still story, you know what I mean? The story of uh Jacob and Esau. And uh they've been struggling, haven't they? Um They struggled throughout all the history really, these two people, Edom and Israel. And the and then God told told her this. That's why I read the beginning, um it's starting there at verse twenty one. He he told her that there'd be struggle between them and the one would be stronger and the older would serve the younger. Now i in in especially back in those times Even really up until recent times, it was common that the the inheritance, if not all of it, definitely the bulk of it, would go to the the oldest son And so he he was just barely older, but he was older and customarily, you know, that would have been who got the birthright and the blessing and the inheritance and all of that I'm not going to necessarily retell the whole story. I'm pretty sure we're all familiar with it, at least somewhat. But um Esau gave up his birthright, he gave up, and he gave up his blessing. Well, he didn't really give up his blessing, but he lost it. Jacob tricked him. And so th uh this guy the the one he gave up, the other he was tricked out, but but the point is, is he kind of l lost everything that he thought we had coming to him You know what I mean? And that uh that'd be a little frustrating. Um you know, you make plans for your future and then you lose everything. Part of it's your fault, part of it your brother just being sneaky I don't I don't think that Jacob was being sneaky at all here in this. I think he was very up front. He said right up front, All right, I'll give you the soup if you give me your birthright I mean he was pretty pretty blunt. I don't see any sneaking going on there. I just see some carelessness on the part of Esau. The blessing, that was the sneaky part. So I again I don't necessarily want to retell the whole story, but just kind of catch everyone up to where we are. You know, you the you have Abraham, then you have Isaac, and then you have Not Esau, but Jacob. Jacob is the one that um was the next in line that received the promise that was Given to Abraham, reaffirmed to Isaac, then reaffirmed to Jacob. Esau did not have that. He lost that. Looking at it from a human standpoint, Esau probably would have been the better leader Um he was he was definitely uh probably stronger. He was an outdoorsman, he was an outdoor guy, he was a he was uh he was a good hunter And uh the Bible uses the word cunning. So in this term of or in this realm of an outdoorsman he was definitely had a lot of wisdom there and so he was no dummy. He was smart And if you fast forward and go to the story, the part of the story where Jacob tricks him, Esau's not far behind from when he goes out, gets the deer, kills it, dresses it, and brings it in He wasn't far behind Jacob, who already had all of the material there. You know, if you put that together, Esau was pretty quick on that hunt. And so, you know, he was older, he was stronger, he was uh cunning. You'd think he'd be the leader and um i he was the firstborn So we you know from a human standpoint we would have said that Esau had everything going for him, you know. Um and now if you look at Jacob He would have been he was the really the exact opposite. He didn't like to be outside much, um, and he he liked to be inside more. And he, you know, um he was he was definitely a mama's boy is the term we would use. And it's not that it's a bad thing to be close to your mom. I'm close to my mom, but When I say mama's boy, you know what I'm talking about. So different, right? Um he didn't like to be outside. He didn't like to work with dad, he didn't like to do that kind of stuff, and he was um uh more of a Mama's boy is the term we would use, I guess. So you would think that favor, humanly speaking, would go to Esau, but it didn't. It didn't at all. And and favor doesn't always go to the strongest. Favor doesn't always go to uh God's favor doesn't always go to the physically strongest or to um the even the smartest. And we see that throughout many examples in scripture, but uh I I guess I need to hurry up and get to the story here. You you know what's going on. Jacob did not trick him in this situation. He did later on. Nonetheless, though, I think it was a dirty play. He took advantage of his brother. He was up front. He wasn't sneaky. He was up front, but he definitely took advantage of his brother. And so Esau's coming in from the hunt, he's wore out, and he exaggerates a little bit. He said to Jacob, Feed me, I pray thee, verse thirty, with that same red pottage, for I am faint. And verse thirty-two, Esau said, Behold, I am at the point to die. What profit shall this birthright do me? Was he at the point of dying if he was able to get all the way back home and sit down? I think he was probably wore out I'm sure of that. I mean he w you know he he had something to exaggerate. He was probably you know, when you're coming in fr from being out for a day or even maybe a couple days, I don't know how long his hunt was, but he at least had the strength to put this together. You know what I mean? And the other thing I don't understand is a and I've always tried to picture this in my mind. Okay? So He's coming back home from the hunt. He's he's just picture he's sitting down on the pillow or on the cushion or, you know, whatever their setup was. And he looks at Jacob, says, Give me some of the soup. And if and then he so Jacob says, Alright, give me your birthright and I'll bring you the soup. How far do you think Esau was from food? It was right there And if it wasn't the soup, there was probably something else to snack on in there. I'll know about you, but whatever we today we had steaks. They were good. I got a steak and a half because Miss Courtney only eats half a steak and I love you. And so it was great. But when I was done with my meal You know what I did? What I do every single time. Open the fridge. I'd have it. You know, it's like, oh, what's in here? There was more food in there. Now we're not stocked till next Christmas or anything. Uh but what I'm saying is is we got more food in the house than just what was on that plate. Now I know times were different then and all that, but we at least know there was the ingredients to make some soup You follow me? And bread. So we say, yeah, he sold his birthright for a bowl of soup. I kind of look at it this way. He sold his birthright for five or six steps. Does that make sense? You ever put that together? So I'm uh okay, I am famished, Dale. I am famished. And I somehow don't have the strength to get right there. So I'll just give you everything I have because I can't go like this. And walk to here and pick up a piece of bread. Think he's exaggerating a little bit? Yeah, I mean have you ever pictured that in your mind? Have you ever put that together? Because all the time we say, oh yeah, it was But it was it was a bowl of soup, sure, and the by the the the Bible says that. But what that bowl of soup cost would have just been a couple steps. You follow me So what I'm trying to say is, I think he was it says he was cunning. I think he knew what the birthright was worth And I think he I think he understood it. And okay, opinion. I'm wondering if he was looking for an excuse to get rid of his birthright. Maybe he didn't want to be associated with the family anymore. I don't know. Because then later on he gets upset because he didn't get the blessing. So I'm still trying, this is my opinion, okay? I'm still trying to work through that. But it's very something was off. Because very clearly he did not care much about his birthright. He didn't. In fact, not only did he not care about it, but the Bible uses the word despised. He hated it. He hated it. I don't kn exactly know why, but he hated it And this is something I've heard a few times, and it just makes me want to cry. When someone says, I wish I'd have been born into a different family. When someone says, I hate my parents that that's like driving a knife in me. And worse, that's like driving a knife in your parents. Whether your parents were good or not, that's your birthright. You would not exist without them. So I don't know what the The whole reasoning was here, but the word is despised. It's not that just, oh man, I'm gonna die, so I'm gonna He said that, but really, the Bible says he despised his birthright Now, I think we can learn a little bit more if we read further into Esau's story. Go to chapter 26. Chapter twenty six. Now look at verse thirty four And Esau was forty years old when he took to wife Judith, the daughter of Bere, of Berei Bere Beri, that that one, the Hittite, and Bashemeth, the daughter of Elon the Hittite, what does verse thirty-five say? Yeah. A grief of mind unto who? His parents. He didn't care. He he didn't care about what his parents thought about his relationships He didn't care what his parents' advice was, and he didn't care about his birthright He wanted the blessing though, didn't he? And he was upset about that. Now I'm getting to thinking about this, and as I was studying earlier, I'm thinking That's not much different than us. We don't want the responsibility of uh of what goes along with the birthright. Maybe we don't even like to be associated. with it and again we're thinking with about uh working with teenagers and stuff. We don't want the rules of our parents. We don't want the the authority of our parents Even when we get older, sometimes we're trying to reject our parents and things like this. And man, we hate our birthright. We despise our birthright. Mom and Dad give us advice. We don't care. But we want the blessing Oh, they're not doing well? Am I in the inheritance? Not much different than some of us. He hated his birthright. He didn't care about what mom and dad had to say. Now, the way I've already you can probably tell the already the way I've I have geared this is towards young people, yes, but I think it's good for everyone to listen to. I'm 32. To some I'm old. To some, I'm just a baby. And I thank you. So the point is though, I'm 32. The advice that I value more than anyone else's is still my parents. Second to that would be her parents. I understand not everyone has the luxury of having the parents I have, I understand that, but they're still your parents. The Bible doesn't say to only honor your parents until you're 18. The Bible doesn't say to only honor your parents if they're good parents. They're your parents. You honor them. If they're if they're even if I was gonna say if they're living, you honor them. No, even if they've gone on, you honor them. They're your parents. At no time is it okay to dishonor mom and dad ever. And this is exactly what Esau was doing. Exactly what he was doing. Now, because he dishonored his parents, because he despised his birthright, because he got in these situations marrying these women that were of grief of mind unto his parents. Man, it sure changed his whole world. Now Jacob, the name means trickster It's not that he was a stellar guy. But he didn't despise his birthright. In fact, this might be a little bit of a stretch, but you know what I can see? He saw the value of the birthright and wanted it. There's a big difference. There's a big difference in someone who hates their parents And sees the value of their parents. There's a big difference in someone who despises their birthright and someone who wants the birthright. There's a big difference in in someone that will uh um grieve his parents be a trait. Now I know Jacob did some stuff too, okay? But if don't despise your birthright. Don't despise it. Don't despise it. Esau gave up his birthright. For a bowl of soup when he could have walked just a few steps and gotten some bread. He later on marries some women. There were grief to his parents. Later on, Jacob tricked him out uh and took the father his father's blessing. So this strong man Esau lost everything that he had going for him. And when God is mentioned in the Bible, there it's that he's mentioned as the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Not Abraham, Isaac and Esau. So h his life fell apart. He was care how did it fall apart? He was careless. He was just absolutely careless. I think that's part of it. Um and he was kind of uh I mean he was careless. But I think it was more than that. I think he d he he he despised his birthright. Now this is the point I want to make with that. He did not fully understand what it was he was despising. But he didn't fully understand what that meant until later on in life. And let me warn you guys. You can't wait to get out on your own? I'm looking at boys and they're not there. Where are they at? Isaac's back there. Oh, you don't have Evan up here this week. That's what it is. Oh. Throwing me off here I'll look at Derek. I'll look at I'll look at Dave. Yeah. Knock her I was talking about again. Um you despise your parents' birthright you despise your birthright when you're younger Don't there is so much value in a dad There is so much value in a mom. And if you have a mom and a dad, don't throw that away. Don't throw that away. You throw it away. You don't know what you're throwing away until much later on. Man, it's valuable. Man, it's worth something. What comes with the birthright? What comes being a part of Sue and Melissa's house? What comes with that? Man, what a privilege. What an awesome thing that is. I am so privileged. I am so happy that I was born into my parents' house. I am so grateful for what has come with my birthright and what will break my heart and even more so parents Is when someone says, I can't wait to get out. I hate my house. I hate my parents. They took my phone. Are you kidding me? Man, what birthright and what coming And I I keep saying this. I know not everyone has Christian parents. I know not everyone comes from an ideal home. But they're still your parents. The birthright. The value. Hey, let me take this a step for w further. Guys, you're growing up in this church, right? You're you're born here, you live here, you're growing up in this church. The privilege that comes with the birthright of living here. Not everyone has this, Cam Not everyone has this. You have something special. For whatever reason, God saw fit for you to be here. And that's a privilege. Don't trash it. Don't treat it like cheap junk. No matter how good the world can make a bowl of soup look, you know what it looks like? A bowl of soup. No matter how good those lentils look, no matter how good that pottage looks, it could be on the cover of What are the names of the food things? I don't know. Yeah, sure. It could be on the cover of of a map uh w um is Pioneer Woman still a thing? Okay. I only know this because I'm married. Right. Actu uh well never mind. I don't care how beautiful that soup looks, it's soup Well one day I'm gonna be eighteen and I can go where someone won't tell me what to do, maybe the army or something, you know. And I'm gonna go and do my own thing. I hate this, I'm ready to get out of here. You're despising your birthright. And then later on in life, after you've despised your birthright, made dumb decisions, and been a grief to your parents, uh-oh, dad's getting ready to die. I kind of want this blessing now. That's rough. That's what he saw there. Don't do it. Don't despise your birthright. How valuable is it to you? Yeah, I'm telling you, you don't understand how valuable it is until later on. I I I I took it for granted I always loved my parents. I always thought highly of them, but when you're fifteen, you don't see the big picture, do you? Not to say that you're ignorant, it's just you haven't had the experience yet. I thought that every church was like church of the open door. I really did. I thought it was normal. I called like when people ask me how big is your church. Oh it's average. Around about 1,500, 2,000, you know. It's average. I thought that was normal. You know, well we only have sixteen bus routes, you know, it's like uh, you know, average. Boy, was I in for awakening when I moved out. Yeah, and I remember, I remember this. Um Ms. Courtney's church, where we met, they ran about 300. So a little bit a little bit larger than in the the auditorium is a little bit larger and I remember calling my my dad and I was like yeah found a good church little country church little tiny little church only a few hundred people there And now I'm looking at perspective thinking, Well that's an idiot. I was dumb, right I d I didn't know what was but anyway, I'm saying all that to say when you're young you can't see the big picture, you want to get out, you think this is normal Now I'm saying that to say this. Again, kids, teenagers, listen to me. This is not normal. What we have here is not normal. You might, might find one or two places like this. Maybe. Kind of doubt it, but maybe The the only church that has been kind of close to what I grew up in is this. This isn't normal. You're you're not gonna find a pastor like ours You usually if someone speaks at the sword of the Lord every year I I wonder if he's listening. He probably is. But us usually they're running a church of like, you know, two, three thousand or something like that And they they they they might not be able to be quite so personal with each church member because the church is so big. He he he's unique. And we love him. I I I would say I'll bet you girls money, but we shouldn't do that. But you won't you won't find someone else like him You won't find an another Mr. Mark. And I could go on down the list. We don't have time. But for someone that's just, yeah, I'll just give a couple years of my life for nothing to build a brand new building. By myself. Just about, you know. That's that's not normal. There's something special here. And if you're not careful, what you'll do is look forward to when you can get out of your birthright. Now I understand people grow up, people move away, I understand that. Part of that's normal. But don't despise it. Don't leave home. Don't leave here because you don't like it. Do it because God's calling you somewhere else. Do you see the difference? Esau despised his birthright. I I am not following my outline. I apologize. I did that last Sunday night too. It's something about Sunday nights, I guess, but Don't despise your birthright. You have a birthright from your parents. You have a birthright just by growing up here in this church. You have a birthright because you were born in America. I won't repreach the whole sermon this morning, but it applies. What what something that turns our stomachs. And and James referenced this a little bit this morning. When people act like they hate this country. That's given them the platform to say they hate this country. You try that in North Korea, man Come on. Don't hate your birthright. The privileges of be of being a United States citizen by birth, a natural born citizen. The birthright that comes with that. And people will march up and down at the universities, they'll march up and down at DC and they'll talk about how much they hate their country. Come on, Esau. Stop despising your birthright. Same situation, just like with your church and your parents. One day you'll realize how valuable that birthright was. When you're standing in a bread line. And then the government kills your second kid because you're only allowed to have one. Like, you know, communist China. Actually I think they're allowed to have two now. I think I think they gave permission. Oh that was so good of them. No. I mean we dis don't despise your birthright by by from your parents, from your church, from your nation. Many applications there. Your birthright is valuable. And there's a verse I want to read. Go to Proverbs 23, and I'm going to be done. I am going to be done here just briefly. I went long this morning and I realized it after I was done. I was like, whoa, it's a quarter after 12. Oops. I'll try to make up for it. Proverbs 23, verse 23, you may know the verse. By the truth, sell it not. Sell it not. Also wisdom and instruction. By the truth, sell it not You may not think that you're despising your birthright, but when you treat it like it's cheap garbage You're despising it. The truth has value. Your birthright has value, and people are selling it left and right. They're selling out their parents. They're selling out their country. They're selling out their church. For junk. For junk So you want to give up the structure of a family that God has given you so you can go do your own thing, get messed up in sin, get messed up in wickedness, only ten years later come back and say, I'm sorry. Well at least you come back and say you're sorry. You might not even do that. So you want to trade your birthright of the United States and the government that goes with it for communism or socialism? What's your plan? What's better than this? What's better than what God has given us? You want to trade this church and the greatest pastor you can get For what? What could be better than your birthright? What could be better than your birthright? You want to walk out on on Christianity for what? Excuse me. Well I mean you wanna you wan you want to go Hindu? I mean Well that'll be more fun. Can't even eat cows. That'd be awful. What I'm trying to say is the is what God has given you is better It's again, not every I understand not everyone was born in America. God's given them a birthright. I don't know what it is, but I know that God's given them something. Not everyone has a good Christian home. I understand that But who I'm talking to right now, the audience I'm talking to, is in a good church in the United States of America. And this is something special here that God's given you. Don't sell it for something cheap, for junk. So I'm just gonna wrap this up now. What are you gonna do with your birthright? I'm talking mainly to younger people, but really to everyone. What are you gonna do with it? Are you going to trade in your birthright for the first bull bowl of soup that comes along? Trade girls listen to me, you're gonna trade in your birthright of your mom and your dad. Or some punk. It says, Come move in with me. You're gonna trade your birthright? That God's given you the right to assemble, the right to witness and express express our beliefs, the right to liberty Oh no. No, we want the we want the socialist government. It's still a bowl of soup. Oh well it's democratic socialism. It's still a bowl of soup It's not ho ha like real communism. Oh, so it's like the name brand soup It's still a bowl of soup. Your birthright's valuable. Again, uh in closing, I understand not everyone has a good Christian home and I and I don't need to say that anymore, I guess. But if nothing else, you have the birthright of the United States of America. You have the birthright that comes with growing up in this church. If you grew up in this church, I understand some didn't. But what comes with this? You can close your Bibles, I'm done. Last thought. If you've been born into the family of God The birthright that comes with it. Join air with Christ. Access to God. A home in heaven. Peace that only comes from knowing Him, real joy, not this fake stuff the world gives. But the privilege of our birthright in Christ. Kind of exciting, isn't it? And if you didn't have all the a good home, grow up in a good church and all this, you know Christ is your Savior. What more of a birthright do you need? Don't sell it for cheap junk. Heads bowed, eyes closed. I'm not gonna ask for a raise of hands as far as anything tonight at all. I'm I'm I'm looking around. To my knowledge, everyone that I see is is okay, maybe I should just ask this question, be safe. If you know for sure you're saved, you've been born into the family of God. Could you just lift your hand up? I see your hands. Good, good, good, good, good. What a birthright. You can put 'em down. What a birthright. Rather than despising our birthright, rather than hating it, what we should do is come thank God for it. What we should do is say, God, don't agree with my parents on everything, maybe. Maybe you do, I don't know. But I thank you for my birthright. Hey, maybe there's some kids and teens in here that you need to go to your parents during this invitation and say, thank you for my birthright. Thanks for being my dad. Thanks for being my mom. If you don't have that opportunity, it might be a good time to just come say, God, thank you for the birthright. That I have in you being born into your family. Thank you for the birthright of being an American citizen. Thank you for this church I don't think saying thank you would hurt one bit tonight. I'd encourage you when she starts playing, come and thank God for your birthright.