Genesis 24, I'd like for us to look this morning at verse number 26 and 27. Genesis 24, just two verses. Pastor Matt kind of read the context here And I want to zero in on these two verses. It says, verse 26, it says, And the man bowed down his head and worshiped the Lord. Our theme this year is worship the Lord. So that's what this fellow is doing. He's worshiping the Lord. Worship the Lord. And he said, Blessed be the Lord God of my master Abraham. Who hath not left desolate my master of his mercy and his truth? I, being in the way, the Lord led me to the house of my master's brethren Now we'll try to explain the context here a little clearer in a bit, but what caught my attention, this is what I noticed, this is what I want to try and preach on this morning, is this fella had prayed Very specific prayer that he could find this lady, find a lady, to marry his master's son, Isaac. Abraham's son's Isaac. Abraham sent him The find back to the family area, find a lady, bring her back, marry her son. And when he left, he prayed, very, very specific prayer And God answered his prayer exactly to what he requested. I mean to the T And what we read here in verse 26 and 27 is this servant that just had a prayer answered very clearly, very distinctly, very specifically. I mean, clearly, answer of God. And he's responding to the fact that God answered his prayer. And so that's, again, what caught my attention, that's what I want to preach on, is how to respond. When God answers our prayers. We put a lot of time and effort into what we need to do to get God to answer our prayer, but then once we have the prayer answered, we don't think much of it But here we have a fellow that God answered his prayer, and this is how he responded, and I want us to learn from that this morning. As a church, as individuals, when God does answer our prayer, what do I do? How do I s how do I respond to that? So let's pray, and we'll give this some thought. Father, I ask you to bless our time in your word. Lord, it's It's just been a tremendous blessing to be here already this morning. The Sunday school hour was a blessing, and the music and the fellowship uh thus far has just blessed my heart. Now as we look into your word I ask, dear Lord, that you would take your word and this thought about how to respond to answer prayer, I pray you'd instill in every one of our hearts. To pray. I pray you'd instill and stir us to pray biblically in line with your instructions and your word. And then, Lord, when you do answer our prayers, I ask you would help us to make it a point and understand and know how to respond to that and then do it. And so I yield myself to you now for this next few moments. I present to you anew my body to you, dear Lord. I believe you're here. Can't see you, I can't feel you Can't hear you, but Lord, I'm no doubt in my mind, you're here. We're in your presence. You're in our midst. And so please take me and fill me with your Holy Spirit and speak through me. And touch each of us where we need to be touched, our heart and soul. And help us in this matter of prayer. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We're Baptists, as a Baptist believer, the number one distinctive of a Baptist church, what makes a Baptist church a Baptist church The number one distinctive is the fact that we are absolutely convinced that the Bible is the Word of God, and the Bible is our sole authority in all areas of faith and practice. In other words, God has given to us His word. It instructs us what we should believe and instructs us how we should live our lives. He's designed us. From the very beginning, God has designed us in a very specific way to live according to the principles of God's word. When we behave or we step outside those principles of Scripture, the perimeters of Scripture, we step outside that, behave outside of that, we're behaving in a way we were not designed to behave And that causes problems. Right? We operate in a way that God did not design to operate. We think in a way we're not designed to think. We talk in a way all these areas. And then it causes problems. And so the Bible is vitally important. Gives us principles for life. It gives us warnings and promises. And this is what I'm trying to get to. This Bible, God's word, from Genesis to Revelation, we have example after example after example after example. Of God answering prayer. You cannot come to the Bible and take it literally and not be convinced that God answers prayer. We have examples all through Scripture. Most of the prayers, or at least many, not most of the prayers recorded in Scripture that are answered by God are answered in miraculous ways. In other words, there's no human explanation for something taking place in response to prayer other than God did that. In the case here that we're going to look at, there's no one would come and say, oh, that was just coincidence that he prayed so specifically, and then it got answered exactly in the specifics he prayed for. It's not a coincidence. And so we have all through scripture, we have God, we have accounts, we have examples, documentation. That God answers prayer. And many of those, most of those, are in miraculous ways. That cannot be explained any other way than a supernatural God answering prayer in a supernatural way. From Egyptian servant maids, Hagar to the kings of the mightiest nations, Solomon and David, sitting on the throne of Israel God hears and answers prayers. That's something. Let me just say this. I could see God answering King David's prayers. Man, what a great man of God. But then you read in the scripture, you find this little maid with her little baby, and she's out of water for her baby. She has nothing for a baby. And she cries out to God. God hears her and answers her. From kings, the servants. God answers prayers from prisoners in chains to kings sitting on thrones and powerful prophets. And outcasts and lepers crying out, Lord, have mercy on me. And God answers that prayer. I tell you, the Bible is from cover to cover. Over and over and over and over and over, God documents for you and I as believers that He hears and He answers prayer many times in miraculous ways. God did great and mighty things in answer to prayer. He gave children to barren wombs in answer to prayer. He gave Israel victory over their enemies when they were outnumbered and outgunned. Yet God would intervene and answer in a miraculous way and defeat their enemies. God would forgive sins, grievous sins, unthinkable sins. And in response to prayer, God would forgive. God healed the sick. He saved the most wicked souls you can imagine in response to prayer. God have mercy on me, a sinner. And God would hear and forgive thieves, adulterers, drunkards, murderers. Would pray, cry out to God for salvation and prayer, and God heard and would answer and save their soul. God sent revival In answer to prayer, Nehemiah, Ezra, these great, great examples. God is a prayer-answering God I hope if you walk out of here in a little bit, I hope, if you don't take anything else with you, I hope you take this. God answers prayer. God answers me. I'm I'm more convinced this may will be 45 years I've known the Lord, been in the ministry 40, almost 40 of those 45 years. And uh I'm more convinced now than I ever have been in my life that God is a prayer answering God. That He hears and answers prayers. I can I'm telling you and I won't do this on time, but I can document to you undeniable answers to prayer in my own life personally. And all across this auditorium, there are people who can stand up, testify the same thing. God answers prayer. God answers prayer. Now we come to Genesis chapter 24. This is one of the most significant, probably the most, perhaps the most significant chapter in Genesis. One of them. It's very significant. Just little trivia. Genesis chapter 24 is the longest chapter in the book of Genesis. There's no other chapter longer, this account of Abraham sending his servant back to the homeland to find a wife for his son Isaac. It's a commission that he gives his servant to go and find this wife. You would notice verse number nine. of twenty-four. And uh we hear we have the servant agreeing to this commission If you will, that term I'm using, for the servant to go find a wife. Verse number nine it says, uh, and the servant put his hand under the thigh of Abraham, his master. Now that's kind of a weird thing Um and uh I'm getting off track here. This is why my sermons aren't as short as I plan on them being. But um how many think it's kinda weird that he puts his hand under the thigh of the yeah, it's In our thinking, that's weird. But that was kind of a custom uh uh kind of a in that area there. Well I don't think it was real widespread, but that was kind of like you say I crossed my heart. Or you shake a hand. You put your hand under their thigh. And uh anyway I thought that was weird. So he's making a vow is what he's doing. He's giving his word that I will do this. He put his hand under the thigh Look at this, and swear unto him concerning that matter. Yes, I'll do it. I'll go to this foreign land. I've never been there. That's where your family is. I'm going to go back there and I'll do exactly what you commissioned me to do And then in verse number 10 and 11, he takes his journey. He goes back to the land. Verse 10, the servant took 10 camels of the camels of his master and departed. For all the goods of his master were in his hand, and he arose and went to Mesopotamia, to the city of Nahor. That's Abraham's hometown, where he left years before. And he made his camels to kneel down without the city by a well of water at the time of the evening, even the time that women go out to draw water. So we have him taking this journey. Then he prays in verse 12 through fourteen. He prays that God would Bring him in contact with a woman to marry Isaac. And notice he's very specific in his prayers. And he said, Lord God, my master Abraham, I pray thee. So he began his journey with prayer. Send me with good speed this day, and show kindness unto my master Abraham. Behold, I stand here by the well of waters, and the daughters of the men of the city come out to draw water. Now look at his prayer request. And let it come to pass that the damsel to whom I shall say, Let down thy pitcher, I pray thee, that I may drink. So he says, the woman I meet, I'm going to ask her to drop down water, he's telling God this. I'm going to ask her to drop down water. This is what I want you to do, Lord And I want, I'm asking you, Lord, that she will say, drink, and I will give thy camels drink also. And let the same be she that thou hast appointed for thy servant Isaac. Thereby shall I know that thou hast showed kindness unto me. Pretty specific prayer, right? I'm gonna come there. I'm gonna I'm at the well, Lord. And there's so when the women come out to get water, and that was the custom, they obviously didn't have uh city water, piped water, they had to go to the well And when she comes out, I'm going to ask her if she'll give me some water. And Lord, have her offer to water my camels. Now, you need to understand how many people here have a camel? How many people here have ever watered a camel? I've never done it, but I've read quite a bit about it. The way I understand it is that watering a camel is a pretty significant endeavor. They drank a lot of water. Now think about this with me. He's got, I think, ten so camels. Got ten camels. Each camel drinks 100 gallons, I think, something like that. I mean it's just an amazing amount. This is how she gets water. She goes over to a spigot, turns it on, and lets it run, let them drink it. No That's not how it works. She's got a well. There's not a switch you thing in and it pumps water up. You let the bucket down. Right? Get in the water. Then she carries it over and puts the water. She does that. One camel, how many buckets does it take to water one camel? Tons He's got ten. He doesn't tell her to do this. He doesn't even ask her to do this. He just says I'm going to ask her first drink of water, and Lord, I'm asking that the one that I'm supposed to take back to be away, that she offers of her own free will to water all the camels. That's quite a prayer request, right? How many people are going to do that? Nobody's going to do that. Total stranger. What? And so here we have this prayer. And pretty specific, pretty specific. And lo and behold, and I won't take time to read this, but verse 15 through 25. Lo and behold, it plays out exactly the way he prayed. She shows up, says, Can I have a glass of water? Can I have some drink of water? Church Tell you what, you got all those camels, they look thirsty. And by the way, I looked on a map. That's a long way from where Abraham was to Nahor. I mean it's weeks journey And she goes, oh, your camel book, I'll get them some water. Shh. She waters all of them of her own free will, total stranger. By the way, that was a random act of kindness on her part She didn't know this guy. She had no obligations to him. She just of her own kindness, of her own heart, she offered her to do. Pretty Exhausting act of kindness. And by the way, I'm jumping way ahead. That one act of kindness changed her life. She was fulfilling an answer to prayers she had no idea. He was just being nice to a total stranger in an extraordinary way. God was answering a prayer, and it's going to change her life. And so God answers her prayer. And then we come to our text and we find the servant's response. When he sees what happens and he realizes, I mean, he didn't even hardly get the words out of his mouth And this all transpires in direct response to his prayer. And here again, like I said at the beginning, this is what caught my attention. is how he reacted when he saw that his prayer was answered. Now don't respond to this, but I wonder how many of us Have ever given much thought to how we respond when God answers a prayer. Let me ask this, how many folks here you've ever prayed? Sure, probably all of us At some point or another we prayed. I wonder how many would testify. Preacher, I can testify specifically prayers that God has answered for me. Anyone? Sure, all around, all around. We could testify all afternoon. Now here's my question. I wonder how many of us have ever, after that prayer was answered, stopped and said, alright, now what's the proper way to respond to God? Obviously we would do what? Give thanks. We would say thanks. But according to this fellow, there's more involved than just saying thank you. And by the way, And I, you know, I'm just including us all in this. I wonder how many times we pray for something, God answers it, we never give it a second thought, and we don't even say thank you. Lord, please give us a safe trip. We're driving to Florida for the winter where it's warm. It doesn't snow on the first day of this March. And we say, Lord, give us a safe trip. And we drive down there. And what do we do when we arrive safely? We get out, unpack, and go on and do our thing. Huh? Come on now, we're guilty. So, what should we do when God answers our prayer? That's what I want us to consider. There's a lot of tremendous lessons in Genesis 24, and you could do series Lessons for us as individual believers, as a church body, there's lessons. By the way, there's a great illustration or a pattern, principles given in Abraham sending this servant to find a wife for his son. That parallels God sending the church to reach people, to see people saved, so that his son, Jesus Christ, has a bride, the church. Amen? It's why we send missionaries to Kazakhstan around the world. Establish churches, find a bride for Jesus Christ. So what I'm trying to say is there's a lot of lessons here, both for the Us as individuals, as the church body, there's lessons on God's guidance in life. If we will trust the Lord, He will lead us in our life. If we will simply take God at His word, trust Him, let Him direct me, God will lead us in life. That's what this servant did. God led Him directly. I don't know about you, but I want God to lead me in my life. One of my prayers every morning is, Lord, direct me today. Lead me today. And God leads in our life is one lesson. Another is the importance and power of prayer, as we've already talked about. The importance of having faith in God is all through here. So let's consider this matter of prayer. Number one, I've got three thoughts I want to give to you very quickly. Number one, I want us to consider the promise of prayer This fellow prayed. God promises us. God gives us many, many promises on this matter of prayer. And I want to suggest to you that answered prayer, before we ever get to the point of how I respond to answered prayer, I have to begin with praying in a way that God will answer. And prayer, answered prayer, begins with faith in God's promises. I hope you follow my thinking this morning. When I come to God and pray in such a way that He's going to hear me and He's going to answer me, I first of all start out believing that when I promise that He hears and answers prayer, I believe that. My faith is in prom in that promise. How many folks here have uh I'm trying to bring this home, make it practical for all of us. How many folks here we have a need in our life that we need God. Something in our life we need God to do. Anybody like that would say that. Sure. Alright, here let me give you a little suggestion. Something I picked up over the years Find a promise in the Bible from God that applies to that need, your situation. You say, well, I need daily bread. All right. The Bible says that if we seek first, King of God, His races, all these things will be added unto you. They'll take care of us, they'll meet our needs. So I come and I pray, believing That God has promised to meet my needs, and I pray asking for my needs to be met, believing, having faith in God's promise. You with me? And there's any number of areas God has given us promises all through Scripture concerning prayer. And we begin by believing those promises. For instance Here's an old sinner. For instance, last night, Brother Jason Caldwell gave a powerful message on the blood of Jesus Christ. And he pointed out very clearly: you couldn't miss it. The Bible teaching that we're all sinners. I mean, you couldn't sit there and not become aware, if you weren't already, become aware of the fact that we're all sinners before God. And he presented the fact that Christ died for our sins rose again. And he presented the promise that whoever calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved. That's a promise of God, right? Romans 10, 13, whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And he pounded that. He made that very very clear. It's not our works. It's not anything. It's a promise of God. So here you have, and so last night, for instance. A number of people. They heard that. He gave the opportunity for them to do exactly that. Call on the name of the Lord. There was a bunch of people that believed that promise And they call Lord, Lord, have mercy on me. Please forgive me. I'm calling you, trusting you to forgive my sins, save me. Give me eternal life. I go to heaven, not to hell when I die. Forgive my sins. And based on that promise, those people prayed, and I'm here to tell you, God keeps his promises. May 7, 1979, I did just that same thing. I called on the Lord, asked him to forgive me, save me, come in my life. And God kept his word. It was based upon that promise. God, you promise that whoever calls on you shall be saved. And that principle applies not just to salvation, but every area of life. And I come to God, I have a promise that God has given to me in His Word. I have this promise. God, you promised this. And I come and I pray, God, I believe this promise. I have faith in you and your word. I'm asking you in response to that promise. Are you with me? That's where answered prayer begins in my mind Believing God's promises. Believing God's promises. I think the great need in our church and homes is not bigger budgets. Great need in our homes and our church is not better buildings. I thank God for the buildings we have. I thank God for He's blessed our budget It's not better programs. I think what we need in our churches and in our homes is a bolder faith in God. And just coming to the point where I am going to take God at His word. If God said it, then I believe it. And I'm going to pray accordingly. I'm going to have confidence in God. It begins in faith. It begins with faith. I came across my daddy one year, I mean I mentioned my daddy a little bit. My daddy one year, this was years ago, he's still living back in Philly. He decided one year, he told me this after the fact, that he was going to, when he read his Bible, he would read his Bible through every year. For decades he read his Bible through every year. And one year he made a decision. He got him a little ledger. He was real big on writing down journals, what he did throughout the day in Scripture. One year he said, I'm going to write down every single promise. From the Bible that I come across when I read my Bible through. I'm going to write down every single one. Every day, I'm going to write down. Whatever promise I read, I'm going to write it down He showed me that journal. It was a couple years after the fact. I'm telling you, it was packed full. He had very small writing. That whole journal was just filled with references of promises that he came across reading his Bible. I'm telling you this morning, this book is full of the promises of God. I came across one statistic that said there are over 3,000 promises of God in the Bible. The other day, Friday, I guess, I was going back over my stuff a little bit, and I came across another statistic. This one suggested over 8,000 promises In other words, I don't know what the exact number is. I never counted them. I don't know what the exact number is, but I know this. There's enough for you and me. There's enough to keep us busy praying, believing and claiming those promises. Let me give you one. I read it yesterday morning at our prayer brunch. Call unto me, and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. Jeremiah 33:3. Would you agree with me? That's quite a promise. God says, I promise you. You call unto me, I'll show you great mighty things which you know not. That's a promise of God. Now, either God tells the truth or he lies, right? If it's true, then let's believe it. And let's pray accordingly. Matthew chapter seven, verse number seven uh through eleven. Um ask and it shall be given unto you. Seek and ye shall find not, it shall be opened unto you And then he doesn't stop at that. This is Jesus speaking to his disciples. How many folks here you're saying you know it? Say amen. How many folks hear you would consider yourself a disciple of Jesus Christ? And he, sure, we'd like to believe that. I would. That's who he's talking to. Disciples, you and me. He says, Ask and it shall be given unto you. Seek, and ye shall find. Knock, it'll be opened unto you. But he doesn't stop there. He builds on that, and he says, For everyone. That asketh, receiveth. And everyone that seeketh findeth. And everyone that knocketh, it shall be opened unto you. Would you agree with me? That's a promise. And so prayer, answered prayer, begins with claiming, believing, putting my faith in the promises of God. So the promise of prayer. Hebrews 11, verse 6 says this: But without faith, it is impossible to please him. For he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. That sounds like a promise to me. So you can't please God if you don't have faith in God. Can I make application? You can't have your prayers answered if I don't believe God. If I don't have faith. I can't I've got to believe God what he said. I've got to believe God's promises. I've got to. Faith. Faith. Faith. Faith strengthens our prayers. Faith emboldens. Man, I come to God. I got a meet. Oh, that's a big need. I don't know. I don't know if God could do this. And then I read my Bible and I find a promise that God says, I'll do great money I promise you that I can meet that need. Hmm. Would you agree with me? That would embolden my prayers to pray for that. If I got a promise for everybody with me? All right? So that promise, the Word of God, the promise of putting faith in God's promise, that makes me pray bolder prayers. I'm convinced we don't pray too big of prayers. I'm convinced we pray too small of prayers. I think we uh and we can ask for small things, yes. But that's not all we ought to ask for. We ought to ask God for great things. The psalmist says, Open thy mouth, God speaking through the psalmist, thus he says, Open thy mouth wide, and I will fill it. This is what your average Christian. We open just a little bit. God, just a little. No, no, no. Ask God. We got promises. Faith. Faith. This servant obviously believed that God hears prayers. He obviously believed that God answers prayers. Or he wouldn't pray. He prayed very specifically. Faith strengthens our prayers, faith emboldens our prayers, faith puts persistence in our prayers. God, you said it, I'm not going to quit praying. You promise me I'm not going to quit praying. You promised I'm not going to quit praying. Persistence, persistence. Here's our problem. Uh if God doesn't answer it right the minute we ask or right the way we think it should, then we just quit praying. Listen, if I'm if I'm praying in response in faith to something God has promised I'm not going to quit. I'm not going to quit. I'm not going to quit. I'm not going to quit. I'm going to stay at it. Stay at it. Stay at it. Stay at it. R Remember the and I don't have the reference to at the uh The widow that came to the unjust judge. How many people I wish I had the reference. We go there. And and the unjust judge uh she had somebody or her son and uh she came to the unjust, please avenge me of my son and the unjust, get out of here, you're a nuisance. And she'd come back and he'd say, Nah I don't care about your son, get out And she kept hounding him and hounding him and hounding him and hounding him and hounding him. Finally the guy pulled his hair out. He obviously had hair. No, I didn't say that But in frustration with this woman's persistence, he says, All right already. This is all in the Greek. All right already I'll do what you want for Pete's sake. Just get out of here. And then the Lord said, if that unjust judge will answer that woman's prayers because of her importunity, her persistence How much more will your Father in heaven answer the prayers of his children? Huh? What's he saying? He says, you keep on praying. It'll come through. You keep on praying. You keep on praying. You keep on praying. Faith! The servant obviously believed that God answers prayer, it gives persistence, it gives us patience. Don't quit. I know some folks in this church that are praying. I know some things that some folks in this church are praying for. And have been for a long time. And they're earnest. And there are biblical promises that are associated with those prayers. I know some, and I'm simply saying this: don't you quit praying You get your promise to God and you hold on to it with all your faith. You pray and pray and pray and pray. Keep on praying. It might take days, it might take weeks, it might take months, it might take years, it might take decades. But you get a hold of God and you don't let go. Amen? Faith. Faith in God. Now consider the prerequisites of prayer. Now we don't have time to spend a lot on this. But I believe this. I believe the world would be a better world if more people prayed. I think our country would be a better country if more people prayed in faith, believing, amen or not And I I I thank God for our church. And I was so proud of our church yesterday and so happy to be a pastor of this church, so honored. But I think our church should be a better church if all of us prayed like we should. I believe that. Any church I believe and I thank God for Sunday school teachers. We have good Sunday schools. Don't take this the wrong way. If you take this the wrong way, I'll be mad at you. You know how I get like that. But I think our Sunday school teachers would be better Sunday school teachers if they prayed earnestly. Our bus workers, our choir, deacons, pastor. Huh? Prayer. It's powerful I think our homes would be better homes. You've I've been hounding on this family altar. A family ought to pray together, husband, wife, kids, whatever, whoever's living at home, they ought to get together on a daily basis. Read the Bible, pray, and it wouldn't hurt to sing a hymn together. Just establish that. In the home, we're going to pray. Daddy's going to pray, mama's going to pray, the kids are going to pray, we're going to pray, and we're going to pray to I tell you what, I think it would make a better home. I think it would make a stronger marriage. Prayer. Power of prayer. However, for prayer to be effective, there are certain prerequisites. We have to pray in line with Scripture. We can't just come up with our own idea of what prayer is and how to get it answered. God tells us very, very clearly. Number one, there needs to be faith. I just hounded on that. There also needs to be purity of heart. Listen to what David said in Psalm 66, verse 8. He said this, talking about prayer. He said, If I regard iniquity in my heart, The Lord will not hear me. Now let me say this: you can take all the promises in the Bible you want. If you're not right with God, your prayers are cut off. You can take a plug and and attach to you can take a cord and attach that cord to the most powerful engine in the world, motor motor, electric motor in the world, but if it's not if it's broken somewhere That motor ain't gonna run. And sin breaks my fellowship, my connection to God in prayer. So I have a promise of God. I'm gonna put my faith in that promise. Now I look to myself and say, all right, I need to get things right. I need to get things right. If I'm living in adultery, God won't answer my prayer. If I'm disobeying, if I'm lying on the job or to my family, if I'm lying, if I have dishonesty in my heart, God, my my prayer is not going to be answered. Bible's clear on that. Yeah, Isaiah, uh chapter um uh in Isaiah uh uh fifty-nine verse two He says, your sins have separated from heaven. God will not hear. That's why Revival meetings are so important. That's why daily devotion. That's why church services. That's why you want a preacher that preaches against sin. And to himself also. Why? So we can deal with it and keep my heart clean and my heart pure so that I can come to God, get these powerful answers to prayer. David prayed in Psalm 5110. He said, Lord, create in me a clean heart. Give me a clean heart, Lord. If a heart is clean, how much dirt is there? None. It's clean. So there needs to be purity of heart. There needs to be submission to the Lord. Again, we don't have time. 1 John 5. 14 says, if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. I need to be submissive, O Lord, whatever it is. Lord, whatever your will is, I'll I'll do it. I'm going to submit to you every morning to my devotions. And I, you know, I do I just I learned this years ago. Every morning. This morning, I pray, Lord, not my will today, but thy will be done. Sometimes I live up to it, sometimes I don't. But submission to the Lord. If God knows we're submissive to him, if God knows he can trust us to do his will and follow his leadership, he'll hear and answer our prayers. But if he can't trust us, we're going to go do our own thing. We're going to take matters in our own hands. That's going to hinder my prayers. According to his will. According to his will. What did Jesus say? The disciples came and said, Lord, teach us to pray. And he says, Pray after this manner. Our Father. Which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Familiar? Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come. Now listen to the next statement. Thy will be done on earth even as in Let me ask you a question. How is God's will done in heaven? Perfectly. And he said, My prayer is, God, I want to fulfill your will while I'm here on earth, exactly the same degree that those who are already in heaven, that they're fulfilling your will. You know what it was? It's a prayer of submission to the will of God. And if I want my prayers answered like this servant had, I need to have my heart clean and pure. I've got to believe the promises, but I need to be submissive to the Lord. Lord, what's your will for me to do? What should I be doing? This fellow, the servant, he was in the way. He was clearly, that was God's will for him to be over there doing this. There needs to be persistence, and we already talked about that. 1 Thessalonians 5:17, pray without ceasing. And it needs to be specific. And this has been a stickler for me. Our prayers ought to be specific. What exactly is it I want and need God to do? Then pray that specifically. God, this is exactly what I need. God, this is my will. This is my desire. This is my situation. And God, I see this. And by the way, sometimes the solution to a s God's solution to a situation isn't my solution to a situation. But come to God and tell Him what you think. This is my opinion I have a situation. This is how I think it's resolved. God, I'm asking you to do this, this, and this, so this situation can be resolved. You know what I found out? Sometimes God will resolve the situation, but he didn't do it the way I thought it should be. You know why? Because God's smarter than you and me. I tell you, if we just learned that one thing, it would change our life. God's wiser than you and I. But nevertheless, he says, come and tell me. Let your requests be made known unto me. Tell me. How much you're in a situation, you need some money, I'm in debt, I need this X number of dollars, then tell God, you need this X number of dollars Can I throw some financial advice out there? If you have a need, a debt or whatever, and you're asking God for X number of dollars to meet that need, when God gives you that X number of dollars, pay your debt off, don't buy a new car. I've seen it. I could give you specific situations where somebody, uh, people have prayed, had a need, financial need, they prayed for that, God gave it to them, and then they didn't pay their debt, they went and bought something else. Four-wheel or whatever. Dhum. Amen or not? You with me? So pray specific. Pray specific. That's what the servant did here. Now here's my message, and I end with this. What's the proper response? All right, preacher, all that. Ah, the promise, okay, the prerequisites, all right. So what do I do when God answers my prayer? I put a few things down. Number one, worship God. Look what he does here. Look at verse number chapter 24, verse 26. And the man bowed down his head and worshiped God. How many prayers have God answered for you and for me? We never thought a thing, we just went on, never stopped This man stopped immediately on the spot. He saw what happened. God answered a prayer. He bowed his head and he worshiped God. Worship God. He stopped. He took the time. Now, when it says he worshipped God, it has this idea. He showed respect and honor to God as God. God, you did this. You are God. You showed me mercy. You showed grace. You heard my voice, and I worship you. I worship you. We have a missionary we support, Clayton Schumpert. He worked with the claim division, a BIMI, they would help missionaries on building projects, that type of stuff. Tremendous ministry. He's elderly now, he's still in the ministry. Talk to him every now and then. He was preaching a missions conference for us years and years ago. And he was illustrating a point. I don't remember what the point was, but I do remember what he said. He said there was a fellow that they had been praying for for years and years to be saved. Guy was, if he died in his sins, he was going to hell. And he said, we prayed, we prayed, and we prayed that this man would be saved. He said God put on my heart, and I I think I have the details fairly accurate. So God put his heart to go visit this fellow and talk to him again about his soul salvation. He said we did it. We drove over his house, went in, I guess somebody was with him, I don't recall. Talk to him, and lo and behold, God answered their prayer finally. Nephelah bowed his head and he called Lord Jesus Christ to be his Savior. Dr. Chumpert said that he came out, and I don't know why, this just stuck in my head decades ago, he told this, and he said, I got my car in the driveway of this man. I closed the door. He said, and I bowed my head. And I worshiped God. I worshiped him. Because God heard his prayer and answered and saved the soul. I think what we need to learn to do and establish in our lives when God does answer our prayer, take some time. Humble myself before God and worship Him. God, you did this. You are God. Wasn't a coincidence. I'm just happening that way. It was God intervened in my life. What am I? What is man? Thou art mindful of me. That you would hear my voice and you would You would answer my prayer. God, I worship you. How he responded to answer prayer. Worship. Then it goes on, notice what it says. The man bowed his head and worshiped the Lord. And then verse 27. And he said, he goes on, Blessed be the Lord God of my master Abraham. He worshipped God and he blessed God. He gave God the glory for what took place. He praised God for answering his prayer. He thanked God for answering his prayer. Bless you, Lord. Thank you. Gratitude. Would you agree with me if somebody asks something from you and you help them or do whatever, you lend them money or give them money or do whatever, you help them with the project, they ask something from you. And then They just walk off and never say thank you, never think. Would you agree with me? It'd be kind of tough to do something for them again. Right? We had a uh and I gotta quit, but there was a situation in Indianapolis and I was youth pastor and I was the only one in the church and the lady called and I answered the phone and she goes, I need diapers really bad I got a little baby. She was poor and I I just need diapers. I said, okay. I said we don't have any church. I don't have access to church money. I said, but we had the boys I think it was just Sam, but he was real small. He was a baby And how many people remember cloth diapers? I don't know if they even make them anymore. But we we didn't have much money. I was a youth pastor in the independent Baptist church. We didn't have nothing And so we did have cloth diapers. I said, well listen, I said, I've got some cloth diapers. We got more than we need. I'll bring them out to you. And she goes, I don't want no cloth diapers. I want paper diapers. Now back then only rich people had paper diapers I said, well I don't got any. I said, I'll bring you what I have. So we drove out there, it was in a very poor area, knocked on the door, she came and I said, I got you some diapers and we tried to talk to her about the Lord and she looked at and she goes, I don't want them. I ain't using no paper diapers. Uh-uh, nope. Don't want them. I said, well here they are. I'm leaving them. Now let me ask you a question. Do you think I'd be very willing to give her help her next time she calls up? No, and I didn't. And I'm here to tell you, we ought to come to God. And when he answers, are he God? Pays attention to me and intervenes in my life. I ought to thank him. Amen? I ought to bless him. Bless you, Lord. Nim, he told others, and I gotta quit. Look, verse twenty-seven Who hath not left destitute my master of his mercy and truth. I being the way, the Lord let me. He's telling this gal, God, just answer my prayer. And then you get over to verse number 42, and he tells her family: Well, I prayed this, and God answered my prayer. If God answers our prayer, we ought to tell people about it. So I all don't think I'm bragg- uh I'm bragging on myself. No, no, no. It's not bragging on me, it's bragging on who? God answered. I'm telling you, there'd be more people praying if the people that are praying would tell people that aren't praying that God answered their prayers, then the people that aren't praying might start praying We ought to tell folks. God answer your prayer? Yeah, let me tell you. Go to Walmart, wait in the line. He says, How are you? Let me tell you. God just answered a prayer for me. Huh? And then last of all, I am with this. We ought to bless others. Look at verse 53, and I found this profound. This is after she meet he meets her family and they make arrangements. Yup, she's going to come back, marry Isaac. And the servant brought forth jewels of silver and jewels of gold and raiment and gave them to Rebekah. And gave also to her brother and to her mother precious things. They did eat and drink. You know what happened? God answered his prayer, and he went out and was a blessing to other people. Can I tell you why I think God answers the majority of our prayers? Not just so that we can, uh I got all my got my bill paid. I got my debt paid. My family's all right with God. Oh so No, you know why he does it? So that we can take that answer and go out and help other people. And be a blessing to other people. And help other people. God answers prayer. I don't have time. I got a list here about seven illustrations of God answering prayer. It's off of a list of about 752 illustrations of God answering prayer. Current, contemporary type stuff. I don't have time. I'm here to tell you God answers prayer. Believe his promises, meet the requirements, and then when he answers it, you do exactly what this servant did. Amen? Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to help us. Teach us to pray. Teach us to pray, Lord, please. Teach every father in here to pray for his family, his children. Teach every mother in here to pray for her husband or children. Grandparents. Teach every child to pray for mama and daddy. Teach us as church members to pray for one another and not quit. Help us to get right, make things right so that you can answer our prayer. And then Lord, we want to give you the glory, we want to worship you And praise you and bless you. Let you use us to help others. Heads bowed, eyes, those. How many like me would say, preacher, I need to learn to pray? I need to learn to pray. Anything like that, uplift the hand. I need that. God to help me. God bless you. How many would say, preacher, I'm need there's some requirements need to be met? I know when you're preaching, God spoke to my heart. There's some areas that need adjusted so that I can be in praying ground. I can be in a position where God can answer anything like that. I don't know what it is. It's between you and God. It's very specific. Between you and God. But any others? Many hands raised. How about others? Yep, there's some things there I got to get right. God bless you God bless you. I wonder how many here would say, preacher, God's answered a lot of prayers. I never gave much thought to my response. By his grace, I want to be more biblical in my response to God's answer prayer. Any like that? God bless you. My hands raised. This message studying it helped me. I pray it'll help our church. We're going to give an invitation. There'll be an altar here. Maybe we need to come get a promise and just claim it. Come to this altar and say, God, I'm going to claim this promise. I'm going to keep praying. Maybe some of us need to come to order and say, Lord, something's not right. I need to get right. Why don't you come do that right away before you leave? Right now, make it right. And maybe some of us need to come to hold and just say, Lord, I worship you. I bless you for intervening in my life and answering my prayer. Or by chance there's someone here this morning, you don't know for sure when you die, you're on your way to heaven. Today's the day of salvation. Let me ask this real quick. Is there any here who would say, Preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die? I don't want to go to hell. I want to know that I'm forgiven. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preach or pray with me. God will help me get that settled. Any of them? Father, bless our invitation now, I ask in Jesus' name.