Matthew. James chapter 5 verse number 13. Just going to look at this one verse. We looked at the first half last Sunday night. It says this, is any among you afflicted? What should he do? Pray. If you're afflicted, what should you do? Pray. Let him pray. Then the next statement made in this little verse here is any Mary, let him what? Sing Psalms. James is a very practical book. And he just says, alright, if this is the condition you're in, this is the circumstances you're in, this is what you should do. I like it when people that are over me tell me what I should do. I'm simple-minded. I like a boss. If I have a boss, I want him to tell me what exactly do you want me to do. When I was youth pastor in Indianapolis, I wanted the pastor to tell you exactly what did you expect from me? What do you want me to do And I'm glad God tells us here what we should do. And what to do when you're married. Let's pray. I'll just give you a few thoughts here real quick. Father Lord, my heart's full. It's been a blessing today to see all these kids and a bunch of their parents come in this morning and family members, see them enjoying the meal, hearing the gospel and fellowshipping I pray that what was said and done today would have an eternal impact in the hearts and lives of the families of our bus riders. We ask you to continue to use us and this ministry in particular to reach more people. Lord, there's just so much more could be done. So many more kids that desperately need Christ. So many more moms and dads. So Lord, just give us grace and help us. Lord, we're we're we're very happy tonight in your goodness to us. And so as we look at this statement, I pray you'd help us to learn and incorporate what you've instructed us here to do. I yield myself to you, Lord, and present my body anew. I ask you'd speak to each of our hearts through me. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. You go through the Bible and you find God's people in various conditions. As you read through, I I I say this often, but I think at some point in our Christian life we ought to get to the point where we are s begin reading the Bible through, from Genesis to Revelation. I think it's important. I think every book of the Bible ought to be read by every Christian at some point or another And as you read through the Bible, Genesis X, Leviticus, Numbers, all the way through the New Testament, you find the record of God's people in various situations, in various conditions. For instance You don't read very far and you find some of God's people facing tremendous trials, very, very great difficulties, afflictions. to use a biblical term. You read through the Bible and you find some of God's people in times of prosperity and things are going very well for them. Their needs are being met and there's no real trials going on. And you find them rejoicing. You read through and you find some of God's people at various times in tremendous sorrow. Maybe the death of a loved one, or some setback, or some something took place And they're going through a time of sorrow. And you find in God's word, uh some of God's people in various times going through w what we would say they're very merry. They're very happy. They're rejoicing in the Lord in God's blessings. And so these are all various things that happen at various times. They don't all happen at the same point in life. For instance, we don't all face a child at the age of 30. Some of God's people do. Some at the age of 30, some are merry and prosperous Some at the end of their life in their latter years they go through hard times and affliction and difficulty. Others, the end of the years are golden years, and they're rejoicing and prosperous and God blesses them Uh they're all different degrees. Not all of God's people suffer affliction at the same level. It seems like God in his wisdom and sovereignty allows some people to go through very deep affliction, very difficult afflictions, where others they face affliction, it's not quite the same intensity. Uh varying degrees. Same with the prosperity and And uh sorrows and trials and these things. Some of God's people we go through various things because of different reasons. Sometimes we bring it upon ourselves. We mentioned that last week We make dumb decisions and there's dumb consequences. Um we were talking with a person this week and witnessing to them and they said several times, why are why do all these terrible things happen to us Why are all these terrible things happening to me? They're unsaved at the time. And uh we said, listen, sometimes we make decisions and uh outside of the will of God and contradict himself To God's instructions, and it there's a consequence of that. But sometimes people go through tough time and they made smart decisions. So the reasons are not the same. We have to be very, very careful When we see somebody going through something, whether it's a positive, merry, prosperous, or it's negative, it's sorrow and afflictions, we have to be very, very careful on making a snap judgment as to why they're going through that. We need to understand there's various reasons. And we don't always know those reasons. As I was preparing this and looking at this text and trying to put together some thoughts and asking the Lord to teach me here what he's saying. I thought, you know, any given any given church service, you walk into a church service, for instance, this morning, we had a good crowd. We had a lot of visitors. We had a great variety of folks from society. Folks here this morning, some were very wealthy. There were some folks here this morning, don't know how they're going to buy groceries this coming week And so you have a great variety, but any service you go into, there are going to be some people there at different situations, dealing with different situations. There are folks this morning, no doubt some folks tonight, that are facing tremendous difficulties, going through tremendous uh hardships. They don't wear it on their sleeve. They don't come in and announce, oh, I'm going through the worst time in my life. They don't do that. They just quietly, in their world, in their life, they deal with it. And some to many times say little or nothing about it to others. There are some people here this morning, some no doubt here this evening. You're loving life. Things have never been better. The bank account's never been higher. The doctor's report has never been healthier. And you're just praising God. You're married And don't necessarily always go around broadcasting it, but in your heart you're happy and rejoicing, and you would fall into this category here if any is any Mary. There are Christians in any given church service. There are Christians in varying stages of their Christian development. There are some, no doubt, this morning, perhaps some tonight that are saved, trusted Christ. But they're very immature. They're not real strong in the Lord. Their faith hasn't been tested a whole lot. They haven't had opportunity or time, or maybe decisions they've made. They've really not grown They're not that level of faith and maturity that some others perhaps are this morning and no doubt tonight in about every service. There are some folks that are at a stage in their Christian life where they're very strong in their faith. They're very confident in their walk with God and their witness. They have a tremendous influence and and have a tremendous impact, a positive impact in the lives of others. In any given service, there are people in various conditions, physically and spiritually I have no doubt. I'm not thinking of any one or thing in particular, but I have no doubt in the crowd that size this morning, there were some Christians who really blew it this past week. And they're dealing with the f the fallout of failure in their Christian walk, and maybe made some decisions that tonight they regret deeply. And they were in church this morning. And they're dealing with that. Um, maybe physically. We all have a uh today we've had a lengthy prayer list. And we have folks in our church going through some tremendous physical challenges. And so I'm trying to say this. At any given time. God's people are dealing with a great variety of issues and going through a tremendous variety of situations and circumstances. Some are tremendously positive and others are heartbreakingly negative. And what I'm trying to get at in this lengthy introduction is this: regardless of where we're at in our walk with God, regardless of how mature or immature we may be in our faith. Regardless of our physical condition, the health, or the lack thereof, regardless of what circumstances we may be facing, the Bible addresses each and every one of these situations. The Bible addresses every circumstance. Now, we have three situations that Christians find themselves addressed here in this passage. We already looked at two of them in our just our Bible text reading here, our scripture reading. He says, Is any among you afflicted? Let him pray. So he addresses the subject of Christians being afflicted. He says, this is what you need to do. Pray. Is any among you merry? I put it this way: in affliction, pray When Mary, praise. Then the next one, is any sick among you And then he gives instructions there. Let him call for the elders of the church, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. And he goes on and elaborates there. What is that? In affliction pray When you're married, praise. And when you're sick, partner with the people of God. Get them in on your side. Get them in praying. Get them in. Call the elders in. Do you see what he's saying there? Get them in together and get them pray. So every situation we find ourselves in, the Bible addresses it in one way or another, in one place or another throughout the Bible. Here these three are addressed. Tonight He addresses those who are merry. Now I got looking at what we don't use that term a lot. We'll say Merry Christmas or those types of things. But what does he mean when somebody is married? Well, there's a negative context to the term merry, and there's a positive context. The negative context has the idea of drunkenness. Or what I defined as foolish carelessness, um vanity Yeah, I it's expressed in the statement, the scriptural statement, eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow we Die. It's a care it's a foolish carelessness. Hey, I'm gonna die tomorrow. I'm just gonna live it up. I'm not gonna worry about what the future holds. I'm not gonna worry about what eternity holds. We touched on this this morning. I'm just going to eat, drink, and be, I'm just going to have a big time. That's the negative connotation. The Bible speaks against that type of mindset. But there's a positive context to the word Mary, and it means this, and it's used various times throughout the scriptures. It has this idea to have genuine happiness. A real deep-seated cheerfulness. A healthy, I like this definition, a healthy, trouble-free mind. Mary. Healthy, trouble-free mind. Now, the devil, the negative aspect of Mary, drunkenness, vanity Foolish carelessness. I believe that is Satan's synthetic alternative to God's genuine Mary, being Mary. Satan always has a counterfeit. for what God offers. And so Satan's counterfeit in Mary is uh is uh would be characterized, I think, chiefly by gluttony and drunkenness. Just foolishly living it up in pleasure and trying to find some sort of deep-seated joy, trying to find some trouble-free mind in these synthetic stimulants. try and bring peace to my mind and be merry and it never works, it always comes short. The other day um I was working I do most a lot of my study in in the in the kitchen there and I was kind of spread out and had my books and computer I was studying. And Kathy was doing some ironing in the back room and she had a game show on and all I could hear was just the noise. And um I told her, I said, it was just this laughing and cheering and hollering and going on And the thought that came to my mind was, if you've ever read Pilgrim's Progress, anybody ever read Pilgrim's Progress? If you've never read that, you really ought to. It's a little little ticks little takes a little mental um uh commitment, but it's a tremendous book. And in there he references Vanity Fair And the merriness of this world, just the whole mentality, laughing and drinking and carrying on, but no substance, no basis to it. And I don't know why I'm saying this, but that's what that game show sounded like to me. I said, that sounds like what I think Vanity Fair would have sounded like, just but anyway, never mind that So anyway, he says if you're married, he's talking about the positive context here, about the idea of a healthy, trouble-free mind. Your mind is at peace. You're settled in, things are going good. As far as you know, you're what right with God and you're walking with the Lord and you have God's presence and God's blessing and the trials and afflictions and difficulties they're not. disturbing your world at this time. And he says, when that is the case, then you need to sing psalms. You need a praise. This is what you need to do. Now why should we sing psalms when we're married I want to give a few thoughts, actually just two thoughts, and I'll try and uh get them to you here as quickly as I can. My first thought is looking at this is number one, life is not always trouble We tend to focus on that. The Bible addresses it a lot. But life is the Christian life is not made up of total affliction 100% of the time. My greatest There's no doubt, no doubt. The hardest trials and heartaches that I have faced personally in my life have been after my salvation No doubt about it. The emptiness of before I was saved, the disaster before I was saved, but the real heartaches have come since I've been saved. And we need to understand, getting saved does not mean now we live in a bubble where we're immune from heartache and difficulty. We already talked about that. The greatest disappointments and heartaches and trials that I've faced in my life have not just been since I've been saved, but since I've been in the ministry. The greatest, most brokenhearted times of my life have been since I'm in the ministry. And sometimes we get to think, oh, the preacher, you know, he's in the ministry. He's got it made in the shade. Work one day a week. Go fishing the rest of the time, it's fantastic. Listen, I'll tell you the ministry is fantastic. I thank God. It's a tremendous privilege to serve God in the position He's called me to, but I'll tell you, it is not without heartache. Is not without affliction. However, having said all that, the greatest joys In my life, without question, have been since I've known the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. Without a doubt, the greatest blessings that I've experienced in my life beyond measure Have been since I've given my life to serve the Lord in his calling in the ministry. We must understand. This is what I'm getting at. The Christian life is made up of trials and blessings. The Christian life is made up of mountaintops, sunny, shiny, happy mountaintops But it also includes deep, dark valleys. And so life is not always trouble. When in affliction, pray and remember this. If you don't get anything out of this message, please get this. When going through affliction, remember this. Pray, and remember it will not always be this way. Your entire life is not going to be a deep dark valley. God will bring you through that, and God will bring you out the other side. It may not seem like it at the time. It may look the rest of my life is doom and gloom. If it weren't for bad luck, I'd have no luck at all. Right? That's not the way it is, my friend. We have God's blessing. We have God's presence. And God will bring us out. Trust God. Do exactly what He says, and sooner or later you'll come out and that affliction will turn to cheerfulness and happiness. How many people are glad it's not all just woe and gloom woe and gloom and dance and sad, sure. And so life is not always trouble. There are times, many times, of merriness and joy. Second thought is this The Lord must remain my focus, even when the doors slam in the back. Thanks, guys, for that illustration. Perfect. Whether I'm in a deep dark valley or on a bright sunny mountainside, I need to keep my eyes on the Lord Jesus Christ. And I think that is the message of this statement. Is any Mary? Let them sing Psalms. A lot of times, let's see if you agree with me on this. A lot of times we go through a trick affliction, we go through a trial. What is the first thing we want to do? I need to run to the Lord. I need God to help me. I need we get our eyes to the Lord. We examine our life. I gotta get this right. I gotta get that right. Boy, I've been diagnosed with this. I need to get right. I need God to answer us Uh, I have to deal with this problem. Oh, I need uh I lost I need to get things right with God. I need to get things right with God. That's a good thing to do. But when we're married, when things are going right, we need to keep that same focus on the Lord. We need to keep that same mindset on the Lord. Keep my eyes on Christ. Keep my mind on the Lord. When things are bad, get my eyes and my mind on Christ. When things are good, get my mind. Keep my eyes and my mind on Christ. I've been doing this long enough. I've seen enough. I've seen people come and go I've seen folks show up, total strangers, come in those back doors, and their world is falling apart. They've been diagnosed with cancer. Their spouse left them, something's going on. And they'll say, we need to get right, and they'll come, and God will save them, and God will help them, and God will see them through it, and as soon as everything gets back in place and merriness shows up, you never see them again. There is a danger in prosperity. There is a danger in peacefulness. And that danger is this. I get my eyes off of the Lord Jesus Christ. Do you notice what it says there? Look at that verse again. Is any among you afflicted, let him pray. Said any Mary, let him notice what it doesn't say. It doesn't say let him sing It doesn't end. This world's full of singing. Anybody notice that? I mean they call it that. The world's full of noise. They call music. He doesn't say, if any of you marry, let them sing. He says, let them sing what? Psalms. What are Psalms? Psalms are testimonies of God's goodness. Psalms are singing, the Psalms through the book of Psalms and the Psalms in general are simply rejoicing in God's blessing, rejoicing in God's blessing. presence, rejoicing in God's promises, rejoicing in God's goodness to me. So don't just say But sing of God's goodness. Praise the Lord. Rejoice in the Lord. He's saying, keep your eyes on the Lord. Psalms, singing Psalms, will guard our hearts against the dangers Of peacetime, against the dangers of prosperity, for lack of a better term. What does singing psalms do for us? Well, what are the dangers? Let me put it this way. What are the dangers of being married as a Christian. No affliction, no trials, things are going great. It's wonderful. You say, that's dangerous? Yeah, it's very dangerous. There's a real danger in prosperity. One, I put this down, where the gifts of God become a higher priority than God Himself. Maybe God has met your needs. Maybe He's provided a good job or a good source of income and finances are no longer a stress, no longer a real urgent prayer request. God has provided that If we're not careful, that money, those resources, that blessing can become a higher priority in our life than the Lord is. And that's a real danger. Being married becomes more important to me than being submissive to God. Having a being at peace becomes more important to me than being holy. And doing right and being uh being married is more important than being obedient. I want to suggest to you, now this is just a guess on my part, but I want to suggest to you more people backslide when things are going well than when things are going bad. More people drop out of church when things are going well than when things are going bad. More ch more people go on and become unfaithful in their ministry and become unfaithful in their walk with God when everything's going wonderful and running around, carrying on, enjoying life, and suddenly enjoying life becomes more important than obeying God. He says, if you're Mary, you make sure you sing psalms. You make sure you keep your focus and your heart and your affection set on the Lord Jesus Christ. And don't let that merriment, as good as and pure and God-given as it is, don't that, let that replace the Lord in your affection and your commitment. Am I making sense? So I put this one down, a second danger of merriment. We become indifferent to our spiritual well-being. Now I wanted to turn there, but we won't for sake of time. Psalm 55, 19 says this. Because they have no changes, I'm not quoting this exactly. It says something to this effect, because they have no changes, they do not fear the Lord. And the idea is this, because nothing comes in that upsets their routine, and nothing comes in that upsets their contentment, and nothing comes in That disrupts their uh provision and their resources and their needs being met. Nothing disrupts any of that. And their fear of God begins to fade. And their concern about their spiritual well-being tends to die off. And we lose our passion for the Word of God. I want to suggest to you that when everything's good and everything's going great and there are no trials, there's no afflictions, there's no sickness, suddenly reading that Bible Doesn't have the doesn't have the urgency. It did when I have no idea what's going to happen tomorrow. Can I get a witness? Anybody know what I'm talking about? We lose our passion for the word of God. We lose our passion for prayer Uh we lose our passion for our ministry. Everything is going good. And so there's a real danger. He says, now, if you're Mary You sing Psalms. You keep your heart and your mind, your affections on the Lord Jesus Christ and remind yourself of His goodness. Here's a third danger. I'll just give this quickly. The danger of giving ourselves credit. For what God is doing. Follow what I'm saying? Wow, my bills are all paid. I'm healthy. Eating right. I'm trying to exercise. I'm feeling good. Uh got decent vehicle, decent house. Wife and I are getting along great. Suddenly I start thinking, not maybe not consciously, but in the back of my mind, I start thinking I must be something. I must really be something. God's blessing me and God's doing this. And you know, I've been pretty good about this Listen to me. The moment we forget that everything we have and everything we are is by the grace of God, we are headed for a fall. God is not blessing you and me because we are wonderful. He blesses us because he is wonderful. We need to keep that in mind. We even need to remember everything I have is a result of God's grace. Every breath I take. It's because of the grace of God. Every time that heart muscle in my chest beats, it's God's grace keeping that thing beating one more time, one more time, one more time. And so he says, if you're married, things are going great, good, praise the Lord, rejoice in that, but you sing psalms, you keep your focus. on the Lord Jesus Christ. God must remain the right the prime the priority in my heart. I learned something studying Abraham and I'll end with this And then I'll say something else and end with that. And then one other thing I'll say something and then I'll end with that also. But I learned something. We were studying Abraham. It's some time ago. Uh I think I was doing a series on Sunday nights a number of years ago. And I learned something from the life of Abraham. As I studied Abraham, I noticed something. When things were going well for Abraham, he didn't get too high. And when things were going bad for Abraham, he didn't get too low. What he did was he kept his focus on the Lord God. And he didn't really pay, now he wasn't perfect on this, but this is what I gleaned from studying his life. He didn't really pay a whole lot of attention to whether things were going great or whether things were going bad. He just kept his focus on the Lord God. I thought that's a good lesson. If we have a good day in church on Sunday morning, we have a great crowd, a lot of visitors, we see a number of people saved, let's start praise the Lord. But let's not get too high and heady-minded about that. If we have a bad week when it snows in the middle of April, six, seven, eight inches, and you have a hard time running the buses, hardly anybody shows up and the offerings in the bottom of the barrel, let's not get too low. God's still on the throw. Isn't that good advice? If you're afflicted, pray. Don't get so discouraged. You pray. Things going great and merry? Wonderful. But you keep your eyes on the Lord. You sing psalms. You sing psalms. So let's not get too high when things are going good, let's rejoice and praise the Lord for it. But don't get too high, and when things are going bad, let's pray and seek God. But don't let's not get too low. I think prayer and praise Are the two instinctive responses of a spiritually healthy soul When my spiritual well-being is strong and healthy, my walk with God is mature, and my faith is strong. And affliction comes, my first response is going to be go to God in prayer. Go to God in prayer And if I'm spiritually mature and my faith is strong and my spirit is well-being is in good shape, my walk with God is strong. And blessings come and there's no trials, and I go through a period of time where things are at peace and clear, trouble-free mind, my first response is going to be, Lord, you're awfully good. And sing praises to God. This is Sunday night. We're going to have Lord's Supper here in just a moment. We're going to go out, we're going to go through a work of day week. Some of us are going to face some tough situations this week. Some of us are going to have blessings perhaps we never dreamed of. But whatever the case, let's make sure two things are true in our walk. One, that we seek God in prayer. And that we praise God with gratitude every single day. Isn't that good? So we finish out this day, Lord's Day in God's house. I think it'd be a wonderful day. Just get on our knees before God. And if you're going through a tough time, you bring that to the Lord. Ask Him to help you and give you grace. And if things are going great and wonderful, and your heart's merry tonight, get on your knees and give God praise. But let's keep our eyes on Jesus. Amen. I hope this helps. Father in heaven, please bless us. Give us the grace and the maturity to respond in these ways to the issues of life. And help us, we pray. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. I don't even say, preacher, I'm praising God. I'm rejoicing in God's goodness. I'm happy in the Lord tonight. I really don't have a whole lot of extreme burdens. There's always issues, but nothing overwhelming. Tonight I just want to stop for the next seven, eight days and focus on giving God praise. And singing and rejoicing them. Is there any like that tonight, preacher? That's me. I don't want to get my eyes off the Lord. I don't want to let this time of merriment derail me spiritually. God bless you. Many hands around. I wonder if there's some here tonight to say, Preacher, I'm going through Valley. Maybe not a lot of people know about it, but God knows. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me be faithful and earnest in prayer. Just keep my eyes on the Lord. Trust him. Any like that? Blade uplifted hand. God bless you. Hands all around. God will help us if we'll trust him. And follow his instructions. Father, bless our invitation. I ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed, as we prepare our hearts for the Lord's Supper. Jennifer plays the piano there. Why don't we find a place in altar tonight? Finish out God's The Lord's day in God's house, just finish it before the Lord on our knees perhaps, thanking Him and praising Him, asking for His grace and His help in the areas where we need that. And just keeping our eyes and our focus On the Lord Jesus Christ