I'd gone out, I'd made visit some shut-ins. I was doing some door-to-door up by the lake and just going door to door and introducing myself, inviting folks to come out to our church and one of our services We have a big day coming up, our big all-American Sunday, so it's telling people about that. And I just like to get out and give a personal invitation, trying to talk folks about the Lord. About halfway through the afternoon, I knocked on a door. And I came up and I could tell that, you know, it w the house and whatnot, that you know there were some struggles going on there, different things. I knocked on the door and it took a little while and a woman came to the door and you could tell right away that she had had her share of troubles. It's pretty obvious. And uh she was reaching for the door and it was kind of hung up and there was a glass door and so I just tried to help her a little bit uh because it was hung up and I told her through the door on Pastor Leatherman. I tried to help her a little bit, and man, she snapped at me. So I stepped back, she opened the door, said, sorry, I was just trying to help. What do you want? And I mean she just Let me have it. I said, listen, I'm sorry to bother you. I didn't mean to. I said, I'm just I'm Pastor Leatherman. I know who you are And I said, I just want to leave an invitation with you. I have a little gospel track here. It tells how we can know for sure that when we die, we go to heaven, not to hell. She says, I'm saved. I'm already born again. I don't need that. And I said, well I don't mean I I didn't mean to bother you. I'm sorry I upset you. I said, you know, there's my number. If anything I can ever do, I just want to be available to you. And I mean she just snapped at me and you could tell that she there was issues going on. She was having some struggles. There were some things wrong. And I felt bad, I left. I certainly didn't mean to upset her, you know. I was just trying to invite folks out. Another house I went to, and I knew this lady. This lady was definitely in the day of trouble. Uh the doctors' reports she had received were not good. Um there's a lot of pain, a lot of difficulty involved I would suggest just by observation that the second house I was at, this woman was facing just as much trouble, perhaps more, than the previous house was. But this lady, in the midst of her trouble, in the day of her trouble, she was very happy. She was rejoicing. She was praising God. And there was a marked difference in the mentality and the attitude of two people who were very clearly, very obviously in a day of trouble. One was angry, one was very bitter. Now, before I make too harsh a judgment, I don't know all the details, I don't know the background, I don't know everything going on. But just my experience, I noticed Two markedly different responses to the day of trouble. What was the difference Why is one lady so short and so angry and so bitter? And another lady who, by anybody's standards, is going through a tough time, and yet here she's rejoicing? She's got a positive attitude. She's happy in the midst of it. What's the difference? I think the Bible gives us the answer to that question. I noted, and we pointed out in our reading, the Lord hear thee in the day of trouble. We look at this chapter and we notice here that David is the penman of this. Passage of scripture of Psalm chapter 20. He's the penman. I use that term penman deliberately because God is the author. God is the author of Scripture. David is dependent. In other words, God simply used David to record this passage down. It's a certain experience in David's life. We believe this was probably written during the time uh when he wa uh as king And uh he was involved in a lot of battles, a lot of warfare. Some of the Bible scholars tell us he couldn't prove it by me, but they suggest that Psalm chapter twenty is a psalm that was written before he had gone into war with some enemies and before a series of battles, and they suggest that Psalm chapter 21 was written after the battles and and after the war was over. That may or may not be the case But David wrote here under the inspiration of God. He said, The Lord hear thee in the day of trouble. David knew what it was like to face the day of trouble. David was a godly man, but if you read his experience in Scripture as the Bible records his life and his ministry as king of Israel You find that David knew what it was like to face trouble. Now the word trouble here has this idea, to be extremely distressed. To go through a very difficult trial or affliction. Now, whether it was physical affliction, whether it was emotional, whether it was interaction with other people, we're not given the details. But David, a great man of God, a tremendous man of faith, highly respected across the board. Yet he faced troubles, serious troubles. Now, some of David's troubles he brought on himself. Be very honest. Some of his troubles were his own making. He had made some very foolish decisions. And as a result of those decisions, David faced some horrendous troubles. David had taken some very sinful actions. I think most of us are aware, David, he was proved unfaithful to his wife. He had gotten involved with another woman, committed adultery. As a result of that, people died. David went through horrendous difficulties and troubles. Bathsheba went through tremendous heartache. Some troubles that David faced, he brought on himself because of sinful actions he took and because of foolish decisions he made. He went through some real trouble. Listen, uh sometimes we just we just bring it on ourselves, don't we? When sin entered the world, when Adam and Eve decided that they were going to take things into their own hands. And not listen to God, not trust God, not obey God, and they decided to disobey God and sin against God, it introduced trouble into man's experience. Now, all these thousands of years, whenever sin shows up, trouble's not far behind. And so, some troubles David brought upon himself. As I said, through foolish decisions he made, through sinful actions, he knew what it was like to be in distress. He went through some difficulties, some afflictions. However, not all of David's troubles were the result of his sinful actions. Some of David's trouble was the result of other people's sinful actions. Some things that David suffered were the result of foolish decisions. that people around him have made. I think again, most of us, if we have uh if we've read through the Old Testament at all or been in under preaching of the Bible at all, we understand that King Saul, the predecessor of David was extremely jealous of David as he was working his way up through the ranks and leading the military. And Saul became so obsessed and so uh uh so became so threatened by David's success on the battlefield That Saul began making some absolutely ridiculous decisions. He began throwing accusations at David that were absolutely unfounded. In fact, it got to the point where King Saul decided that David was such a threat to him that he was going to kill David. And on repeated uh he made repeated attempts To murder his best warrior simply because he was intimidated, because he was jealous, because he was envious of David's success, David's notoriety And King Saul made some foolish decisions. And as a result of that, David had to flee for his life, had to leave family, had to live out in the wilderness. In fact, it prompted David to make some foolish decisions. And it just brought David into the day of trouble. So, sometimes the day of trouble shows up because we've done something stupid. We did something foolish. We didn't obey God. We took things in our hands and we decided we're going to do what we want to do, regardless of what God says, and as a result of that Trouble came. And again, mark it down. When we sin against God, trouble is not far behind. Sometimes our troubles are the result of what other people say or do. Sometimes others around us will sin. Sometimes others around us will decide to do things in violation of God's will. And it affects us. And it hurts us. And it puts us into the day of trouble. Here's the point: our actions And our decisions have a profound effect not just upon ourselves, but they affect those around us. I'm talking to some folks today, adults, young people. You've had to face difficulties, you've faced some trials because of decisions your parents made. Because of decisions a brother or sister made and some actions they took that affected you. No sin of your own, no one of your own. Maybe you're trying to do right, you're trying to live for God, trying to do uh serve the Lord and live by faith and obey God, but somebody else made a decision that directedly impacted you and brought the day of trouble on your life. Romans 14 tells us that no man liveth unto himself and no man dieth unto himself. The idea is our actions do affect others. We do not live on an island. We are not isolated from people around us. And one thing we need to consider, when I make the decision To not trust and obey God, I need to keep in mind that that decision will affect people around me. It absolutely will. Now, the converse of that is equally true. If I decide I'm going to trust God, I'm going to obey God, I'm going to do what the Bible says. that will in turn have an effect on people around us. In fact, I'm reading a book right now of a missionary in northern China, and he's giving uh the factors that God used to influence him to give his life to missions And one of the factors, he pointed out, I was just reading last night, one of the factors in his experience was a good friend of his. Who had given himself to try and get the gospel into all the world, and and this fellow's testimony and this fellow's life of faith and surrender and commitment to the gospel and the Lord Jesus Christ had such a profound effect on this young man. That he ended up giving his life to the mission field. And so this is what I'm trying to say. Our actions affect others. Whether we see it or not, we may not even be aware of the impact my decisions have on other people around. So David knew what it was like to be in a day of trouble David knew what it was like to make a bad decision. David knew what it was like to sin against God. And experienced the trouble as a result of that. He knew what it was like to be affected by other people's actions around him and how that brought trouble into his own life. But some of David's trouble, now get this, some of David's troubles were not the result of his own doings. Some of his troubles were not even the result of something someone else did. Some of David's troubles were simply allowed into his life by God. to develop David and make him stronger in his faith. The day of trouble, we all face it. We all have to deal with that day shows up of distress, of heartache, of difficulty, whatever, however it's described, whatever form it comes in. We all face the day of trouble. Sometimes it's because we did something stupid we broke ourselves. Sometimes somebody else did something stupid and we broke ourselves. But sometimes God, because he loves me and in his wisdom says, all right, Dennis's faith needs to be tried. Dennis' faith needs to be developed. And our faith never grows. Our faith never it never develops in ease and prosperity. It always grows through trials and testings and stretching. And so God says, David needs a day of trouble. David needs to learn to trust me. Even when things are not going great, I'm going to send a little testing. I'm going to send some trials in his life. I'm going to send a day of trouble. Not because of anything he did or anyone else did, but because I want to develop his faith I want to prepare him for a future ministry. David, when he faced Goliath, we know that story. Some interesting things took place before David faced Goliath. And as he's presenting his case to King Saul about letting David as a young teen boy go out and face this giant and and and uh deal with him. He's blaspheming God, he's denying the God of Israel. David's making his case to the king And the king says, you're just a boy, and he's been a warrior soldier since he was a boy. And what makes you think you can go out and kill this giant? My own soldiers are scared to death And here's David's argument. This is the case he makes. He goes, when I was a shepherd, a lion came by to the sheep and I killed that lion. He says, a bear came by and I killed that bear. Now I got thinking about that. Here's a a he's a young boy as he's facing Goliath and he's referring back to a previous time when he was even younger. So I don't know how old a kid he was when this Baroness Lion came out I'm just guessing off the top of my head, 12, 13 years old maybe. Now put yourself in his shoes. You're out in the wilderness. You're by yourself. You've got a bunch of sheep. You don't have a 30-30 lever action rifle. In fact, you don't even have much of weapons at all. And you notice off in the edge of the woods, here comes a lion stalking up to your sheep. Now I don't know about you, but my heart rate would increase a little bit of that. Now you are looking like you're so brave, oh it went fine by the middle. I guarantee you, now I I'm just I'm just speculating here, but I would I'd say David was probably a little anxious. as a young boy when that ti that lion's uh creeping up on him. Can can I get a witness? Anybody think agree with me? Four people agree with me. All right, well And then he says a bear shows up. Now, what did David do? What decision he made? What did someone else do that would prompt a bear and a lion to come and endanger his life? Probably scare him to death Put him in a position where he has to either kill or be killed. You know what it was? It was God putting him in that situation. It was God putting him in a position where it was a fearful event. It was a threatening event. God was developing David because down the road a few years there was a giant that some God needed somebody to kill that giant, and God was had a plan for David to kill that giant. But David had to be prepared. He had to know that God was able to see him through these situations so David would have the faith to believe that God could see him through facing the giant. And here's what I'm suggesting. That whatever day of trouble you or I may be going through now Now perhaps we did something stupid and we have to deal with it. Maybe somebody else did something we have to deal with it. Or maybe God is simply putting you through a day of trouble because down the road he has something he wants you to be able to do for him. that you need a level of s uh uh you need a level of faith that you do not have at this point. You need a faith that is stronger than what it is at this point. So God's going to let you or I go through a day of trouble. Sow that down the road. I'm prepared to do whatever God has in mind. Isn't that encouraging? That tells me that things aren't happening just haphazard. God's in control. God has a plan, God has a purpose, and even when I do something stupid and I have to deal with it, God is still able to use that to develop my faith and make me stronger So that down the road I can be more effective, I can be stronger in my faith, I can be more confident in my walk with God Now, I'm off the radar now, but if you would, I want to show you a passage of scripture that has helped me tremendously. Would you go to 2 Corinthians? Keep your place here in Psalms But this idea that sometimes God sends trials our way to develop us and help us to be more effective down the road. 2 Corinthians chapter 1 And I want to begin reading in verse number three. Now pay close attention, especially if you're here today and and I say this, I say you're going through some difficulty, you're going through some trial. And something immediately comes to your mind. The situation you deal with immediately comes to your mind. That tells me God is trying to tell you something. Now with that in mind, pay very close attention to the wording here in 2 Corinthians chapter 1. Notice in verse 3, Blessed be the God. Even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies, look at this, and the God of all what? Comfort. Now When he refers to the God of comfort, we're going to see here in a moment, he's referring to the fact that these folks had been through a tough time. There's been some situation where comfort was needed. There was a trial, there was a heartache, there was a difficulty, there was something where comfort, where strength was needed. And he says, God is the God that gives that. Now look at the next verse. Who comforteth us in all our what? Tribulation, in our, for the context of our message, in our day of trouble. Who comforted us in all our tribulations? Why? That we may be able to comfort them which are in any trouble. How? By the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God. You see what he's saying? He's saying, listen, God let you go through, what's the term he uses? God lets you go through tribulation. And God helped you through that. And God comforted you and He strengthened you and He enabled you to deal with whatever that situation was so that you would be able, when you come across somebody that's going through trouble. When the day of trouble comes to somebody else that you're acquainted with, or you have interaction with, you have influence with, you can take that comfort That help, that strength that you got from God in your day of trouble, and you'll be able to help them and enable them to go through their day of trouble. God uses our heartaches, God uses our difficulties, God uses our afflictions, God uses our trials, God uses our tears. To mold us and make us so that we can be a help and a blessing and a strength to others who go through that. When folks come into my office and we sit down or we talk and we try and work through maybe some situation. A lot of times I'll say this, listen, God's allowing you to go through this, or this is a situation you're dealing with, and I believe God is going to use this if you will trust him, if you will obey him, if you will let him uh have his way in this situation and just do what he says. Someday down the road you're going to meet someone that's gone through that exact same thing and you'll be able to say to them, hey, let me show you what God did for me. Let me tell you how God helped me. Let me tell you how God strengthened me. And God can do the same thing for you. Um so um uh there's a plan and there's a purpose. Not all of David's troubles was the result of his own decisions. Not all of David's troubles was the result of somebody else. Some of it God just allowed him so that he would be stronger and he would grow and he would develop Now, back to Psalm chapter 40, 20. We're going to hit them all here before it's over, so we got 50 and 40. 30 of this. So just mark it, we'll be there. Psalm chapter 20. The Lord hear thee in the day of trouble. The name of the Lord God of Jacob defending. Now, we're given in this passage and all through Scripture, God gives us different, various instructions as to what to do when trouble comes. And you could do a five-year series on what to do when the day of trouble shows up. And however that may uh uh whatever form that trouble may come in Marital situations, financial situations, physical, interpersonal, occupational, whatever. But something that is just hard, it hurts Distresses me. God says, all right, when that day of trouble comes, here's what you need to do. And it's a pretty lengthy list of things, instructions God gives us if we go through all the scriptures. A lot of different things. For instance, in Psalm 20, He says, look at verse 1. The Lord hear thee in the day of trouble, the name of God of Jacob defend thee. The idea here is he's praying. You pray the Lord to hear you in the day of trouble. Look over at verse number 6. Now I know that the Lord saveth his anointed. He will hear him from his holy heaven with the saving strength of his hand. The implication there is One of the things we should do, the Bible tells us in the day of trouble, we ought to pray. We ought to come to God with our trouble. The Bible tells us over and over and over and over again that God answers prayer. I want to hear, I want to stand, and I want to testify. If I was on uh suppose we're in a courtroom and the judge says to you uh and uh and it's trying to be proven that God answers prayer And uh the defendant of prayer that says, yes, God does answer prayer. Satan has this prosecutor who says, no, God doesn't answer prayer, it's a waste of time. It's just talking into the air, it does nothing at all. And uh the the defendant says uh the word of God and the spirit of God and the church of God says no, God does answer prayer All right, the judge calls up a witness, Dennis Leatherman, you come up on the stand, you give your testimony. I'm here to tell you, God answers prayer. Now sometimes we may pray and it may just seem like we're talking into air. Sometimes it may seem like that sky is made of cast iron and our prayers aren't getting anywhere. But I'm telling you, if we keep praying and we keep praying and we keep praying And we search our hearts and make sure my heart is right with God. I'm here to tell you God answers prayer. Whatever it is you're facing, whatever you've been praying for, and maybe you're at a point in your Christian life where you're saying, you know, I've been praying and praying and praying, I just don't see any results. I don't even know if anything's even in happening I'm here to tell you, don't you quit praying. God answers prayer. Just yesterday, as I said, I was out visiting. And uh got a phone call talking, and a direct answer to prayer was expressed to the person I was talking to on the phone. They didn't know I was praying about it I was praying something for them, and they made some statements. When I hung up, I said, Lord, you heard and answered my prayer. I'm just going to testify everywhere I can. God answers prayer God answers prayer. I don't know what your situation is. I don't want the day of trouble is you're dealing with, I don't know what the circumstance or what the need may be But I know this there's a God in heaven who is greater than any need you have, that is wiser than any complicated issue you're facing And he can and he will help. If you'll just get your heart right with him and pray and pray and pray and pray, God answers prayer. If you don't get anything else out of this message, I hope you get this. God answers prayer. God answers prayer. So I mean, we go through scripture from Genesis to Revelation, and God over and over again gives instructions what to do in the day of trouble. One of them is prayer. But that's not my message. He gives several here. He gives three here of what to do in the day of prayer. Now, my introduction is twice as long as the message. So relax. First thing we're told to do in verse number five is rejoice in our salvation. The day of trouble showed up. I didn't see this coming Or, well, you know, I saw this, I saw this heartache coming. I I could see it coming. I knew that I knew it was coming. Maybe you got broadsided. Maybe it's something you just say, you know, this is uh I don't know how to deal with this. I don't I don't know what to do. Whatever the day of trouble, whatever that consists of for you. Whatever that is to you, if you know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, one of the things to do in the day of trouble is rejoice in your salvation. Now I cannot comprehend I cannot comprehend why a person would reject salvation. Now, having said that, as a 18-year-old kid for five months, I fought it I knew I needed to be saved. I knew I was a sinner. I knew I was under the judgment of God. I knew what sin was doing to my life. And I knew that Jesus Christ was the only hope For me to ever have any kind of decent life, for me to ever uh uh uh uh to uh be what God intended for me to be, for me to have eternal life, to have forgiveness of sin. I needed to accept Jesus Christ as Savior. And for whatever reason I fought that and fought that and fought that until finally I bowed my knee and accepted Jesus Christ as Savior. And you know what? I thought, what a knucklehead I was. Why in the world did I fight salvation? Why in the world? A couple of our men were out this week, our cracked soul-winning team, Paul and Silas. Actually it's Ed and Charlie. But um They're out and they were out visiting Thursday and they came across a fellow. We're going to pray for him. The fellow's coming to the end of his life. And they did everything they could to sit down and share the gospel, how this guy could know his sins are forgiven, how this guy could know that when he dies, he goes to heaven and not to hell. The poor old guy wouldn't give them the time of day. Didn't want to hear it. They came back brokenhearted. They told me what happened. My heart's been broken. I've been praying for this old guy. Why in the world, listen to me, why in the world would a person who understands that God loves him A person understand that God loves her. And Jesus Christ died for all their sins for them and suffered hell in their place. They don't have to go to hell. They go to heaven. I get a new life. With peace and joy, eternal life, and then to turn around and say no I don't want that. I want to live in sin. I want to face the very real possibility of spending eternity in hell. No, I want to go on without God in my life. I want to go on without hope in my life. I want to go on without eternal life. I want Want a Douana under the judgment of God. What would possess a person to think that way? It's and again I've been through it myself, so but I I look back now and I think that's hard to understand. The benefits of salvation are so outstanding. And the consequences of not being saved are so horrific. I cannot understand. It's hard to comprehend why someone would say no to salvation. No to salvation. He says, we will rejoice in thy salvation. Day of trouble comes along. Man, I didn't see this coming. This is such a heartache. I cry myself to sleep at night. I worry myself sick. about how this is going to work out. One thing God says suggest that you and I do that would help us. One thing to do in the in the day of trouble is just stop and say, well, everything else may be falling apart, but thank God my sins are forgiven. I got a home in heaven. Thank God, no matter how bad it may be here and now, God is my Father. I have eternal life. I have a home in heaven. I tell you what, that'll brighten even the darkest day of trouble. Um rejoice he says, Rejoice in thy salvation. The word rejoice, I like this word. It has the idea of exalting in something, uh crying out with joy, singing out in praise. I found that one thing when my heart is heavy and I'm going through a tough time, one thing I found that helps me a lot is I find these good old hymns about being saved and having my sins forgiven And I'll just sing them over and over and sing them over again to me, wonderful words of life. That helps. One good thing to do in the day of trouble is to rejoice in my salvation. If we know Jesus Christ is our Savior, we rejoice in knowing, first of all, that God's my Father. Because I'm saved, God is my Father. We preached on this last week. The moment I accept Jesus Christ as Savior, I am born again. I am born Into the family of God. God becomes my father, I become his child. I'm here to tell you, and I say this often, and you say the same thing, I'm sure, to others, but I'm here to tell you: God is a good father. And he takes good care of his children. Listen, I lived for the devil for nineteen years, uh, and I've been living for uh I've known the Lord as my Savior now, and God's been my father for thirty-five years And I'm here to tell you, God is a better daddy than the devil ever will be. My worst days as a child of God are ten thousand times better than my best days as a child of the devil. God's my father. Whatever I'm going through, I have a Father in heaven who is all powerful and all-wise. And he's good to me, and he will never let something happen to me that he will not help me through and give me grace. We rejoice in knowing that God is our Father. Our Heavenly Father is a good Father, and He'll see us through the day of trouble. Look at chapter 23 of Psalms, you're right there. Notice what it says, verse number four. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, that sounds like a day of trouble to me. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. My heavenly Father never abandons me. My heavenly father never forsakes me. My heavenly father never leaves me alone. A day of trouble as a saved person, as a child of God, I have my heavenly Father. We rejoice knowing that God is my Father. I rejoice in knowing that my sins are forgiven. I tell you what, you go through a heartache, you go through affliction, you go through a heart a trial, you get the word, the doctor says we have inoperable cancer, you got three months to live, and you face that with a guilt load of sin on your heart and mind. That'll drive you down. But when I come and I know that my sins are forgiven, and I know that God has freely forgiven me all, I can stand before God and say, thank God. At least I don't have sins. I've got to be punished for. So, number one, I put this down. I rejoice in my salvation. I rejoice that God's my Father. My sins are forgiven. What a wonderful thing. And then I'll put this down. We rejoice in our salvation, knowing that joy awaits our future. As a child of God, as a saved person, when I accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior and my sins are forgiven, and God gives me a home in heaven, he promises me, Peter says that we have reserved seats in heaven. No matter what I'm going through here, I can always say, you know, there's coming a day when no heartaches will come, no more tears in the eye. It's coming a day. Hebrews chapter 12, verse 2 says, looking unto Jesus, the author of the finisher of faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame. Listen, Jesus did not enjoy the cross, he endured it. Jesus despised The shame that was associated for taking responsibility for all the sins of the world Now just think, and probably for many of us this happened, maybe all of us, at some point in our life we did something wrong and we got caught and it was obvious and we were ashamed For what we did. That shame that's associated. Now stop and think about it. When Jesus died on that cross, he took responsibility for all the sins of the world and was publicly Judged by God on the cross for every sin ever committed. Can you imagine the shame That would go along with that. The most perverse, shameful deeds of man, Jesus Christ suffered for us. He didn't enjoy that shame. He despised it But for the joy that was set before him. You know how he could deal with his day of trouble, so to speak? He knew there was a better day coming. On the other side, when he'd come out of that grave, millions and millions and millions of people would be saved from hell and have eternal life. Drunkards would be sober, thieves would be made honest, liars would become true, lives would be changed And knowing that there was a better day coming enabled him to go through and suffer the shame on the cross. And listen, you and I go through a day of trouble, and we have whatever it is we're facing. One thing we can do is rejoice in our salvation. God's my Father, my sins are forgiven. I've got a great future coming. I'll get through this. God will help me. There's a better day coming Another thing we should do in the day of trouble, first of all, rejoice in our salvation. I put this down from Psalm 20. Remember the name of the Lord. Look at verse 7 Some trust in chariots, and some in horses. Now remember, this is written going into a battle, possibly, is what the situation behind this Some people are trusting in their chariots and their horses, they're trusting in their resources and the things they have, and they're trusting in their possessions. But we will remember the name of the Lord our God. Remember, that word remember has this idea of continually call to mind. Keep putting it back in my mind. The Lord is my God. God is all powerful. Sometimes in the midst of troubles, in the midst of a storm, we forget what God can do. We forget that God's in control and all we see is our problem and all we see is the trouble we're dealing with and we forget to look up in God and He's telling us listen you keep bringing back to your mind wait a minute God is bigger than this. God is wiser than this. God is more powerful than this. I gotta keep remember, I'm not gonna trust in the horses and chariots. I'm not gonna trust in uh man-made solutions and all that. I'm gonna look to God. to help me through this. Israel was notorious that when they faced difficulty, the nation of Israel would often would run to Syria or to Egypt and they'd say, hey y'all, y'all come and help us. We've got a problem. We need you to come and help us. Or they would go and get the ark out of the cu out of the tabernacle and they'd pull that ark out and they would say, All right, we got this ark. We're trusting in this little uh thing here that uh this uh uh it became like a rabbit's foot. We got the ark, we'll be all right. They forgot all about God in heaven They forgot all about that there's a true and living God that can help them through this. And when they trusted in their horses and chariots, they trusted in man-made things, they trusted in their religion. They failed every time. But when they trusted God and they remembered the name of the Lord their God and said, that's where our hope is. That's where my trust is. Every single time God came through. And God saw them through it and they came out better and stronger for it. The Lord is able to give us strength. The Lord can give us comfort. God can give us direction in ways this world never can. Listen, the day of trouble shows up for you and you decide you're going to run to some liquor bottle and try and help you get through that day of trouble, you're just setting yourself up for more trouble. Say, well, I'm going to go out and I'm just going to live it up and I'm just going to do my thing. Trouble comes no matter what. I'm just going to go out and live in sin. I'm telling you what, you are setting yourself up for more heartache and more trouble than you ever imagined. But if you will stop in the day of trouble and say, wait a minute, I'm gonna remember the name of the Lord my God, I'm gonna look to Him and trust Him. And God will see me through, and you'll come out a better person, a stronger Christian, and God's uh and somebody that God can use to help someone else down the road. Here's some guy. Let's just for sake of illustration say here's some guy's wife leaves him. Maybe he gets saved. He's trying to live for God and for whatever reason his wife leaves him. Or it's a lady and her husband leaves for whatever reason. And they say, you know, I'm just going to go out, I'm going to go drinking, I'm going to go partying, I'm going to rock and roll, I'm going to dance, I'm just going to car Alright, let's say they do that. You know what happens? One, they're setting themselves up for even more heartache when the party's over. And number two, how are they going to help someone else down the road when they acted that way? What are they going to have to offer to anyone that they come across that's going through the same thing? Oh, you went through that? Let me tell you what I did. I just partied and rocked and rolled and lived it up. How'd that work out? Well I'm worse messed now than I was before But instead of reacting that way, they remember there's a God in heaven. They say, you know what? I'm going to trust God. I'm going to do what God says. I'm going to stay faithful. I'm going to live for the Lord. I'm going to trust Him. I'm going to foll Oh, I'm going to rejoice in my salvation, I'm going to pray And God sees them through, and they lo and behold, they come out of that day. The next day, and a few days later, time goes by, and man, I saw what God did. God showed himself strong. God gave me grace. God helped me through that. And they come across someone else that's doing the same thing. They say, hey, listen, I know what you're going through. I know what you're going through. I've been through the same thing. But let me tell you how God helped me. Let me tell you what God did for me through that. That person has something to offer. Huh? That person has something to offer. Not the rock and roll partier. What's he got to offer? And so, number one, rejoice in our salvation. Number two, remember the Lord our God. And then last of all, I put this one from verse number eight. It says they are brought down and fallen, but we are risen and stand upright. I put this, remain standing upright. To stand upright means to rebel against, to protest against. It's kind of like Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. When everybody was told to bow down and worship the golden image, they stood upright. They rebelled Against that which was trying to get them to do wrong. They protested against that by standing upright And what I'm going to say to you and I, when the day of trouble comes to us, if I know Jesus Christ as Savior, first thing I should do is rejoice in my salvation. Second thing I ought to do is I ought to remember. God's in control. I can trust him. He'll lead me through this. And the third thing I should do is remain upright. In other words, rebel against quitting. Rebel against giving in to this. No, I will not let this defeat my faith. I will not let this defeat my confidence in God. I will not let this destroy my testimony. I'm gonna stay true to God. I'm gonna rebel against compromise. I'm going to stay true to God. We decide to stand upright in the midst of difficulty. Listen, anybody can stand for God when everything's going good. On the job, yeah, your bills are paid, your health is good, everything's oh yeah, Lord's good to me, oh my bills are paid, Lord's good to me, oh my health, I got great health, but Lord's good to me, my family's happy But brother, when that starts, some of that stuff starts falling apart, the day of trouble shows up, and I can stand in the midst of that and say, you know, I'm not going to be unfaithful to God. God's still good to me I'm still trusting him. I'm still going to live for him. I'm still going to do right. And rebel against the pressure to compromise and give up and quit and gripe and complain and get better. Rebel against that Rather than I find strength to go through it. Remember I said at the beginning, this is one lady, and I don't know all the details, so I really I'm just trying to illustrate something. One lady is very short, very bitter, very angry. The second lady was praising the Lord, happy as can be, it was such a pleasant visit. You know what the second lady was doing? She was rebelling against bitterness. She was rebelling against anger. She was rebelling against that day of trouble and saying, no, you are not going to destroy my joy. I am not going to lose my testimony because I'm going through a difficult time. I'm going to stand upright. I was at Walmart the other day. And uh I saw a couple that years ago had come, they had trusted Christ, I baptized them. They had grown pretty good, we were discipling them a little bit, helping them grow and showing 'em what it means to live for the Lord. But they were they were never real committed. They were just kind of on again, off again, a little wishy-washy. I don't mean that, you know, the critical way, but they just they just didn't really lock in on living for God. I saw them and I thought back over and I thought about it. The day of trouble showed up in their life. I mean it was trouble. It was tough. It was affliction. There's no doubt about it And rather than rejoice in their salvation, and rather than remember that God's in control and God can see me through this And rather than resisting and uh uh the uh the tendency to give up and quit and remain true to God, they quit. They just said no. And I went by, I saw him there down there, and I went up and I elbowed the fellow and said, Hey man, I put my arm around and said, I've been missing you, I've been praying for you. How are you? I tried talking to them. You know what I saw in their countenance? Sadness. Defeat. Unhappiness. I said, listen, I'm praying for you. I'm going to keep you in my prayers. I said, you come on back out. God will help you. I thought, doesn't have to be that way. Doesn't have to be that way. I've got a God in heaven. I've got eternal life. I can rebel against that thinking, that type of living. And in a day of trouble, see God do great things and prepare me. I don't have time. Sometime look up this name, Horatio Spafford. Lost his whole family in a shipwreck between New York and London. A ship sank, his wife and kids all died. He went back to that spot several months later to where he lost his whole family. You talk about a day of trouble. He wrote, When peace like a river attendeth my way, when sorrows like sea billows roll. Whatever my lot thou hast taught me to say, it is well, it is well with my soul. Ah, ah, that's Father bless us and help us we pray. I don't know who is