Psalm 42. I failed to notice Claire Coddington's here this morning. Isn't that a blessing? God bless you, Claire. We've been praying for you, and uh we're good to see you and Artie in church this morning. We're glad you're We've been praying for you guys, and I hope you'll go by. I know the church has been praying. I hope you'll go by and say an encouraging word to her, and uh I just appreciate her faithfulness. And uh Rebecca Heinball's over there from Morgantown. Praise the Lord. Good to see you, Rebecca. Alright, Psalm forty two. While you're uh finding that again, a new doctor showed up in a small town. Word got around that this doctor was just amazing. He could heal anything. He could cure anybody. And uh words spread like crazy. But there's an old guy in town, old uh Mr. Thompson. He didn't believe nothing. He criticized everything. And uh the more people talked about this uh miracle doctor in town, uh, the more he was convinced the guy was a fraud, and he decided uh it was time that he was going to expose this guy. And this guy wasn't as great a doctor as he thought he was. So uh he made an appointment and uh shows up the doctor says uh Brent calls him in the office and uh he says hey doc I've lost my sense of taste. I can't taste nothing. And so his whole motive is going to expose this guy, he's going to prove he wasn't that great. Well, the doctor scratched his head a little bit and kind of mumbled around. He says, uh, Mr. Thompson, what you need is jar number 47. So he reached up on the shelf, got jar 47 down, took a spoonful, scooped it down in there, and he says, here, uh, open up taste desk. See if you taste this. Mr. Thompson hesitated, he tasted it, and immediately he said, Ugh, that's the worst taste and that's the nastiest stuff. That's disgusting. And he walked and ran out and the doctor said, Well, cured that one A little time went by and uh Mr. Thompson's all mad, you know, and he was it didn't work out the way it was. A little time went by. Mr. Thompson decides, he comes up, he says, I'll get him this time. So he makes another appointment, he goes in, he says, Doc, it's me again. He says, I've lost my memory. I've lost my memory. I can't remember a thing. He says, what can you do to help me? Dr. Thor a little bit. I know. I'll get jar number forty-seven again. Mr. Thompson went running out, never came back again. So I thought that was a good that was a smart doctor. Psalm 42. I'd like for us to read together verse number five with me, if you would. Psalms 42, verse number five Would you read it with me? Here we go. Why art thou cast down, O my soul? And why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God, for I shall yet praise him for the help of his countenance. Come over to verse 11. Let's read that one together also. Would you would you read it with me? Why art thou cast down, O my soul? And why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God, for I shall yet praise Him, who is the health of thy countenance and my God. Come down to verse chapter number 43 and notice verse number 5 with me. Let's read that verse together. Would you read it with me? Here we go. Why art thou cast down, O my soul? And why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God, for I shall yet praise Him, who is the health of my countenance and my God I've entitled the message there. I actually gave it two titles. Initially I just called it Why Art Thou Cast Down or Hoping God. But I changed the title a little bit, elaborated, and this is really the direction I want to go this morning is what to do. when you're discouraged. What should we do when we're discouraged? I think it's given to us here in this passage. So let's pray together and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Thank you, Lord. uh for good service again. What a blessing it is to have that sunshine, Lord. A little warmer weather. Lord, it sure is a blessing. We're grateful for it. I pray, Lord, as we assemble now in your name, with songs and psalms, and Lord, we'd fellowship together. Now as we look into your word, I ask that you would open our hearts, open our minds to what you have for us. And I pray you'd give us direction this morning. I pray you'd help some of us correct our thinking, Lord, about some things maybe we're a little off-center on, and uh I just pray that um we'd leave here with our faith stronger and our understanding of who and what you are uh a little bit clearer. And Lord, to do that, I need you to fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body anew and ask that you would be the one speaking through me to our hearts. It would be more than me just giving a speech, Lord. I pray it would be something it would be you, God, speaking to our hearts. So bless now I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. The book of Psalms is a blessing, isn't it? I read through that. I try to read through the book of Psalms twice every year. And it has become a source of tremendous blessing. a tremendous encouragement to me. I get to the point where I look forward in the morning to getting to the book of Psalms and seeing what the Lord has for me. And it's not just me only, uh millions of people around the world and for years I found tremendous encouragement for the book of Psalm from the Book of Psalms. Seems like wherever I'm reading, there's always seems to be just the right promise in that psalm that day that I need for that day. Seems to be just the right caution. It's amazing how many times something's going on in my life in the morning I get my Bible out and I read through that chapter of Psalms for that day. portion of psalmist for that day and how it there's something there, a caution or something that relates to what I'm going on. What's going on in my life. A word of blessing From the book of Psalms. I'm telling you, God's word is an amazing, amazing book. The Bible says that it is a living word Sharp and as a two-edged sword. And God uses his word, and many times, particularly the book of Psalms, to speak to us and direct us and encourage us and to help us. I've been doing this for years, but it seems like this year, 2014, that the book of Psalms has uh been especially uh a blessing to me this coming year. I doubt there's hardly a day goes by where God doesn't use something From the book of Psalms to speak to my heart in a significant way. Now we're here at Psalm 42. I read this several days ago, maybe a week or so ago. And um This verse kind of this chapter stood out in my mind. I did a little research on it. We're not told who the pen is. We know who the author of Psalms 42 is. The author is God Himself, the Holy Spirit of God. is the author, but we're not told who God used as a pen to record this. Um uh suggested. I looked around what other uh commentators and different folks that study it said and uh it was suggested maybe David. Uh there's a whole list of different suggestions Uh I think David, it fits into some of his experiences and and uh some of the way he responded uh to a lot of things. It kind of fits what we know to be true about David We're not sure who the human penment is, but we do know this. Whoever it was was going through a period of time of great discouragement. They were at a phase of their life. They're at a point in their life where uh it seems like you look at verses one, two, and three, it seems like God's not even listening to them. God is not active in their life. Look again at verse one. It says, As the heart panteth after the water book, so panteth my soul after thee. Now what picture do you have in your mind here? A heart is a type of deer. And this deer is running. Uh have you guys been out hunting? You've ever seen that deer running? And boy, their tongues hanging out, and they've been chased uh by hunters or whatever, and they're exhausted and they're thirsty, and they're just they're just uh they're just uh uh hungry or thirsty for that water brooks And that's the expression of whoever the human penguins here, he's dried up. And I need to hear something from God. My spiritual soul has become dry. Look what he says in verse 2: My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before God? My tears have been my meat day and night, while they continually say unto me, Where is thy God? I don't know the circumstances, I don't know the situation that this psalmist finds himself in, but the impression we get in these first three verses is it seems like God's afar off, his soul has been dried up God is not, he's not seen God doing things in his life for some time. And he's hungry for that. He wants his soul to be refreshed. I don't want to stay in this condition. And so, it's a time of discouragement. We all face that. You've been saved any length of time, you know there's times where we find ourselves in situations where it seems almost overwhelming. We find ourselves in situations and sometimes we're tempted to ask ourselves, where is God in all of this? Why isn't God stepping in? We feel our soul drying up We say, I need the Lord to stir my heart. I need the Lord to touch my soul. I'm discouraged. It's the way the psalmist was. We look at the title of this. I'm trying to get some background on this psalm here, and you notice in your Bibles you have a little title at the top. It says, to the chief musician, Madskill, and that's probably a type of instrument For the sons of Korah. Well, what does that tell us? Well, the sons of Korah were those that were given the responsibility of being over the music in the temple, in the sanctuary there. Uh they were this uh they were uh like the choir director and the musicians and and the team there. Uh they had been given the responsibility by God and David implemented them also uh to uh to lead the music in uh the church service so to speak. Of course it wasn't church in the Old Testament, the way we understand a New Testament church. But um uh that's what it would correspond to These were the musicians heading it over. And apparently this psalm was written, these 11 verses, were written to be sung Maybe uh by the sons of Korah, maybe this was a special. That the lead uh the musicians, those who were responsible for the music in the sanctuary, they were to sing this to the congregation as some sort of special, as the ladies did here a few moments ago. To the sons of Torah. It was written to them, maybe to sing as a special. Or maybe it was written for the entire congregation, the entire nation of Israel, to be sung as the sons of Korah would lead them in singing this song. Whatever the case was, this psalm was written for the, now I'm using this term here, I think you understand what I mean, for the public consumption of the nation of Israel. It was for everybody. It was for everybody to understand and take part in the expression of what this psalm is saying. That tells me several things. Number one, everybody gets discouraged sometimes. Doesn't matter what age we're in, doesn't matter what uh how how prosperous our nation may or may not be, doesn't matter whether I'm saved a long time or a short time. Uh we all face discouragement. It's a very real issue And even back in that day, and God wanted the entire congregation to understand what this psalm had to say and what it had to offer for those in that type of situation. But I learned something else from that. I learned the importance of music in the public worship of God. God expected his people when they came together, God expected them to sing. And sing good scriptural hymns and good solid Bible-based songs. Listen, when we get together here on Sunday mornings, Sunday nights, and Wednesday nights, we sing hymns and we get together congregational songs. Listen, that is designed by God. For us to express our praise and our admonition and as the lady sang, our need for our God publicly, corporately together. And so, listen, I feel great responsibility as pastor of the church to make sure that the music in Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is according to Scripture. Not just in its content, but also in its method and its style, to be aligned up with Scripture. And so we find that music is a vital part of the people of God, a vital part of our spiritual well-being. And uh and it needs to be appropriate. So I got studying this to the sons of Korah. Apparently this is uh to be used, as I said, uh in the people of God to be understood publicly and and by all people. Then I got reading and studying, and you come over to chapter 43, and chapter 43 and chapter 42 are so similar. In fact, you have verbatim, verse number 5 and chapter 43, and verse number 11, chapter 42. Exactly the same, word for word, identical. And I thought that was very interesting. Maybe I thought, well, perhaps these two were written on the same occasion. Two separate Psalms, and whoever the psalmist was, if it was David. Uh maybe sat down, wrote the one, contemplated that in prayer to God and and thinking through his situation, and writes chapter 43. Of course the chapter numbers were given by man I got reading about that a little bit, and there's several ancient commentators said that the many of the ancient copies of the Jewish scriptures They would have Psalm 42 and Psalm 43 were together as one psalm. And that was actually one hymn to be sung, all as one. That could very well be. We don't know, but uh that could very possibly be. I know there's one title given in chapter 42. There's not a title there in 43. And so um that could very well be. Whatever the case was. Verse number five of chapter 42, verse number 11, and then verse number five of chapter 43 caught my attention. Why art thou cast down, O my soul? Why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God, for I shall yet praise him for the help of his countenance. Verse 11, why art thou cast out on my soul? Why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God For I shall yet praise him who is the health of my countenance and my God. Then again, a few verses later, why art thou cast down on my soul And why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God, for I shall yet praise him who is the help of my countenance and my God. What to do when I'm discouraged? What do I do? Do I just sit there and wallow in my discouragement? Oh well. Or do I do something? I think this verse tells us we ought to do something. Number one, I put this down. When we're discouraged, we need to first of all confront our condition. Confront our condition. Look what he says. Why art thou disquieted? Why art thou cast out on my soul? Why art thou disquieted within me? He doesn't just sit back and just wallow in his discouragement. He doesn't just sit back and say, Well, this is just the way it is. He doesn't say that at all. He stops and says, wait a minute. I'm discouraged. I'm in a situation here. I find my soul drying up. I find myself getting discouraged. I find the blessings in my confidence in my walk with God is ending away. Wait a minute. I need to confront this situation. I need to deal with the spiritual condition I'm finding myself in. Why art thou cast down, O my soul? Apparently, as I looked at this, my conclusion is it appears to me there's not much he can do about his situation outwardly. I don't know what it is, we're not told. Is David being overwhelmed by enemies and it looks like there's no way out? Is David discouraged because he comes back to camp when he was o over with the Philistines and uh other nations had come in and taken his wives and his families and his household and everybody's mad at David because they feel like he's failed and He did fail in his faith in God and maybe he's popped down and he's thinking, Oh, I failed completely and uh and uh I don't see any good coming out of this and I don't know how this is ever gonna work out Maybe he cannot change his outward circumstances, but he does do this. I can change my inward attitude. And he confronts himself. He confronts the circumstance. He can address his spiritual condition. My image I get in my mind here looking at this is David is standing in the mirror and he's talking to himself. Or whoever the psalmist is. And he's looking in the mirror and he's saying, Hey, yeah, you. I'm talking to you. Who, me? Yeah, you. Talking to himself, you know. What are you doing like this? Why are you down like this? Why are you so disquieted? And he is not going to let himself continue on in this condition. He confronts it. He confronts it. Look, let's look at this. Look at verse 5. Why art thou cast down? Same phrase, verse 11, 43, 5. Why art thou cast down? The word cast down has two ideas behind it, two thoughts about it. One is this, and I think we can relate to this if we've been around any length of time. The word cast down has the idea of being knocked off your feet. I mean the picture is this. I'm just traveling along, minding my own business, going along, and all of a sudden, out of nowhere, whah, boom, I'm knocked off my feet. That's the idea. Uh we used to have a term we'd use um uh be sucker punched. Anybody know what that means? I mean you never see it coming Somebody comes up it's not fair, maybe from the side or behind. Uh they had this stupid thing going on, uh this knockout game. Did you see that in the news People just come up from behind and uh person just minding their own business going on and some thug uh ought to be in jail for ninety years, uh comes up behind and just slugs them across the head and tries to knock them out in just one punch Just innocent, unrelated thing. That is the idea behind that word, why art thou cast out? It's one of the ideas. Hey, if we've been around in life very long, we've all found that sometimes something comes into life that is absolutely devastating, just broadsides us, blindsides us, we don't see it coming, and the next thing we know, we are on our backs. Maybe financially, maybe physically, maybe emotionally. And it's something that just shows up out of nowhere. I never saw this coming, I never anticipated this, and it is a blow. And we're cast down. We're knocked off. It hits suddenly and it hits hard. So one of the ideas, the concepts behind this, why art thou cast down? David's talking to himself, he's confronting his condition. Uh the first several verses he sees it. I'm like a heart panting after the water books. My soul is dried up. We don't know what the circumstance is, but it may have been by the wording he uses, he may have got broadsided by something, blindsided by something But there's another concept behind that phrase cast down. Why art thou cast down? And it's this, and some of us can relate to this, maybe all of us. It's the idea of something being so heavy And such great pressure that it's just pushing down, down, down, down under the load and collapsing under the load. Sometimes there are seasons of life where something comes and hits us, we never saw it coming, and it absolutely puts us in a spin, knocks us off our feet, and we find ourselves laying on our back. Sometimes we discouragement is the result not of something so sudden like that, but it's just the constant daily piling up. piling up, piling up pressure, needs, uh, responsibilities, uh maybe failures, uh whatever, just one after another after another after another And finally, we're at the point where we are just so bowed down and cast down under this weight. And we think, where's God? We think there's no hope. And whatever the case is, whether it was a sudden thing that caught the psalmist out out of guard and uh uh knocked him over, or whether it's some overwhelming uh situation that just weighed him down. Nevertheless, he finds himself discouraged. But he is not going to just accept that He may not be able to get the weight off. He may not be able to erase the fact that he was blindsided. But I can change the way I'm thinking. I can change the way my discouragement. I don't have to just accept the fact that I'm discouraged in this situation. And he confronts his condition. He goes on, why art thou cast down, O my soul? And then he asks them the second question: Why art thou disquieted within me? Word disquieted is interesting. It's used several times throughout Scripture, translated other words, but throughout Scripture, but sometimes it makes reference to a sea that's uh a sea that's all churned up Those waves are just up and down, those white caps are there. My picture is the storm. We're studying Jonah on Wednesday nights, and that storm that was tearing that ship apart. That sea was disquieted. It wasn't calm. It wasn't peaceful. And whatever the case was, the psalmist here says that down inside his heart and soul He is discouraged. There is no peace there. There is no calmness in my life. Discouragement has taken over, and I'm worrying about this, and I'm upset about this, and I'm overwhelmed about this. And his emotions and his heart and soul are absolutely turn churned up. And he's discouraged. He's discouraged. Whatever the situation was, this man got so discouraged that he was at the point that he was wondering whether God was even paying attention. Discouragement. Why art thou cast down? He addresses, he confronts his situation. Now, here's the thing that surprised me. And I learned this several years ago. Discouragement is real. Can I get a witness? Anybody here ever been discouraged? Three people. Oh, good crowd. Wow, praise the Lord. But uh we've been discouraged. I got looking through scripture several years ago, and actually I heard another preacher preach a message that sparked my thinking on this. Every time in Scripture that God addresses his people being discouraged. He never does this. God never comes down and says, You're discouraged? Oh, you poor little thing. Oh, that is, I'm discouraged too. That's so sad. Let's just cry and we'll sing a sad song. God never does that when his people are discouraged You know what I found God does every single time he addresses his people when they're scared. You know what God does? He rebukes them. He says, that's wrong. Israel got discouraged a number of times, and every time God sharply rebuked them. God rebuked them. God rebuked them for not trusting him. God rebuked them for not having faith in him. God, when discouraged, God always rebuked them. You know, uh and I thought, boy, that's kind of hard. But you know what happens when we're discouraged? If we don't confront that discouragement, if we don't uh deal with it and confront it. You know what happens? We get discouraged. We start saying things that are not true. Question, you read these first three verses there. Was it true? Was God paying attention to this psalmist at all? Absolutely. He had told his people, you're the apple of my eye. He promises us, I'll never leave you nor forsake thee. He promises, I'll never put anything upon you that you cannot handle. He promises us that he will not fail us, he will not forsake us, he will never face a temptation that we are unable to bear. And when I get discouraged and I start thinking that everything is terrible and there's no hope out of this, and and uh I'll never be happy again and I'll never be uh have God's blessing again, we are saying things that are not true. And God rebukes his people. Because we end up saying and doing things that we ought not to say and ought not to do. How many people have quit on a ministry because they got discouraged? How many people have quit praying for somebody to be saved because they got discouraged? How many people have quit living for God because they got discouraged? Question, should a Christian ever quit on God? No. There is not one circumstance you and I will ever find ourselves in that justifies us quitting on trusting God. But discouragement, if we don't address it, We'll end up saying and doing things that are not right. We ought not to say, we ought not to do. And so to the psalmist's credit, he get discouraged. And he's saying some things here. Uh he's questioning God, and he is dried up, and he is in a tough situation. There's nobody disputing that fact. But he confronts his condition and he says, wait a minute. Wait a minute. This needs to be dealt with. This needs to be uh dealt with. Um discouragement In our own heart should never ever be tolerated. Say, preacher, I just come to church today. I'm so discouraged. I understand that. If I was facing what you're facing, I may be discouraged too. But don't tolerate that. Stop it. Deal with it. Don't wallow in it. Um uh uh uh some people and I and I found myself in this condition, sometimes we get discouraged and it's almost like we like it. We just get in there in our own little world, we turn the lights off, and we just wallow. Just like uh uh do you ever see a pig wallowing in the mud, just rolling around and And just likes it. And I found there's sometimes if we're not careful, we can get down and we get so self-pitied and we get so self-centered in our discouragement and we just wallow in that. And God says, stop that. Don't you tolerate it, don't you excuse it, don't you coddle that discouragement. Discouragement is to be confronted. It is to be dealt with. It is to be put out of my heart and life. There is no room in the heart and life of a Christian for discouragement. It must be confronted. Here's the tragedy. So many folks, even Christians, we never stop and consider what type of condition I'm in spiritually. We just go through our life. Discouragement comes, ups and downs come, and we never stop and say, wait a minute, how strong is my faith? How mature am I spiritually? And we never stop and ask ourselves, why is my faith so weak? Why am I so defeated in this area? Why, why uh why am I why are you so why are you disquieted within me? Why are you cast down? Why am I so weak in my faith? Why are my prayers so anemic? Why is my witness so ineffective? Why is my life so worldly? And the tragedy is so many Christians never stop and confront their spiritual addiction. They just go right on and never give a thought. To where and what and where they are spiritually. Now we don't do that in other areas of life. If our finances are out of whack, boy, we give that attention. We got I gotta work on this. I need to fix it. You don't just let it go. Many of us are health. Maybe the doctor says, hey, we got an issue here, and this we found a little something there and it needs to be dealt with. Just let it go. We say, Well, doc, what do we got to do? Alright, we gotta have these tests, we gotta have that done. Take this medicine, take these tests, go through this procedure. I think we can fix this. And why don't we do that with our heart and soul? Why don't we do that with our spiritual life? Why don't we just go on and never give it any thought, never give it any attention? It's not what this psalmist did. He says, I'm dried up spiritually. Because I'm not spiritually in the health, health, the spiritual health that I should be. Why is that? And he confronts it. He confronts his condition. Many times we're more concerned about our wealth than we are about our spiritual well being. We're concerned more about our jobs and our our physical health and our hobbies than we are about our own spiritual well-being. What does this psalmist do here? He stops and he stops and he confronts his condition. Why is it this way? Take your Bibles if you will. Keep your place here. Everybody doing all right? Amen. Glad I can help some folks get caught up on your rest. Praise the Lord. Uh Psalm uh Luke chapter twelve. Come over there with me. Luke chapter twelve. Tell you it's tough to keep the heat and temperature, right? With uh one day it's sub zero, next day it's Uh over zero Luke twelve And verse 16. Now, before we start reading this, I'm going to tell you, this guy's situation, he's not discouraged. He's the exact opposite. But he does this, he makes the same mistake that a discouragement discouraged person does. Here you have one person's very discouraged, Psalm 42, his soul's dried up, he's like a deer without water. And then here in Psalms in Luke 16, we have a fella, he's not dried up, man. He's got money coming out of his ears. Look at verse number Luke chapter 12, verse number 16. And he, Jesus, spake a parable unto them, saying, the ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully. Now look how this guy responds to it. And he thought within himself, saying, What shall I do? Because I have no room where to bestow my fruits. And he said, This will I do. I will pull down my barns and build greater. There will I bestow all my fruits and my goods. And I will say to my soul, Soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many years. Take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry. There's one word, a couple words repeated through that last two verses I read there. Anybody catch what they are? I, me, my, I, me. Where is this rich guy who is prospering tremendously? Where are his eyes on? Himself. But look what Jesus says to him in verse number ten. But God said unto him, Thou what? Fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee. Then who shall these things be which thou hast provided? I saw a correlation here. There is a guy, his circumstances are very favorable. His circumstances are very positive. But he he's so focused on his circumstances, the goodness of what's happening. He's so focused on the prosperity He never stops and gives any thought to his spiritual condition. And he is dead spiritually. He is lost as can be But he never stops and confronts his spiritual condition because he's obsessed with his physical well-being Now, a person who is discouraged often makes that same mistake. Not in that I'm focused on all the good thing that's going on, but we focused on all the terrible stuff going on. And oh my bank is empty and oh my fields are are drought uh stricken and oh I don't can't pay the bills and oh uh I've got uh Uh I've got arthritis, and oh and oh, and Jesus says, You fool, why don't you stop and consider where you're at spiritually? You're so obsessed with the circumstances you cannot alter, you failed to focus on the condition of your heart and soul. Why art thou cast down, O my soul? Why are thou disquieted within me? Why is listen, we're not going to tolerate this. I'm not going to allow myself to be in this situation. I'm going to face it. I'm going to deal with it. Maybe I'm speaking to someone this morning. You're not right with God. Let me be frank. We're not right with God. And we just push that out of our mind, and we just act like it isn't so, and we never stop and say, wait a minute, why am I dried up spiritually? Why is my heart and soul so cold and hard and dead against God? I tell you what, that's when things start to change. You know what? Before I got saved, you know what God was doing in my life when I was under such conviction, and some of you know exactly what I'm talking about, you've been through the same thing You know what that conviction was? That was God forcing me to confront my spiritual condition. Man, I'm a mess. I'm lost. I'm without God. I'm without hope in this world. And God was forcing me to face my condition, to confront it And that's what a discouraged Christian needed. He stopped and say, wait a minute, I'm not going to let myself be this way spiritually. I'm not going to go on like this anymore. Why art thou cast down? Why art thou disquieted within me? Self-confrontation is very, very important. When we stop and examine where I am and what I am spiritually, I tell you what's a tragedy. Is we have folks that are lost without God, if they die in that condition, they're separated from God for all eternity in hell, the lake of fire, and they never even give it a thought. We go out soul winning, we're teaching our soul winning class on Sunday afternoons, uh I I'd like for you to get involved in this. We go out and visit with folks and we talk to them and we go about in a tactful, gracious, kind way. But we want to confront people and engage people with the gospel and um uh we'll go through and talk to them and one of the questions I ask as we go through, do you if you know for sure if you die now you go to heaven and almost universally the answer is no, I think so, I hope so, but most people out there they just don't know. So we'll go through. Are you concerned about that? Yes. And I'll ask him something like this: Do you ever think about heaven or hell, God or the Bible, where you spend eternity? Do you ever give that any thought? You know what the answer I get sometimes? Yeah. I never think about that at all. Does that concern you? Nah not really. Isn't that sad? Doctor says your your your body's eaten up with cancer. We can help you, we can make you well, we can give you a full life, live a full life. Does that concern you? Yeah. I I've got a I've got a party I go to go to tonight, I'm not worried about it. What would you say to that person? What would you say about somebody like that? You'd say they're a what? They're a fool. They're crazy. Are you nuts? You can be made well. I don't think about it Tell you, if maybe maybe you're here this morning and you don't know for sure that when you die you're going to heaven. You know that. In your life, you never trusted Christ. And you just push that out of your mind, you just ignore it, you just act like it's not so. And be very frank with you, you're a fool. You need to stop and say, wait a minute, what is my relationship with the Lord? Here's the scary thing in our churches around the world. We have so many folks that know their Bibles and know the truths of the gospel and know all that but they've never personally made it true in their life and they never give it any thought. And so what does this psalmist do? He's discouraged. Spiritually he's not what he ought to be. Now this I believe he's a saved man here. It's not his salvation at stake. But it's his spiritual well-being as a Christian, as a believer, as a as one of God's people is at stake and he confronts it. He says, all right, why are you this way? Second thing, not only did he confront his condition, let me give you these next two real quickly, he corrects his thinking. He corrects his thinking. Look, come back there to Psalm 42 with me, would you? We read these verses together. Everybody alright? Everybody with me? Are you hanging in there? I know it's a little warm in here, so take a deep breath. Elbow the person next to you. There you go. Good job, Jerry. He was just waiting for me to say that. Look at verse 3. Why art thou cast down, O my soul? Why art thou despite within me? Look at those next four words Hope thou in God. First thing he did was he confronted his condition. Why? Why? Why? Why is this? Why is this? Why? He stops and look. Now he says, alright. Now we need to change the way we're thinking. Hope thou in God. Stop not hoping and start hoping. Stop thinking non-hopeful thoughts. And get thinking hopeful truths. Um I get the impression this guy's about to give up. And he's telling himself, oh, what's the use? I'll never have victory over this sin. Oh, what's the use? I'll never get out of this situation. Oh, what's the use? I'll never be able to change my circumstances. Maybe, maybe not, but you can change the way you think about it. You can change your approach in it. I get the impression he's about to give up. I'll never be happy again. I'll never have victory in my life. I'll never see God's blessings on my soul. I'll never see my prayers answered. And he looks at himself in the mirror and he confronts himself and he says, Stop thinking that way. That is wrong thinking, that is unscriptural thinking, that is ungodly thinking. Hope thou in God. The word hope means this. I like this. It means to wait in place with anticipation. Quit running around, scrambling around, quit wallowing in that, just get open your feet and stand in place. Hope in place with anticipation. Another de uh aspect another take on that. To wait in place with expectation. The word hope is just uh is just oozing with anticipation. It means I like this one. It means to wait for instructions from God. Listen, why are my soul's cast down? My soul's disquieted within me. Why is that? I need to confront this. I need to change, and I need to start anticipating God working in my life. I need to start waiting on God to give me some instructions. God, what should I do? How should I respond to this? What is the proper method of thinking and addressing this situation? And it the whole idea is changing the way I think. We must here this is an important point. We must never allow our discouragement to dictate our actions. And people do that all the time. I get discouraged, therefore I'm going to quit this. I get discouraged, alright, I can't do that. I get discouraged, I'm going to stop doing this. I get discouraged, I'm going to go back to the bottle. I get discouraged, I'm going to turn on the rock and roll music. I get discouraged, I'm going to sit out of church. And your discouragement is dictating your actions. Not God, not wisdom, not truth, not biblical principles, but your discouragement has taken over your thinking. And he says, Don't do that. Change the way I'm thinking. How many people have quit a job that God gave them because they got discouraged and then later on look back and said, Boy, you know, that wasn't as bad as what I thought it was. Huh? I've seen it in the ministry. I've seen preachers. They go through a period of dry spell in the ministry, and maybe there's a little dissatisfaction and strugglesmen. And they get discouraged. And so, oh, and discouragement takes over and makes them decide they're going to quit that church and I'll go find another church where everybody's perfect and everything's wonderful and everybody loves everything I do no matter what it is. And they find that church for about three weeks And they're not functioning by biblical principles. They're not functioning by scriptural truth. They're letting discouragement dictate their actions rather than the Spirit of God and the Word of God. I don't know that this is the most encouraging thing I've ever seen, but I saw a little sign one time that said, Don't despair. But if you do, just go on in despair. In other words, don't let that discouragement dictate your actions. When I'm discouraged, focus my thinking on the Lord. Not on my situation. Focus my thinking on the principles of Scripture. Get my reasoning not controlled by the discouragement I'm feeling, but by the truth that God has expressed. Turn uh we're not far away. Go over to Psalm twenty-five real quick. Psalms twenty-five. And notice with me verse number 15. I've gone to this verse so many times over the years. Psalms 25, verse 15. Look what he says. Psalms twenty-five, verse fifteen. Mine eyes are ever toward the Lord. For he shall pluck my feet out of the what? Net. So whatever the situation is, he's in a situation, it's like, it's a circumstance, it's like his feet are stuck in a net Would you agree with me? If your feet are stuck in a net, that's discouraging. Anybody here? Oh, would be. I've caught fish in nets, and those fish are always discouraged when they're in that net. And so he says, My feet are in a net. I can't do anything about it. I'm trapped. I'm stuck. I'm in a situation. It's very discouraging. It's limiting my movement. It's It's dragging me down, it's uh it's hindering me, it's hurting me. Oh, this is so discouraging. But look what the psalmist says. He doesn't say, My eyes are on the net. Oh, this is a strong net. Boy, this net has short netted me. I don't know how in the world I'm ever going to get out of this. There's no way I can get out of this. I'll never be happy again. I'll never get back and see this. I'll never be free again. I'm never going to Oh this is awful. It's not what he says. His feet are in the net, but where are his eyes? They're on the Lord. He says, I'm not going to let this net dictate my thinking. I'm going to keep focused on the principles of Scripture. The Lord is the one that can change my circumstances. Therefore, I'm not going to look at the circumstances that I cannot change. I'm going to go look to the Lord who can change it. And he says, I've got to correct my thinking. I like Psalms 26, verse 3. It says this: Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on thee. The word peace there is the opposite of being disquieted. And God says, listen, don't let your discouragement, don't let your circumstances, don't let your debt, don't let your health, don't let your uh whatever, your uh uh your your popularity or lack thereof, don't let that dictate your thinking Start thinking, get your eyes on the Lord, get your get your thinking on the pr controlled by the principles of Scripture. Let me give you the last one real quick. Number one, he cur he from confronts his condition, spiritual condition Number two, he corrects his thinking. Number three, he celebrates the Savior. And I like this. Look at the last part there. Come back to 42. Look at the last part of verse five. And it's worded differently in chapter verse eleven and chapter forty-three, verse five. It's worded a little differently in those two. Hope thou in God, for I shall yet praise him. For the help of his countenance. Now, verse 11 and verse 5 of the next chapter says, I shall yet praise him who is the health of my countenance. Who is the help uh uh the health of my countenance and my God. He says, I'm gonna I'm just gonna praise God in this situation. I know it's discouraging. I know I feel like my soul is dried up and all of that, but I'm not going to settle for that. I'm going to confront this. I'm not just going to wallow in this discouragement I'm going to change my thinking. I'm going to get my thinking on the Lord and the scriptural principles. I'm going to quit wallowing in this. And you know what I'm going to do? I'm just going to start praising God. I'm just going to start praising God. I'm just going to st Praising God And he says, that will be the health of my countenance. That will help me There's a decision he makes here. I shall yet. Discouragement, I will not let you dominate me. I'm going to start praising God. I'm going to change the way I think about all this. I'm going to look at it from God's perspective. I'm going to remember what God has said, and then I'm going to just start praising God. Praising God, praising God. I tell you, when we start sincerely and deliberately praising God, we get his attention. God is looking for people who will praise Him. God is looking for people who, no matter what their physical circumstances are, No matter what their situation may or may not be, they are grateful for all that he has done for them. And when God finds someone that praises him, When God finds someone that is grateful to him for his goodness and his mercy and his grace, God steps in and they get his full attention. They get the health of his countenance. And God helps us. And you say, I don't think anybody in my circumstance could be happy, preacher. That is a lie. I was thinking in Acts chapter 16. Paul and Silas were trying to obey God. They were preaching the gospel, they weren't violent, they weren't voodoo, they didn't steal anything from anybody, they didn't insult anybody They didn't lie to anybody. They were gracious and kind. They were just telling people the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ and evil, wicked men took them, beat them severely, bound them in chains, and put them in an unjust prison. And Paul and Silas at midnight sat there and wallowed in their discouragement and said, oh, this is so terrible, and all I was doing is trying to do right. And all I'm doing is trying to serve God. And this is the way I get treated. And this is so terrible. And we'll never be free again. And we're never getting out of this. And we don't have any lawyers. There's no COA. And all this is just terrible. If they'd have done that, they'd have died in that jail. If they'd have done that, there would have been no more churches planted. The Bible says at midnight they sang praises to God They confronted. No, no, no. I'm not I can't change these chains. I can't take back these false accusations. I can't do any of that. One thing I can do I can confront, not let myself, uh not let my thinking be dictated by my circumstances, and I'm just going to start praising God for what He did. And God stepped in And a jailer gets saved, his whole family gets saved, and for many years there was a good, strong Bible preaching church in Philippi. Because they refused to let discouragement dominate them. They confronted it. Number one, confront your condition. Wherever you're at this morning, listen, you're not what you ought to be spiritually. Don't ignore that. You're not praying like you should. You don't have victory in your life like you should know you should. You're not close to the Lord like you know you should. Don't just ignore that. Don't just say, oh, it's no big deal. No, confront it It's alright, God, this isn't what it ought to be. I shouldn't be discouraged. I shouldn't be thinking this way. I shouldn't be acting this way. God, uh, why art thou cast down? Just confront yourself. And then change your thinking. Get in God's word. All right. How should I see this? How should I view this circumstance? And then start praising God. Listen, uh a preacher yesterday made the statement. I was in a meeting, he said made the statement, he said, anything above hell is cream on the cake. Icing on the cake. What's he saying? Doesn't matter how bad my circumstance may be here, if I'm not in hell, I'm getting more than I deserve. I've got something to praise God for. If I'm a saved child of God, it may be horrible down here, but hey, someday's coming, that trumpet's gonna sound, that archangel's gonna shout, I'll be out of here. Maybe I'll die, uh physical death, and I'll wake up in the presence of God. I've got something. To praise God for. And we do that. We get God's attention. And God steps in. The best thing to do when you're discouraged is start rehearsing the goodness of God. When upon life's billows, your tempest tossed, when you are discouraged, thinking all is lost. Count your many blessings. Name them one by one. It'll surprise you what the Lord has done Are you ever burdened with a load of care? Does that cross seem heavy? You're called to bear? Count your blessings. Every doubt will fly. And before you know it, you'll be singing as the days go by. You look at others with their lambs in gold and You think about the fact that Christ has promised you his wealth untold? Count your many blessings money cannot buy. Your reward in heaven or your Lord on high. So amid the conflict, whether great or small, don't be discouraged. God is over all Count your many blessings. Angels will attend. They'll help and comfort give you till your journey's end. Count your blessings. Aim them one by one. Count your blessings. See what God hath done. Count your blessings, name them one by one, and it will surprise you what the Lord hath done. Don't just wallow in your discouragement. Don't just stay backslidden. Don't just stay. Don't allow that doubt and unbelief to take over. Confront it. Change your thinking. Start praising God. God can do amazing things. Father in heaven, help us, Lord. Seems like discouragement is a constant enemy we face. We have to deal with it. But Lord, I pray that every one of us you would give us the fortitude, give us the spiritual character. To say, no, no, no. It's not going to be, I'm not going to let it. I'm going to get my eyes off the net. I'm going to get them on the Lord. I'm going to start praising God for how good He's been to us. I pray, Lord, you'd help us. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many say, Preacher, I need God to help me change my thinking on some areas. I have some areas in my Christian life I just kind of justified, sloughed off I I need to confront them, I need to deal with them. Maybe some of them just need to start praising God and quit griping and start praising. You'd say, preacher, help me that I will follow the instructions given in this passage of Scripture that I can be what God wants me to be. Any like that by the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray. God bless you, hands all around. Bunch of them Now, maybe we need to come, this may sound harsh, but maybe we need to come and confess the sin of discouragement. Say, God, it's wrong for me to even be thinking this way. And then say, Lord, teach me, change my thinking. I'm going to start praising you. Is there someone here this morning say, Preacher, I don't know for sure when I die, I'm going to heaven? Are you listening? Preacher, I don't know that I die, I'm going to heaven. Listen, you don't want to die in your sins. You do not want to go to hell. Trust me. Christ can save you. And will you confront that? Will you deal with that today or just push it off, blow it off? How about it? Are you listening, young people? Are you listening? You know for sure? How many of you say, preacher, pray for me? I don't know for sure when I die I'm going to heaven. I'm concerned about that. How about it? Any at all? By the uplifted hand, preacher, pray for me. I don't want to ignore my spiritual condition. I want to know I'm saved. Sins forgiven on my way to heaven. Now, Father in heaven, a lot of hands raised. You know our hearts. Sometimes we get down, we don't want to deal with it. I pray you'd help us, convict us about that. That we can face our spiritual condition and do what we need to do to make it what it ought to be. Father bless, I pray. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together