I'm from California and I grew up and was raised there in California. And um I um I got saved at a young age. Uh I got saved when I was about uh second or third grade. What happened was was they had a fire prevention week at my school. And they told us not to play with fire, not to play with matches, but I decided that I was gonna I was gonna play with fire, I was gonna play with matches, and it wasn't a good idea. So I decided I was gonna play Campfire on my bed one night. I went there my mom put me to bed one night, I grabbed a book of matches, I was gonna play Campfire. I uh lit the fire, lit the match, it burnt my finger, so I dropped it on my bed My bed caught on fire and my mom my mom started coming upstairs. She heard the smoke alarms going off. And um to make short a long story short is we were all okay, my family was safe, the fire started, the firemen came later And uh they put the fire out. It was so much smoke damage that we had to move out. After that, my mom, she started having nightmares about about hell, about eternity in flames. And so my mom, she went down to uh church there in the Naval Air Station base and talked to a preacher there, and he showed her from the Word of God how she can help for sure that her sins will be forgiven and she can put her trust in Jesus Christ, that he's the only way to heaven is through Jesus and Jesus alone. And so my mom put her trust in Jesus Christ. Soon after that we got invited to uh New Testament Baptist Church. We started attending there and as a little boy my life started getting saturated with the gospel, with the word of God. I started to hear how I was a sinner How because of my sin I deserve to go to hell, but that through Jesus Christ I could have my sins forgiven. Through Jesus and Jesus alone. And as a little boy, one day I went forward during an invitation and I put my trust in Jesus Christ, put my full dependence on him and him alone I asked Jesus Christ to be my savior. So I got saved at a young age. I grew up and uh went to uh in eighth grade is when God called me to preach. Ninth grade, tenth grade, eleventh grade, I strayed away from the Lord. I was kind of uh forsaking the plan that He had for me and I kind of wanted to go and and do my own thing. But um God got a hold of my heart and I surrendered my life back to God, whatever he wanted me to do. And now I've been uh attending uh Bible college now, and I'm excited to be here with you guys this week. We're really excited for for Neighborhood Bible Time this week here at your church here in Maryland. Excited to see what God's gonna do. I believe he's gonna do uh something great. I believe God's word still works, God is still powerful, and he's gonna do do something great this week. I'm excited to see. Uh how it goes. I know Mr. Jose is going to do a great job with the boosters. I'm glad that he's working with them. I have a heart for them because that's I got saved at a young age. But also I'm glad to be working with the teams this week. I believe they're going to make some really key decisions in their life this week. I know eighth grade is when God called me preach. Eleventh grade when I surrendered my life back to God. And I believe that God's gonna do something special. I encourage you guys just to to continue to pray and continue to labor and me and Jose are excited to be here with you this week and just co-labor with you. And uh thank you all for listening and to give me the opportunity to give my testimony. Thank you. Amen. Amen. God bless you, Stoney. And uh praise the Lord.