And uh I just want to notice verse number eight in Luke chapter eighteen, verse eight. It says this, I tell you that he will avenge them speedily. Now look at this next phrase. Am I turned on, Brother James? Am I good? Nevertheless, this is the phrase that I want to zero in on. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man cometh, look at this, shall he find faith on the earth? And I entitled it, What the Lord is Looking For. What the Lord's Looking For. Let's pray. Father, bless our time in your word now, in the next few moments, as we consider this truth and various passages. I ask, dear Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, that you would speak through me, that our hearts and minds would be open to your word as you apply it to our lives, that we would trust you And we would let you lead us and direct us in our lives. Lord, some of us need to make some decisions today concerning our faith in you. And I pray you'd help us, give us the grace to make the right decisions. Lord, uh stir our hearts and help us, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Now we're gonna reading down in verse number one, Brother Grant read a few moments ago, and you see that the Lord is teaching his disciples the importance of prayer and not just the importance of prayer but the importance of being persistent in our prayers. Look at verse 1. He says and he spake a parable unto them to this end. That men ought always to pray and what? To faint not and not to faint. Men ought always to pray and not to faint. So he uh he's pressing this issue. And then, as he goes down, then he illustrates it here, and we'll look at this in a moment, but then he gets to that unusual statement in verse number 8. Again, he says, nevertheless When the Son of Man cometh, shall he find faith on earth? I believe that simple little statement there that the Lord makes Gives us some insight into what the Lord is looking for from mankind. When the Son of Man cometh, shall he find faith on the earth? It's interesting what he doesn't say. He doesn't say, when the Son of Man cometh, shall he find money in your bank accounts? It's not what he's looking for. It's not what the Lord is concerned. He doesn't say, when the Son of Man cometh, will he find prosperity in people's lives? Doesn't say that. It's not what he's looking for. Now, don't misunderstand, I'm not trying to be unkind, but you hear you hear some preachers and you think that's all God's concerned about. Oh God, God wants you rich. God wants us prosperous. God wants us this. God wants us that. But as I study scripture, that's not what God's looking for. Um uh shall he find uh when the son never rests when the son of man cometh, shall he find happiness and peace? And say that. Shall he find his people healthy? And strong, good health, strong health It's not what he says. Now let me ask you a question. Is there anything wrong with having finances, having money put up? Is there anything wrong with that? No, there's nothing wrong with that. Some of the greatest, I say this often, some of the greatest men and women of God in the Bible were extremely wealthy people. There's nothing wrong with being prosperous. I pray, folks in the church that have different businesses, I pray that God prospers their business in a great way. There's nothing wrong with that. There's nothing wrong with having money. Of course we want happiness We want peace in our lives. We want to be healthy. There's nothing wrong with those things, but that's not what God is looking for. And here you have mankind, we are investing our time and effort into things that are not necessarily wrong in and of themselves. But we are investing our lives and we're pursuing after these things that when it's all said and done, that's not what God was after in the first place. It's not what God was looking for in the first place. When it comes to the end, when the Son of Man comes, when it's all said and done. What God's looking for in your life and my life is faith in Him. Did we trust Him? Did we have faith in Him? God is looking for men, men, that believe that what God says is so. God looks down. He said, when the Son of Man comes back, he's looking for some men who believe that what God told them was so, they really believed it was so. that that they uh trusted that God would do what he promised them he would do. They were confident. God's looking for men that are confident That God's instructions and God's commands are absolutely necessary in life. Men who will trust him, men who have faith in God, that's what he's looking for. He's looking for women, mothers, grandmothers, single women, that have faith in him, women that believe that what God says in his word is absolute truth. That what God instructs us to do is the best thing to do. That what God promises us He will do, He will actually do. And He's looking for women. He said, hey, can I suggest this? God's looking for young people that have faith in God. Doesn't say when the Son of Man cometh, will he find popularity? There's nothing wrong. Everybody wants people to like them. I want people to like me. It's getting harder all the time to accomplish that, but uh I want people to like me. Uh nothing wrong with that But when we invest ourselves and boy, it becomes so important. Hey, when I get to the point where I'm more worried about what people think of me than what God is looking for, I'll start compromising what's right And I'll start doing things that I know is wrong just so I'm accepted by an unbelieving crown, an unbelieving world God is looking for faith, men, women, young people, who believe that God's word is so, looking for folks, men, women, and young people, who will believe that when God promises something in his word, he will do that. When he warns us of the consequences of certain actions that we believe that is true, we have faith in him. What is the Lord looking for? He's looking for people that have faith in him. That trust him, believe him. Uh two points to my message tonight, only or this morning, only two points Don't get too excited. There's 79 subpoints under each of those two points. But uh two points, nevertheless. The first thing I want us to consider, my first point in my message is this. I want us to notice the context of this statement in verse 8. That statement caught my attention. It's kind of unusual. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man cometh shall he find faith on earth. That's what he's looking for. But what's the context? What what uh that it the setting that he makes that statement in? What prompted him to say that? Well, I think it's a twofold context. I think there's two issues he's dealing with here. Number one is the certainty of God's concern. The certainty of God's concern. Look with me again at verse number one and read down through here. Speak a parable unto them to this end. Men ought always to pray and not to faint. Alright? There's his premise. That's what he's instructing the disciples. Pray and don't quit. Then he uh in urging his disciples to pray and keep on praying, he illustrates that importance with this little story he gives about this unjust judge. Let's read it again. saying, there was in a city a judge which feared not God, neither regarded man. You could say this guy could care less. He's just gonna do his thing. He's a judge. He's gonna make his decisions. Not afraid of God. Don't care what anybody thinks. Alright? Verse three. And there was a widow in that city. And she came unto him, saying, Avenge me of mine adversary. Now the Lord doesn't give the details in the story. Something happened to this woman. She was uh She was cheated unjustly. There was somebody that was adversary to her, and she wanted justice take place. She wanted him being dealt with and corrected. And so she says, Avenge me of mine adversary. Verse 4 And he, the judge, would not for a while. I don't know how he worded it. I don't have time for this. Listen, woman, that's your problem. Don't don't bother my courtroom. uh take someone else and he won't he won't do it and won't do it for a while. But afterward he said within himself, now the judge is talking to himself Though I fear not God, nor regard man, saying I don't care what anybody thinks. But this w uh can I put it in Leathermanism? I don't care what anybody thinks, but this woman's driving me nuts Look what he says. Though I fear not God, nor regard man, yet this because this woman troubleth me, I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming she weary me. The Lord is illustrating that we should pray and keep on praying, and he illustrates it with this Story of this widow and this unjust judge, and she kept coming to the judge, and kept coming to the judge, please avenge me on my adversary. Aven make make this thing right. This guy did me wrong Please bring justice. And she just came at him and came at him and came at him and came. Finally says, All right, enough. I'll take care of it. We'll deal with this. And he says, and the Lord said, Hear what the unjust judge saith. And shall not God avenge his own elect, which cry day and night unto him, though he bear long with them? I tell you, he will avenge them speedily. What's the Lord doing here? He's contrasting. He's saying, listen, fellas, you need to pray, and you need to keep on praying and keep on praying and keep on praying. And let me illustrate what I mean. Here's a widow, a defenseless, helpless woman, she's been treated wrong, she's been done unjustly, she's coming to the court system, she's looking for justice She's looking for things to be made right. This guy didn't care about her. He had no concern for her. He had no concern for her situation. He could care less what the consequences were of how she was treated, but she kept coming and kept coming and kept coming till finally he said, Alright. And he's making this point. This judge did not care about that woman, but he gave what she asked How much more shall your God in heaven, who does care about you, answer your prayers? Answer your prayers. And his whole point is here that God is concerned. God does care. That's why we need to keep on praying. Here is one thing we can be absolutely certain of. God really does care about us. You can mark it down. God cares about the issues and the situations I'm dealing with in my life right now. Now I don't know what's going on in your life. Some, no doubt, have more serious issues you're dealing with than others. Some maybe it's uh it's just a tremendous overwhelming need, and you can't see how that need would ever be met Maybe it's a physical condition that has you real concerned and real worried. Maybe it's a relationship type thing. Maybe a marriage or a family situation is just deteriorating and it's almost overwhelming I don't know what your circumstance or situation may be, but I do know this. God in heaven cares about what you're dealing with. God in heaven is concerned about that. And that is the point of the Lord saying he says, Whatever your need is, you bring it to me. And you keep on praying and keep on praying and keep on praying and do not faint, do not quit, because God cares about what's going on and He will answer your prayer. He will deal with your situation And so the context of this is one is the certainty of God's concern. He's saying, listen, God does care about you We can bring our needs to the Lord. We can bring our situation to the Lord. We can bring our weaknesses to the Lord. We can bring our requests to the Lord because He cares for us. Maybe we failed God in some way. And we have a hard time even looking in the mirror at ourselves, saying, man, I've just failed God in such a horrendous sweat. Lord says, don't you let that faint make you faint from praying. And you keep praying. God cares about that. I like 1 Peter 5. 7, casting all your care on him, for he what? Careth for you. So God has tremendous concern. How many people recognize the name Houdini? The great Houdini. He promoted himself, of course, as an escape artist and all of this, and he promoted himself back in the day, uh, that he could escape from any prison cell that was designed by man. And he'd make a big spectacular thing about it. It was all sensational and he'd go into towns and he'd have them design uh a prison cell and he could break out of that thing. Finally came to one town And he promoted it says I can break out of yourself. And the prisoner guard, uh, the the warden says, I bet you can't get out of our cell. He says, I can. And so they put him in there, they closed the gate, he's inside the jail cell, they closed the door, and uh he's in there, and uh pulls a belt out, and he had a wire stuck inside his belt. He got past him Pulled that wire out and he began working on that lock. Five minutes went by. He's still working away. Fifteen minutes went by, he's still working on a thing. About an hour goes by and he's sweating, trying to open that lock And he's doing every trick he can find. Finally two hours go by and he's obviously aggravated and people in the jailers kind of chuckling and uh he's frustrated and he's going on and uh he's embarrassed and uh the story goes on that he finally in in frustration he throws the wire down and uh leans on the door and it pushes wide open. The story goes that the door was never locked in the first place. And he was so used to dealing with locks being locked that he didn't recognize it was unlocked and he could have walked out at any time. Now, can I give my personal opinion? I don't think that story's true. I mean he th he did this for business. Eric, am I right? It'd be pretty obvious if it wasn't locked. Maybe not, Eric says. But uh nevertheless, it illustrates a tremendous truth You and I work at things and we worry over things and we get frustrated and we get angry and go on and on and on. And God has told us we have an open door, if we know Jesus as our Savior. We've got an open door to heaven and we can come to Him with prayer and find His grace and help to deal with every situation we face. And we worry ourselves sick. And we get angry and get frustrated, and we start yelling at each other, and we get angry, and we quit this and we do that. When the whole time God says, listen, don't quit praying. Come to me and pray. I care about you. I have genuine concern. And so he makes this unusual statement. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man cometh, shall he find faith on the earth? That statement is given in the context of this matter of God's concern for us. But it's also given in the context of not only the certainty of God's concern, but also the certainty of Christ's return. Look again at verse number eight. I tell you, he avenge them speedily. There's a promise. God cares about you. God will take care of you. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man cometh, When the Son of Man cometh. That is a reference to the second coming of Jesus Christ. Now, as I looked at that, I thought it was interesting. He doesn't say if The Son of Man cometh, shall he find faith on earth? But he says, when the Son of Man cometh, It is a settled fact in Scripture. Jesus is coming again. It is settled. It is certain. Jesus Christ is coming again. You read through your Gospels very carefully. And over and over and over, Jesus Christ made statements to this effect. I am coming back again. I am coming back in. I'm going to be crucified, I'm going to be buried, I'm going to rise again, and I'm coming back again. In my father's house are many mansions. If we were not sure, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you, and if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again. It is a settled fact. Jesus Christ is coming back again. Now, I like Acts chapter 1. Would you turn there real quickly? It's not that far away. You're in Luke, Luke, John, Acts. And chapter 1, I would love, I make references periodically in preaching, I would love to have been a little mouse on a branch of a tree watching this seed. This is Jesus, has risen from the dead. He's met with his disciples one last time. And he is about to ascend to heaven to the right hand of the Father. Disciples are there, and uh as he's speaking to them, he's giving them final instructions. By the way, the Lord's final instructions were to take the gospel to every single person in the world. That's our last instructions, take the gospel to all the unsaved people in the world. And then he ascends, then look at uh let's uh verse nine. And when he had spoken these things, while they beheld, he was taken up, and a cloud received them out of their sight. I mean he just started I don't I don't know what the sounds were, but uh he started uh just rising up off the ground. Look how the disciples respond in verse ten. And while they looked steadfastly toward heaven as he went up Behold, two men stood by them in white apparel. Who were those two men in white apparel? Two angels. And look what the angels say very emphatically. This is not a suggestion. You're not just hitting around. They say very, very clearly, ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven? So that gives you a little idea of what the disciples were doing They just can't believe they're just staring up into heaven. Look what he says. This same Jesus, which is taken up for you from you into heaven. Look at this Shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven. You know what the angels were telling the disciples? Jesus Christ is coming back again. He is coming back again. Physically, literally, visibly, he is going to return to planet Earth. That is one thing that is clear through Scripture. Jesus Himself said it over and over and over again. If Jesus isn't coming back again, then he lied to us. And I'm telling you, Jesus as God cannot and would not lie. I believe Jesus The modernists, the liberals, the atheists, the evolutionists, they all mock. They all laugh. They say, ah, Jesus coming back in. You guys are crazy. You guys are not. I tell you what, I believe Jesus. The angels said that he's coming back again. I believe the angels. And then you go in through Romans and 1st and 2nd Corinthians, Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, Philip and and work your way through the rest of the books of the New Testament, and you find every one of these human uh penmen refer over and over and over again to the fact that Jesus Christ is coming back again. One of the clearest messages in Scripture is Jesus Christ is coming again. Jesus Christ. Here is one thing we can be absolutely certain of, and that is Jesus is coming back to planet Earth to judge the world. That is an absolute fact in Scripture. No doubt about it. I'll be honest with you, I I don't we don't know when the Lord's coming. We have no idea. We don't know the day nor the hour. But I do know this. I read my newspaper every day. I read those articles. I watch the news And I tell you what, the the events in the world today match beautifully with what the Bible says the events will be in the last days. I mean, we could just go on and on and on about that. And this matter, uh, we've been talking with someone recently about this matter of the mark of the beast. In the hand, in the forehead. I'm telling you, that is not science fiction anymore. That is happening. They're putting it around in babies and pets and all these types of things. It's there. Uh there's store chain out in I think uh out in the Midwest, Kansas somewhere. Where you don't pay, you'll pay all you do is put your hand on a screen And it knows your financial records, has access to your accounts and everything, and you just walk out, put your hand a screen, and that's how they keep hours for you working for them. I'm telling you, everything's in place I mean, and I think and I read this stuff and I think, you know, what if that what if this is our lifetime? What if the Lord does come back in my lifetime? What if the world governments do say, you get that chip, you get that mark, or you can't buy a thing, or you can't sell a thing. Am I going to take it? Am I gonna take it? Am I g w at what point do I take a stand and say, no, this isn't right? Now I understand some of these things are after the rapture, I understand all that But this is the this is what I'm trying to say. Jesus is coming back again. It is not science fiction. Everything the Bible says surrounding the return of Christ is absolutely plausible in our world today. There's nothing the Bible says will be the situation in the world that is not impossible, that could not fit today's circumstances. You follow what I'm saying So Jesus said he's coming back. The angels declared he's coming back. All the penmen of Scripture declared he's coming back. Circumstances around me support the Bible's teaching of what it's going to be like when he comes back. One thing we can be sure of, Jesus Christ is coming again. So the context of this statement he makes, nevertheless shall the Son of Man find faith when he comes to earth. The context is, one, God cares about you deeply. He'll respond to you. Bring your needs to him. Keep on bringing them. Don't give up on them. Don't fail. Just keep trusting him. Keep praying. Keep praying. Keep bringing that to him. God cares about you. Jesus Christ is coming back someday. One day he's going to come back. That leads me to my second point, and really the heart of this message, and that is this. The concern of the Savior. The context, as I said, are these two. God cares, Jesus coming back in. That's the context. Now here's his concern. Those things being true, his concern for us is coming back. Those things being true, shall he find faith on earth? Shall he find faith on earth? The issue throughout history has always been: will man trust God? The whole issue between God and man from the very beginning has never been can God be trusted or not? That's never been the issue From the get-go, God can be trusted. That's not the issue. The issue has never been, is God's word true? Is what God says, is it so? That's never been the question. God's word is so. Right from creation, God's word is so. It has never changed. His word will never fail. It will never change. God's word is so. That is not the issue between God and man. Whether God can be trusted or not, whether what he says is so or not. That's not the issue. The issue never has been whether God is trustworthy or not. The question Between God and man is not, can we depend on God or not? That's not the question God is trustworthy. God is true. We can depend on him. The issue is, and always has been, will man trust God? Not is he trustworthy, that's clear, but will man trust him? Will man have faith in him? Back in Genesis, we have the record of God creating the world. And the Bible tells us that God created man from the dust of the earth. And he breathed into man the breath of life, and man became a living soul. And God gave man a help meet from the river's side and created woman. And God gave them some clear instruction. By the way, there is no reason to doubt that the way we came about, as the Bible says, no reason to doubt that. No reason to take that any other way than what the Bible says it is You say, well, there's no evidence for that. I'll submit to you, we could we could produce more fossil and historical evidence for creation than there is for evolution. Well, people don't want to believe. So he creates Adam and Eve, just as the Bible says. There's no doubt about that. And he puts them in the garden that God planted. And God, the Creator, the holy, perfect, all-knowing, all-powerful God, created Adam and Eve, puts them in the garden, and he gives them some instructions. He goes, one, you have some responsibilities. You're to till the garden, you're to keep it. Take care of that. So there you have some responsibilities. I've created you for this purpose. Have some responsibilities, take care of this garden. Number two. Adds some privileges. You can enjoy any of the fruit of any of the trees of the garden. They're yours to enjoy Just help yourself. Make yourself an own. They're yours. So they had some responsibilities, care for it. Two, they had tremendous privilege. Anything there it produces is yours. But there was one restriction. There is one tree in the middle of the garden you should not eat of. It's a tree of gardening, the tree of knowledge of good and evil. That one you don't eat from. So, and he says this the day you eat of that tree, you shall surely die. There will be consequences if you if you violate that restriction. There will be consequences So the question was, the issue wasn't, will they die if they eat that fruit? That was a settled fact. The question was, was Adam and Eve going to trust God or not? Were they going to believe that what he says is so or not? Or were they going to lean on their own understanding, or were they going to listen to the devil's voices and take matters into their own hand and say, no, you know what? I don't think God's true. I don't think what God says is so. And we're not going to pay any attention to what he says, and we're going to do what we want. And God was looking for Adam and Eve to have faith in him, and they didn't have it. And they ate of the forbidden fruit and they died. This is my point. The Lord is looking for people to have faith in him. And the issue between God and man all through the years is never the reliability of God or the integrity of God or the dependability of his word. What God says is so That's true. That's in place. The question, the issue has always been: will man trust God? Um, I thought of Noah. And um God approaches Noah. He says, I need you build an ark. And I'm of course putting this in my own words, I need you to build an ark. I'm going to destroy the world. The wickedness of man has come up before me. His heart is on evil continually. Imaginations of his heart. It's on continual evil continually. It grieves me that I even made him. I'm going to destroy the world. And Noah, I'm going to give you the dimensions. You build an ark, and you'll survive the worldwide flood. The question never was, is a flood coming or not? That flood was coming, whether Noah believed him or not. That flood was coming, whether anybody or everybody believed him, that was in place. That was established. That was decreed. There was a flood coming. The world was going to be destroyed. Anybody not on the ark is going to die. That's a settled fact. The question was, was anybody going to believe God that it was coming? Of course, Noah did. His wife, his boys, their wives, they believed God and they did exactly what he said. And the Bible says Noah did obey God's command completely. He never seen a flood. Why on the case and never seen rain But if God said it's going to rain, it's going to flood, I don't even know what rain is, I don't know what a flood is. But if he says it's going to do that, I believe that it's going to do that. I'm going to listen to God. I'm going to trust him. And for a hundred plus years, Noah is building this ark and he's preaching to the population of the world. Some accounts suggest may have been in the billions. And he's saying a flood's coming. We don't have any text of his messages, but we kind of surmise what the context was. The flood's coming. God's going to destroy the world. We have a means of escape. It is through the ark. If you will join me in this ark, come aboard this ark and trust that what God says is so, believe His word, you can be spared. The issue never was, is a flood going to happen or not? The issue was, is man going to believe God or not? Will he find faith? In Noah's situation, there was a few that had faith. Eight How about the Passover? Israel, years later, Israel's in Egypt, their slaves. God's raised up Moses. He's gone through these series of plagues to get to break to break uh Pharaoh's hold, Pharaoh's hard heart, and they're going through these series of uh horrendous plagues And the land is being decimated. And finally they get to the tenth one, and God says, every firstborn male of every home is going to die at midnight. Everyone. Now what you need to do is take the blood of a lamb, past every lamb, and splatter it on the doorposts around the door. And when I see that blood, the death angel will pass over that house and no one will die. But if you don't trust me, if you don't believe me, and you don't follow my instructions, the firstborn is going to die. The question never was whether the firstborn were going to die. That was established. God said that. That's going to happen. The question was: would anybody believe God? And the Bible tells us a lot of people did believe that, and there was a lot of people who didn't. And there was wailing in the nation of Egypt. When they found their firstborn dead. Jesus says, nevertheless, when the Son of Man cometh, will he find faithful nurses? Will there be anybody that believes my word? It's never been, I keep saying this, but I want to emphasize this, the question has never been whether God is trustworthy or not. That's an established fact. In fact, he's pointing that out in his instructions on prayer. God does care about you. God will do this. Will you trust him? Israel finally gets out of Egypt across the Red Sea. That was an act of faith. And finally, they get to Katech Barneo. And God says, All right, we're going to invade the promised land. I've been promising it to you. You trust me and go across there. And so they sent a bunch of spies. And they look at the land, they say it's great, it's just like God promised, but man, there's big armies here. Tremendous opposition. And they come back and they tell Joshua, they said, they tell Moses, they said We can't do it. We're just grasshoppers in their sight. They'll eat us alive. They'll squish us The question never was whether Israel could occupy the land or not. Yes, they could. God had promised that. That was a settled fact. The question was, would they believe God? Would they trust God and go in there in spite of the way things appeared? Were they going to have faith in God? And in this case, they did. And for 40 years, they suffered horrendous consequences because they did not have faith in God. As we approach the end of the age, and we could go all through Scripture, but as we approach the end of the age, God's word is as true now as it was when he spoke to Adam and Eve in the garden. God's word and God's integrity and God's trustworthiness are just as intact now as they ever have been. He hasn't changed. The question is have we learned anything from the past? Are we going to trust and obey God? Are we going to have faith in Him? God's promises are just as short. His commands are just intact. We live in a day when the unbelievers and the God mockers and the Bible deniers scream loudly. And they dominate the airwaves and they dominate the media and they dominate society and they're mocking those who believe God and they deny those who hold on to his word. And in some places They are persecuting and killing those who have faith in God. And they can pour out their venom. And they can pour give out their uh irrational reasons why we should not believe God. And they pour out their illogical explanations as to why the Bible is not true. And they can yell it at the top of their lungs from the highest mountains. But God's word remains true. Now is anybody going to trust him? Is anybody going to believe him when the Lord comes back? Is anybody still going to believe the Bible? Is anybody still going to have faith in God? Is anybody still going to trust and obey the Lord? Let me say this. Maybe you're here this morning and you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven, and you're on your way to heaven. You don't know for sure whether you're going to go to heaven or hell. Maybe you're here this morning and say, Preacher, if I died the way I am right now, I'd go straight to hell. Maybe you're here this morning and say, I don't believe any of that. I reject all of it. It doesn't change the fact it's so. I don't believe in hell. It doesn't change the fact it's still there. You can deny God's word all you want. The issue has never been whether God's word is true or not. It's whether we accept it or not. Now here to tell you this. You're not here this morning, you never trusted Jesus Christ, your personal Savior, you don't have that matter settled. You can have faith in God this morning that He'll save your soul and call on Him and He will do exactly what He promised to do. He'll save your soul from sin and hell. The issue, the question isn't whether God will save a sinner or not. The question is, will you trust Him as your personal savior or not? If you trust him as your personal savior, he will save you. You'll call on him for your faith and what he's done for you in the cross. He will come in your life, he will save you. I can stand and testify that whoever calls the name of the Lord shall be saved. I call him the Lord, He came in my life, He saved my soul, He changed my life And all across this auditorium, people stand up and testify the same thing. And churches all across our land, people stand up and testify, God's word is true. Whoever calls the name of the Lord shall be saved. The issue isn't whether God will save the lost or not. That's settled. The issue is: will you trust him? Will you accept him as your Savior? Those who know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. The issue isn't whether God will take care of us or not. That's a settled fact. The question is, will I trust him? Will I let him lead me? Will I follow his instructions? Will I have faith in him? And let me let him lead me. We can be sure God will take care of us and provide for us if we will have faith in Him, trust Him, and obey Him. Jesus is coming again. We must trust him. We must exercise faith and follow his instructions. I believe there's a great crises in our land. Let me put it this way. I believe there's a great crises in our churches. Let me bring it home. I believe there's a crises in Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church I mean a genuine crisis. And that is this a crisis of faith in God. Saying, God's word is so, God's word is true, I'm going to accept it as such, and I'm going to act upon it Will there be faith? Will we have faith when the Son of Man comes? We're suffering a crises of faith in our homes. We don't believe God enough to let Him direct us. We lean on our own understanding, we lean on our own reasoning, we lean on our own judge uh uh explanations and and logic. Rather than simply saying, Jesus, I believe your word, I trust you, I have faith in you, I will follow where you lead me. That's what God's looking for. He's not looking for excuses, he's not looking for explanations, he's not looking for reasons why we can't do what he says, he's looking for people who will trust him. And that's where the crises comes in. And the implication is as we get closer to the coming of Christ, as we get closer to the coming of Christ, that simple faith. That full surrender to God in faith is going to get more rare and more rare and more scarce and more scarce and more scarce to the point that Jesus says, well, I didn't find any. Will there be any? God has instructed us to go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. Yet we don't obey them. And we have our reasons. And we have our excuses. And we have our explanations. And the Lord says, I'm not looking for reasons. I'm not looking for excuses. I'm not looking for explanations. I'm looking for someone that will trust me that what I say is so God has instructed us in his word to separate from the world to Christ. He says you are to we are to he instructs us to be more like the Lord Jesus Christ in our character and our conduct than we are like the world. And we as Christians just brush that aside And we just say, well, it's not that big a deal. I don't see that. I don't understand it. It's not right, nothing wrong with this. I don't interpret it that. And we give all these reasons and all these excuses and all this justification why we're more like the world than we are like Christ. That's not what he's looking for. He's not looking for justification for being worldly. He's looking for faith that I can be like Christ. I can be holy and pure in my heart and life. The Lord says, be pure. God tells us very clearly in the scriptures. We are to be pure in our thoughts and our words and our actions. Pure sexually, morally pure, clean. And we live in a world that just blows that off Well, I don't see anything wrong with this. I don't think wrong with that. You're just being judgmental, being critical of this. And we live in a day and age When even in the Christian church, quote unquote, the most vile, perverse behavior is excused and justified, in some places glorified God says, that's not what I'm looking for. I'm not looking for people that can excuse sin and justify sin and explain away obedience. I'm looking for people who will have faith in me. Who will trust me, and when I say something, they believe that so and act upon it. There's a crises we're facing. It's a crises of faith. And that is the one thing Jesus Christ is looking for in my life as an individual Christian and in your life. That we will believe him and trust him and say, You're right, Lord. I'm wrong. I'll let you lead me and direct me. I'll step out in faith. And our first response, I've heard it, I've been doing this a long time. The first response is, yeah, but it's not what God's looking for. He's looking for, yes, Lord, I trust you. I trust you. Now he says, I'll take care of you. That unjust judge gave what that woman wanted. He didn't even care about her. I care about you. I will take care of you. You can bring your burdens to me. You can bring your trials to me. I'll bless you. But what I want is you to trust me, have faith in me. That's what God's looking for. Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us, Lord. Help us, Lord, to look at ourselves, examine ourselves. Help us, Lord, to put our faith in the balances. Lord, show us where we're wanting here, where our faith is coming up short, and where we've allowed ourselves to excuse And justify and explain away your clear instructions. Help us, Lord, not to be like Adam and Eve, not to be like the Israelites, but to take your word as it is, your word, and have faith in you. And trust you. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed. I wonder how many this morning say, Preacher, the Spirit of God's dealt with my heart. I look at my own life, I look at my own faith in God, and I see it's not what it ought to be. And there's some areas in my life that I've just kind of allowed to excuse and justify and whatever. And as Lord, as we approach the end of days, preacher, pray for me. I'll have faith in God in every one of these areas. That the Spirit of God's deal with me. Pray with me, preacher, that God will help me. Have faith in him in these areas. How about it? Any like that? Uplift the hand, preacher, pray for me. God bless you, hands all around. I take it that's the Spirit of God speaking to your heart in very specific ways. It's not always easy to trust God. It's not always easy. It takes faith to have faith in God. That's what God's looking for. How many say, preacher, I've got a specific situation, I've got a burden, an issue, it's overwhelming. And you'd say, pray with me this morning. I'm going to do like that widowed woman. I'm going to bring it to the Lord. I'm just going to trust him, trust him, trust him. He cares for me. I'm going to have faith in him concerning this one burden, this heavy burden of my heart. How many like that uplifted hand? I'm going to trust God for this. God bless you. My hand's raised. My hand's raised. Is there someone here this morning to say, preacher, I don't know for sure when I die I'm going to heaven? I'm here to tell you God will forgive you and save you if you'll trust trust them. Let him do that. And you'd say, Preacher, pray for me. I'm concerned about where I spend eternity. I don't want to go to hell. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. That God will help me settle that in my heart and life. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me I don't want to die and go to hell. I want to know I'm going to heaven. I'm really concerned. Pray that God will help me settle that. Any at all? Any at all? How about it? Slip that hand up. Any at all Now, Father in heaven, you know our hearts. You know where we're at spiritually. Lord, there is a crises. I sense it in my old life. I pray you'd help us to step out in faith. Give us the courage. To believe you and to trust you and let you lead us and direct us in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, our heads are back