Dealing with Malachi chapter three. I just want to try and condense this. I know we've had a full service already, but um Let's look in the Word of God. While you're turning to Malachi, last book of the Old Testament, if you go to Matthew, just back up one. Martin Luther made this statement. He said every Christian needs three conversions. First of all, he needs the conversion of his heart, and that's salvation. He said he needs the conversion of his mind, and that is the changed life. And then he said this, he needs the conversion of his wallet. And he said, of those three, the hardest to convert is the wallet. That was four hundred years, four or five hundred years ago, or more than that. Martin Luther said that. Notice what the Bible says in Malachi chapter 3, verse 7. Even from the days of your fathers you are gone away from mine ordinances. Of course, this is God speaking to Israel, and have not kept them. Return unto me, and I will return unto you, saith the Lord of hosts But ye said, Wherein shall we return? Will a man rob God? Yet ye have robbed me. But ye say, Wherein have we robbed thee? In tithes and offerings. You are cursed with a curse, for ye have robbed me, even this whole nation. Bring ye all the tithe into the storehouse, that there may be meat to eat. meet in mine house, and prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not open you the windows of heaven and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it. Let's pray real quick. Father, Lord, I just have a brief time here. And help me, Lord, to communicate just a few truths from your word that I believe uh are vital to our Christian life and and part of your plan for us. And so please fill me with your spirit, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Sometimes people bristle a little bit at a preacher preaching on money, and I understand that there's been a lot of preachers have abused this and have used it for own personal gain But nevertheless, the Bible deals a lot with uh about s uh about finances. Um I can't verify this and uh I haven't taken the time to go through and double check it, somebody has said that uh eight out of ten verses throughout scripture deal with either finances or possessions of some sort. Like I said, I can't verify that figure, but I will say this, the Bible speaks, and Jesus spoke tremendously about finances and possessions. It is a huge subject throughout scripture. And uh so God is obviously concerned about our finances Um not because money is not because God needs our money. We understand God doesn't need that Not because money is of great value to God, but God is concerned about our finances because money is of great value to us. And God wants our heart, God wants our life. And when something is very powerful in our lives, when something has such a control over our lives, such as finances and gaining them and depending upon them, then God becomes very much concerned about that Uh money is a vital part of life. I would say this. Not only is God concerned about our finances, but Satan is concerned about our finances How many Christians have gotten completely off track because Satan distorted their understanding and their handling of scriptures and now they're in a position can do little or nothing for God. Now they're in a position, cannot support missionaries, cannot give as God instructs, all because Satan has distorted things and gotten them off track financially. Read where a preacher said recently, a faith that hasn't reached your wallet probably hasn't gotten too far into your heart That's a good statement. Here's my outline. I'm scooting down through here. Is everybody okay? Everybody alright? Good. Here's my outline. Number one, tithing, giving 10% of our income to the Lord, is a scriptural practice. It's scriptural. God is the one that came up with the tithe. It wasn't man's idea. God established that. God introduced that concept in Scripture. So it's God's idea. Now what is the tithe? I think we all understand. The tithe is 10%. You simply take that digit, that little decimal and you move it over one digit and you have the tithe. You have the 10%. You have tithing taught all through scripture. In Genesis chapter 14, 4,600 years ago, you have Abraham giving his tithe, Abraham tithing in Genesis 14, verse 17 through 20. A short time after that, relatively speaking, Jacob is tithing to the Lord in Genesis chapter 28. Israel is instructed through Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy, Israel is instructed to bring their tithe to the Lord. to the Lord. In Malachi chapter 3 and verse 10, towards the end of Israel's existence in the land, God is again reconfirming the instruction of tithing in Matthew 23 verse 23 New Testament Luke chapter 11 verse 42 Jesus commends tithing And uh if you study those passages in the Gospels where Jesus references tithing, you get the distinct impression, at least I do, get the distinct impression that Jesus simply assumed that his people would be involved in bringing the tithe to the Lord. It was it's kind of an assumption on his part. So we can say very emphatically, tithing is God's idea, tithing is a scriptural concept It's not a scheme that man came up with. It's not a money-making racket for the church to uh raise funds. It is a principle throughout Scripture. of uh God's uh people bringing 10% to the Lord. Number two, here's my second thought. Boy, we're flying, aren't you? Uh everybody happy? Man, I'm screaming, Brother Ed. And uh number two, tithing is not only scriptural, I put this down. Tithing is sensible and spiritual There's three attitudes a Christian can have about their possessions. The first attitude is this: everything I have, my money and my possessions are all mine And I can do with it whatever I choose to do with it. I can give it or I can withhold it. It's mine to use however I see fit. That's one attitude The second attitude a Christian can have about their finances and their possessions is this. The tithe, the 10%, that's God's. And I give that to God. The remaining 90% and all my possessions, they're mine And I can do with them whatever I want. I give God out of obligation. I give him my 10%. The rest of it is mine. I own it. I can give more if I want. I can withhold it if I want. But nevertheless, it's still mine. There's a third attitude. The third attitude is: everything I possess is God's. Nothing I have is my own. And it is mine to use. And I will, at the instruction of God, take that 10% that God has given me everything. I take ten percent of what He has given me. And I give that back to him in my tithe. The remaining ninety percent is still God's, and I use that as he instructs me as a steward It's called stewardship. Now what happens in stewardship? Stewardship is when somebody owns, let's say for sake of example, somebody owns a farm. with all the machinery and all the apparatus that goes with it and the nice little lake that has bass in it and uh uh the nice driveway and there's vehicles and different things and the guy owns this And he brings someone in to take care of that farm. Now, does that steward that is brought in to take care of it use that farm? Does he own any of that? No, he doesn't own any of it. But he is given the responsibility to use all of it at the instruction and according to the will of the owner. He is a steward of what he's been given. Now the owner may say, listen, in the spring you need to plant these crops. In the fall, you need to harvest it, you need to do the uh fertilizing and all of that, and through the winter do repairs Now and you got time, you want to go fishing, that's fine, it's yours, go right ahead. Our son manages a ranch down in Texas, most of you know, and he has responsibilities there, and there's some privileges that come along that he can do is that and so the person is a steward of that to use the all the possessions being given to them at the instruction of the owner. You and I are stewards of everything that we have. God has entrusted us with that. To use it at his instruction. Now, God allows us a lot of times to use our possessions for you know personal pleasure and different things like that, and it's fine But it's his in the end. Now, here's the three attitudes. One is, it's all mine, I can do whatever I want with it. The second attitude, well, 10% is God's, the rest of it is mine, I can do whatever I want with it. Both of those attitudes, who's in control of the possessions? I am. I'm in control. If it's all mine, I'll do what I want. Well, 10% is God's, but the rest is mine, I'll do what I want. I'm in control. But the third attitude, God's in control. I've relinquished. I don't own any of this. None of this is mine. Acts talks about that. Another man viewed what he has as his own. And that attitude puts God in control. And God being in control is always the place God ought to be. Always works better when God's in control. So this matter of giving our tithe, I believe, is a is a scriptural thing. Now, if you would, real quickly, and we got a few minutes here, come with me to 2 Corinthians chapter 9. Inevitably, this passage comes up when you talk about giving. Particularly, folks will use it in reference to the tithe. But I think we missed the point when we come to this. 2 Corinthians chapters 9 And I'm going to begin reading in verse number 6. And when I start reading, when you get there, you'll see and you'll be familiar with this passage. 2 Corinthians 9, verse 6. But this I say then. He which soweth sparingly shall reap also what? Sparingly. How many people believe that's true? Yeah, we know that that's obvious. He that soweth sparingly shall reap also sparingly. And he which soweth bountifully shall reap also bountifully. Now the whole concept here in chapters 8 and 9 and 10 are this matter of giving Uh shall reap also bountifully. Look at this, verse 7. Every man according as he purposed in his heart, so let him give. Not grudgingly or of necessity, for God loveth a cheerful giver. Then verse 8 he says, And God is able to make all grace abound toward you that ye always, having all sufficiency in all things, may abound to every good what? Work. The subject here, the whole context being talking about here is not the tithe, but it's talking about, it's not, I put it this way, it's not Dealing with my authority over the possessions God has entrusted me with, but it's dealing with my attitude about God's authority Over the possessions God has trusted me with. And I've heard so often people say, oh no, you just give as you decide in your heart. Who's in charge of that? If I'm giving as I decide in my heart, who's in charge of my possessions? Me. And that flies in the face of all of Scripture. This passage isn't saying that I have the authority to decide what I give to God and what I keep for myself. It's not talking about me having authority, it's talking about my attitude about God's authority. And recognizing that God, this is yours, God, anything I have is just given by the grace of God. And Lord, I just rejoice in the fact that I can have a part in anything you're doing. Giving cheerfully. And then verse number eight he says, you know, God's able to make all grace about. God's going to take care of you. And then notice the purpose of our possessions, the last part of verse 8, that every man may abound unto every good work. Listen, I know this is a uh an ex this is a uh um eccentric uh approach, perhaps, on my part. But I think what he's saying here, God gives us the possessions that he entrusts us with so that we can advance his cause, do good works. Say, well praise God, God gave me a good job, I got a good income, thank God man, I can I can do this and I can live high on a hog and all that, and there's don't misunderstand, I'm not saying anything's wrong with that But God blesses us with a, God gives in his grace, gives us our possessions so that we can have a greater part in advancing the cause of Christ. Now again, I know this is a little eccentric, so don't misread what I'm saying and don't don't take away here. Don't make me say, don't put words in my mouth. But I I'm saying then there's nothing wrong with vacations, there's nothing wrong with having nice uh vehicles and whatnot and all that. There's nothing in the world wrong with that. Abraham was extremely wealthy. He lived pretty good. David lived pretty good. Solomon lived extremely well. So there's nothing wrong with that, but I'm telling you, God is not giving us resources so that we can have nicer vacations and live in bigger houses. He's given us resources because there are people in China, millions and millions and millions, who have no gospel, and that needs to be financed somehow. That's what this passage is talking about. It's talking about us having the right attitude, being cheerful. And being able to use the resources God has entrusted me with to advance the gospel, to have good works as far as God's concerned. And so bringing my tithe to the Lord is a very spiritual thing. It's a very sensible thing. God gives us what we need so that we can serve Him. Now don't don't walk out and say, oh boy preacher said it's wrong to take vacation. I'm not saying that at all. Boy preacher said it's wrong to go to uh to where do people go? Um The ocean or to Disney World. Oh you spent all that money, you should have gave that money to missions instead of going to Disney World. I'm not saying that at all. Now, if God tells you to do that, then that's between you and God, right? But I am saying this: that my this is talking about our attitude, about our possessions. Cheerfully, this is God has blessed us. Listen, God has blessed us. So many of us, you guys in the military, Jerry and others that have been on mission trips. The poorest person sitting in this building right now is richer than many people we've met out in third world countries. So God's not gonna God's not gonna play a violin when we complain about what we don't have How poor we are. God, I ain't gonna fly. God has blessed us tremendously. And so bringing my tithe to the Lord, and then you add into that our faith promise giving and then other opportunities to use what God is entrusting me with to advance the gospel. It's talking about my attitude about that cheerfully. Yeah, this is exciting. I can God is able to use me. to direct this finances out to where he would intend for it to go. So number one, tithing is scriptural. It's God's idea. Tithing is sensible and spiritual. To me, it's just God's. It makes sense that He can direct us and tell us how to use it. And we should have the right attitude about that. Number three, I am with this. Tithing is successful. Some guys would stand up here and say, Well, if you bring the tithe, then God's going to give you fancy trucks and nice cars and you're going to have lots of money and you're God's just going to open the windows of heaven and you'll be rich. Listen, the world's definition of blessing and God's definition of blessing are two very different things. The world's definition of success and God's definition of success are two very different things. And you will not hear me say that if you obey God with your finances, God will make you rich. You will not hear me say that. I've been around long enough. I've seen enough people that gave very generously and were anything but rich. Last time last last uh spring down in Dominican Republic, I saw them take up offerings and people in the missionary and whatnot tell us those people were putting everything they had into that and they were going back and living in a cement house So I'm not telling you that, but I am saying this: that if I will recognize my possessions as being God's, they're not mine at all. I'm simply a steward of it. And I follow God's instructions, the tithe, the faith promise, all that, and I use the possessions God is entrusting me with as He instructs me. God will bless me. Not with big bank accounts necessarily, maybe it, but not necessarily. It is a successful endeavor I mentioned this morning when I got saved, it was just a few weeks after my dad called me into his little study area. He had a desk there. He said, let me show you something. He said it's very important that you learn this right away. Now you're a Christian He was 19 years old. He pulled out the jewelry, had a little envelope system. He dealt mostly in cash. And he would get his check at the end of the week, drove truck, he'd get his cat check, he'd go to the bank at some point, and he'd cash that thing. And he'd take that check, and the very first envelope in the front of his little drawer he had there, the very first envelope said tithes. And he would take ten percent of his gross income And he would slip it in there. And he said, this is what you do. He says, you give tithe, you give God his tithe first, and then you deal with the rest. Then he had his different bills, groceries and whatnot, and he'd divvy it up and his bills that were due that month or that week or whatever he divvyed it up. But what he was teaching me, he said, son, always give God the tithe Give God the tithe. And I'm glad I learned that. You know what I found? As I studied my Bible, you know what I found? What my daddy was teaching me was scriptural. And God has been faithful. And God has taken care of that. Was my daddy rich? No. It is very simply. Is my daddy happy and blessed? Absolutely. It has been successful in my daddy's life. Let me tell you some of the successes of bringing our tithe. Number one, it's evidence of a growing faith Hiding is an act of faith on trusting God that this is the best thing for me. This is what I should do. I put this down. It's a reminder of God's ownership every week. I write my checkout to the top, I don't do exactly what my daddy did, but I write my checkout to the top my of the church. I write it out. And it's a reminder to me. This is not my own. This is all the Lord's. And I am a steward, and I'm trusting God and doing what he instructs me to do with that. Three, it helps me stay focused on serving God. You know what I found over a period of time, Brother John, I found out it almost it it gets fun. It gets exciting, man, uh faith promise. Man, I write that out and I want to get my faith promise in there, and I'm excited to see what it's going to be and doing my part. It gets to a point where uh it helps me stay focused on serving God. Let me end with this. I I hope I'm not rushing through this. I'm hoping my I'm making my point here. But years ago, 1986, I traveled my second year. I graduated from Bible college in May on my birthday, May 6th. My birthday, May 6th. Um, and uh I graduated from Bible College. The next day, May 7th, I flew out to Colorado and was going to travel my second year with Neighborhood Bible time. This time I was a veteran and so it with training went well, was out in the circuit, did a few rallies down in Kentucky and Tennessee and down there, and then we took our break, and then we flew up to Boston, Massachusetts That great city. And um craziest drivers I saw in my life. But um we landed there and we came off the airport. Two young creature boys all fired up and scared and ready to go. And a guy pulls up in a BMW, a little I I don't remember what it was some sort of sports coupe Z3 or something like that And uh he pulls up and he says, Are you the Bible time guys? Well, we were the only ones there with ribbons and everything on, so it's like, um, yeah. And uh he says, hop in! So we crammed all our luggage in that thing and I'm sitting in the back seat and my partner's up front there and he goes flying out of there and we're like cool man And uh I'm trying to and you know we're supposed to ask him questions about the rally and stay spiritually minded and I'm looking at this thing leather seats and he's flying down the road And um so anyway we get to the house we went by the church, unloaded the stuff, and he showed us around and we got back in, went over to the house and unloaded our stuff at the place we were going to stay. Then he did this, and I've told you this before As we're walking back out, he takes the keys and he slings them. He says, your vehicle for the week. That's your way to get back and forth to church and do your canvassing and all that and do whatever you need to do. He said, it's yours to use for your ministry you have here this week. Cool. Okay. And then he said this. He said, just one thing I asked you to do. And he gave us certain days at certain times. We had to run his wife over. She did some kind of business or something. I just need you Certain days, make sure the two of you bring my wife from one point A to point B. Rest of that time you just use it however you need to for your ministry. You know what he was asking of us? He was asking of us a tithe of his car. It wasn't my car. He owned it. He was entrusting me with it to do the job I had to do that week as a Bible-time evangelist. And all he needed back was a little bit of time and gas and effort out of that car to do what he needed me to do. Are you following what I'm saying? That's what our possessions are. Our possessions is the Z3. We can use them how we need to to advance the cause of Christ. But God asked for 10% of that to be given to him, brought to him, and I believe through the church. for the purposes he has for it. The rest of those possessions you use as he directs and as you need to in the ministry God has given you, the responsibility he's given us get the gospel around the world. Hey, after the after the teens at night, the two the evangelists and I, my partner and I, we want to take that Z3, go by and get a ice cream cone or a or a fruit juice or something. Can we do that? Sure. It was ours to use. But he asked a little portion of that week of that car to be used specifically for what he requests of us. And that is what our tithe is. In reality, I don't give God my tithe. I simply return it to its owner, rightful owner. So here, God, it's yours. Now, what if we would have said He says, here's the keys. Use it however you see fit, however you need. Tuesday, Wednesday, and Friday from 3 o'clock, 3. 30. I just need to run my way for it. What if we say, You don't have any right to tell me to drive your wife over there then. This is our car this week. What would you think would have happened to that car? It would have disappeared pretty quick, huh? And that's what we say. God says, alright, here it's all yours. I give it to you. You use it as as uh I instruct you, use it for the cause and purpose you've been created I asked for ten percent here. What if I say, Pfft, you kidding? Man alive. That's what Israel was doing in Malachi. He says, you're robbing me. It's not yours. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, you'd help us have the right perspective on our finances. Help us have the right attitude, Lord, just to understand, hey, God's been awfully good to us. Not just with our tithe and not just with money, but with all our possessions. Lord, help us recognize your ownership. Lord, I rushed through this a lot quicker than I really wanted to, and I just ask God that you would help us to understand what the tithe is. It's not some legalistic thing It's part of Christian life. It's part of walking with God. It's part of your economy for believers in Christ. And so help us, we pray. I wonder whether our heads bowed and whether eyes closed. I just and this is between you and God. I know this is a very intense issue for people many times. Sometimes it's a tough struggle. But I wonder how many would say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me see my possessions from God's perspective. Pray with me that God will help me view my possessions not as mine, but as his and I'm a steward of it. Is there any like that? Say preacher, help pray with me that God will help me see that. Tell you it changes everything when we have that perspective. Change our attitude, our actions, everything. Now I'm not going to ask you to raise your hand on this, but I am going to ask you between you and the Lord, as your pastor, I'm going to ask you to do this. Would you trust God with your tithe? Would you trust Him with all your possessions? Make a decision, God, I'm just going to trust you. I'm going to exercise faith in you. I believe God would honor that. It's been true for me for 34 years, true in my daddy's life for 50, almost 50 years as a Christian. God has never failed. Father, bless us, our Lord, I ask, and help us. Lord, the needs around the world are so great. And our own community are so great. And God, you set it up this way that you use us and the goods that you entrust us with to meet those needs and get the gospel out. Help us to cooperate with you in Jesus' name. Let's stand again.