Everyone doing okay? How many are glad to be alive today? How many are glad to be in church today? How many would rather be in church in the best jail in the area? Amen. Hey, sun's shining out there, a little overcast, but that's okay. Amen. Uh someone said one time it's that there's not uh good and bad weather, there's just different kinds of weather There are there is some times that weather comes that you have to run from, but I understand people could look at that rather negatively. But the fact is, hey, you know, God's good to us in this nation. And uh when I think about weather and I think about some inclement weather I have to think about the time that the British were about to burn down and the entire Capitol Hill area. They had set the White House on fire They had set the Capitol on fire, uh the Census Bureau on fire, uh the uh the uh actual bureau of where they uh copyright, the copyright uh and even the library of congress. I was in the uh Senate Majority Leader's office, uh Mitch McConnell uh just a few weeks ago and he showed me his fireplace because That actually was the Library of Congress, that outer office. And what the British did was they took all the papers, important papers in the books. and put them in the the s the fireplace that's still there and burned it and it got so hot that it actually cracked the stone on the fireplace. But what a lot of people don't understand is this We had no way of putting up any opposition to the British when they marched into Washington, D. C. Because we had actually thought they were going to attack somewhere else. We thought no way they were going to attack. Washington, but they did. And so they would have burned everything to the ground, but what they really uh didn't understand was that God has his providential hand on this nation. and broad uh a broad scope of weather began to affect some things. There was something that happened that doesn't normally happen, a miraculous thing. There was a hurricane and a tornado At the same time in Washington. Hurricane brought a huge amount of rain, put all the fire out, and uh with it wind, and then the tornado actually were knocking buildings down, actually on top of the British And literally God blew them out of Capitol Hill. I sunk one of their ships, and I mean they they ran And uh because God showed up. Isn't that wonderful to know that God can show up in times like that? Amen. And so it it's uh it's an amazing thing to me when we look and we see God's providence in our nation And in saying that, if you would please go with me uh to the book of Zephaniah, uh to the book of Zephaniah. And uh I just want to uh show you a few things here in the book of Zephaniah, I'll give you a little bit of time to turn there. It's at the end of the New Testament, okay, and so get to the end of the New Testament, uh Zephaniah. You say, Brother Hardy. I mean did I say New Testament? I'm sorry. Old Testament. That was just a just sort of statement to see if you're paying attention to me. That's one story I'm sticking with. You say, well, Harney, you've been hanging around Washington DC too long. Okay. Well, okay, I would I would understand that statement as well. But uh but you know, hey, in Washington DC, we We see things that are very interesting. My wife made me tell this story again last night for the benefit of some people that are visiting here. uh I've lost fifty pounds uh since the last time that I was here. Uh fifty pounds and so I'm about you know half the man I used to be, okay? And I can't I I c I'm fitting into suits that I haven't fit into I haven't fit in this suit in ten years. But I can button the button. I c I couldn't even get the pants on before, but I could even button the button of the suit coat. You say, well fifty pounds more and uh with a little bit of the suntan and and uh people for some reason they mistake me for Donald Trump. I don't get that I don't see that at all. In fact I'm at churches even today and there's young people and they're out and they're whispering and laughing. I know what they're doing. I was just in Maine recently. I said youth were pointing at me saying that I looked at Donald Trump. They went, Yes I said, I don't see it, but I apparently it's true because the first time I walked into the vice president's Bible study, the lady there, she went, Oh, oh. You know. And uh but you know, it's interesting being able to uh be in Washington D C and and see the things that are going on there. and being a part of our our country's history and actually realizing that because of pastors like your pastor and other pastors Around this nation. We've literally seen our nation begin to pivot back to God again. That's amazing. I told that in Sunday school. We're in a pivotal time in our history. And if we can continue to pray and continue to be involved and intercede for our country, I think we'll see our nation actually be the recipient of some miracles from God. Okay? And so I want to just tell you What's available with your permission, Brother Leatherman, and uh I won't take long with this, but uh I have some videos back there Uh someone said, Jen, bring your books this time, not this time. I'm working on some some new books as well, and you pray with me about that. Uh the next book I'm writing, I think, will be very, very effective in its use. But right now we have the America America's Forgotten History series, six DVDs. that represent years upon years, decades of study on my part, and thousands of dollars of production cost, and I offer them to you for a gift of ten dollars apiece. The Barbary powers war The fact the Muslims have been and are now working for the destruction of this nation. They're not a peaceful religion. It's a religion of submission. Look at some of the flags of some of their nations with the sword on it. Okay? They can be very violent. You saw their violence perpetrated upon America in 9-11. All right? It wasn't Baptist preachers that flew into the Twin Towers and say, but Harney, that's not politically correct to say that. Yes, I know. Isn't it wonderful we live in a free nation? Amen. And I don't want to be politically correct by God's by by this world's standards. I want to be biblically correct by God's standards And historically correct and constitutionally correct. Amen? But we need to understand who the Muslims were, who they are still today. And to you Dislike the Muslim people? No, I I love the people of the Muslim faith. I just don't like the faith. I don't like the ideology. of the Muslim that tries to say submission and calls us infidels and calls us the great Satan. I just for some reason take an aversion to that, okay? And you say, what's what's the answer? It's the same answer that Francis Scocky, the writer of our national anthem, uh basically exercised back in the 1700s when he led the first Muslim congressman to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. That's the answer. Getting people saved. Amen? And isn't it nice to know John Francis Gacke was a soul winner? And our biblical constitution. 28 biblical principles in the Constitution And a lot of people say, well, we need to have a new constitution. We need to have the, you know, this this thing where we're going to revise the constitution. No, there's nothing wrong with the constitution aside from the fact that we don't know it. We need to read it and use it in our nation's capital 82-minute virtual tour through Washington, D. C. , where I show you in all the monuments and memorials, things that our founding fathers never wanted us to forget, that it is in God we trust. And that our jurisprudence is based upon the Ten Commandments, and that God has expected of us an accountability. And how we're supposed to live our lives and righteousness does exalt a nation. And sin is a reproach to any people. All of those things everywhere. Washington, D. C. is permeated with Scripture. Everywhere. It's amazing. A foundation that sustained America, the faith, the family, the fabric of our nation. I've said this before, but again, for the benefit of those people that are visiting. You can come here and do something in America you can't do anywhere else. Now you come here legally, but when you come here, it doesn't matter where you're from, you can become an American. Can't go to Spain and be a Spaniard, France and be a Frenchman, but you can come here and you can become an American. Amen. That's a wonderful thing And the reason why is because our immigration policy is based upon the Bible, where it says, the stranger that dwelleth with you shall be as one born among you, and thou shalt love him as thyself. the sacred fire of the American pulpit. Why were these men wealthy, men of great culture, men of great education, brilliant men that could have led lives of leisure? Why did they choose liberty instead and put themselves and their families and their great fortunes in jeopardy? The reason why is because pastors just like yours from pulpits, very similar to this, would preach unto them The fact that there was a God in heaven and that we shouldn't be subjected to the tyranny of the King of England when God And the King of Kings has given us liberty as people. And as Jefferson said, the God that gave us life gave us liberty And those men listening to pastors stood up and signed a document that we still are recipients of the blessings of that document called the Declaration of Independence. These young people, they eat better than anyone else in the world. The young people in North Korea are bent over. You know why? Because they're eating twigs and leaves and things they shouldn't eat just to put something in their belly. But here in America, we can go to McDonald's and have a hamburger Did you hear what I said? Hamburger. With cheese. Or even a Big Mac. How many ever have a Big Mac attack? Raise your hand, let me see. Thank you very much for those people that are honest here today. The miracle of America. We didn't start our country through a revolutionary war. We started our country through a revival of people getting saved and then binding together in biblical principles and saying we're going to do something um Very much like Israel did, we're going up against unsurmountable odds, but as God delivered the people of Israel from the tyranny of Egypt, we believe that God will deliver us from the tyranny of Great Britain Because he did. And they tested it. And so what a wonderful nation to grow up in. Amen. You see, we have here Brother Leatherman and his people have put on that very, very famous document from the Bible that verse 2 Chronicles 7. 14 it's a promise but it's conditional Because a lot of the folks sitting here today when you watch the news, you are very frustrated. You say, I feel like I don't have any say at all in what's going on. And may I say this to you, the future of our country is not in the sensationalism of the news networks or in the leftist's agenda when they're jumping up and down and lighting their f hair on fire and screaming tolerance when they're the most intolerant and screaming racism when they're the most racist Hello. If my people which are called by my name, the future of our country depends upon us, God's people. Why? Because we founded our nation. If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from the wicked way, then there's the promise. Will I hear? Aren't you glad that we serve a prayer answering God? Huh? He answered one of my prayers just recently. Oh, miraculous. I'll share a little bit about it with you tonight if you come back. Okay? But God performed a literal miracle in our life, my wife and myself, and this uh new aspect of the ministry that we're walking into here. He says, he will hear, and he will forgive their sin and heal their land. And our land needs some healing, don't you think? Amen. And so are you with me today? Everyone found Zephaniah. Okay, good. Because if you haven't, you just look on whatever page you're on, okay? Look intelligently, be nodding at the right times. No, I hope you found it, okay? It says in Zephaniah chapter 3, in verse 1, Woe to her that is that filthy and polluted. To the oppressing city. Zephaniah 3 in verse 1. Verse 2, she obeyed not the voice She received not correction. She trusted not in the Lord. She drew not near to her God. Her princes within her are roaring lions. Her judges are Evening wolves, they gnaw the bones till the morrow. For prophets are light and treacherous persons Her priests have polluted the sanctuary. They have gone, they excuse me, have done violence to the law Very interesting. The just Lord is in the midst thereof. He will not do iniquity. God's the holy God, of course. Every morning doth he bring his judgment to light. He faileth not. Isn't that wonderful? But the unjust knoweth no shame I have cut off the nations. Their towers are desolate. Hmm. That's kind of interesting. Their towers, twin towers, God's living word. I made their streets waste that none passeth by, their cities are destroyed, so that there is no man, that there is none Inhabitant. I said, Surely thou wilt fear me. Thou wilt receive instruction. So their dwelling should not be cut off. Howsoever I punished them, but they rose early and corrupted all their doings. Heavenly Father, now we bow before you and we thank you so much for your long suffering upon our country. And dear God, for the fact that you have been merciful unto us. And dear God, you've withheld the judgment that we deserve as a nation, Father, because of the abortion industry and the infocide, even in New York, where people can actually kill their babies as they're birthed. Lord, we thank you that you have had mercy upon us, Lord, with all of the same gender issues that have basically uh challenged this the traditional family. And Father, we thank you that you've been merciful unto us with all of the leftist agendas. And these people, dear God, that are trying to actually bring the demise of our nation. Father, we thank you that our country was birthed for the gospel's sake for the message of the truth that you sent through and by your son, the Lord Jesus Christ, who was truth That was personified and dwelt among us. Dear God, now as we take these next few minutes and just Say these things that you've given us upon our mind and heart. Lord, we pray that you would do once again what we cannot That you would create and maintain a hedge protection around this assembly. And dear God, that you would bind off the wicked and the evil one, help the cares and burdens of this life to dissipate to vanish for a while and might we focus on these eternal things. Help each and every person here today to open up their mind and their heart, dear God, and through this thy servant that you would articulate my speech, clarify my thoughts, so that they might receive a blessing, that we might understand some things that would draw us closer unto you and help us to preserve this nation that you've entrusted us with Father, we thank you so much that you are a prayer-answering God, that you're the God of the impossible. And Father, when everyone else says it cannot be done We know that you can do it. Instead of asking, dear God, in our hearts, can God, Lord, might we turn that around and say, in faith, God can So Lord, we look to you today. We ask that the light of thy countenance might shine down upon this service, that through and by that whole junction of your blessing of the Holy Ghost Put your step of approval of the reading of thy word, and Lord, that you might control this thy servant as I surrender myself unto you. And Lord, that the presence of your sweet and holy spirit might be readily evident in every mind and heart. And we'll be very careful to give you all the praise and glory for what you're about to do We ask this in the precious name of your Son and our Savior, and by the power of the merit, and the authority that is in the name of Jesus Christ, we ask it. Amen. Jesus Christ, the sweetest name I know. Amen. Isn't it wonderful in our country we can shout the name of Jesus Christ from the rooftops? Amen? Other countries you can actually be thrown in jail and there are people in jail this morning that have done nothing else but simply Spoke in the name of Jesus and talked about what he came to do. Isn't it wonderful in our country that dear folks can go to fairgrounds and see Multiplied, hundreds of people get saved each and every year, if not thousands. In our country, we can stand up and clearly delineate the fact that there's one way to heaven, and that's through and by Jesus Christ There's not a bunch of ways. There's one way. He said, I am the way, the truth, the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. And yes, truth has a name, and his name is Jesus Christ. I'm so glad we can speak that name. Zephaniah is talking about his nation. He's burdened about his city. I'm burdened about our capital city as well. The Lord Jesus Christ was burdened about his capital city. He did come to seek and save that which was lost. But he wept over the capital city of Israel. He wept over Jerusalem from the Mount of Olives. Oh Jerusalem, Jerusalem. He said, I look at our capital city. They're just about finished with the renovation of the nation's capital, the Senate side, once it's done It's a beautiful edifice. It's an amazing thing. And when you look at the Capitol, you know all over the world the first thing that people think about when they see the Capitol is the United States. It's not the White House. of the area of Capitol Hill was, they came to him and said, Sir, we have found the place where your house will be built It's the highest point on Capitol Hill. He said, No, no, no. If that's the highest point, that's not where my house is gonna be built. That's where you build the people's house Because this is going to be a nation for the people. And we have a document saying we the people. The government is sitting right here. Here's the future government right here. Amen. You say you look at our future government. What do you see? I see hope. Amen. I I see some young people, you know, that sometimes don't understand, that have been lied to, but when I look at the young people, I I see hope for our country because I know this. If we tell young people the truth And they have the truth living within them. They'll accept it. Amen. The problem with our youth today, and the reason why some of our youth are classified as snowflakes, is because they've been lied to. We need to tell the truth. We need to shout the truth. I'm burdened about our city because of our lack of being there. You say, Brother Harding, what are you talking about? Look, the only way that our governance is going to have the biblical principles that it was founded upon is if we, God's people, are there. Amen? If we're not there, no wonder why the thing's going down the tubes in some area Amen? And the reason why the crazies are there in the House of Representatives is because I told Sunday school class because Christians didn't go and vote in the midterm elections. And so we have the fraud squad, these four women that are there, that are anti-Semitic and anti-Christian and anti-God in many times in what they say Our great political idea is this. A man by the name of Frederick Douglass said this years ago He was a leader in the 19th century. He declared, I have one great political idea. That idea is an old one. It is widely and generally tramped upon and disregarded, the best expression of it I have found in the Bible It is in the substance righteousness exalteth a nation, sin is reproach to any people. This, he said, constitutes my politics. The negative and the pol the the positive of my politics and the whole of my politics I feel is my duty to do all my power has to infuse this idea into the public mind that it may be speedily recognized and practiced by and for our people When it's not, then we have a corrupt city. When it's not, we have exactly what Zephaniah has talked about here. The land that we live in is a land of liberty. You think about that. I I enjoy the fact that that we are from sea to shining sea. that land of liberty. We speak about it, we sing about it, and our God, of course, is the author of liberty. We have personal freedom. You think about that. We can do anything that we want to do. within the boundary of the law. We can say anything that we want to say as long as this doesn't bring defamation of character to someone else and may we never speak negatively of other people. We can vote how we want. We're blessed of God. We have religious freedom. This world, our nation, may not agree with what we teach or believe, but so far in our nation We have the right to stand up and to worship as we wish. And anyone that can comes here can worship any way they want to, as long as they don't use our freedom to try to destroy our freedom. When that happens, then we need to stand up against that. That ideology, okay? And that ideology, by the way, is very prevalent in some parts of our nation We are here this morning because we live in a free nation. We have physical freedom. You can go from one state to another without any kind of roadblocks Amen. I've been over in Europe, and through every single state or nation, there is a roadblock, and you've got to show your papers. going from one state to another. You say state? You see what we don't understand is something the European mind gets even better than we do. State is just another term for nation or country. When they look at the United States of America, when the Europeans see that and realize what they're thinking about, these are United Countries of North America. That's how powerful they view us, and so they should, you see. But we can go from the East Coast to the West Coast. Amen? And back again. Hey, we can move anywhere we want to. We can have several houses if we can afford it. I can't, but maybe some of them can. I mean, I saw some of the summer cottages around the lake here And I mean Brother Leatherman pointed them out. And uh he said, Yeah, and to most people aren't even ever here except for a few. I said, you know what? It's just not fair. But that's what America is. Some people are going to go further and faster because of the free market system that's biblically based and the concept of the sacred law of property ownership. Here in America you can go as fast as far as you can. Hey, you can become very wealthy and some people are very wealthy. I don't mind that I'd like to kind of get in on that every once in a while, but the fact is, hey, you can own, you can buy, you can sell. Anything. You know, over in other nations you have to apply for a car. Okay? How old are you, young man right there with the blue shirt? Hold on Fifteen, you're gonna be sixteen soon? You want a car? Okay, good thing you don't live over in Russia. Because at sixteen you're gonna have to apply and then ten years later you might get a car. It'll be a used car that many other people have owned. Okay. Ten years. But um, you know, when I was fifteen, my dad bought me a car. Where you where's your dad at? Yeah, I know I know I know I know he's sitting over there. I know. I just I set you up, okay? I set you up. Okay? So he just his his dad's going like this Okay. But uh when I was fifteen my dad took me to police auction and bought me a car when I was fifteen and we worked on it and when I was sixteen? Give me the keys. Just some I'm just saying, you know, whatever. But uh but no, that that car's sixty costs sixty dollars. Okay? So say, you know, your dad say, well son, if you can find a car for sixty dollars, you know, okay. No, I'm not Won't even go there. But what I'm saying is, it's amazing. Uh you know, wonderful that we can do what we can do here. Why? Because of personal freedom. We can think the way that we want, we can speak the way we can go anywhere, do anything. Why? Because we're a land of freedom, you see. We are land of religious freedom, personal freedom, physical freedom, land of luxury. Self-reliance, and I mean that in a good way. Natural resources. I mean America has the ability to be self-sufficient. I mean we shouldn't be dependent on other nations. Because of previous presidents, we've become dependent on other nations for resources. But we have the resources right here to clothe to feed all of our people, to fuel all of our vehicles. In one reserve alone, we have more oil than all of the Muslim nations put together. And just one reserve that hasn't even been tapped yet We have enough gas, oil, whatever, however you want to say it in refinery and refined states for over 300 years. That's not even been tapped yet. It's called the back-end reserve. Talk about the back-end reserve about uh some of our legislator uh let us legislative uh people and and they get real real quiet. We have personal resources, the eyes of the world are upon America. To them, we're rich beyond comprehension. America has become the utopia of the world, and that's why People are trying to get across the southern borders and by the way, that's why we have to do everything decently and in order. And just in case you weren't in Sunday school, let me just say this. You say, well the Democrats want everyone to come in because they're so compassionate No, the Democrats when they want to come in because they know their social issues and none of the things that they've done has worked. And so to stay in power, they want people coming in that don't know anything about American politics so they can vote him back in again, be part of the census. I know what's going on. Our founding fathers were about the concern of the citizen. Hey, the people on the left side, and by the way, some of the people on the left side are on the other in the other party too. Okay? Not not not all leftists are in one party, just to be clear. Okay? So you Republican, you Democrat, look, I'm a Christocrat, okay? Alright, we need to go back to biblical values, okay, and realize it's not compassion, it's control. And we want people coming in, but they have to come in legally. We're land of laws, you see. And our immigration policy has always been very, very generous But to see what's going on, and it's not this president that's perpetrating these things upon these people. It's the fact that they're coming through and many of them are not related to the children that they're with, and that's talking about sex trade. So we need to stop that by stopping the influx of people. But the reason why they're coming here, because America has it so good, because we are a land of unbelievable natural and personal resources, a land of opportunity. My dad was an immigrant. He came here from Canada and I asked my dad, why did you come? Why'd you mom come here? And he always said, this is the land of opportunity, son. You can go as fast and as far as we possibly can. Well someone once said that a South America was founded by men that came here looking for gold North America was founded by men that came here looking for God. That's what makes us different, you see, as far as continents go. And we here in America have undergone great changes in the past 240 plus years. We've gone from gold, from God, I should say, to gold and greed. We've gone from obedience to rebellion, from holiness to sinfulness. You understand, right, that our holidays used to be holy days Huh? I mean it's a big holiday place up here, right? And there's nothing wrong with, you know, taking a vacation. But our holidays used to be holy days Where we would come apart and go to God and say, Lord, thank you. July the 4th, we'd come apart and say, God, thank you so much. We're taking time to just stop and remember all of those men. that gave that last good measure and women by the way, so that we could live free. But now July the fourth is one of the Worse days to drive in the roads because there's more drunks on July the fourth than there are any other time during the year, you see. But our country Our nation was founded upon biblical truths, and that's why we had these holy days, these holidays, but now it's gone from that to sinfulness, faith to fatness. And when we look at our nation, you think about this. As a nation, we have allowed our country to lose its spiritual equilibrium, inverted our values, we confess, we've ridiculed absolute truth. Of God's word, and we've called it moral pluralism. We've worshipped other gods and called it multiculturalism. I was in high school, you couldn't be taught about Christianity, but you could be taught about all the other cults under multiculturalism, but you couldn't be taught about Christianity. Very interesting to me. Even as a young person, when I wasn't even saved at that time, we've endorsed perversion and called it alternate lifestyle. We've neglected the needy and called it self-preservation We've rewarded laziness and called it welfare, killed our unborn and called it choice, shot abortionists and called it justifiable. It's not Justifiable to shoot someone or to burn down a clinic because we're again a people of laws. We've abused power and called it political savvy. We've coveted our nation neighbors' possessions and called it ambition. We've polluted the air with profanity and pornography and called it freedom of expression. We've ridiculed our time honored values of our forefathers and called it enlightenment. We should be greatly alarmed Look at verse one. See what it says? Israel became sinful. The city. Filthy and polluted. The capital city in verse 2 became disobedient to God's word. Obeyed not the voice. In verse 2, Israel became stiff-necked. She would not receive correction. You see that? See America reflected here? Israel became self-reliant, trusted not in the Lord. You know the reason why we have in God we trust in our money? Not because that's our motto, but because that was put on around the time of the Civil War, because we had stopped trusting God and we started trusting in our wealth. And so a preacher said we need to put that on our money to remind us that it's not our money, it's in God that we should trust. That's where we are today. Israel became willful, drew not near to her God. She became politically corrupt, her princes. She became religiously apostate, her prophets, priests. Israel became shameless to know no shame. I mean, how on earth can you see a senator or congressman advocating violence against another party? And with no shame. I mean, I met Sarah Sanders, who was the former White House press secretary Right before the Red Hen incident, where they literally yelled her, screamed her out of a restaurant Now, wait a minute. One of the foundations of our nation is decency, whether you agree with someone or not. You don't scream at them in a public forum. And and literally, I mean we've we've seen that happen. I'm did you ever think in our nation that a man would get out of his car and ask some representatives walking by, are are those Republicans out there playing baseball in their field? And then walk out and start shooting them. Uh I just s I just saw Skalis just recently came in to spoke. He had his little girl with him ten, eleven years old, came in to speak at a high luncheon that I attended. And he's still walking with a with with a cane around his his arm. That that should never have been. And you know what? Because there are actual representatives that are advocating violence No shame. And we we need to understand there's there's something called decorum, there's something called common decency That is biblically based. And we have to understand that because there is no shame, in verse 8, doomed to destruction. Therefore, God says, therefore. So America, I don't want to see it fall, do you? It will will it fall eventually? And I just had a conversation with with one of you folks and said, well, America is going to fall, yes, but it shouldn't fall on our watch. I don't want to see it go when we're still here. We need to do everything we can to hold on to it. To strengthen those things that remain, it says. In God's word, uh to basically uh occupy until he comes. Amen. Why? So we can continue to see people saved. It all goes back to the cross, it all goes back to people getting saved and getting baptized and growing in grace I mean, coming to the fact of who God is in eternity. And so, yes, the Bible still says in Psalm 9 and verse 17, the wicked shall be turned into hell and all the nations that forget God A man said this one time, we find freedom when we find God. We lose it when we lose Him. And the more we lose God in our country, the more we lose our freedom. He is the author of liberty. So what can we do very quickly to help? What can we do? What can we and people say all the time, and this won't take long, so you don't have to worry. What what can I do to basically help my country? Can I do something? And my answer is yes. You can profoundly, you can very effectively help your country if we just look to the Bible for certain things. And this is what they are. When we look to our country, we can understand that first of all, if America is going to get right, we must get right first We must be the light and the salt, a fervent witness, a peculiar people. We need to continue to basically get informed, knowing the truth, having a biblical worldview, okay? We're the light of the world Okay? And we are supposed to be uh people that are blameless and harmless, the sons of God without rebuke in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation, among whom He, you and I, shine as lights in the world. And so what my wife and I do, when we go into the Vice President's Bible study every Wednesday that we're home, when my wife and I do, and we go and we pray with people in Washington, D. C. , we are Basically bring in the light and the salt of God's word, of his truth to people. Amen. And you can do the same thing. Right here where you are, by seeing someone saved. I mean, look, people get saved all over the place if we just ask God to I just want to ask you this question. When's the last time you said, Lord, would you bring a soul to me that I could see Come to the Lord. Lord, you bring someone across my path where I can give them a track and maybe talk to them about the Lord. I know you folks pray about that all the time because that that's just it. You know, they're, I'll guarantee you, what they're doing when they're standing at the fair, they're saying, Lord, bring the people by that you want so that we can see them come to know Jesus Christ as Savior. Amen. But every one of us should be praying that Lord bring someone by to me that I can lead him to the Lord. You said it work. I was just in Maine last week, and we were at a restaurant, and our waitress got saved. I mean she sat down. I mean it was like you know she put the brakes on, right? And uh I was I was simply asked, tell her what about your ministry. Well I just brought it right back to Jesus because that's what it's all about And this lady named Crystal, I mean she she started saying, Well, I'm a good person I said, Yeah, uh righteousness is a filthy rags before the Lord. Well and then she you know, every everything that she said I had a you know, a scriptural uh basis basis to take that away from her and say, Look You have to understand the only way to heaven is through and by Jesus Christ, repenting of your sin and you telling the Lord because you're going to hell, because the wages of your sin is death So you know what I did? I simply in a few minutes gave her the faith to get saved. You say I don't uh the reason I've never been saved is because I don't have the faith. Faith cometh by hearing, hearing by the word of God. So you can give someone the faith to bit to be saved just by quoting the scriptures. The wages of sin is death. People, I mean a lot of times young people say, I said it when I was a young person, hey, how can God ever send anyone to hell? He doesn't. He doesn't. He doesn't send anybody hell. No. The wages of our sin. We work our way to hell. We work our way there. A loving God would never send anyone to hell. His holiness demands the punishment, but it's us, the wages of our sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life Wow, I don't know about you. I'll even say it backwards. Wow. I'll say it upside down, mom. I'll say it sideways, Bob The way the the way the sin is up for the gift of God's eternal life. You can't earn a gift. You want to know what you can do for your country? Number one, make sure that you're saved yourself. Well I'm in church today. Yeah. Being in church doesn't make you any more Christian than walking into a garage makes you an automobile. Okay? You make sure, number one, that you're saved, and then Once you get saved and baptized and start growing grass, then you ask God, Lord, that was so good. Taste and see that the Lord is good. God's so good. Then give him out to others. Hey, let me tell you something that happened to me. Have you ever gotten a wonderful piece of candy? Huh? So good. And you have a bunch of other pieces? A whole bag. What do you do? Do you keep it all for yourself? You do not. Come on, work with me here. The future of our country. Yeah, I'm gonna get all I can and sit on the can No, but the answer was, I'm gonna share it. Wow, you won't believe this this candy. Try this. And you know what the gospel is? It's the gospel. Bill. You won't believe how good this tastes. Taste and see if the blue is good. And give it to someone. You want to help your country? Every time you reach out to someone with the gospel, you're helping America. Right here in your home state of Maryland, in this city. You know how many visitors you have coming in? How many lost people are roaming around? There's probably lost people here today. That have never accepted Jesus Christ. I'm not talking about I believe that Jesus is the Savior, I believe that the Bible is the Word of God, I believe there's a heaven and gate and a hell of a shun. No, no, I'm talking about actually accepting Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior Knowing for sure there was one point in my life that I accepted that gift of eternal life. I turned from my way to God's way, and he that's helping America right there. Each and every time someone gets saved, making sure that you're saved. Look, the knowledge in every country of Jesus Christ is the surest basis of public happiness. In one in which measures government receives their impressions so immediately the sense of the people and who they are. George Washington said, you can't be a good American if you're not a Christian, and you can't be a good Christian if you're not a good American. Amen. So we need to be who we must be for our Lord. America needs, and every single one of us, America needs our pulpits as well. The Black Regiment during the war for independence, the British named the pastors as courageous and patriotic people. They hated them. The British blame them for independence and rightly so. Do you think that any New Englander, that anyone in our country would have ever even thought thought about fighting against the king if they hadn't first heard it thundered from pulpits all and through this nation The rights of the Declaration of Independence, nothing more than a listing of sermon topics preached from the pulpit for two decades leading up to the American Revolution. The British saw the American pulpit largely responsible for the American independence and the governance of this nation. Our founding fathers said the pulpits have thundered. characters and most conspicuous men, the most ardent and influential men of the time, awakening revival in the American principles and feelings of not just spiritual liberty, but civil liberty among a citizen of a people The American Quarterly, 1833, said this: quote, as a body of men, the clergy were preeminent in their attachment to liberty, the pulpits of the land rang with notes of freedom We need once again to have America's pulpits sound out the liberty that we stand for in America, what people have died for, what God has given us and trusted to us, because if we don't We're not going to be subjects. We're not going to be citizens. We'll be subjects. The communism. We have communists in the house right now. The Constitutional Convention, the written constitution, simply the children of the pulpit. To the free and universal reading of the Bible, that age of men which were indebted to the civil rights of liberty. America needs the pulpits once again of this country. Number two, America needs remembrance. And God we trust. Christian principles in government. The only way that principles will stay in governance is if Christians stay in government. This act, this Equality Act? I may have heard about the Equality Act. Unbelievable where the transgender, the LGBTQ, won't have equal rights, they'll have superior rights. And we'll be subjected to them. And we'll be literally held accountable. And even punished by law. If we don't subject our children, and I'm talking about even our children before, long before I mean a child should never be subjected to what is your gender When they can't even make up their mind as to what to eat or what to dress, how to dress. And what matches with what. And they want young people to be subjected, even operations. I mean look, I I could go on, I'm not going to, but this is simply hellacious. And I I'm thankful for men and I don't, you know, I've never agreed with every politician on everything, okay? So just understand the the premise that I'm about to say. But I met with Mitch McConnell, the leader of the ma the the majority leader of the Senate, and he said as long as he's there, call the act. He's holding back the floodgates of a lot of the things that they want to do. This president, by the way, will never be impeached because the Senate will never go along with it. And they're not going to get two thirds majority in the House either. So don't worry about that. What we need to do is pray for them. And pray for all the elected officials. And pray for my wife and I as we walk in and we pray with them because we're as we walk in and pray with them, we're trying to help them to help the next generation. Right here and here and over here so that we can remain free. We, as God's people, need to understand something. We must remember. We must go back and understand truly that it's God's people that founded this nation It's not the Buddhists or the Hindus or the Muslims that founded the George Washington's farewell address said, Do you not let anyone claim tribute to American patriotism if they even attempt to remove Christianity from politics? And look what we've had in these last decades. Oh, you know, separation of church and state. Separation of church and state. Our president, George Washington, said if that happens Unbelievable things. And in fact, Thomas Jefferson said, look, the fact is, if our American citizens ever lose their Interest in politics, you understand? We are going to become wolves. He said that about the government of our country. And, oh, by the way, I think it's kind of interesting because it says that the princes in verse 3 within her are roaring lions, for judges are evening wolves. So we need to have remembrance of where we came from. Number three, we need to have repentance. We want our country to do. We need to repent. And by the way, it's not kind of like the 9-11 repentance. Huh? Remember that? 9-11. And everywhere you saw United We Stand and God we trust. I mean signs went up everywhere. Unlike these places. And churches were filled for a while, you know, for a few weeks. And I mean our uh finances in our nation went down trillions of dollars. But then we rebounded. And when we rebounded in our finances and and everything kind of got settled again, then people stopped going to church and the signs came down. And I'm not talking about that type of repentance. I'm not talking about repentance when Katrina hit the southern coastal states and everyone was going to their knees. Oh God help us, oh God help us. I'm not talking about catastrophic repentance. I'm talking about a heartfelt repentance that we simply have in and of ourselves, saying, Lord, you know, there's certain things in my life that simply just aren't right, and I want to live a closer life to you. And dear God, give me the desire. You say, well, right now I don't have the desire to do some of the things that I should do, then ask God for that desire. He'll even give you the desire. I don't know about you, but I kind of like that. He'll give you a greater desire to read the Bible. Look Nineveh believed God. And from the king all the way down, they repented. The reason why my wife and I are in Washington, D. C. is so that we can again bring to mind In the people that literally are passing the laws, and by the way, one law that's passed can ruin our country. One law, if we allow it to go through. My wife and I walk in, I've got to tell you a story. It's a wonderful story. You know why? Because we're counting upon the providence of God. You know what the providence of God is? Divine appointments. I mean appointments that God just arranges. My wife and I had a choice, and I'll I'll just tell you something that just happened because it's an amazing thing to me how in remembering who we are and what we as God's people are the government and that we need to hold these people accountable by constitutional standards and if we don't then they're naturally going to degenerate into wolves that think that they're the new aristocracy, the new royalty, and they're going to tell us what they want us to do without the Constitution instead of us holding them accountable to the Constitution. Be the people. We're the government. I'm looking at the government. Amen? You're the government. Who are these people then? They're your representatives. Do you hear me? You're the government. Okay? You're the government. You're the government You kind of look like the government here, you know. Very distinguished, you know. You're the government. You are the government. Those people just represent you. And if they're not doing what you believe they should be doing by constitutional standards, then you need to change it. Yes, ma'am, you're the government. I mean, you're more powerful than the president. And the House representatives. So are you. And so are you. Okay? Don't smark at me like that. I'm telling you the truth. But see, first of all we need to know the Constitution. Then we need to be able to hold them accountable to the Constitution. Well I told my wife we had a choice between going to the vice president's Bible study or a luncheon. And I said, well look, we went last week to the VP's, let's go to this luncheon. So we did. And a a congressman came in. And this is what he said. He was introduced as someone that not only has the American flag outside of his office, but the Christian flag. Very one of very few of Congressmen that are actually flying the Christian flag outside the congressional office. I don't know about you, that gets me excited right there. That's how he should he was intro introduced. And so he started talking, he was very articulate, he said, Well look, people of faith points to himself, this is more of a political this is this is more than a political struggle, this is a spiritual warfare. I went I told my wife, I said, Okay, you're staying here, I'll be back. I'm I need to s just to uh you know go out and be and and meet this guy. Because he was from he was from a state, this was Wednesday, and he was from a state that I was about to go preach in that weekend. So I walk out, I said, hey, I said, and I introduce myself. I said, I've been in God and country and ministry for 15 years, and I go all to the United States and I'm going to be in your state. This week he said you are. He said what city? I told him this the city. He said, that's my hometown. I told him the church. He said that's my home church. I said, I'm preaching there on this Sunday. He said, well, you know, I hadn't planned on flying back home this weekend, but knowing you're going to be there, I'm going to come. So he did. He flew out there, brought his 90-year-old mother with him. They sat in church, and I told everyone in church, I said, you know, you have someone, and he grew up in that church. You have someone right here that grew up in the church and some of you older folks you may have seen him as a little boy, may he may be messing around and acting up, and now he's a United States Congressman. He's standing for you and your family for the liberty that we all hold dear. And you need to pray for him every single day. We need to pray for him because it exhorts us to do so in 1 Timothy chapter 2, 1 through 4. And we need to supplicate, pray, and receive, and give thanks for him. There he is right there. He lived like a Christmas tree. Okay? And I said and uh and I continued on. Now I I I met him before and then texted him afterwards. I said, I'll catch up with you in your office. So I went to his office. He's an independent Baptist. I mean great guy. Tremendous guy. And I I sat down, I said, look, how would you like it to have a prayer team of pastors? That'll pray for you every day. That you can call upon to pray for you in certain needs and issues that you have. And if it's personal, then go right to God. And if it's more of a political, they can share it with her. He said, he teared up. He said, We are forming these and we're going to partner with you. He said, that's wonderful. Wonderful. It's amazing. And he said, you can use my office. I mean that's how much he said I'm 100%. He said, and you know what? I believe no matter what a political ideology people have, everyone's going through a hard time, and we all need people praying for us Well, may I say this? We could have gone to the BP's Bible study. We would have never met. And since then, he's already called me and asked me to pray for him. I wonder when was the last time a United States Congressman called a independent Baptist preacher and said, Would you pray for me about this or that? What I'm saying is, folks, if we remember that we came from A prayer life where we basically put God above everything. We need to go back to that again. We need to be praying for our country and praying for our elected officials and find out what the name of your elected officials are and pray for them and then hey write them a letter and send them a tract if you know that they're they're not saved, send them a tract, the gospel tract or even put that in your letter. And let's try to see some of these people get saved because that's going to be the hope for our country. When we had one of our large events, you know what? Every single congressman said the hope for a country was revival. They said it. They see it. And if we want it, we can have it. We can have revival. And it needs to start with each and every one of us. We must understand, first of all, that if we are saved, then we have some responsibilities. to our God and to our country, and then we need to basically get back. And if we want our government to get right with God, then we need to get right with God. Our churches, our government, our people, it all starts with us. So I'm going to ask you as we close this morning, and I'm done. Number one, do you know for sure when you die you're going to heaven? I'm not saying do you think or hope of See how my good will weigh my bad. Do you know God says these things have I written that you may know that you have eternal life, that you may believe in the name of Son of God. That you know that's present tense, right? These things have I written to you. He has them in writing. So do you know for sure that you've had one time in your life where you've accepted Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior? Okay, that's the first thing. Second thing is, if you know that you're saved, you know what God's that what He's done for you through and by the Word of God, are you completely right with God Are you listening to and watching and thinking the right things? Or have you developed a habit that you know is not pleasing to God? See, we owe it to the next generation to begin a revival in our country, and we begin that revival in our hearts. Through and by God's word. Because Zephaniah said something very clear. It's a corrupt city, and the only way the corrupt city is going to be basically delivered from that is through and by us individually. Say, I don't have the faith to be saved. Faith cometh by hearing, hearing by the word of God. The wage of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life. That's the first thing you need to know. Okay? Second thing you need to know? Is this, for he hath made him to be sinned for us that knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Jesus Christ died on the cross for your sins. He paid the wages of your sin. God says, for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. That means you do your part, he'll do his part. Why? God says if we turn if we re if we turn from our sins to God's sins, if we repent, okay, God says One word, repent, you know what that means? Turn from and turn to. Well I gotta clean up my act. No. You just simply have to say, Lord I and just let's say this. I said to the person that led me to the Lord, I don't know if I can live this. He said, you don't have to. God will live it through you. All you need to do is get saved, and God will give you the strength to do what exactly you need to do to honor Him. And He was right. Because at that point I didn't want to stop some of the things that I was doing. But I got saved saying, Lord, I'm willing to turn from my way to your way. I'm willing to turn and look to you and accept you as Savior, and then through you, Lord, that you can clean up my life. Who are you this morning? Say, what does America need? America needs you. America needs you to be saved. America needs you to be, once you're saved, to be right with God. America needs you to be praying for her and her leadership. And by the way, America Needs you, I need you to pray for my wife and I. Because I'll guarantee you what we're doing, garnish attacks. in amazing, very interesting ways that the devil attacks us. And we need your prayers. As well, because we're walking in every week to Washington, D. C. , and we're going to be bringing pastors in all year long to Washington. But let's get back to number one, God needs you. It needs to make sure that you need to make sure that you're saved. You know you're a sinner? Because you sinned, God says Well you just said it's death, and that's just not physical death, that's separation from God for all of eternity. In a lake of fire, by the way, where the worm dieth night, that's the conscience, knowing you could have gotten saved that day in mountain. You have this journey. But it got saved then. All of eternity in pain. Smoke of their torment ascendeth up forever. But God never intended that for you. That's why that death was paid for on the cross. And all you need to do is accept the gift. Realizing you're a sinner, where your destination is today, repenting, looking to God, saying, I want a new destination. I want that to be heavy. God will come into your life. Save your soul. If you are saved, make sure you're right with God. Why? Why you need to be right with with God? Come on over here. What's your name? Why I will do it. Why it's thirteen years old. Why what do you want to do when you grow up? You know yet? You want to be a doctor? Yeah, maybe? Because White has some aspirations and he wants to grow up in a free nation. That's why it's important that we get right with God. We start praying actively every day for revival in our country. Thanks, why you could sit down. This is why it's important. And so is every other person in this room. And our children. And our grandchildren. What does America need? Most assuredly, most importantly. It needs every person in this room to be saved, to be right with God, to be in prayer for our country, its leadership. And Revival. That's what America needs. God living through us. Who are you today? You someone that God needs? Yeah. Someone that America needs? Yeah. Yes. All eyes closed, all heads bowed. I would say, Bill Harding, I don't want to face that great white throne judgment when it's too late. I don't want to bow the knee. After it's too late, which will only basically precede the lake of fire, I I'd like to humble myself today and know for sure that I'm saved and on my way to heaven today. And there may be some people here that think I'm a Christian, but I'd much rather be just a little uh embarrassed today than Eternally lost forever. By the way, everyone will be rejoicing that you get saved today. So who are you that would say, Brother Harding, I don't know for sure that I'm saved. And I want to know that today. Pray for me. Here's my hand. Lift your hand up and let me pray for you. Anyone like that today? Yes, ma'am. Thank you. Take some courage. Sell that hand. Anyone else? Not sure that I'm saved, but I want to know that I'm saved. And and look, w everyone's closed closed their eyes, bowed their heads. No one's looking around. I'm looking. Pray for me, Brother Hardy. Remember that in prayer. Someone's already raised their hand. How about you? Don't know for sure. But I'm positive I don't want to go to hell. Brother Harding, pray for me. Here is my hand. I would say, Brother Harding, now be honest. Brother Harding, I know For sure, I've done exactly what God says to do. I know for sure when I die, I'm going to heaven. Here's my hand as testimony. Raise your hand. Let me see. Know for sure. I know for sure. I know for sure. Thank you. Thank you. And thank you for being honest. If you couldn't raise your hand then. Now if you couldn't, let me pray for you. Would you at least let me pray for you? Say, Brother Harding, I'm not sure, but I'd like to know that today. Pray for me, Brother Harding. Remember me in prayer. Here's my hand. Lift your hand up. Couldn't raise your hand then? Raise your hand now, let me pray for you. Anyone else? Anyone else? I might say, Brother Hardy, I I uh I'm saved, but I know I'm not right with God and I I need to get right with God. And something that you said, God touched my heart. Holy Spirit touched my heart about something that I need to work on, that I need to have God work on. Here's my hand, Brother Hardy. Something that you said. Yes, yes. Amen. Hands everywhere. Good. All right Now if you raise your hand and you don't know for sure that you're going to heaven, but you want to know? Look right up here at me. Anyone like that? Say, I don't know for sure that I'm going to heaven, but I'd like to know today. Okay? All right. Heavenly Father, you've seen the hands, you know the hearts. Dear God, this one that raised their hand. Others couldn't raise their hand. Saying that they were sure they were going to heaven. Lord, I pray that you would bring them to the knowledge of the truth of who you are. Father, I pray, dear God, there there wouldn't be one person that would end this day without knowing for sure Where they're going when they die. Lord help, dear God, bless in the invitation And Lord, those Christians that simply know that there's something that they need to deal with you, and perhaps they need to start praying more fervently for revival in our country. They know that the Holy Spirit, your Holy Spirit put his finger on something in their life. And they know that an altar call is definitely what they need to just humble themselves. Help us to remember that humbling ourselves is where you exalt us, dear God. So have your perfect we and will. And this invitation now we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. You'd stant your feet?