Chapter three and verse number two. You didn't know where I was going with that one, right? First John chapter three, verse number two. Let's read it together. It's our memory verse and um for the Third time this morning, let's read this here together. Verse 2, 1 John chapter 3, all together. Beloved, now are we the sons of God And it doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is Notice a little phrase right in the middle of that verse. When he shall appear, speaking, of course, of the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm going to speak this morning on what happens when Jesus returns. Now I'll tell you right up front, this is a lopsided message. Most of the message is my introduction. Then at the end, I'll have my message very briefly, bing, bing, bing, right at the end. Um that's just the way it is. So let's pray. Father, we ask you to bless now our time in your word. Sure been a blessing to be in Sunday school this morning. See all the kids downstairs, us up here and adults studying, the couples class, all going on. And just think of the Word of God being taught to folks. We just praise you for that, Lord. And now, Lord, we've sung some good songs, and the special choir is a blessing. And it's sure been a blessing to fellowship together and see our brothers and sisters in Christ. And uh just to uh uh uh uh uh talk a little bit in fellowship. But now Lord, we have our Bibles open and we need to hear from you, Lord. Uh we are uh needy and we're in a world that's desperate. And we ask now that maybe a truth from your word or maybe a statement, something would help us to get our eyes off of this world on the Lord Jesus Christ. I pray that every one of us would be prepared for the return of Christ. I pray, Lord, that if there be anybody with us here or in the sound of my voice, That does not know Jesus Christ as Savior, I pray that today would be the day they get saved. I pray you'd stir us as believers, send revival. Renew our love for you, renew our commitment to live for you and to reach others, the unsaved, with the gospel. So fill me with your spirit is my prayer, Lord. I yield my will to you I present my body anew and please speak through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I don't know, I don't I don't know of any time in my Christian life Where there has been such an anticipation for the return of Jesus Christ like there is now I get a little bit of chance, a little bit to get out and preach around some different places. And as I'm in West Virginia earlier, and there was, you know what people were talking about? They were talking about the return of Jesus Christ. We were down in Dominican Republic back in February for 10, 10, 20 days, something like that. And guess what they were talking about in the churches we were in down there? The second coming of Christ. Just a spirit of anticipation. I was up in Connecticut for a conference, and up there people. And I'm not talking I don't mean preaching from the pulpit. I mean in the lobby In the fellowship at lunch, people talking about the Lord's Lord's coming back, it it it it seems. Um all round I've been I've never sensed such an anticipation, the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. And I'll be honest with you, I think that's a good thing. It's good for us to anticipate and look and wait for that shout and the rapture of the church and the return of Christ A few thoughts here by way of introduction. I put this down. The second coming of Jesus Christ is one of the most important teachings in all of Scripture. One of the most important teachings in all of Scripture. When I got saved way back in 1979, I was ignorant of the Bible. I'm telling you the truth. If I ever happen to say the truth, I'll point it out. This is the truth. I couldn't have told you the first five books of the Bible I mean, I didn't know. I'd been in Sunday school and been taught, but all that had escaped me. When I got saved, I was brand new. This was I was as green as green can be And I started going to church. I got baptized. I began growing. And our church that I was going to, just a month or two after I got saved, not long after I got saved, they held, and if I remember correctly, it was an eight-day Prophecy Conference. From Sunday to Sunday, they had a fellow come in who was an expert on prophecy, and this of course is 1979. So we didn't have PowerPoint and screens and all this. They had uh, you know, project they had um uh what were those little with the slides um slide projector. They had those and he's using these slide projectors. He had some banners that he had made and put up there. And this guy for eight days He taught the prophetic timeline as given to us in the Bible. And I'm telling you, I sat there and absolutely captivated by what I was learning from the Bible. Now I thank God for that, that so early on in my Christian life, it was impressed in my heart and mind in such a powerful way that Jesus Christ is coming back again. And that could be any moment, that could be any day, Jesus Christ is coming back. And he documented everything with Scripture, He illustrated with charts. And just not just the rapture, but the tribulation period, the judgment seat of Christ, the marriage supper of the Lamb, the Battle of Armageddon, the Antichrist, the beast, the abomination of desolate. He went through all of that and I just absorbed it in. Now, all these 43 years, the fact that Jesus Christ has come and again has been a profound truth in my heart and mind. I believe the second coming of Jesus Christ, one of the most important doctrines in all of Scripture. No Bible believer should underestimate the importance of the second coming of Jesus Christ. I know there's certain circles in quote unquote Christianity. They want to play it down and they'll they'll uh they'll uh sometimes they'll kind of mock the idea that Jesus is coming again But I'm telling you, it is one of the most important teachings in all scripture. Second of all, I wrote this down. The second coming of Jesus Christ is one of the most mentioned doctrines and teachings in all of Scripture. They tell us, people, or we're told, that there are in the Old Testament, there are over 1,500 references to the return, the second coming of Jesus Christ. All through the Old Testament, over 1,500. How many of you agree with me? Anything that's mentioned over 1,500 times in the Old Testament ought to get our attention. We ought to take it seriously. The second coming of Jesus Christ. In the New Testament, we're told that there are over 318 verses in the New Testament that directly address The second coming of Jesus Christ. That's one in every 25 verses in the New Testament directly addresses the second coming of Jesus Christ. Would you agree with me? If the New Testament mentions something 318 times, we ought to take it seriously. What I'm trying to say is this, Jesus coming back again. The Bible clearly teaches that. It teaches that as much, perhaps more, than about any other doctrine in Scripture. It's vitally important in our Christian life. Dr. Lee Robertson says, the pastor down at Highland Park where I was at for years. He said when he it dawned on him in his study of scripture, he said he wasn't taught it in college back in the day, and uh he was studying scripture, a little church down, I think he was in Alabama somewhere, just a little small church He said he studied his scriptures, and as he studied, he came to realize that Jesus Christ is coming back and the rapture could happen any day. And he said it transformed his ministry. Jesus is coming again. Jesus is coming again. So first of all, I mentioned this: the second coming of Jesus Christ, one of the most important doctrines in all of Scripture. It's not the only important one, salvation and others, but it's one of the most important ones. It's one of the most mentioned teachings in all of Scripture. And I'll put this down. The second coming of Jesus Christ is one of the most practical doctrines in Scripture. And what I mean by this, when we get a hold of the fact that Jesus Christ is coming back again, and the rapture could happen at any moment, any day That will affect how we live. Would you agree with me? It's one thing to say I believe something. But it's a whole nother thing to genuinely believe something is true. Right? You agree with me? Uh we sing a lot of songs that uh you know we sing uh we say we believe a lot of stuff, but it really doesn't affect our everyday life. I tell you, if we get a hold of this matter of Jesus Christ coming back again, we get a hold of this matter. It could be any day. The rapture could happen any day at any moment. And we take that seriously, and that gets a hold of our heart and our thinking. You agree with me? I think that's going to have an effect on how I live my life. How many people, if I could prove beyond a shadow of a doubt, now I can't, and nobody else can either. But just for sake of illustration, bear with me. But what if I could prove that Jesus Christ was going, the rapture was going to happen tomorrow at 11. 45 a. m. That the rapture, and I could prove it, it would uh it was certain. How many people agree with me? Uh there'd be a few things we'd take care of between now and then. Anybody Maybe some phone calls we'd make, talk to some people, maybe some adjustments we'd make. Maybe we'd uh uh you know spend some time on our knees confessing stuff forsaken some things. It would have a profound and practical effect on our lives if we knew for certain That rapture was going to take place tomorrow at 1045. Now here's the thing. We don't know when it's going to happen. Might be today at 1045 or 11. 45. Might be next week, might be next year, might be next century. We don't know. But we get a hold of the fact that this thing's gonna happen. And it could be any day. I believe it has a profound and practical effect, not just on our talking and the songs we sing, but it affects our living, our living. One of the most practical doctrines in all of Scripture. I jotted a few things down here. How the truth of the rapture or the second coming of Christ affects us practically I put this down. Number one, it provokes the unsaved to trust Christ as their Savior. Provokes the unsaved to trust Christ as their Savior. I'm convinced if there's anybody here under listening to me in this auditorium or online or listening to me by on the radio, you're under the sound of my voice, and you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. You have opportunity to be saved and you've said no And you have opportunity to trust Christ and you've refused it and you've rejected it. Maybe you said, yeah, I'll get saved someday. I tell you, that rapture takes place. My Bible's very clear in Thessalonians. You'll be left behind. And those that have rejected and said no to the gospel and are left behind at the rapture, Thessalonians tells us very, very clearly, they will never have opportunity to be saved again. Today's the day of salvation. Now's the accepted time. And when we somebody gets a hold of that fact that Jesus Christ is coming back, that rapture could happen at any moment I tell you, I believe the that'll drive the uh unsaved to come and trust Christ as Savior. And what I'm trying to say is this: you better take your soul's salvation seriously. You better not play games. You better not play games with your only hope of escaping hell and having eternal life and going to heaven We don't know. Tomorrow's not promised. Boast not thyself tomorrow. Thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. Well, the Lord has He probably won't come. He might not. But you know what? Death could come. You don't know. We don't know. And one thing we've tried to do all these four all these twenty-eight coming up on twenty-nine years here at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. And I know the years before I was here, one thing we've emphasized is the importance of knowing for sure that sins are forgiven. I've been born again. I'm in the family of God. God has saved me and forgiven my sins and given me eternal life That is not something to play with. That is not something to neglect. That is not something to put off And so I believe when we understand the second coming of Christ and the rapture of the church, I believe that will provoke when when an unsaved person gets a hold of that That'll provoke them to want to trust Christ as Savior. Doctor Lee Robertson, again, I heard him say it many times down there in the preacher boys class He would say the preaching on the second coming is one of the most effective evangelistic messages that you can preach. Jesus coming again. Jesus coming again. So it's a very practical doctrine in Scripture. It's a very practical truth. It'll provoke the unsaved to trust Christ. I want to challenge our church folk. Let's get out this week. Let's talk to people about Jesus coming back again. Let's tell folks he's coming again. He's coming again. Number two, I put this down, the practical effects of the second coming. I put this down, it brings peace into the heart of believers. The second coming of Christ, anticipating the rapture of the church and Christ coming back again, that'll bring peace to the heart and the soul of a believer. Jesus did not paint a pretty picture of the world's situation in the days before his return. He painted a very, very ugly picture of what the world would be like, the conditions prior to his return. In 1 Timothy chapter 4 and verse 1 and 2, and we won't take time to go to all these, although I wish we could. We're told that apostasy, false teaching, false doctrine will be prominent in the world and in the churches in the days leading up to the second coming of Christ. I tell you, we live in a day from the pulpits of across America and denominations across the board of every spectrum, we have some of the most blasphemous, some of the most foolish, wicked Apostate teaching and preaching you can possibly imagine. We live in a world that We live in a world where Christianity, and I'm using that term, just Christian dumb in general, has become wicked and it's false teaching. I was talking to somebody, I guess Derek and I were talking, he was witnessing to a fellow this week and the guy was talking about how their church is playing around with this sodomy movement and and this ungodliness and their churches. And uh and the guy made this statement. He says, um he says, isn't uh I wonder, isn't there some church around that just preaches and teaches the Bible the way it is Derek said, come on down. Listen, we're not trying to provoke anything. We're not trying to offend anybody. We're not trying to uh to stir anything up. All we're saying is is there there's some things are right and some things are wrong. The Bible's our standard. The Bible is the authority, what's right and wrong. And then Jesus said in the days, the Bible teaches us in the days leading up to the second coming of Christ, apostasy and false teaching and wickedness. Will come from those professing to be spokesmen for God. Apostasy and false teaching. He said that we're told that there will be increasing lawlessness Again, 2 Timothy 3, verse 1, all the way down through verse 13. He goes through, in the last days, perilous times shall come. Men shall be lovers of their own selves. And he gives this bullet list of what society will be like. In the days leading up to the coming of Christ. Now I want to be quick to point out when the Bible references the last days Now we always think of those weeks and months just before the rapture. When the Bible references the last days, it's actually referring to from the uh uh uh the time frame from the ascension of Christ until the rapture of the church. What I refer to as the church age, or the dispensation of the church, during this period of time, that's referred to as the last days. So these things have been true through all of this church age. However, he says evil men and evildoers shall wax worse and worse. It's going to be a progressive thing. And lawlessness and ungodliness has been true for centuries. But he says it's going to progress. It's going to wax worse and worse. Increasing lawlessness. How many people would agree with me? Just in our lifetime, we've seen an increase in lawlessness. Yes or no? Good heavens. Who'd have ever thought, who'd have ever thought you'd have to lock up a church house? Who'd have ever thought you'd need security cameras on a church house of all places? We've had money stolen out of the offering plates over the years since I've been here numerous occasions. um broke into. Anybody here remember the day you could leave your cars and your your cars in the key? Um Anybody remember you can leave your keys in the car, leave it par anybody know? Sure. Don't do that no more. What I'm trying to say is this. Jesus painted an awfully ugly picture of what society and the world would be like leading up to the days just prior to the rapture. Lawlessness, apostasy, false teaching. Decreasing compassion. Now keep your place here. I would like for us to go to this verse, Matthew chapter 24. Matthew chapter 24, the disciples came to the Lord Jesus and they asked him directly. They said, What shall be the signs of thy coming? Matthew 24 and verse 3. And notice it says at the end, it says, Tell us, when shall these things be? And what shall be the signs of thy coming and of the end of the world? Now that's a legitimate question. A lot of people ask that now. And Jesus began to describe to them the days leading up, what society would be like in the days leading up to the second coming of Christ. Notice what he says down in verse number 13. Now he's given a list and we don't have time to go through this and we've done it before But look at verse uh chapter 24 and uh verse number 12. I'm sorry, verse number 12. He says, and because iniquity shall abound, abound means overflow, just increase. So iniquity, sin will overflow. It'll just be awful. Look what he says will happen. And the love of many shall what? What's it mean to wax cold? The love of many to wax cold. I think what he's saying here is this compassion will decrease. There will be less and less compassion among mankind. My wife and I were talking the other day about it just seems, and maybe you've noticed it, but it just seems like people have become so unkind. So impatient with one another, so unkind. And I was thinking about this week, and when I was driving around different things, that was just on my mind. And I thought, why is that? What has happened to our society and our world that has made people just so unkind to each other, you know, even in the market or out on the road or different places. So what has happened? I'll tell you my take. This is just my thought. I think COVID is the virus that killed kindness. And this is my thinking. Now I could be wrong, but this is my thinking. It's been ingrained in our heads and minds that everybody else is a threat to me. You have a virus. I have to be protected from you. I have to stay away from you. I can't interact with you. You are a threat to my health. You're a danger to my life. And I think indirectly and probably not deliberately that has affected our thinking about other people And we've gotten this idea. And by the way, when a person's in danger feel like they're in danger, they become very self-centered, become very selfish. Man, I've got to look out for number one. I've got to look out for me. And I think that has spilled over into our thinking about people in general. And everybody else is somebody that's in my way. or a threat to me in some way. And it has killed kindness in our society. And that's what Jesus says the last days will be characterized by coldness and unkindness and a lack of compassion for one another. He didn't paint a very pretty picture, the days leading up to the rapture of the church and the second coming of Christ. There in verse 6 and 8 of Matthew 24, he says, For nations shall rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom. There should be famines and pestilence and earthquakes in diverse places. All these are the beginning of sorrows, wars and rumors of wars. He says in Timothy again, he mentions increased violence and danger. 2 Timothy 3 and verse 12, he talks about those living in the context of the last days. He says, All they that live godly shall suffer persecution. And so Jesus Christ um uh Told his disciples, and throughout Scripture, we're told of this bleak, dark setting among society and the world in the days just prior to the rapture of the church and the return of Christ. Now my point is this, I made this statement, the rapture of the Lord Jesus Christ, the return of Christ brings peace into the heart of the believers. Now turn with me to John chapter 14. You say, preacher, how can we have peace? Good heavens, listen to this. Well, you describe the world. We look around. John chapter 14, Jesus tells us. I tell you what, if we saw ha we sa if we saw what's happening in the world and we read in the Bible what it says the world is going to be like But there was no rapture, there was no return of Christ. There's no end game to this. Would you agree with me? Be a pretty miserable future. Be pretty pretty dark uh setting. But I'm telling you, as bad as things are, and as bad as they're most likely going to get. You and I have something to look forward to. We have a hope that we are looking at that, even in the midst of the darkest hours, even in the midst of the biggest mess We can still have peace. Look at John 14, look at verse 1. Ye believe in God? Believe all or uh what's he say there, verse 1? Yeah, thank you. Be good if I just looked at my Bible there. Uh John 14. Um let not your heart be troubled. Don't let all this stuff that's going on upset you. Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God. Believe also in me And then he goes on and says this, in my father's house are many mansions. How many folks are glad this isn't where we're spending eternity? There's a better there's a better place of coming. In my father's house and many mansions. For not so I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself. I like verse 1. Let not your heart be troubled. Tell you what some of us are doing. Some of us are watching the news and we're letting our heart be troubled. Some of us are uh listening to the world's radio. Oh, we're all troubled. And here, listen, we have a choice to make. I can fret And I can be all worked up, and I can be all upset, and I can be frustrated and angry and miserable about this world falling apart. Or I can say, I'm not going to let my heart be troubled. I got a Savior's coming back again for me. And all of this is just pointing and reminding me. That coming is getting every day. It's getting a little closer and a little closer and a little closer. Hey, we are 37 minutes closer to the rapture of the church than we were at 11 o'clock this morning And an hour from now we're still sitting here. We'll be an hour closer. No. I'm kidding. Some of y'all didn't laugh at that. We can fret over the wickedness of the world. We will all be troubled, our hearts troubled. Or we can say, praise God. You say, oh, this world's in a mess. Praise God. That tells me Jesus coming back a little bit sooner, his return. Uh went to, as I mentioned earlier, went to Dominican with Dr. Pat Creed and his wife June and their son Mike. We spent the night with uh I spent the church that Sunday night there with Brother Creed And um their son Mike and I were talking afterward, and of course we talked about everything going on. He's active down in D. C. there with Capital Connection. And uh he made the statement, he says, Oh, I was griping about how corrupt things are and how bad the world is. And he said, I was griping to my dad, Dr. Cree, how bad everything is And he said, um he said my dad was just looking at me and finally he says, um, he goes, why are you so upset? He goes, well good night. Look how terrible everything is He's and Dr. Craig, I can hear him saying this. Mike told me he said this. He said, uh, well what do you expect? Jesus said it would be this way. He says, uh, conviction. He says, Jesus is coming back again. What do you expect things are going to be like? Listen, the fact that Jesus is coming back again, that can bring peace in my heart. I live in this world, it's not always going to be this way. Jesus is coming again. I think the doctrine, the teaching of the rapture of the church and the return of Christ has a very practical effect on those who get a hold of the reality of it. How true this is. And it provokes the unsaved to trust Christ. It brings peace into the heart of those who really believe that Jesus is coming again. I put this down. It prompts believers to reach the lost with the gospel. I tell you the fact that we don't know when Jesus come again that Uh the rapture could happen any moment. That ought to stir our hearts to get out into our community. Stir our hearts to get out into our s our uh cities and our county and into this whole world And take the message of the gospel to every single little boy and every single little girl and every single teenager and middle-aged and grandparents and senior citizens and let everybody in this world know there's a way to be saved. Because Jesus coming back again. Listen, we don't have time to study all of it, but you study what's going to happen in this world after the rapture. I don't want my worst enemy to left behind in this world after the rapture. People need to be saved. They don't want to stir us. Run these buses, knock on doors, get the literature out, give out the gospel tracts, get the radio stations up, send the missionaries out Tell you, my heart was stirred this morning. Brother Charlie read the report from down in Honduras. 24 people getting baptized. Souls being saved. People being reached before that fateful moment. And the return of Christ comes. And all around, missionaries around the world. So it ought to prompt us. You read the study, I want to challenge you. Study the book of Acts very carefully. You know what stirred those folks to go into every community? It says there early in the book, it says that they filled Jerusalem with their doctrine. Every little alleyway, every apartment building, every little apartment above a store and back alleyway and up every little holler. They went everywhere And told folks two things. Jesus Christ died for you and rose again, and he's coming back again. That was their message. The death, burial, and resurrection of Christ, and he's coming again. He died for you and rose again. He's coming back again. You need to get saved That was what stirred them. They gave their lives. Imprisoned and beaten and driven out of their homes. Why? Because they believe with all their hearts two things. Jesus Christ died, was buried, rose again, and he's coming back again. It stirred them to reach the lost and win the lost. The reality of the resurrection and the anticipation of Christ's return drove the believers to give their lives to reach others with the gospel. Number one, it provokes the unsaved to trust Christ. Number two, it brings peace into the heart of believers. Number three, I believe it prompts believers to reach the loss of the gospel. I put this down. Number four, it purifies the lives of believers. Take your Bible, if you would, real quickly, and turn with me to 1 John 3 and verse 3. Right here where we are, where we are, 1 John, our text. Chapter 3, verse 2. Now we the sons of God doth not yet appear, we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him, for sure we shall see him as he is. Look at verse 3. And every man that has this hope in him, every man that has this hope is convinced that Jesus is coming back again, what's he do? He purifieth himself, even as he is pure. Now what does it mean when you purify something? You cleanse it. The word purify itself simply means this, exactly what it sounds like it means to remove impurities. Anything in there that ought not to be in there. Anything that is impure. Anything that is not the way it ought to be It's removed or it's made the way it should be. He that hath this hope that understands Jesus Christ is coming again The Bible says here purifieth himself. It means to make morally clean. In other words, when I become convinced as a child of God That at any moment, Jesus Christ, I could be raptured out of here, and I'd be in the very presence of Jesus Christ. I'll see him as he is. Other places in scripture tell us we'll face the judgment seat of Christ Brother, that owes stir my heart, I need to make some things right. Right or wrong. That stir my heart, I'm I need it. There's some things in my life that ought not to be there. Every man hath his hope. Purifieth himself. Removes these impurities from his life. Makes things that are out of whack and puts them back in whack. Things that aren't right and make them right. Good night, Jesus coming back again. I need to make things right. It's the whole idea behind this passage. He that hath this hope purifieth himself. I like what H. A. Ironside said, great preacher back in the middle of the last century. He uh pastored the Moody Church there for many years back in the 40s and 50s, wrote books. I was able to see his tombstone down in New Zealand. He was preaching uh meetings down in New Zealand and died, and they buried him there He made this statement, listen carefully. I do not know of any incentive to godly living like the hope of the coming again of the Lord Jesus Christ. We understood that we ought to clean our we need a if we when we understand that we'll clean our act up. We'll clean things up Music, entertainment, activities, commitments. He that hath this hope purifieth himself, even as he is pure Turn over, if you would, to Titus, not far away. You're in John. Come back to your left. You get to Hebrews. You'll hit James, you'll hit Peter and James, and you'll run into Hebrews. Get back to Titus, just before Hebrews. If you're at Philemon, you're right close. Titus chapter 3, chapter 2, I'm sorry. And look with me at verse 12, Titus chapter 2, in verse 12, teaching us that denying ungodliness And worldly lust, we should live soberly. In other words, take this seriously, righteously and godly in this present world. Look at this. Looking for that blessed hope and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior Jesus Christ. I tell you the truth of the second coming ought to stir us to purify our lives. Purify ourselves. Number five, I put this down. The coming of Christ is a practical doctrine. Put this. Number five, promotes Christian character. I don't have time to go to all these. But in Hebrews chapter 10, verse 24 and 25, he talks about the day of the Lord coming. And he says this: He says, forsake not the assembling of yourselves together as a matter of some is. But so much the more as ye see the day approaching. Sometimes I'm impatient. I know nobody else here is ever that way. But sometimes they get a little impatient. I hear preachers and I hear these groups and they say stuff like, well, you don't have to have church more than once a week. Well, you guys have Sunday night and Wednesday night. Uh there's no in the Bible that says you have to have church Wednesday night Well, I have two problems. I get impatient with that. Bear with me. Please be patient with me being impatient. I have two problems with that. Number one, if we're going to go by what the Bible does, they had church every single day in the book of Acts, daily. So we're alright, let's alright, you're right, let's do it the way they did in the Bible. And the second thing is that verse there in Hebrews tells us that we ought to assemble ourselves together so much the more As the day approaches. So much the more. I tell you, this whole world's falling apart. Jesus is coming back again. We ought to want to be together more and more and more, right or wrong. Yeah, I'm right. I know I am. And so the second coming saying, you know, I don't I want to sit around and watch a football game. I want to get out there with God's people. I don't sit around and do that. I want to get with God's people. It promotes Christian character in this matter of church attendance and service. The verse before he says he says, exhort one another. And so much the more. Build each other up, help each other, strengthen each other, come alongside of each other Philippians chapter four and verse five. Again, we don't have time to look there, but he says, Let your moderation be known to all men, for the Lord is at hand. That word moderation there means to hold back unkindness. It has this idea. Be kind to people. Jesus Christ is, the Lord is at hand. We ought not to be fussing and fighting. Can you imagine a husband and wife going at it? All of a sudden, boom, rapture takes place Are you with me? Christian driving stand somebody pulls ahead of him at the stoplight. Where are you at? Huh? Huh? Why you charge me and starts chewing out the waitress at the thing, yeah, yeah. Wouldn't it be a whole lot better? Sweetheart, I just you're so sweet. Are you with me or not? The next time they feel that the next time you feel that working up, uh think Rapture Alright What I'm trying to say is this, I think the truth, the reality that Jesus Christ is coming back again, if we get a hold of that, it'll affect the way we live our lives. It'll profoundly affect our character, our behavior, our lifestyle, our attitudes. We understand Jesus coming again. Jesus coming again. That was my introduction. So I thought it was what happens when Jesus comes back again. Well, there's going to be a rapture. When Jesus comes again, we're going to be caught out of here. In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, the trump of God shall sound. The dead in Christ shall be right first. Then you we which are alive and remain will be caught up, raptured, caught up together be with them in the air. When Jesus comes back, there's going to be a massive exodus of God's people raptured out of here. What a day that will be. Number two, when Jesus comes back again, there's going to be a reconstruction. Say, what do you mean by that? 1 Corinthians 15, verse 51 and 53 says that we're going to get brand new bodies. This corruptible must put on incorruption. This mortal will put on immortality. We're going to get I mean in a moment when that rapture takes place When that trumpet God sounds, we are going to be transformed, we are going to be reconstructed physically, and we're going to have glorified bodies. Anybody here ready for a glorified body? Last night about 9. 30, Dale and Tom and I, we knelt across here and had prayer Saturday nights, always pray, and these guys joined me. And um we all now n not one of us three are teenagers. And we got down on our knees. We prayed for a while. And then we all both all said amen. And we kind of looked at each other and said, All right, now we've got to get up. And what a crackling and snapping you heard. And we're like, ugh. And guess what we talked about as we walked out? Knees, back, hip. I'm telling you, there's coming a day, no more snap, crackle, and pop in the knees Cheryl and I were talking the other the other night, we were talking about artificial knees. I'm telling you, I'm looking for those glorified knees. No more sickness. Hey, how about this? No more diabetes No more heart disease. No more cancer. Reconstructed by it. I'm telling you. If you didn't get saved for any other reason, you ought to get saved just because, just for what Jesus Christ will do for you at the rapture. Why in the world? Somebody pass that up I in a world would someone say no. What Christ has to offer us What happens when Jesus comes? Boom, we'll be raptured out of here. We're going to get new glorified bodies. Bodies the way they were originally designed to be. I put this down. When Jesus comes back, there's going to be a recognition. Our memory verse says, we shall see him as he is. What I mean by recognition, that rapture takes place. Boom! In an instant, I get this new body. I'll see him. That one I trusted 43 years ago on a Monday night at 1030. That one's answered so many prayers for me. That one that has forgiven me and given me hope in my darkest hours. I'll see him. I'll see his eyes. I'll hear his voice. I always wonder what does his voice sound like? See his hands and the wounds. I like what Fanny Crosby, a blind hymn writer, said, I shall know him when I see him. Today we'll get to see Jesus. We'll get to see Jesus. Uh there'll be a rapture, there'll be a reconstruction, there'll be a recognition, our Savior whom we know and love for all these years. We'll see him and we'll recognize him. By the way, when the rapture takes place and we instantly are there in the presence of God, we're not going to have I don't think we're going to have to look around and say, all right, which one's Jesus? Who's Jesus? Oh, we'll know right away. We'll know. We'll know. Boom. That's Jesus. I put this down when the rat when the Lord returns, there's going to be a reunion. 1 Thessalonians 4, 16 through 18 tells us that those who have gone before us Loved ones that knew the Lord that have died in faith. They're going to be resurrected from the grave. We're going to be raptured together. And we'll see those loved ones that gone before. Anybody here have someone that's gone before? They knew the Lord. They're in the presence of God. I'll see you again. I'll see you again. Every day I jump in my daddy's car. He left it for me and he died. I jump in my daddy's car. I'll see him again. I'll see him again. I know a lot of you are the same way. Sometimes I just something happens. I think, oh, I need to call dad. Lord tell Dad what a reunion that will be. If you're not saved, you've got a Christian parent so have gone on. You don't trust Christ, you'll never see him again. You'll never see him again. You need to be saved. We need to be saved. 1942, I think it was. The Japanese overtook the Philippines. They just occupied, they just took over, invaded and took over that island nation. Douglas MacArthur, General Douglas MacArthur was head of the Pacific, uh military in the Pacific. And he stayed as long as he could, and finally they drove him off there. Corrigan, I think it was And before he left, he made a very dramatic statement. And he loved drama. And he says, I shall return. And that statement brought hope to those dear Filipino people. And they believed he would come back again. They trusted he would come back again. They hoped he would keep his word and come back again. Would you agree with me? There's a pretty good chance he wouldn't be able to come back. That was a really real possibility. But he did. He returned, drove the Japanese out, liberated those dear folks. And by the way, to this day, those old-time Filipinos, they love America. They love America. Jesus Christ, before he left, he said, I'll return. We don't think he'll come back. We don't hope he'll come back. We know he's coming back. We know he's coming back. When Jesus says, I shall return, you mark it down. He's coming back. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to live our lives and light. The soon return of Christ. Pray it would have a very profound and practical effect on us. Lord, we ask you'd stir us. Stir us, dear Holy Spirit. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I'm saved. I'm glad Jesus Christ has saved my soul, and I'm glad spiritually, as far as my salvation is concerned, I'm ready for the return of Christ. Any like that by the uplift of hand, testify. I've trusted Christ, I know it, it's settled. God bless you. Hands all around. Now this truth ought to affect us, ought to stir us to live for the Lord. Now some of us are so worked up and so upset. Turned inside out because of what's happening in our world. And we do care, don't misunderstand. But I'm telling you, what we need is a good dose of the peace of God. In the midst of all of this, and the return of Christ will bring that. How many people here would say, preacher, I could use some of the peace of God in my heart? I get so upset. I get worried about things. I get turmoil. I need to learn to just trust God, get some peace. Anything like that? God bless you, hands all around. Maybe just an old altar. Say, Lord, help me to believe in you. Help me to not let my heart be troubled. Maybe there's some say, preacher, I know somebody that's unsaved. They need Christ. We say, I could be a much better witness than I am. I could be a little more bold. And you say, preacher, pray for me that God will give me boldness. God will give me wisdom and tact and grace to be able to share the gospel more effectively and more So anything like that, preacher, I know some folks need the Lord. God bless you, hands all around. So some of you this morning say, preacher, I'm saved. I know I am. I know I'll be raptured out of here. I have a Bible basis for that But brother, I need some purifying. There's some things that ought not to be there, and there's some things that need to be adjusted, and some changes and decisions need to be made. So I can be pure as he is, uh, and I'd be ready to meet him. So I think like that, preacher, there's some things that I know. And sometimes it's a hard decision, sometimes, but it's right and it needs to be done. One last question. Would there happen to be someone here this morning say, preacher, I'm not saved? I'll know for sure my sins are forgiven. I need to get this settled. I need to get this settled. Any like that? But the uplifted hand, preacher, pray for me. I need to get this settled. Any at all? Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. Have your way Help us to bring these to you, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, Isaac