I was a little concerned. I hadn't heard from the Rainemus for uh uh several months. I had written to him and he'd asked a few questions. I was telling the uh uh deacons and trustees I was a little paranoid. Sometimes, you know, you'd say or do something and And uh people uh get offended or whatever. I said, boy, I hope I didn't say or anything, they hadn't heard anything. Well the lo and behold, this week I got an email back from they're doing well. They had been in the States here, I think, uh a little over a month And uh things are going well with them and um so they would just appreciate our prayers and whatnot. So uh got a good little report from the Raynah's and then also I thought I brought it up here with me, but apparently I didn't. There was a church, a little church up in Pennsylvania. I didn't know anything about it other than it was Independent Baptists up somewhere in Central PA I don't even know what town they're in, but um there's a teenage boy in that church that follows our church on Facebook, if you're familiar with that. And uh we went through track month And he was following very closely the amount of tracks we were given out each week and the different things we were doing. And after track moments, there was probably the middle of May sometime. Uh he emailed me and he said I followed with a lot of interest uh the fact that your tracked month and the number of tracks that were given out He said, I would like to talk to my pastor about that and introduce the idea of our church having track month. Well, I had been working on a track month manual that Brother Hummel had asked me to put together for saying Since the middle of spring and uh I had it pri I had about halfway done, had an outline in different things. So I wrote back and I said uh Well sure, we'd be glad to help you out. I said I just happen to be working on something to help pastors do that. I'll send you what you have what I have for whatever it's worth I said if you have some questions, give me a call and um I'll answer them and try and walk you through it. I said, I'm excited to hear you're doing that. Well I hadn't heard anything back. He acknowledged that he got it, said he was going to give it to his pastor I just found out he's uh like a junior in high school uh in their church. Well I emailed him at the beginning of the week and I said I'm just curious, did you guys ever do anything with that? Has it you know what whatever happened He wrote back yesterday we were down at Johns Hopkins, Kathy, uh they were doing some brain scans and different things. By the way, they didn't find anything. And um But uh anyway, uh I got the email when we were there and uh this young man wrote back and I didn't know he was a young man at the time, I thought he was an assistant or something in the church And uh he said uh they're in the midst of track month. It is going great. They made June their track month. He said one year ago in June they were averaging five people in church. It had just started He said this year in June we're averaging thirty-five people a Sunday in church. He said we set a goal of two thousand and eleven tracks for the year 2011. He said we're a small church. It's the first time we're doing it. And uh we set that as a goal. We divide it up in teams, and he said, it is going great. He says we've got people out visiting giving out gospel tracts that have never been out on soul winning or visitation before. He said the teens are fired up. They had he said in this letter he said there was two teenagers that play baseball on a team, they didn't go to their two baseball games so that they could go out and give out gospel tracks. And uh he said they're easily going to get their goal. The pastor's so fired up that um in July, at the end of July, they have their missions conference. They've set a goal to give out 10,000 tracks just in that one week of missions conference, they're sure they can do it, and uh they're fired up and going after it. Isn't that exciting? So uh I'm I'm just thrilled about that and uh the funny thing about this is Brother Humwood asked me if uh if I would put something together that could help other pastors do it. He liked the idea of what we're doing, was so successful trying to get other churches involved. And so as I said, I've been putting this together and it's kind of stirred my heart And um I was talking to men the other night. What I would like to do, and I shared this with some other pastors and with uh Brother Hummel, I haven't heard back from yet, but uh what I would like to do, and I'd like for the church to pray towards Is next spring, if we could get 50 churches to agree and uh have a track month, if each one of those 50 churches would set a goal of giving out 10,000 tracks uh in just one month, which is very doable, uh, that would be a half a million gospel tracts given out in one month's period of time. Now that stirs my heart that thought of that many gospel tracts going out. I've already have several pastors that I just mentioned it in conversation what I'm thinking about doing. They ask, what's going on? You got anything in the works I'll say something like that. And uh I already have several pastors that are already on board. They say if you're going to do something like that, we want to get in on it and uh be up try and be a part of that. So in that neato So I just thought I'd share I was I've been bursting with that all since yesterday since I got that uh email and I'm just excited about it. Alright, 1 Thessalonians chapter 1, we're looking at a rapture-ready church, a church that was ready. If the uh Lord came back, they were in good shape and uh they were going to have to make very minimal changes or adjustments. And very few things they have to be ashamed of. Of course, no church is perfect, but nevertheless, this is what I'm describing a rapture-ready church. We've already noticed Thus far in the opening verses, we noted several weeks ago how the gospel came to them. We saw that in verse number 5. Paul saying how they got the gospel to him. Look what he says. For our gospel came not unto you in word only, but also in power. And in the Holy Ghost, and in much assurance, as ye know, what manner of men we were among you for your sake. So that's how the gospel came to them. Then we noted how they received the gospel, what their mental state was in receiving it, and we got that from verse number six. And ye became followers of us and of the Lord, having received the word in much affliction with joy of the Holy Ghost. And then verse 7, so that you were in samples to all that believe in Macedonia and Achai. So he's saying, this church is an example church. This church is a model church. Now I notice in verse number 8 particularly, and this is tonight's text and tonight's message, is what they did with the gospel. First, we notice how it came to them, not in word only, but in power and in the Holy Ghost and much assurance. That's how it came to them. How they received it in much affliction, very submissively, they received the word of God. Now we're looking at what they did with it. What they did with that which they had received. Let's have a word of prayer, and uh we'll notice, look at this real quickly. Father, bless your word tonight. I pray you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit I present my body and yield my will anew. Pray you'd speak through me. Help us to be a rapture-ready church, dear Lord. Help us to grow. We want to grow in number. Lord, we want to grow spiritually and in our influence So I pray your Holy Spirit would use this truth tonight to enable us to do that, motivate us, provoke us, dear Lord, I pray, to good works and to be what you intend for us to be. What did they do with the Word of God when it came to them? They received it, then what did they do with it? Look at verse 8. For from you, what's those next two words? Sounded out the word of the Lord, not only in Macedonian and Achai, but also in every place, your faith to God word is spread abroad. The thing I noticed that the church at Thessalonica did, the individual believers and the church as a whole, when they received the word of God, they trusted Christ, they were saved, they They opened their hearts and minds and were taught the things of God. The first thing they immediately did, what they did with that gospel was they sounded it out. They took it out into Achai, into Macedonia, and into every other place. Now that phrase sounded out, caught my attention Captured my imagination. I circled it in my Bible. I got studying that. And it's interesting. Why did God use those words? Sound it out He didn't just say, oh, well, it went forth from you or it went out from you. He says it sounded out. The phrase sounded out means literally to blare forth The word, I looked up several definitions from several different sources, and the word echo keeps coming up in the definitions. In other words, this is not just some quiet little whispersome conversational tone type of thing This is something that is absolutely blaring out. It is echoing up and down the valleys of Thessalonica. It is echoing across the landscape of Greece. into a chain and Macedonia and other places. It is just going out. The idea behind that phrase sounding out is the blast of a trumpet. It is used to describe a clap of thunder. In my studying this and looking up the definitions, whatnot, one thing kept coming to my mind, and that is this. a fire siren just blaring out. And actually that fire siren is blaring out a message. It's blaring out. Something's up. Somebody's in danger. Folks have responsibilities. We need you to step up and do that. That's the idea behind this Sounding out. I mean they are just absolutely blaring out the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I think it was the Huckabee's. Kathy could correct me if I'm wrong. She always does. But um uh I'm kidding. That was a poor joke. But uh I think uh the it was the Huckabee's were staying in our mission's house I think I'm correct on that, but I have no idea. So, but um uh I think they were saying there, and lo and behold, about two in the morning, the fire sign ring went off. Was it the Huckabee's? I am right. And uh the fire siren went off. They did not know what a volunteer fire department was. They never heard of it before. For whatever reason, they'd never lived a place that had Volunteer Fire Department. Wherever they lived, there was always a professional fire department, and professional fire departments did not have sirens. They all stayed there or whatever So when that siren went off, when it sounded out the warning, the only thing they could possibly think it was, was what? Air raid, no, not air raid. You old guys from World War II. They thought it was a tornado coming through. They thought it was a tornado warning And uh they don't know where to go. There's no basement in the mission house. They're panicking, and uh we're sound asleep, didn't worry us a bit. But uh that's the idea of this phrase from you sounded out the word of the Lord, the gospel. It just blared out from this church. It echoed out across the land. This is the only time in the Bible that phrase sounded out is used. And it's used to describe the church at Thessalonica's handling of the word of the Lord, what they did with it. They declared the gospel They broadcast the word of the Lord. They proclaimed it in such a way that God described it as Sounding forth as blaring as trumpeting it out. That's God's description of how they distributed the Word of God. How it went out from them. They sounded out the word of the Lord. There is nothing quiet about their message of the gospel. That church at Thessalonica is nothing quiet about what they've got to say. Brother, they cry it out loud and clear. Nothing covert. about their handling of the gospel. No secret witnessing there at all, man. It's just in your face out loud. No one had questions About what the message from the First Baptist Church of Thessalonica had. What's the message of that church? What? Are you new in the area? Everybody knows what that church preaches They blare it out. They sound it out. It echoes across our land. So there was no doubt What the message of the gospel was as far as the church at Thessalonica was concerned. It was sounded out. Now, I want to quickly go through and notice a few things about their handling of the Word of God, the gospel. Sounding it out. First of all, I notice in this verse the places that they sounded out the word of the Lord. Look at verse uh eight. For from you sounded out the word of the Lord. Now he says, not only In Thet Macedonia and Achai. So it wasn't only there, but it was there Right? It wasn't limited to just Macedonia and Achai, but it sounded out through Macedonia and Achai. Now what is Macedonia and Achai's relationship to the church at Thessalonica. If you get a map out and look it up, you find out that Mesot that um uh Macedonia and Achai were the two major divisions of the country of Greece, the land of Greece. It would be like our northern states and southern states It would be like the Mason-Dixon line dividing the north and the south. So when it says this church in Thessalonica Blared out the word of the Lord, not only in Macedonia, Macedonia and Achai. What is he saying? If Macedonia would be, I believe it's the northern portion of Greece, and Achai is the southern portion of Greece, what is he saying that their gospel did in their country? They covered the whole country. Now think about that. They weren't just concerned with their next door neighbors. They obviously were concerned about them But their message went out through the entire land of Greece. And then he goes on, and he says, well, I put this down. Their entire country. Now think about this. Their entire country had heard the word of the Lord from this one church From Thessalonica blared out the word of the Lord to all the northern portion of Greece and all the southern portion of Greece. Now granted, Greece is not as big, was not as big as America. But nevertheless, they reached their country with the message of the gospel. I'm not saying everybody in Greece got saved. But what this verse is telling me is the entire country heard the gospel as a result of this church's witness. That's incredible. But look what he says. Not only in Macedonia and Achai, but also in where? Every place. I got thought thinking about that. Where is every place? You know what? I found out every place I looked up was part of every place. Isn't that profound? In other words, uh they there was no limitations to the area that they were sounding out the Word of God. The surrounding areas. In fact that phrase every place, I got looking that up in one of the Parts of the definition of that phrase every place was this. Inhabited areas. Inhabited areas. So I take this from that is that they went wherever people lived, they made sure they heard the word of the Lord. In their country, out of their country. I like this quote. I wrote this down. I kind of like this quote. I put this: there are no borders To preaching the gospel for a rapture-ready church. There's no limitations, there's no borders. There's no limits to the places that we as a body of believers Uh we're not limited the places that we declare the Word of God. Uh maybe I got thinking about this, it stirred my heart Maybe that that would include, see if you agree with me, that would include a little Indian village on the East Bay in Canada, Ontario, Canada That's every place. Maybe that would include little towns outside of what's the name in Utah where bu Mike Bardon was, where we went What was the name of the town? Berno, uh, Utah. And maybe it's the little communities all through there. Uh go out and take a little survey with a bunch of more to the Mormon people and share the gospel with them Huh? Maybe it's little villages along the coast of Puerto Rico. There's no borders. From that church, Thessalonica, the first Baptist church of Thessalonica. Sounded out, just blared out the word of the Lord in all their country and all other places. No limits, no borders. just went out. That stirred my heart. So the places that they sounded forth the word of the Lord, this church. In fact, look what he says. Your faith to Godward In every place your faith to God word is spread abroad. I mean it was just everywhere. It doesn't matter where you went. Folks say, oh yeah, some folks from Baptist Church in Thessalonica came by here. They told us about how to be saved, how Jesus died on the cross for our sins. You go another town forty miles in the other direction. Uh hey, has anyone ever shown you how you can know for sure you're on your way? Yeah, some folks from that Baptist church down in Thessalonica came by a couple months ago, and uh they told us about Jesus down across rising again. Am I the only one gets stirred up by that? I think that's exciting. And uh that's what we're doing. Uh I got stirred up. We went to uh uh um Johns Hopkins yesterday. Uh we had to leave at five in the morning. And uh we're driving down there and we went through uh how many folks here know that it was light at five in the morning? I never knew that. I thought the sun just came up real all sudden like that. It comes up real slow. How about that? But um we're driving through uh Cumberland. Uh by the way, Kathy had to have some brain tests and stuff, they didn't find anything But um uh but anyway we're driving through Cumberland and uh I said to her, I said, you know what's a blessing? She goes, what? I said, see all those houses on that side of that hill? We put gospel tracks on all those little houses over there. In that Neto. And so that's the way this place was, except more so. Everywhere their faith to a God word is uh is uh spread abroad. So uh the places they sounded forth the word of the Lord, next thing I notice is the process. How do they go about doing this? Now, it doesn't tell us directly, so we speculate a little bit here. And uh number one, I the process they went through, I put this down. I believe they did this voluntarily. I believe they voluntarily. I got looking at this in Acts and here and studying. I don't find any indication that they hired professional founder outers. Uh uh I don't see anywhere they hired all right, we're gonna hire you, your jobs. Go and sound out the word of the Lord in all these places. We'll give you twenty-five, we'll give you uh eight bucks an hour, uh inflation, we'll give you ten bucks an hour, and you go sound out the word of the Lord. I don't see that anywhere This is our minister of sounding outing, and you don't have that at all. It's just they, the church members. The old ones, the young ones, the rich ones, the poor ones, the smart ones, the Not as smart ones. Thank you. You know, everybody. They just went out and did it. The entire church voluntarily Went out and gave out, sounded out the word of the Lord loud everywhere, all over the place. But then I put down number two. They did it voluntarily, but I wrote this down They did it involuntarily. You say, how can that be? How can it be voluntarily, but involuntarily? To me, it appears to be a spontaneous reaction To receiving the Word of God. You follow what I'm saying? They're not hiring people to do this for them. It's voluntary, but it's involuntary in the sense that they just wanted to do it Nobody, I don't see anywhere where Paul and Silas and Timotheus are beating them over the head, telling them, you've got to go sound out the word of the Lord. They're just, it's spontaneous reaction. Oh man, we've got to tell others. Paul came in not in word only, but in power and the assurance of the Holy Ghost and much joy and Boy, you know, we got beat up for it and different things, but we believed it was true. We accepted it in much affliction. And uh, man, we've got to tell others about this There's no sad stories of people in their deathbed dying and going to hell and being engulfed in flames. It's just, boom, there wasn't guilt, there wasn't intimidation, it was an involuntary reaction. They just had to do this. Throughout Scripture, when people grasp the glory of the gospel They spontaneously proclaim that gospel to others. All through scripture you find, particularly in the New Testament. They involuntarily react. Woman at the well. Now, this woman, we could spend a good bit of time on her, she fascinates me. This woman is a woman hardened by sin. She is jaded, she is calloused, she is what else All of the above and more. I mean this is a hard woman. And Jesus comes up, and he must needs go by through Samaria because he's going to witness this gal. And um he introduces the conversation with water, well if you knew who was you asked for water. And man, every one of her answers to the Lord is smart alec, smart alec, smart alec And uh he just stays at it, he comes back, he sticks with it. Finally, the woman she figures out what he's talking about, she realizes that he's the savior, and the old and the uh I almost said the old gal, the dear woman, she believes she trusts Christ and she gets saved. Praise the Lord, huh? That's exciting. What's the first thing she does? Yeah, the Bible says she puts down her water pots And goes into the town and tells all the men about the Lord Jesus, says, Come out and see this man. He told me everything I've ever done. Is this not the Messiah? Now I've got looking at that very carefully, and correct me if I'm wrong, but I don't see anywhere where Jesus says, now listen, get your backside down there and tell people what happened He doesn't say that at all. I don't see anywhere where the Lord's saying, well, aren't you going to go tell folks? He doesn't do that at all. What does the Lord say about her being a witness? Nothing. It's just an instantaneous reaction. It's just a spontaneous, involuntary thing. I've got to tell some other folks. I'm going to tell everybody I know about this Jesus, about the gospel. It is involuntary. It is Blind Bartimaeus did the same thing. You go through the nine, the ten lepers, and uh the Lord healed them, and uh one of them came back to give glory to the Lord. But what did all ten of them do? They went and told everybody. He says, you go to the priests and tell them, go through the little process you're supposed to go through. What they did. They just went everywhere and told everybody, well, you won't believe what this guy did for me And that's what I see here at the Church of Thessalonica. They're not being intimidated with, they're not being browbeated to be a witness. They're not telling, you're not right with God if you don't sound forth the word of the Lord. There's none of that. I don't see any of that. They just boom do it. Hey, let's go here. I got an idea. Anybody want to go up to East Maine, Canada? There's a town there. Don't have any guy. Yeah, I'll go with you. Shh. Anybody want to go to Terra Alda? And we're going to knock on all the doors over there and give the gospel, sound for the gospel. Anybody want to go along? Sure, we'll go. Anybody want to go to Cancun? Yeah, we'll go. It was involuntary. It was voluntary, but it was involuntary. I put this down. There is something wrong when professing Christians have to be beat over the head, threatened, nagged, and badgered. to proclaim the word of God. It is not biblically natural. It looks to me in studying scripture that when a person is saved and God has done a work in their heart The involuntary response is, I want other people to know about this Savior. I want other people to know about the word of the Lord and what it's done for me so he can do the same thing for them. That's the natural biblical response. So their process for sounding out the word of God, I put down voluntary, I put down it was involuntary, I put this down briefly, it was personally In other words, they had no gospel tracks, they had no radio stations or translators, they had no internet, fbn. com radio They didn't have any magazines. They didn't have any Sword of the Lord papers. The only way, the only way That the word of the Lord was going to get to these other towns in Macedonia and Achai and these other places. The only way it was going to happen is they had to personally go there. I put this phrase down. I like this phrase. There had to be boots on the ground. Right? Well, America has tried fighting wars with just air power. We fly over and bomb the place back to the stone age. That's great and it makes it a little easier, but sooner or later somebody has to go in there personally and do what needs to be done. And you can send tracks out and you can do all this, but sooner or later somebody's got to personally either leave that person to the Lord or they can get saved through a track or whatever, but some they've got to connect up somehow personally with people. Uh if we're going to reach a country, uh we can drop tracks and set up emails and do all that, but sooner or later somebody's gonna have to go there And establish churches and translate the scriptures and get the word of the Lord to them. There has to be a personal involvement And so they went voluntarily, they went involuntarily, they went personally. I put this down, they went persistently or courageously. Everything about the circumstances, everything we know about the circumstances here, indicate that in Thessalonica, at this time, they were under intense opposition. Look at verse number six. Having received the word of the Lord in what? Much affliction. He doesn't say having received the word of the Lord with difficulties or affliction. He says, in much affliction. You guys were taking heat for believing what Paul and Silas and Timothy had to say. You guys were taking heat by trusting Jesus Christ for your personal Savior. You were being afflicted for that It was costing you greatly. Now there's nothing between verse 6 and verse 8 that indicates that affliction or that opposition diminished. So they received it in opposition. We have every reason to believe they gave it out in opposition. They took heat for sounding forth the word of God. I have no doubt about it. They sounded out the gospel under intense persecution. Here's my question. I wonder how strong is our faith? I don't know. The fact of the matter is, very few, if any of us, our faith has really been tested to any degree. You say, oh yeah, I gave a track out one time and that lady made a mean face at me. Wh Listen, in our society where we're at, we do not know what persecution is. Am I right or wrong? They say, oh yeah, they laughed at me and called me names. They said I'm part of the God squad, that were. Listen, I don't believe our faith in God has been tested. I wonder how strong, how great is our burden for the loss? How great really is it? Man, you ask that question. You ask that question of a pastor, you ask that question of a person individually. And you tell you, it's hard to come up with a positive answer. I'm afraid. I mean, suppose track month, and I mentioned this previously, but suppose uh the parade is downtown. And we order 10,000 gospel tracts to try and get people to sign up. We're going to get out, we're going to sound forth the word of the Lord at the parade, the autumn glory parade in Oakland, Maryland. Suppose we knew, I mean we knew, that if we go down there, there's gonna be s there's gonna be National Guardsmen with batons, billy clubs. And anybody that says a word about the gospel or gives out any literature about the gospel is going to be beaten severely and kept in jail for one month. Wonder how many people would sign up to go down and do that. Huh? How great is our burden? Church at Thessalonica, in much affliction, they couldn't shut them up. They couldn't make them be quiet. Go ahead and beat it. Read the life of Paul. He says, I know in every town afflictions and bonds await me. I'm not afraid, I'm willing to die for the gospel. And that was the mentality of this rapture-ready church. What if we're going to go out tomorrow night, soul winning? Say, alright, we're going out, soul, we're going to knock on doors. Probably every door you get to, they're going to push you down and kick you and run you off with a baseball bat, hit you if they can, every door you go to I wonder how many of us would sign up and say, oh yeah, I'm going door to door. I can't wait. How badly do we care whether people are going to heaven or hell? Now I hate to say this, but I'm afraid. I'm afraid that many Christians have the attitude they would never say this. We would never say this But nevertheless, we have the attitude, the whole world can die and go to hell before I'm going to be inconvenienced for the gospel. I'm afraid that's reality. But that's inconvenient. To go out and talk to people, to go out and give out literature to knock on doors to make some sort of effort to get the gospel to people. That's not very convenient. I mean it's not fun And so the word of God doesn't sound forward. But look what he says. From you Sound it out, the word of the Lord, not only in Macedonia, but also in every place your faith to God word is spread abroad. This isn't a friendly environment they're in And then they gave it out strategically, I believe. And if you go back to Acts and whatnot, you find that most of the time the gospel would go to significant cities first. places, cities of trade, cities of commerce where there was transportation, and they would go and get the Word of God there, and they knew that if it got established in that city where there's a lot of coming and going the chances are it would spread out from there. And so there was a little method to their madness. There was a little strategy behind their efforts. And uh what did they do with the gospel? They sounded it out. How did they do that? Uh uh uh the places they sounded out was their own country and beyond. How do they do it? Voluntarily, involuntarily, personally, persistently, strategically. Last of all, what was the purpose for sounding out the word of the Lord? What was the big deal? Why were they so consumed with taking the gospel to everybody they possibly could? Why were they eat up with that I put down number one because it's God's word to mankind. It's God's message to the residents of planet Earth The gospel of Jesus Christ. And that fact alone, that it is a gospel from God to mankind, ought to motivate us to make sure everybody gets that message. Um the president is going to make, he's going to deal with an issue that affects every American. And so what do they do? Every channel on TV, special presidential address to every American citizen. On the radio, sorry we interrupt this program to bring a special presidential address to every American citizen. The next day in the newspaper, presidential address to every American citizen, everywhere you go. They want to make sure everybody, every American citizen gets that message that the president wants everybody to have. So every means of communication is used. You go on Foxnews. com. Special president announced uh presidential what? Address Live streaming. Every means necessary. Why? Because this is something the President of the United States is saying that affects every citizen of the United States. Hey, when we're dealing with the gospel, we're dealing with a message from the God of the universe that affects every citizen on planet Earth. Every resident. And that ought to motivate us to get that messy area. The reason, the second reason I think that there was uh the purpose for this was it affects all people. The gospel affects everybody. Suppose somebody goes to a Mahdi, they set up shop, they begin witnessing however they can And finally, somebody hears the gospel, a national hears the gospel, you know, I believe that's true. God deals with their heart. I accept Jesus Christ as my Savior. Was that person affected by the gospel? Yes, what's going to happen to them when they die? They're going to go to heaven instead of all right, so they're there. Let's just use this country as an illustration. And the same person comes to another person And they explain the gospel to them, they build a relationship, explain the gospel to them, and that person says, I believe in Akbar Allah. I believe in Allah. Jesus is a good teacher. I reject him as the Savior of the world, the only way to be saved. Does the gospel affect that person? Sure, they reject it. What happens to them? They die and go to hell. There's another town 170 kilometers away from where that missionary is. Nobody's in that town. Nobody there hears the gospel. Is that an effect on them? Sure, they die, and what happens to them? They go to hell. The gospel's for everybody. And whether I reject it or I'm ignorant of it, if I don't have it as my own, I die and go to hell. If I receive it, I go to heaven. Either case, the gospel affects everybody. Heaven and hell were at stake. That siren goes off. Fireman goes, oh yeah, true. You know what I try to do? I'm not trying to be pious or super spiritual, but I've tried to do this for years. And whenever I hear this siren, I try to whisper a prayer. God, I don't know what it is, but it's not good. Somebody is either in grave danger or they're losing things dear to them. It's important enough for a lot of people to drop whatever they're doing and run over there and try and make a difference. They said they sounded out the word of the Lord. You know why? Because in their mind, something was at stake. Something was important enough to drop everything, make whatever we've got to get the word of the Lord out to everybody we possibly can. So, the purpose for it was it was God's message. It affected all men. And then last I end quickly, the last part of verse 8. I notice the prosperity of their sounding out the word of the Lord. In other words, the success of it. And I like this. Look at the last part of verse 8. so that we need not to speak anything. What's Paul saying? He's saying you guys were so effective at communicating out the word of the Lord. That when we got over there, everybody we talked to, we'd try and tell them about the gospel. They'd say, oh yeah, the folks from Baptist Church in Thessalonica already told us about that All right, I'll go to the next house. Hi, I'm Apostle Paul. This here's Timotheus. The guy out in the car is uh Silvadus. Silas, we call him for short. And uh we're just in the air telling folks how to know for sure you die, your sins are given on your way to heaven. Do you ever give that any thought? Oh yeah, all the time. Uh do you know for sure if you die right now you go to heaven? Oh yeah. Church at Thessalonica already came by, they already told us Hmm. Okay, we'll go to the next one. Oh, I'm Timothy, it's your turn to talk. Alright, I'm Tim. This is Paul. That's Silas. And uh, but oh yeah. Now we already know about that. Are you saved now? But they already told us how. They hear it all the time from Thessalonica. You don't have to tell us anything And Paul writes to him, he says, good grief. That's in the Hebrew. The Greek. Good grief. We don't even have to say anything. Everywhere we go, they already know about it. You've already communicated, you've blared this thing out. Well, we we can't say anything. They were successful. Does that mean everybody got saved? No. Does it mean everybody heard how to be saved? Yes. And that ought to be our goal. There's no limits to Mount Lake Independence Baptist Church. There's no territorial limits to our area of witness. There's no state lines, there's no national lines, there's no nothing lines, there's no ethnic lines, there's no racial lines, there's no nothing lines. Every place, ever One Sound out the Word of God. Wouldn't it be nice if somebody would visit Oakland and they'd say, you know, I'm looking for a place to find out how to get saved And the lady behind sheets goes, Mountain Lake in a Bennett Baptist Church. Huh? Wouldn't that be nice? You go into a food land and you're waiting paint in line to say, you know, I man, I just I just I'm so worried about dying. My uncle died and oh I like do you know anyone around that could show us how you'd be ready to die? Oh yeah, Mount Lake Independent about this church. Wouldn't that be great? Listen, just the pastor can't make that so. Just the assistant pastor can. The Sunday school, it has to be everybody That's just be part of our nature to share the gospel with people. And I just got stirred up preparing this, thinking about Utah and Mexico and Puerto Rico and uh Canada and all these places where we've had a little bit of an influence that our church's name is on the back of a gospel track or a piece of literature. We knocked on some door But then I got thinking there are hundreds of thousands of other towns and places that we haven't touched. You say, preacher, we're supposed to do them all. We're supposed to do everyone we possibly can. Let's pray. Father in heaven, bless our efforts. Help us to be like Thessalonica. I know I fall short. I know, God, my heart's been challenged just in my courage and my burden. I pray you'd take our church and use us. I think I speak for everybody here tonight, Lord, all the folks who are part of this church. We just give ourselves to you as a church. We pray you'd stir our hearts, motivate us. And just help us to be rapture ready that all through this area and other places, the word of the Lord would be sounded out. Less are if it's our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many like me would say, preacher, wow, I need to do better at this. I need my heart stirred. I need to be more burdened. I just need God to help me, to stir me up and And just be what he wants me to be and be a part of this. How many would join me in saying, preacher, that is my burden, this matter of being a witness and getting the Word of God out? God bless you, hands all around I think what I did and what I think the best thing for us to do is just ask God to help us. God, make us for real. Help us to be sincere. Stir us, motivate us, burden us. God, whatever you need to do. Just make it so in our lives. Let's ask the Lord to do that. Father, bless our imitation, I pray. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are back.