I'm gonna take a moment and read that with you. Uh Matthew Matthew chapter number six, and if you would turn to verse number nineteen. Get anything turned on here? Matthew 6 and verse number 19. I would really like to read down through verse 34, but that's pretty lengthy. I'm not going to do that But I believe that's one section of this Sermon on the Mount the Lord is preaching. So, but nevertheless, for tonight, I want to read verse 19 through 20. 23. Notice what the Bible says, Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal. But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, where thieves do not break through nor steal. For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also The light of the body is the eye. If therefore thine eye be single, thy whole body shall be full of light. But if thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall be full of darkness If therefore the light that is in thee be darkness, how great is that darkness? I'm going to focus. And really tonight, I'm not even going to get into the verses. I want to kind of lay the groundwork for this whole section that the Lord is getting into. And then Lord will, in another couple weeks we'll get back and maybe look uh a little closer verse by verse. So let's pray together first. Father in heaven, we come to you this evening. I thank you, Lord, for again for the privilege to be in the house of God on a Wednesday night As Pastor Lord, I'm extremely grateful for every person that takes the time in their schedule to come to the house of God, to pray together and to study your word. Please, I ask that you would please somehow fill me with your Holy Spirit, Lord. I present anew my body, and I ask that you would uh again fill me and speak through me and uh and uh challenge us from your word. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Of course, this is a Sermon on the Mount. I always say this every time, the greatest sermon ever preached by the greatest preachers ever preached. He's discipling his disciples. He is teaching them what it means to be a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. Basically, you could put it this way. He says, if you claim to be my disciple, this is what will be true in your life. He starts out with that in the first several uh in the first sections of chapter number five. Into six He's addressing another aspect. Now I want us to go back and remind us something from verse number 9 of chapter 6. If you would take your uh flip your page back there and look at verse number 9 of Matthew 6. He says, After this manner, therefore, pray ye. Now he makes a statement that I think is very important on what we're addressing here. He says, our what? Father. I believe that statement sums up the Christian's relationship with God. On Sunday mornings, we're talking about God. We've been preaching about God, what he's like, how we know he exists. Different characteristics of what this God is out there, what he's like. Jesus says here that when we as disciples of Christ, we as believers, as Christians, When we address God, we should address him as our what? Father. He's giving an important point here, important principle, I guess you could call it, where we need to understand that as a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, the moment I accept Jesus Christ as my Savior, God Becomes my father. I am born spiritually into the family of God. Now we hear that all the time. That's nothing new for any of us, no doubt. But you think about that The God that spoke everything into existence, he considers myself, he is my father. He is my father. And I believe that sums up the Christian life. My relationship with God is that of a father and a child. My whole Christian life is me interacting with God as a child of God. I think it's the key to understanding the Christian life. I was talking yesterday to a fellow at length. um through the phone, about eternal security. About knowing for sure we're saved and then being secure in that salvation. And one of the points that came up was this, is that when I accept Jesus Christ as my Savior, I am born into the family of God. God becomes my Father. And he treats me as his child. He interacts with me as a father does with his child. And what of course being a child of God, you become someone's child, you can never be un You can't be unchild. All right. Is that what you say, Ron? Unchilded. Yeah, unchilded. Write that one down. That's for the Leatherman dictionary. But uh you can't be unchilded. I'm gonna I'm God's child. And so In chapter 6, he lays this down in this part of the sermon he's preaching to him. He's interjecting this, introducing this idea that God is our Father, we're his child. Um perhaps a new concept for Israel, somewhat anyway. And so uh uh so he he says that and he lays that groundwork. Now, in the whole chapter, I want to come back, I'm trying to lay some groundwork, I think, for what the last portion of this chapter says. In the whole chapter, I think he's addressing two struggles in the Christian life. In the first section, up through verse number 18. He uses a word, and we highlighted this the other week, but he uses a word three times. He says we should not be as the hypocrites And I think he's suggesting there, as we mentioned before, he's suggesting there that one of the struggles in the Christian life is that of sincerity. In my Christian living, in my Christian service, that of being sincere. In other words, not being a hypocrite What I'm doing, I'm not doing to be seen of men. What I'm doing, I'm not doing to be thought highly of. That people think I'm a great Christian. That people think, boy, he really prays. Boy, he really gives to the poor. Boy, he really fasts He goes, don't be that way. Don't slip into that thinking. And I believe, and again we mentioned this before, but I believe one of the struggles in the Christian life is falling into this just having an outward appearance without being for real inside. Not being sincere, not being genuine. As long as everybody thinks I look good, as long as everybody thinks I'm a good Christian, as long as I appear to be a good Christian, then that's all I'm concerned about And so that's a real struggle, even in uh in our circles. Uh we need to get where we are more concerned that I am what I should be than I appear to be what I should be And I think very often we're simply satisfied with appearing to be what we ought to be. So he deals with that in the first 18 verses. Don't be like the hypocrites, don't do this, do this when you're praying, when you're giving alms, don't be like the hypocrites, do this. And he goes through there. Now he comes to a second challenge in the Christian light. And to be honest with you, I never really looked at it this way until I started studying this. And I believe from the rest of the chapter he addresses this second area that's a real challenge in being a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, being sold out to the Lord. And that is this, and I don't know how to really word it, so I put it this way That of focusing on eternity rather than the temporal here. Or, you can put it this way, focusing on spiritual realities rather than focusing on physical material things. Look again here. He says, lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth Verse 20, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven. And he comes down through here, and in verse 24 he says, No man can serve two masters. Verse 25, take no thought for your life here, the things that make up this life. And I think he's contrasting here spiritualities with physical realities. And this idea, we get so caught up as a Christian, we get so caught up in the material things of the here and now, the physical world we live in, that we completely lose sight of the spiritual world. I think Demas fell into that trap. Demas was a faithful Christian. He was a devout disciple of Christ. He was a co-worker with Paul. But Demas forsook Paul having loved this what? present world. That is exactly what Jesus is warning about here. Getting so caught up in the material parts of life. That it overshadows the spiritual aspects of life. And that is a very real danger. So in the overall sermon, this whole chapter, this portion of the sermon the Lord's preaching, I think he's addressing, he doesn't specifically point one, point two, say it that way. But you look at the content, and he's dealing one with sincerity in my walk with God, that I am what I am, not just appearing to be, but I'm concerned that what I'm doing is for God's glory. It's from what I am, not so people see And second of all, I'm not caught up in focusing and emphasizing and investing in the temporal things of the world now, but I'm focused on and investing myself in eternity, in the eternal things. And so he addresses those two. The word materialism comes to mind as I'm looking at this. I believe he's addressing the theory, I'm going to call it a theory, of materialism. Now I want a little feedback. I want you all to get involved here. How would you define materialism? If you hear say, spoil that guy's really materialistic, or gotta watch out for materialism, what are we talking about? Loving stuff. Things, possessions. What else? Alright, discontentment would be a materialistic thinking, would be discontented. Yes. You can see it, you can feel it, you can touch it. Let me give let me put it this way. And I think he's addressing this problem. How many people would agree with me that you can see how that would be an issue in the Christian life? Good night. And to be honest with you, and I had some statistics, I didn't bring them, but the number of billionaires in the United States, I believe, in a country like ours, where we have uh incomprehensible prosperity Materialism becomes a very real danger in the life of Christ uh Christianity. Um uh I kind of have my own thinking on missions and these types of things that have kind of developed over the years and just experience and many other uh veteran missionaries and senior missions uh workers, Dr. Cree and others, uh I I believe we're on the same page, and that is this It's very dangerous to take a national missionary from perhaps a third world country and to bring them to the United States where there's unbelievable prosperity and overwhelming prosperity and have them come here and raise support. What happens sometimes, not always, and you know, uh all of us would be prone to this. I'm not saying we're better than anyone else, but simply what happens is they get overawed by the prosperity And that has destroyed more than a few good national missionaries that got caught up with this. The first time I saw it, and it didn't I don't know that it affected this fellow, but the first missionary trip we were on, we were visiting a guy way back in the hills of Dominican. I mean incredible poverty. He lived in this this cement building was their church and he lived in the basement. It was probably about the size of our mission house. They had a basement down there, just some cots. He had two little kids about uh about uh Cohen and uh Harper's age about there and a young preacher and he's on fire for God and uh he lived down there and his and uh so the there was about oh fifteen of us preachers and our wives. And we visited and uh somebody preached, I don't think I preached there, somebody else preached at his church and had a great service and afterward a couple of the missionaries a couple of the preachers said, hey, let's take an offering up for this guy and help him. Just pro poverty. So it just kind of happened. We took up an offering and we gave and our hearts out to him. We're excited what the Lord's doing. And I remember there's a few people baptized and Dr. Cream we left said, you know, you gave to that fella tonight over a year's income in one night He goes, that can be very dangerous. Did anybody ever hear of somebody winning the lottery and it destroys their life? And he says that's a very real danger. In somebody that is living in such poverty, all of a sudden they come into so much money. And to us it wasn't that much, but to him, that was a phenomenal amount of money. And so I believe, now that's maybe some extreme case, and I don't know that it ever affected him. As far as I know, the fellow, you know, handled it properly and went on and served the Lord. It wasn't an issue. As far as I know, that's the case. But you can you see where that could mess someone up coming into something like that? And so I believe that's what the Lord is addressing here. He's cautioning us about this matter of materialism. Now, here's my definition of materialism. It is placid well-being and possessions It's considering physical well-being and possessions the greatest good and the highest value in life. Did you get that? I become materialistic when I begin considering my physical well-being and my material possessions as being the greatest good in my life. The best thing that can happen to me is I be uh physically well and have good material possessions. That, I believe, is materialism. I put it this way: materialism is when the material part, the physical part, has priority over the spiritual. When my greatest goal in life is physical, is material, then that becomes materialistic. So we often use the world the word worldliness, worldliness and materialism. Go are are are synonymous perhaps in a lot of ways. In other words, I begin sharing the world's values Would you agree with me for the world, generally speaking, for the world, having stuff is the most important thing in life? Getting more money? It's the most important thing in life, getting more stuff. Did you ever see that little bumper sticker? He that dies with the most toys wins That's the world's philosophy. You ask the average person in the world, uh, what would what's the mo what would you like most in the world? Oh, if I get a million dollars. What would make you the happiest? Oh, if I get more money And we express it this way. Oh, money might can't can't buy happiness, but it can buy you a boat, and that's about the same thing. Now we laugh about that, but you know what that is? It's materialism. Materialism. Something, some stuff, physical, is what will make me happy. It's what will meet my needs, bring fulfillment to my life, make me satisfied and content with life, something. And that, at its very root, is what materialism is Finding my joy, finding my fulfillment, finding contentment in things. Things. And again, the more prosperous society we live in, the more of a real danger that becomes. And so the Lord is addressing that here. I think there's two aspects of materialism that he focuses on in this last part of the chapter, in this part of his sermon. I noted in verse 19 through 23, he addresses this matter of investing my resources into temporal holdings. And we'll look at this, and it'll have to be another message. But he says, lay not up your resources, get all your stuff. Don't lay it up for yourselves upon earth. Don't invest your resources in something on earth. Then he tells us why. Then in verse number 20 he says, lay up for yourselves treasures, your resources. And I'm ahead of myself here, but that word treasures has the things you value, the things that are important to you, things that are precious to you. Lay them up not on earth, he tells us why, moth and rust is corrupt, and thieves break in and steal. But invest it in heaven, in eternity, where moth and rust cannot corrupt. And thieves cannot break in and steal. So he addresses this matter of investing our resources, whether in materialistic type things or spiritual things. And then the second aspect of materialism he addresses is the anxiety over physical conditions. And that's verse 24, all the way down through verse 34. Of course, verse 33 is the classic verse. But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, then all these things, all this stuff you're so worried about. What you're going to eat and what you're going to wear and what kind of house you're going to live in, all that stuff, it'll be added unto you And so he's confronting this matter of getting so worried, oh no, what am I going to do? How am I going to where am I going to live? What am I going to eat? What am I going to do? He says that's materialistic thinking. Your faith needs to be in God. Your investment and focus needs to be in the Lord. You get the spiritual right, God will take care of that other part. And so I be honest with you, when I began studying this, I didn't associate verse 19 and 20 and 21 with the rest of the chapter. But the more I studied it, he's addressing this whole idea. That temporal things are so necessary to my fulfillment, are so necessary to my temporal pleasures. And the word treasures there isn't just talking about money. We think about money. It's talking about anything that's important to me, anything of great value to me I need to invest that in something that is secure and eternal and lasts beyond just a few years here on this planet. And so I see that this overall is uh uh um uh God's addressing this whole subject of materialism, I believe. Um as far as God is concerned I don't see God has any distinction between the physical and the spiritual. My attitude towards the physical is very much a reflection of my attitude towards the spiritual. In other words, if I am so in love and I'm so wrapped up with the here and now and what people think of me and what I have and the possessions And the pleasures of light, if that dominates my thinking, if that is the most important thing of my life, that tells me a whole lot about my spiritual condition. And if the focus and concern and drive in my life is spiritual well-being and the glory of God and things that are eternal, then that says a whole lot about my attitude towards the physical. The two are very much connected. My attitude towards one reflects my attitude towards the other. How much I value one, the material, reflects a whole lot on how much I value the spiritual. I think a good example of this is in the Old Testament. Is everybody still with me? Everybody doing okay? I think in the Old Testament we have a classic example of this in the person Abraham. If you study Abraham very carefully, you find out that Abraham was extremely wealthy. Incredibly wealthy I mean far beyond anything you and I perhaps would experience in our lives, with a few exceptions of a few money bags out there. But um uh uh he had it But Abraham was very mature spiritually. Now he had his ups and downs, but overall he was an incredibly mature man spiritually. He was the father of the faithful. You know what Abraham invested his tremendous riches in? Not in houses. Everywhere he went, what did Abraham build? You follow his travels around. Everywhere he went, he built one thing and one thing only. An altar to God. He built an altar to God. You travel back in that day, you travel across, you find an altar to God. To Jehovah, you say, oh, Abraham was here. You travel a little farther. Oh, there's another one. Abraham was here. Not one time did Abraham build a house. Never build a palace. Never built a barn? He didn't have any self-storage units set up anywhere He then invest any of his incredible riches in here and now. He invested all of it in eternity. He invested all of it in things that would last beyond the here and now. What a tremendous man. Even his own son. When he's called to give up Isaac. Your average American Christian, if they call to uh give up your son, says, listen, I got a big bank account, Lord, I'll put a hundred thousand in, cover that. Because no, it's not I don't need your money. It's not about money. It's about your heart. God had Abraham's heart. Because he had his heart, his possessions were not an issue. And he had tremendous possessions. Lot, on the other hand Lot had tremendous riches, as far as we know. He was sitting fine. But his heart wasn't in the things of God. His heart wasn't in the things of heaven, it was in the here and now, the materialistic things. And he cast his eye towards Sodom when the when they uh uh when they had their going parting separate ways and he ha cast his eye towards Gomorrah and he saw the well watered plains of Gomorrah. And you know what he's gone through his mind? Doesn't say this, it's implied. What's going through his mind? I see bucks. I see a place I can make some moolah. And so he chose Sodom. And he invested he laid up his treasures on earth. And what did get him? Moth and Ramley sin crept in. And when he left, he had nothing. He's up in a mountain His wife's a pillar of salt. And so you see a contrast here between one who is very materialistic in their thinking And another is very spiritual in their thinking and how they laid their treasures up so different. And Lot left behind a horrific legacy. And Abraham to this day still have a people in the Middle East who honor him tremendously. So materialism, there's not a uh we put a distinction, we try and put a distinction between the physical and the spiritual. Well this is this is the way we do it. I've said this before. When it comes to let's me let me use finances right now for a moment. There's three approaches to finances people look at it. Some people look at their money as that is all mine. 100% mine, mine, mine. Money, money, money, money, it's mine. Alright, some people have that idea. Then you have some folks, maybe they get saved or whatever, and they hear the preacher preach and they read their Bible. Tie, 10%, and they have this approach. Well, all right, 10% of it is God's. The 90% left is mine, mine, mine. 90% moolah, mine. Alright, well that's better than that. You know what God says our approach ought to be? God, everything I have is yours. It's all yours. It's not mine. Uh you let me, you trust me with a certain amount, praise the Lord, I'll use it. I'm vested as you see fit. I'll use it. Is there anything wrong with being wealthy? No. Is there anything wrong with having nice houses, nice cars, nice clothes? No. But God says don't place the one over top of the other. Lay up, store up, hold on, treasure, ch Hold on to it. Don't put it in temporal here and now. Don't put your heart in treasure. Uh I I heard somebody I I read uh a guy said, you know Uh man, you ever see a fellow with a wallet? He'll have a wallet and there'll be a metal thing on there with a chain and he chains it to his belt. Anybody ever see that? So he don't lose it, I guess, or nobody steals it. But his wallet is chained to himself. And they said this, this is the way God wants to be. God wants a chain on your wallet, but not to your belt, but to your heart. It's where the chain is to your heart. What you value the most is where your heart will be, where your treasure is. He makes that statement and we'll look at that. And so you have this contrast here, Abraham and Lot, you have uh how we handle our finances. I want to show you, and I'm going to end with this, and I wanted to cover this and lay some groundwork and understand what this materialism is and what the Lord is addressing here before we get into the nitty-gritty, but I'd like to, if you would, turn to Revelation chapter 3. We have a church here that the Lord addresses. And they have fallen into the trap of materialism. And they are doing exactly what the Lord warns his disciples not to do. Revelation chapter 3, last book of the Bible. And I'm going to begin reading in verse number 14. Verse 17 and 18 is what I want to look at. But let me read verse 14 to uh lay the groundwork here Jesus is addressing this church in Laodicea. Verse 14, and unto the angel, the church of the Laodiceans, right. These things saith the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the beginning of the creation of God. So the Lord Jesus is addressing the church, I believe the pastor of the church. I know thy works. That thou art neither cold nor hot. I would that thou wert cold or hot, so then because thou art what? Lukewarm, and neither cold nor hot, I will do what? Spew the eye of my mouth. How many people ever heard preaching on that? Oh, the sin that makes God sick. Oh, lukewarmenness. And that's true, and I preach it. I agree with that. But look at the next verse. He explains what it means to be lukewarm. He says in verse 17, well he says verse 16, let me read it again and tie it in. So then because thou art lukewarm and neither cold nor hot, I will spew thee out of my mouth because Thou sayest, I am what? Rich and increased with goods and have need of nothing. These folks are loaded. They're looking at their bank account. Man alive, our budget is awesome. And they're looking at their facilities. They're goods and man, we've got beautiful facilities here and our our shelves are stocked full and the storage area of the barn is just packed We've got everything. And we don't need nothing. Bills are paid, the shelves are full, the butt the bank account is nice. But look what he says. And knowest not that thou art what? Wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked. They had placed, they had laid up for themselves as a church treasures upon earth. That's where their heart was, that's where their mind was. Did they love the Lord? Sure, they were going through the motions. He touches on that They were doing what they were supposed to do, but their value, their priorities were in their stuff. And he says, I'm looking at your spiritual well-being. Your physical well-being is great, no doubt. But your spiritual well-being is terrible. Spiritually, you're poor and you're blind, you don't even see it. You're miserable, you're naked. Spiritually, you are dried up and in poverty. You know what they did? They laid up for themselves treasures on earth. And moth and rust and thieves had broken in, and their spiritual well-being was gone. Now look for how he advises them. It's almost identical to what he says in the Sermon on the Mount. He says, I counsel thee. Here's my advice, Church of Laodicea. Buy of me gold tried in the fire. that thou mayest be rich, and white raiment that thou mayest be clothed, and the shame of thy nakedness do not appear. And anoint thine eyes with eyesolve that thou mayest see What's he telling? He's saying, lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven. He's saying, listen. And when he says, I counsel thee buy of me gold tried in the fire, he's not, you understand, he's not talking about them investing in gold Oh, the economy's going south. We need to invest in gold. That's not what he's talking about. You know what he's talking about there? Gold that's tried in the fire? Peter says that's their faith. Invest in a strong faith. Invest in the things of God. Lay up for yourself the things that produce strong faith and a white raiment, living pure, godly lives, something that brings glory to God, something that lasts. Beyond this life. Classic example of materialism versus spiritual thinking. And so we're going to, Lord willing, it won't be next week because of the meeting, but the following week, Lord willing, I want to dive into this. What does it mean to lay up for ourselves treasure? What's he talking about? What is the treasure? And then getting on down there, worrying about this stuff. How do we do that? And the title of the message, which I really didn't even get to tonight, is this, What do I do with my treasures? Should I buy stocks and bonds? There's nothing wrong with that, but that's not where our treasure is. Amen? So I hope it's made sense. I hope it's a help. And let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask now That you would bless us and help us and challenge us in our thinking in this old world, especially in America here with so much. televisions and radios and vehicles and cars and four-wheelers and boats and clothes and credit cards and furniture and stuff stuff And I pray, Lord, you don't let us get blinded by that. And help us to invest our hearts and lives and souls. And that which is eternal, that which is real, and that which was last. Our heads bowed and eyes closed. How many of us say, Preacher, God's challenged me a little bit tonight to evaluate my Thinking on this matter of stuff and finances and things. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God would help me get a spiritual focus and have an eternal focus On the things he's blessed me with. Is there any like that? So pray sure, God's helped me and challenged me a little bit. God bless you. I know I was challenged as I was studying this. I want to rethink what I value and what I'm investing my life in. So Father in heaven, I ask you bless us now in Jesus' name, Amen. Let's stand together for a few moments. Catherine's going to play a few moments