I want to read verse number thirteen. I'd like for us to read verse thirteen together in unison, if you would, if you have your place there. Proverbs twenty-eight, verse number thirteen. And uh let's all read this verse together. Ready? He that covereth his sins shall not prosper, but whoso confesseth and forsaketh them shall have mercy. He that covers his sins shall not prosper, but whoso confesseth and forsaketh shall find mercy. Last Sunday night, and I was planned on preaching this before last Sunday, so it just kind of fit together, but last Sunday night. Dr. Edwards preached on Psalm 66, 18, if I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. And for those that missed it, basically what he said was, we're concerned for our country. It was a Biblical Value Sunday and our concern for our country if we get worked up about what's going on in Washington, the sin in Washington, the sin that's in government. And he said, but we've got to get to the root of the problem, and that's the sin in our own hearts. And he said, if we regard iniquity in our heart, the Lord's not going to hear our prayers. We're not going to see revival. We're not going to see God turn this thing around. And so we've got to address that. And he made a statement, and it and I was already planned on preaching this, but he made a statement. He says, we know that sin is there. It's in our heart and our life. We know it's there. And we just let it lay How many folks were here remember him saying that? We just let it lay. We just let it there. Well, I want to speak today from this passage here in Proverbs on what to do with our sin. Rather than just let it lay there, what do we do? We sinned. I'm a Christian, I'm saved, and I sinned. What do I do now? And so that's what we want to look at this morning. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I thank you For the service this morning. Thus far, my heart has been blessed and stirred. By the congregational singing has been exceptional. Lord, the choir was a blessing. The special now. The fellowship sure has been sweet Now, Lord, we need to hear from you. And our homes, our churches, our nation, we need you to intervene, God. We need you to help us. And so we bow before you this morning, and I think I speak for most, if not all, of us. Lord, we want you to speak to our hearts. We want you to confront us In our spiritual lives, where we're at spiritually, we want you to challenge us, instruct us on what to do about this sin. And so fill me with your spirit, I pray. I yield my will to you, and I ask that you would teach us your word through my lips, Lord. Your Holy Spirit would do that. I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. I think most of us are aware the Bible is not just one book. It's actually a volume of 66 books. And those books are categorized sometimes in our Bible, and each book in the Bible has its own unique purpose. Each book of the Bible has its own unique emphasis. And as we sometimes categorize those books together, we see a common emphasis. For instance, what I'm trying to say is this Some of the books of the Bible, the emphasis is on the history of Israel or the history of the world, how the world came into existence, how God created the world in the early days As mankind began to spread over the earth and and began to interact with each other, Genesis, and then through the kings and chronicles. And we have these historical account. of the past. And that's the emphasis. That's the purpose of many of those books. Some of the books are their their purpose and their emphasis is on prophecy. On prophetic events, some that have already been fulfilled concerning Christ, concerning the nation of Israel. Many of the prophetic events are yet to be fulfilled In fact, there's more prophecy concerning the second coming of the Lord Jesus Christ than there was concerning his first coming And just a little note here, every one of the prophecies of Jesus' first coming were fulfilled to the T. Exactly as they were prophesied to happen. And we can safely be sure, we can be confident that the prophecies of Christ's second coming will be fulfilled to the T, exactly as they're prophesied. So these 66 books that make up the Bible, each book has its own purpose for being penned and preserved for us, given by God. They have their own particular emphasis. Some are on encouragement. Many of the psalms. I'm telling you, these psalms, I don't know, the longer I've been I'm knowing the Lord uh the more precious these psalms are becoming to me. And they're just so encouraging and they speak to your heart. And so some books of the Bible, and particular chapters of the Bible, their emphasis, their purpose is to encourage the people of God. to lift us up, strengthen us, keep going. Some books of the Bible, their particular emphasis and purpose is to give us instruction. On how to operate, how to live our life, how to interact with one another, how a church is to function And they're very instructive, and that's their purpose, that's their emphasis. The book of Proverbs is unique. In that it emphasizes practical wisdom. Practical wisdom. It doesn't, Book of Proverbs doesn't discuss wisdom just in a concept But it says, this is how wisdom lives. This is how a wise person lives their life. It's very, very practical. The book of Proverbs emphasizes godliness and integrity. And I say this almost every time I reference integrity. That is a word and a concept. that you do not hear much about in 2024. Integrity. Proverbs emphasizes practical integrity. Book of Proverbs was penned by Solomon for the most part. There's a few others that seem like they may have contributed to the book, but For the most part, if not all of it, was pen by King Solomon under the inspiration of God. God moved on Solomon's heart and mind, exactly the very words to pen But he's the penman, and it's interesting, the book of Proverbs was penned by Solomon to his son. He's addressing his boy. If you would, keep your place here in chapter 28. Come back to chapter number one, and we're going to jump around here in the book a little bit. But back in Proverbs chapter 1, we see exactly who Solomon is writing to. We see exactly who he had in mind when he sat down and penned these Proverbs and recorded them. And notice there, if you would, in verse 8 of chapter 1. He says, My son, hear the instruction of thy father, and forsake not the law of thy mother. He's writing to his son, saying, Son, listen. Listen to what I want to teach you. I have instruction for you. And he's referencing the book of Proverbs and saying that. Look there at verse number 10. He says, My son. If sinners entice thee, consent thou not. Again in verse 15, my son, walk not thou in the way with them, refrain thy foot from them. And all down through here, particularly the beginning chapters of the book. My son, my son, chapter 2, verse 1. My son, if thou wilt receive my words And hide my commandments with thee. And then he goes on. He's saying, he's writing to his boy, he says, son, listen, I want to teach you how to live. I want to teach you how to determine what is right and what is wrong, what is best and what is not best. His concern for his son. Book of Proverbs, he's instructing his son how to live wisely. Again, come back, look at verse 5 in chapter 1. Now remember, he's writing to his son. Now you and I get in on it. It applies to us today. But the uh the direct uh audience of this book, it was written to was his boy. Look what he says in verse 5. A wise man will hear and we'll increase learning. Kids are fixing to go back to school. I'm telling you, if we're wise, when we stop learning, we stop being wise. I have to be willing to be taught if I'm going to be wise. And he's telling his son that. He says, son, you be wise. You want to be a wise man? You increase learning. You learn. He says, and and a man of understanding shall attain unto wise counsel. Verse seven. He says, uh the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge, but fools despise wisdom and instruction. Can I say this? I think all school curriculum ought to begin with the fear of God We push God out of it, we push the fear of God out of it, and we cease to be wise. We're not teaching our young people to fear God, we are not teaching our children wisdom. Because the fear of God is the beginning of wisdom. Did you know it's possible to be highly educated and be a fool? And so he's concerned for his son that how to live wisely wisely. He's encouraging his son to trust God. Look at chapter 3, if you would, and many of us are very familiar with verse 5 and 6 of Proverbs chapter 3. That probably is the most quoted verse in my mind. I quote this to myself more than any other verse, perhaps Verse 5, trust. Now remember this is Solomon penning to his son. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart, son. Lean not unto thine own understanding, and all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. He's wanting his son to learn to trust God Not to lean on his own understanding, but trust God. Trust God. He's wanting his son to learn to, he's encouraging his son to trust God's word, the Bible. In chapter 30, verse 5, he says, the word of God is pure. It's pure. You can trust the Bible. And by the way, I'm going to remind Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we can trust the Bible. This is God's word, it's proven. It's pure, it's perfect. It's given to us by God And so the book of Proverbs is unique. It's practical wisdom. And Solomon is urging his son to trust God, trust the Bible, do what the Bible says, follow its instructions. Heed its warnings. Claim its promises. Do what it says. He's warning his son of dangers. And it's interesting as you read through Proverbs, you find warning after warning. Solomon writing to his boy, warning him, warning him. I categorize the warnings in the book of Proverbs, Solomon's warnings to his son. Now there's some outside of these that I'll list here, but I notice these one thing he warns his son about are the dangers of wealth He talks a good bit about money and finances. Now finances and money is a good tool. It's a part of life and it It can be very, very helpful, but I'm telling you, there are great dangers associated with finances. Mishandle. And used for wrong purposes and wrong applications can get you in a heap of trouble. I tell you, we have a whole generation of folks in America that are in a heap of trouble because they didn't handle their finances right Huh? Gets so far in debt we can't even breathe. Can't even turn around. Solomon's warning his son. He's saying, listen, you need to get a handle on that. Need to learn. Use wisdom. By the way, if we just do what this Bible says about our finances, we'll be just fine. We'll be just fine. And so he warns his son about the dangers of finances. Then he warns his son about the dangers of women. I didn't get any amens there But he does. He says, uh, he says, uh, the kind of woman you need to watch out for. He's talking to his son. Read, hey, not now, but uh you don't believe me? Read Proverbs chapter 5, 6 and 7. He warns about the strange woman, the strange woman, the strange woman. He says, Listen, he's saying to his son, listen son, there's some women you need to stay away from. Come on now. I feel awfully lonely up here right now. And by the way, ladies, there's some fellas you need to stay away from. I got more amens on that than I did the other one, Randy But it's true. And he warns them. And he talks about the harlot and the strange woman, the immodest, immoral woman How she'll mess you up, son. You stay away. But he doesn't just do that, but he also encourages son on the kind of woman to look for. The godly woman. Read Proverbs chapter 31. Anybody ever read that? He says, this woman is rare. It's unusual. It's not a lot like this, son. This is what you want to look for in a wife. And so he warns his son about the dangers of wealth. He warns his son about the dangers of women. And that went a whole over a whole lot better in my study than it did here. But he also warns him about the dangers of whiskey. Now he doesn't use that term. He refers to strong drink and wine. And over and over and over through the book of Proverbs, Solomon is warning his son. He's saying, son, you stay away from liquor. You stay away from alcohol. In fact, in one place he tells them, don't even look at it Don't even look at it. I tell you, I don't know anybody that liquor or whiskey or alcohol, I don't know anybody, it made it liquor made their marriage better. I don't know anybody that liquor helped them live a better life or be a better Christian. Did you know that sports players aren't allowed to drink whiskey or liquor before they play sports? You know why? Because it messes them up. They can't be their best. They can't do what needs to be done if they put that in their bodies. Afterward, they go out and put door neck. I'm here to tell you, you and I cannot be the Christian God intends us to be if we're messing around with liquor. Come on now. So he's warning his son. You don't believe me, study Proverbs. He's warning his son over and over and over about wealth, about women, about whiskey, and much more, much more. I get the impression studying Proverbs, and I've been reading a chapter of Proverbs every day for over nearly 40 years. This morning I read Proverbs 25. Yesterday I read Proverbs 24. Every day, every day, without exception I study the book of Proverbs and I come to this conclusion. God is concerned about my everyday issues of life. He addresses them all. He's concerned how we live our life. He's concerned about the things we do and don't do, what we say, how we say it. He's concerned about our associates and who and what we allow influence our thinking and our living. Book of Proverbs, what I'm trying to say is this: the Book of Proverbs is one of the most practical books in the Bible. I recommend, I highly recommend reading a chapter of Proverbs every day, over and over and over and over. And it'll help you. It'll help you. As I said last week, Dr. Edwards warned us about regarding iniquity or sin in our hearts. We know it's wrong. We know God forbids it. We know it ought not to be a part of our life. But we regard it. We hold on to it. We leave it there. Psalm 66, 18, his text for his message was: If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. Knowing the sin is there in our hearts. But we just let it sit there. We don't deal with it. We don't face it. This morning, our text tells us what to do with it. It's setting there. We know that sin's in my life, I venture to say, and this is between you and God, but m experience tells me that no doubt now as I'm mentioning making these statements There are folks all across this auditorium. You're thinking of something in your life right now. The Spirit of God is touching on something, and it's there. And our text tells us what to do with that sin that's there. What do you do with it? All right, preacher, I see. All right, all right. I see, there's sin in my life. I see that. And Brother Edwards did an excellent job bringing that out. Now, what do I do with it? Well, Proverbs 28:13 tells us. He that covereth his sins shall not prosper. But whoso confesseth and forsaketh them shall have mercy. The issue here in verse 13 is not whether I sin or not. Fact of the matter is, I do. Before you get too judgmental on me, so do you. 1 John 1 8 says, if we say we have no sin, we make God a liar. I read, I think it was yesterday morning or Friday morning, my devotion, Solomon, was dedicating The temple to the Lord. David had provided all the materials. David dies. Solomon builds the temple. And they have a prayer of dedication. And in his dedication to the Lord, he makes this statement, For there is no man that sinneth not. He's telling God, you know, when Israel sins against you, they can come back to the temple and pray and get things right and be restored in their relationship with you. And he makes that statement: there's no man that sinneth not. If you meet someone that tells you that they have achieved sinless perfection, ask their spouse. If they agree with that. Nobody has reached, not this side of glory, nobody has reached sinless perfection. The only man that walked this planet that was sinlessly perfect was the Son of God, the Lord Jesus Christ. So the issue of Proverbs 28:13 is not whether I sin or not. We do. We don't like it, we don't want to, but it's there. We have a, Dave and I were talking, we have a sinful nature. That gets the best of us more often than we would like, amen or not. So the issue here isn't whether we sin or not, we do. The issue in Proverbs 28, 13 isn't even the severity of my sin. The issue isn't whether it's a big sin or a little sin. We like to categorize our sin. Well, that's a really, really, that sin is really, really, really bad. And this is, ah, it's just a little sin. Now, I agree, sin varies in its consequences. There are some sins that have more devastating consequences than others. Would you agree with me on that? For instance, hating Jesus said that if I hate a man in my heart, it's condemned just as much as killing that man. Remember Jesus saying that? I think it's Matthew, he says that. Now let me ask you a question. Would you rather I hate you or I kill you? Hating someone in my heart doesn't have the consequences that killing someone does. So the consequences are not equal. Here's what I'm trying to say. But the condemnation of that sin is equal. If I were with me, God condemns hatred in my heart towards someone just as much as he condemns me killing them, according to Jesus. Lust. Adultery. He says you've lusted your heart for someone, you've already committed adultery. They're both equally condemned. So the issue of Proverbs 28:13 isn't Whether I sin or not, we all do. It isn't even the severity of the sin A little sin, according to the verse, a little sin that's covered, just a little, say, oh, it's just an ity bitsy teeny weeny little sin A little itsy bitsy teeny weeny sin that's covered is going to keep me from prospering. According to this verse, he that covereth his sin shall not prosper. It's not the severity of the sin, it's the fact of it. And I cover it, I'm not going to prosper. A great big abominable sin that is confessed and forsaken finds mercy. So it's not the magnitude of the sin, it's not the severity of the sin, it's not what we call the size of the sin. That's a big one It's sin. It's sin. And what do I do with it? What do I do with my sin? That's what Proverbs 28:13 is about. What do I do with this sin? Big or little? What do I do with it? What do I do with it? Well, I see three things in Proverbs 13 that we need to do with our sin. If I want to spiritually prosper, if I want to have God's mercy on my life and be the man or the woman that God intends for me to be. There's three things I have to do with my sin. By the way, notice it says, he that covereth his sin shall not prosper. That word prosper is an interesting word. It means to make advancement, to advance. It means to make progress in my Christian life. It means to go forward and advance as a Christian and my faith be stronger and my witness be more effective and I'm more like the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm growing in my Christian life. I'm making progress in my Christian life. I'm advancing in my spiritual life. It means to be successful And he says, if I'm going to prosper, if I'm going to grow and advance and develop my Christian life, my walk with God, I must do these three things with my sin. I cannot regard it. I can't just let it there. Dr. Edwards very powerfully pointed that out. And this is what I do with it. This is what I do with it. Number one, write this down. I must uncover my sin. I must uncover my sin. Look at the first part. He that covereth his sin shall not prosper. He that covers his sin shall not prosper. The worst thing I can do with my sin is cover it up. It's a worse thing to do. The word cover here means to conceal. It means to hide. It has the idea of taking a cloth and putting it over top of something so it's not seen. Remember when the spies were uh went into uh Canaan and they were spying out the land and they were coming out and uh was it Rahab and uh their bling and um uh Uh is it there where they they put the guys in the well or were they on the roof? They were on the roof and she spread the flax out, I think it was. And she covered them. She hid them so the authorities wouldn't see the spies. And then after they were gone, they went. That's the idea of the word cover here. I'm going to cover my sin. I'm going to hide it, conceal it, make sure nobody sees it, nobody knows. That's the worst thing. That's the worst thing we can do with our sin. is cover it up, cover it up. There is something deep down inside every one of us that one that will resist admitting we did wrong. Something down inside of us just resists to acknowledging that I did something wrong. Every one of us. Our instinctive reaction to our sin is to cover it up. Our natural response to when we sin is to hide it and cover it up. Sometimes we hide and cover it up because we regard it. We like it. I want it. I know it's wrong, but I want it. So I hide it from my spouse, I hide it from my family, I hide it from my church, I hide it from others. That's the worst thing we can do with our sin. And that's our instinctive reaction. We do that. Adam and Eve. They disobeyed God, ate of the forbidden fruit, and what was the very first thing they did? They tried to hide it. They made uh leaves, uh fake leaves and clothing tried to cover up their shame. They tried to hide from God so he wouldn't know This is an instinctive reaction. They didn't eat that forbidden fruit and all of a sudden realize, oh, we did wrong, and go running to God and say, God, I messed up. We messed up. They didn't do that. They covered it. They tried to hide it. That's the worst thing we can do. Even a child knows that there is shame associated with sin and doing wrong, and they try to hide their sin. Do you ever see a little child gets in the cookie jar and they got chocolate chip cookie crumbs on their lips? And mama said, Did you eat cookies? And she they go, No How'd you get that cookie stuff over? Well, the doggy got it and got it on me somehow. Huh? Even a little child knows that. There's something inside of us that wants to hide that, wants to cover it up. Years ago when the boys were small, they were uh I don't know ten, twelve, somewhere around there, thirteen At Sunday nights it used to be, now I watch hardly any television anymore. A couple things every now and then I'll watch. But back then we used to on Sunday nights, it was a little tradition, we'd go home and we'd watch cops. Anybody remember that show? I don't know if it's still on or not. Cops. Anybody remember that? What you gonna do? What you gonna do when they come cool It was hilarious. We'd sit there and these guys, you know, they'd catch the guy and he'd have all kinds of drugs in his pants and down his shirt and in his socks. And I said, What's this? I don't know man, I don't this is my brother's pants. I don't know. By the way, criminals and aren't the only ones that try to hide their sin. Do you know church folk try to hide their sin? Huh? Preachers cover their sin. Deacons Choir members, Sunday school teachers, bus workers. There's something in us. There's something about us. That our first response when we sin, we know there's sin there. And it's setting there. We know it's there. We know it's wrong. And then what we want to do, our response is cover it up somehow. There's various ways we try to cover up our sin. Sometimes we try to cover it up by ignoring it. Just pretend it's not there. Just pretend it never happened. Sometimes we try to cover our sin by minimizing it. Wow, it wasn't that bad for Pete's sake. We're excusing it. Well, if you knew the circumstances, if you knew the situation, you'd have done the same thing. All we're doing is trying to cover it up. Well, if you knew what my spouse was like, you know why I horse around All you're doing is covering your sin, using excuse to try and cover it, minimizing it to try and cover it, ignoring it, or how about this, blaming others So what Adam and Eve did. God approached Adam and said, What in the world? That's in the Hebrew, the what in the world part. God comes to Adam, so, and Adam says, That woman you gave me. Did you notice? Did you notice who was Adam really blaming? God You brought her in my life, and that's why I did blame that all he's doing is covering his sin. She goes to the woman, what's the deal? The woman says, that snake. The worst thing I can do when sin comes in my life, and the issue isn't whether I sin or not, we will, we do. One, two, we fight it, resist it, but worse, it happens. And the worst thing in the world I can do is hide it. The worst thing I can do is try and cover it up, ignore it, justify it, minimize it, excuse it somehow. Remember Achan in Joshua chapter 7? How many people are familiar with Achan? They're invading the promised land. Under Joshua's leadership, God directing them, doing exactly what God said, they take Jericho, the walls come tumbling down And God says, don't you take anything out of this first city. You've got scores and scores, hundreds of cities. You'll be able to pilfer, you'll get all the spoils from them. This first one is mine And the gold and the spoils all go to the Lord. The first fruits are the Lord's. What is Aiken do? He goes in, he finds some gold, some gold bars, and some silver, he finds some beautiful garments from Macy's. Or I don't even know who makes beautiful garments. And um are you guys doing alright? You getting rest there? Can you help them there a couple of these guys away? Yeah, there you go. You were snoring. And um he covers up, digs a hole in his tent, puts it all in there, covers up, pats it all down, moves the rug over it, furniture there. Covering his sin, covering his sin. You know it cost him his life. I'm convinced Achan, if he if when after he realized what he did, I'm convinced that he'd have come run running to the priest I'm that the tabernacle said I did wrong, I did wrong, I sinned. He would have had complete forgiveness. There's no doubt in my mind God has made ample provision for us to be forgiven for our sin. There is no reason to cover it. But he did. And it cost him his life, his boys' children's lives. David committed adultery. Tried to cover it, ends up murdering Uriah, Bathsheba's husband. Other guys are killed. It's collateral damage. And for two years he hides it, ignores it. He acts like it never happened. And it costs David his family. There's no doubt in my mind, David could have come running to that tabernacle, the high priest, and said, I've sinned, I've sinned, I've sinned, and confessed it, forsook it, he could have had complete forgiveness. But he didn't. Not until God confronted him about it. So the worst thing in the world to do with our sin Is to cover it. The very first thing I must do with my sin is uncover it. And by that I mean this. Acknowledge it and take responsibility for it. It's here, God. I did this, I said this, I failed to do this. Here is my sin. I uncover it before God. I accept responsibility. Number two, number one, I confess it. Number two, I c no, number one, I uncover it. Number two, I confess it. Again, look at verse 13. He that covereth his sin shall not prosper. I need to uncover it. But whoso confesseth, confesseth. It is possible to uncover my sin without actually confessing my sin. Let me explain. The word confess means much more than simply acknowledging the reality of something Confessing my sin is much more than simply acknowledging to God the existence of my sin. That's uncovering it. Confession is much, much more. Confession means I agree with God about the sinfulness of my sin. It's one thing to say, yeah, I sinned. It's another thing to say, God, I judge my sin the way you do. I agree with you in your condemnation with it. I condemn my sin the same way you condemn my sin, God. You see the difference between just exposing it and confessing it. To confess means that I agree with God's judgment on my sin. In other words, I judge my sin to the same degree God judges my sin. That's confession. That's agreeing with God. I condemn my sin just as God condemns my sin. I view my sin the way God views my sin. I have the same attitude towards my sin that God has towards my sin. Let me ask you: what is God's attitude towards sin, any sin? He hates it. He condemns it. Hell exists because of the sin that exists. You want to know? You want to know what God thinks about sin? Consider hell. You want to know God's attitude about sin? Look at the cross. Jesus took our sin upon himself. Look what God's holiness did to Jesus Christ when he took our sin on himself. You want to know what God thinks about sin? Look at the cross. And that is the attitude I must take about my sin if I'm going to biblically confess it. Lord, this thing I did, what I said, what I failed to do, it's condemned. By you and me. I condemn it. I judge it. I hate it. Would you agree with me? That's different than just simply acknowledging it. It's making j confessing my sin is making judgment on my sin. My sin It's possible to uncover and acknowledge my sin without actually confessing my sin. I want had some passages I want to go to to illustrate, but time, let me just give you the reference in Exodus chapter 9. Verse 27, then again in chapter 10 and verse 16 of Exodus, we have this fellow Pharaoh. And God is sending these ten plagues on Egypt. And Pharaoh refuses. He hardens his heart. He hardens his heart. And finally it comes to a breaking point. And I again I wish we had time to go there, but Pharaoh makes this statement. He says, I have sinned against God. Get out of here. And then the plague's gone. He changed his mind. Nope. Stay here. Twice he says, I've sinned against God. Question, was Pharaoh uncovering his sin? Yeah, yeah, he was admitting it. I've sinned. Was he confessing his sin? No. He didn't condemn his sin the way God condemned it. He didn't judge his sin the way God judged it. All he did was, oh yeah, I've sinned. Oh yeah, I've sinned. He didn't judge it. Um King Saul. God told King Saul to kill the Anakin kill um Agar. And he did. And he sinned against God. It was direct rebellious disobedience. Prophet Samuel pointed out. Rebellion is a sin of witchcraft. You rebelled against God. And King Saul says, I've sinned. Then he says, listen, just uh please honor me in front of the people. I sinned, I did wrong, yeah, but honor me in front of the people so they don't think bad about me. Did he uncover his sin? Yeah. He said, I've sinned. Did he confess it? No. He didn't condemn it. He didn't judge it the way God. See, see, with this, oh, okay, well, I'm not perfect. Yes, I did wrong. Well, good for you, but you're not going to have mercy until you confess it, judge it, and condemn your sin. You know what we're very good at? We're very good at going and condemning and judging other people's sin. And it's awful what he did. I can't believe it. When's the last time we knelt on our face before God and say, God, what I did was awful? I can't believe it. God, it's wrong. I condemn it. I judge it. I hate it like you do. That, my friend, is confession. Now I'm going to suggest to you, there's not a whole lot of confession of sin goes on. We uncover it sometimes, but we don't confess it and condemn it. David is telling his, or Solomon is telling his son, son, you cover your sin up, you are not going to prosper, you're not going to go forward, you're not going to grow. It's not going to happen. And you've got to confess it. You've got to see it the way God sees it. I think true confession is directed to the Lord. And I agree with God as to the sinfulness of my sin. By the way, you don't have to go downtown to the Catholic Church on Saturday night. And sit in a little confessional and tell some priest what your sin is, you go directly to God. Amen. It's none of his business what my sin is. Go directly to God. I uncover it, and I judge it. I confess, God, I agree with you. This is what you say it is. That's confession. That's confession. I judge and condemn my sin to the same degree God does. Again, if we had time, Psalm 32, 5, David. He uncovers his sin. He says, My iniquity, I've my iniquity. Then he says, I confess it. I judge it the way you do, God. I judge it the way you do. So first of all, what do I do with my sin? It's setting there. It's in my heart. I know it's there. It's just setting there. I want to deal with it. I don't need to confront the sin in my life. Number one, uncover it before God. Don't try and hide it. Don't excuse it. Don't justify it. Don't minimize it. Don't ignore it. Say, God, here it is. It's sin. And then confess it. God, I judge it, I condemn it like you do. I hate it like you do. And then last of all, number three, on with this, I must completely forsake it. Look again at verse 13. He that covereth his sins shall not prosper, you're not going to grow, you're not going to go forward. But whoso confesseth, condemn it, judge it like God does, and forsaketh them shall have mercy. That word forsake there means to depart from it, leave it, abandon it, walk away from it. It has the idea of divorce myself from this sin. I uncovered it, I acknowledged it, I took responsibility, I've condemned it like God does. Now I divorce myself. I walk away from it. I get it out. Out! I want nothing to do with it anymore. I'm walking away. That's forsaking I am against divorcing your spouse, but I am not against divorcing your sin. Get away from it. Throw that phone away if it's an issue. You with me? Shut the television down. Get away from that crowd. Avoid that place. Whatever it takes, I don't want nothing to do with it. I am out of here. I'm walking away from him. I think when I biblically confess my sin, it's a whole lot easier to forsake it. You with me? If I see it the way God sees it, if I hate it the way God hates it, if I condemn it the same way God condemns it, it's not hard to walk away from it. But if I don't if I don't biblically confess it, you know, uh, it's not that bad. Oh come on, I I can get a little something out of this Then it's going to be hard to forsake it, right or wrong. I was a youth pastor, we'd have teen revivals there in Indianapolis and I'd bring in guys, preach on sin. I mean preach the devil out of those kids. They'd preach on every sin you can think of. And at the end of the week, we'd have a big bonfire. I think Pastor Matt's done this a few times, but we tell those kids, you bring in back then it was eight tracks. You guys don't even know what I'm talking about Records. Cassettes were coming out, I guess, and magazines, books, I mean you name it. Ouija boards Bring them bring them in, bring them in. We're gonna burn them. Forsake it, we're gonna burn it out. Nothing more to do with it, no longer part of my life. You know what some of those kids would do? They'd take that music They say, alright, it's wrong, it's there. Uh yep. They go to the altar. The end of the week they wouldn't bring it in and burn it. They'd put it in a box and put it up in the closet. Why? Well, I might change my mind. Guess what's gonna happen? Going right back. Go on right back. God says, you want to prosper, you want mercy, you want to grow and be what God wants you to do. This is what you do with your sin. You don't play games with it You don't toy with it. It's not a toy. It's a poisonous spiritual rattlesnake. And you uncover it, confess it, and condemn it, then you forsake it. You divorce yourself from it. You know what the difference is between a victorious, successful, growing Christian And a defeated, sinful, carnal Christian, you know what the difference between the two is? You say, oh yeah, this guy sins, and this guy doesn't sin. This guy's got big, big sins. And this guy, if he has any sins at all, they're just little itsy bitsy teeny weeny sins. That's why he's a victorious, good, strong Christian. And this guy here, that's why he's sorry, because he sins and he doesn't. I'm telling you, you're wrong. This guy sins and this guy sins. The difference is what they do with their sin. When that sin happens, this guy regards it. He covers it up. He keeps it there. And he rots from the inside. And his spiritual life decays and his testimony collapses because he holds on to his sin. He covers it up. He excuses it. Victorious, growing, happy, spirit-filled, influential Christian. Oh, he messes up too. He sins. But when he does, he deals with it. I uncover God I sinned. And I condemn it. I judge it. I hate it. And I forsake it. I get it out. Then sin comes again. No, no, no, no. I'm covered. God, this happened. I condemn it. I hate it. And get it out. And this guy's over here. And he's dying, he's rotting away. And he doesn't even know it. He doesn't even know it. Our country, our churches need Christians who are right with God. I mean, it's always been that way. But we desperately need it today. We are the salt of the earth. We are the light of the world. The only hope for our community, the only hope for our country. Is churches who are sought and light. And the problem is, we're losing our Savior, and the lights are gone out because we regard iniquity. We don't deal with it. And we need to start dealing with it and acknowledge it. Uncover it, confess it, and forsake it. Amen? Father, I ask you'd help us to do exactly what Solomon, under the inspiration of God, instructed his son to do. Lord, some of us have covered up sin a long time. Help us, Lord, to uncover that and bring it right before you By the way, Lord, I meant to say this. We can cover our sin from everybody but you, because your eyes are in every place beholding the evil and the good. You already see it. So help us uncover it. Help us confess it and forsake it. Our heads are bowed, eyes closed. How many people would say, Preacher, I needed what God's Word had today? I needed that today. I needed God. God help me today. Any like that? Uplifted hand That spoke to me. That that hit the mark today. Now let's respond to it. Let's not ignore it. Just walk away. Let's agree with God and do what needs to be done. Father, bless our invitation, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stay