Well, thank you, preacher, and thank you also for those kind words. But you know, it's uh it's great to have a wife that knows how to bring you down to earth. Amen. Sometimes I call my wife and I say, Boy, you won't believe what Brother Leatherman said about me this morning, boy. This great this and great that, and she's listening. Great, this, and unbelievable, this. Then I wait to hear what she's gonna say. And she says something like this. You don't believe that junk, do you? It's always good. Because uh who knows what could happen. And she oh yeah honey you yeah she does that too but she does it at the right time, amen. But uh good to see everybody here today and uh I'm I don't know about you, I'm looking forward to having a great week. I'm excited. You say, why are you excited? Because I know what I'm going to preach. And uh I hope listen, I hope I really do. We'll have a good time, but I hope you'll make plans on being out yourself. We we've often heard this. The service that you miss is the sermon that you need the most. I have lost count, literally, I have lost count of the times That uh preachers have turned to me and said, Oh, if only that family, if only that couple would have been here. That is exactly what they're dealing with. That is exactly what they but you know what the devil knew that too. And that's why he was able to somewhat some way somehow keep him at home. And uh so uh I I I trust you'll you'll make plans on being out. I I realize it's a little bit of a sacrifice, but but uh an hour and fifteen minutes and it isn't that long. You know what amazes me? Now don't get me wrong, I like sports. Do you have sports in this area? I'm not going there. But you know, we can sit in front of a TV set for six hours. One day, six hours. And watch the NCAA playoffs. Come on, you know I'm right. But we can't give God an hour out and fifteen minutes a night. And uh you know w you know we've really we've got to we've got to figure out what our priorities are in this life. The NCAA playoff. I like basketball, I like football, but they don't do a thing for my spiritual life. It's the preaching of the Word of God that changes lives, that gets people saved. And so I I hope, I hope, uh, I hope you'll make a covenant with God Right here this morning and say, God, you know, unless I'm scriptural, unless I'm somewhat hindered, I'm gonna promise you, I I'm gonna be out every single night. With a soft and tender heart. I want to see what you can do in my life this week. I want to walk out of here Friday night different than when I walked in here Sunday morning. By the way, you know what? Everybody here, you're all back in a thousand right now. Amen? So don't blow it. Amen. But it's good to have everybody here. Well, if you have your Bibles, turn over to 1 Corinthians chapter 15. 1 Corinthians chapter 15. Today is what? Easter. And so when you come to church on Easter, you expect an Easter message. That's what you're going to get, amen. Lord willing. 1 Corinthians chapter 15. This is a very familiar passage. I'll begin reading in verse 1. Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preached unto you, which also ye have received, and wherein you stand. By which also you are saved, if you keep in memory what I preached unto you, unless you have believed in vain. For I delivered unto you, first of all, that which I also received, how that Christ Died for our sins, according to the scriptures. And that he was buried. And that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. And that he was seen of Cephas, then of the twelve. After that he was seen of above five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater part remain unto this present, but some are fallen asleep. After that he was seen of James, then of all the apostles, and last of all, he was seen of me also, as one born out of due time. Now, just real quickly turn the page, uh, look over in verse 17. I'll read verses 17 through 19. Verse 17, and if Christ be not raised, your faith is vain Ye are yet in your sins. Then they also, which are fallen asleep in Christ, are perished. If in this life only we have hope in Christ, We are of all men most miserable. I want to bring you a message tonight. Here's the title this morning. Here's the title: What's the big deal about Easter? You know what? It is a big deal. What's the big deal about Easter? Let's pray. Father. I pray right now that for every including me myself included, I pray that every one of us right now Would purpose in our heart that we're going to soften it, that we're going to open it to the wooing power of the Holy Spirit of God. Lord, I pray that right now we have a hunger for God to do something in our hearts and in our lives this morning. But Lord, to take it a step further, I'm I am positive, I am absolutely positive that in a crowd this size, we have some dear folks that are sitting here. And they don't know where they're going to spend forever. They have no idea that if they were to die today, they don't know whether they go to heaven or they don't know whether they go to hell. Lord, I pray that you'd open up their eyes this morning and help them to understand that they can absolutely positively know beyond a shadow of a doubt. Where they're going to spend forever. According to the Word of God. Not according to me, but according to the Word of God. And so, Lord, I pray that through this simple message. They might, first of all, realize their lost condition, and that they also might realize their need for a risen Savior Who died on the cross for their sins, so that someday when they die, and they are going to die, that someday when they die, they'll gain heaven and avoid going to hell. Lord, give us a good resurrection service this morning, for which in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Let me just repeat what I just said at the end of my prayer there, but what the world this morning calls Easter. Is is really what we call Resurrection Sunday. This day, this day right here, it is literally the foundation It is the cornerstone of everything that we believe and we trust in. You see, think about it this way. We're here, get this, we're here today because today is what? Easter Sunday. But keep this in mind. If there was no resurrection, then why are you even here? You ever think about that? Why are you even here? I if there was no resurrection, then in reality there there is no Christianity. Then for every one of us sitting here this morning, we have absolutely no hope. We have absolutely nothing to look forward to beyond the grave. Now, the reason I say that is because of this. In everything spiritual, man likes to create substitutes. Does he not? For example, take Christmas. I'm not knocking Christmas, amen. But take Christmas. What's the substitute that man has created? At Christmas, we we celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ. But man has created a substitute. What's that? Santa Claus. See what I'm talking about? Now, in Easter, what's the substitute? The Easter buddy. Amen? But we forget something. Easter is about a resurrection, not a rabbit. Amen? Now Why does the world create, stay with me, I'm taking you somewhere. Why does the world create substitutes? Because they want to take away the impact and the importance of the resurrection message. The world, the wor and listen, all you gotta do, I mean, read the news about on on Easter Sunday, read papers about the world does not want The message of Christ, his death, his resurrection, and the offer of a free salvation to everybody that accepts it, it doesn't want that to be center stage. So here's what I want to do this morning, real quick. How many believe a preacher when he says real quick? Man, what have I walked into here? I won't be long, but here's what I want to do. I want to show you three great truths this morning about the resurrection that all of us can take with us this morning. And the reason I say that is because of this. If you're here this morning, I don't know who I'm talking to, but if you're here this morning and you have never been what we call saved, in other words. There's never been a time and a place in your life that you can point to where you've bowed your head and you've asked Jesus Christ into your heart as your Savior. Friend, let me tell you something. Based on the authority of the Word of God, you can walk out of here this morning, absolutely, positively knowing that you're on your way to heaven and not hell. Because of what we call Resurrection Sunday that we celebrate. It is a big deal. Amen. First of all, I want you to notice what we call the miracle of the resurrection. If you have your Bibles turned over to that passage again, look at verse 3 and 4 again, real quickly here. The miracle of the resurrection. Look at verse 3 and 4. For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received, how that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures, and that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures Now, it's interesting if you read the account of the death and the burial of Christ over in Matthew chapter 27 and verse 63. Let me read that to you real quickly here. In Matthew chapter 27 and verse 63, here's what the Bible says The chief priests and the Pharisees, they come to Pilate, and as they come to Pilate, here's what they say to Pilate. Sir, we remember what that now notice this, we remember what that deceiver said. Now, let me stop right here. And point out two words. Deceiver said. Who are they referring to? Jesus. Christ. Amen? Now If I walk up the pastor and I use that word and I tell your pastor, you are a deceiver, are we friends anymore? No. Now, why am I stressing that? You said that pretty Because that is a negative word, amen. And so these men that came to Pile, they were not the friends of Jesus Christ. We need to understand that But then they go a step further and they say this, Sir, we remember what that deceiver said. Now notice this, while he was yet alive. Past tense. After three days I will rise again. Now, what's the point of lingering here? Here's the point. First of all, number one, these men hated Jesus Christ. The second thing we need to understand is this. They already knew. They used his life in a past tense while he was yet alive. In other words, they knew that he was dead. There was no doubt in their mind. Now we go on to verse 64. Here's what it says. Command therefore that the scepter be made sure until the third day, least his disciples come by night and steal him away, and say unto the people, He has risen from the dead, so that the last heir shall be worse than the first These men wanted to make sure that absolutely nothing happened that Christ said would happen. Now, folks, what I just covered right here, this is the cornerstone of everything that we believe and we trust in. If there was no resurrection, then everybody sitting here today, we have absolutely no hope. Then in verse 65, are you still with me? Then in verse 65, Pilate says this: this is interesting. You have a watch. Now, why is that so important? When Pilate said, Yeah, what? This was not the temple police. These are what we call Roman soldiers. These were elite. These were the best of the best. You know, if you study, if you study the history of Roman soldiers What Pilate was giving them was he was giving them a squad of 16 very elite Roman soldiers. When they put this 16-man unit on on the gravesite. They weren't allowed to sit, they weren't allowed to lean. Every man of that 16-man unit, they guarded six square feet. The reason I say that is because all too often we have well, somehow, some way he snuck out no, he didn't sneak out of the grave. That would have been impossible. Every man there in that 16 many unit that was responsible for six square feet. And here's the thing, here's the thing. This unit was so elite that if one man of that 16-man unit fell asleep, all 16 of those Roman soldiers would be executed. Now I'm gonna tell you something, that's harder than the Marine Corps. Huh? I'm gonna tell you something. If I'm part of that unit I'm not only making sure I'm awake, I'm making sure everybody else is awake. I'm making sure everybody's drinking that five-hour no-dose. Amen? Huh? Then in verse 65, Paula says this: Make it as sure as ye can. In other words, You take every measure, you use every method to make sure that this man called Jesus doesn't come out of the grave. And so here's what they did. First of all, they assigned this elite unit of Roman soldiers to guard the grave. Secondly, they sealed the tomb with a large stone By the way, can I just say this? Those stones back in those days weighed between two and four thousand pounds. They put them on a tilt. You could have two men where they could roll the stone to close the grave But once that stone on that on that angle, once that stone covered the grave, it would take a multitude of men to push that stone away. No one man could ever do that. Then after that, they took a cord, they stretched it across the tomb, and they sealed it at both ends, and then they took wax and uh put the governor's seal at both ends to make sure that there wasn't any corruption or bribes. Now, do you know why I've said all that? To remind you again of what the Bible says about all these great measures that these two people took. To make sure that Jesus didn't come out of the grave. First Corinthians chapter 15, verse 3 and 4. Here's the result of all those great measures. Christ died for our sins, according to the scriptures. And that he was buried, here it is, and that he rose again. The third day, according to the scriptures. You know, your preacher hit on this probably a couple times this morning. But you study all the major religions: Buddhism Hinduism, Islam, every one of these major religions, they had somebody that followed them They had somebody that died. They had somebody that went to the grave. And they had somebody that never came out of the grave. Huh? But you know what we have today? We have a risen Savior. You know what our joy is this morning? And it ought to be a joy. You know what our joy is this morning? That we woke up. And our Lord wasn't dead. We are the only faith that has a risen Savior. Now you know how powerful that is. You go to a go to a cemetery, walk up to a grave and say, okay, Joe, come on up out of there. Hey, is that gonna happen? Hey, nothing better happen. Huh? But God can do this. And that is what we call resurrection power. And that same resurrection power is the same power that can save you from a burning hell and take you to heaven. And so, first of all, we have the miracle of the resurrection. Despite everything that the world did to prevent Christ from rising from the dead, he still rose. And that's the miracle. Secondly, we not only have the miracle of the resurrection, but we also have what I call the measure of the resurrection. That's found in verses 5 through 8. And he was seen of Cephas, then of the twelve. After that he was seen of above five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater part remain under this present, but some are fallen asleep. After that, he was seen of James, then of all the apostles. And last of all, he was seen of me also. The measure of the resurrection. Now you say, well, preacher, what do you mean by that? Here's what I mean by that. Look, let me let me illustrate it. If I walked up to your pastor, now he likes to hunt he doesn't he doesn't ever get much. I think the most he's ever gotten is Bambi. That's about it. But he likes to hunt. And so if now watch this. If I walk up to your preacher and I say, Pastor Leatherman, I just got done hunting. And he says this, what'd you get? And I say this, now watch, I say I got a forty point book Right in here we got a problem. But I say I got a 40-point buck that weighs 450 pounds. Now watch. He's gonna say to me, I hope he's gonna say, because we haven't planned this, he's gonna say what? In his own lovable, sarcastic way, he said, yeah, right. And uh I say, I say, preacher, but I I really I did, I did. Now what did he just say? I want to see it. I want to see it. Are you with me? Now stay with me here. I understand that as Christians we live by faith. But we are also flesh and blood. If I took you over to the book of John, John chapter 20 and verse 25, here's what the Bible says. Thomas refused to believe that Jesus rose from the dead. Amen? Now, why is that? Here's what it says. The other disciples therefore said unto him, We have seen the Lord. We have seen the Lord. But he said unto them, Except I shall see, except I shall see in his hands the print of the nails, and put my finger into the print of the nails. and thrust my hand into his side, I will not believe. Verse 29. Jesus saith unto him, Thomas, because thou hast seen me Thou hast believed. Blessed are they that have not seen and yet have believed. If I turn you over to John chapter 4 and verse 48, then said Jesus unto him, Except ye see signs and wonders, ye will not believe. You see We measure things, whether we want to admit it or not, we measure things today by sight. What we see, we believe. That's how we measure. Now, why is this such a big deal? I'll tell you why it's such a big deal. Verse 5 again. The Bible says he was seen of Cephas. Then of the twelve. Verse six. After that, he was seen of above five hundred. Verse seven. Then James and the apostles Verse 8, then he was seen of Paul. Now, this is the key to everything I'm saying here in this point Nobody, I mean absolutely nobody ever disputes or contradicts what was just said Folks, that's amazing. Hey, do you have any idea how hard it is to tell a lie and then keep it? And then and not listen and then and then sell it to others? I mean, do you really think people would die for a lie or a fake? I don't think so. You see, the very things done to prevent the resurrection proves the resurrection. Suppose somebody comes to me and says, Brother Barons, we're gonna we're gonna we're gonna pull a hoax And uh we're gonna tell everybody that I died and that I rose from the grave and and that uh because I rose from the grave that that I'm their savior. And uh are you willing to go along with it? I say, yeah, I'll go along with it. And so we try and perpetrate this lie, this hoax. But then all of a sudden, somebody comes to me and says, You're a heretic. We're going to kill you. Now let me tell you something. Am I still going along with that story? I'm gonna tell you something. I'm singing like a canary. Huh? I mean, I whoever that is, I am giving them up. See, you can sit here this morning and say, Well, preacher, I I don't believe that. Well then let me ask you something. What do you what do you believe? Well, preacher, I just feel I just think how many times is your feeling how many times have you think I've been wrong? If I had a dollar for every time I thought something, if I had a dollar for every time I thought something, and I was wrong, I'd be rich today. You see, listen, if I am going to spend somewhere forever, I want an authority. My authority this morning for where I'm going to spend forever is the Bible. Can I ask you something? What's your authority? You see, your authority makes the difference as to whether you're going to spend forever in heaven or forever in hell. And so, first of all, we have the miracle of the resurrection. The very things done to prevent the resurrection didn't stop it. Jesus still rose from the grave. Secondly, we have the measure of erection, resurrection. All through the Bible, we see hundreds and hundreds of people that saw Jesus Christ after he rose from the grave, and nobody ever disputes this. But then thirdly and lastly, I want you to notice, and this is what I've led up to this morning, I want you to notice what I call the message of the resurrection. That's found in verse 3. For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received, how that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. What is the message this morning of this day of Easter? Of Resurrection Sunday? Let me explain it this way. I was I was raised in a non-Christian home. I was raised believing in what you might call a works salvation. Y'all understand what I'm talking about? I believe you could work your way to heaven. I thought, I always thought someday God would take all my good work, put them over here, all my bad work, put them over here, and if my good works outweighed my bad work, somehow I'd sneak in that. That's the way I was raised. I got out of high school. The reason I say that is to make you understand I wasn't raised in this stuff. I didn't get saved till later on in life. I got out of high school and I was a rebel. Can you relate to that? So I did the only thing that rebels could do back in those days, I joined the Marine Corps. Because I didn't want to take orders from anybody. But uh I spent a number of years in the Marine Corps. I uh spent fourteen months with the rifle company in Vietnam. Uh I spent two years On the drill field as a Marine Corps drill instructor at Paris Island, South Carolina. I taught young boys to be Marines. Now, I say that again to remind you: can you can you comprehend my lifestyle? I was as far from God as you could get. I hadn't darkened the door of a church in probably seven, eight years. At that point in time, I hadn't met My future wife, we've been married now for 42 years. She was going to college. And while she was at college, she got saved. She trusted Christ as her Savior. And then she turned around and she got me to come to a church like this. You say, what do you mean? A church that preached the gospel. A church that taught, get this, not what man said, but what the Bible had to say about how to go to heaven and avoid going to hell. And for the first time in my life, I heard what I just called the message. You say, preacher, what's the message? Here's the message: Romans 3:23. For all have sinned. And I asked you a question this morning. Here's where you better be honest. Is there anybody here that's perfect? Let me tell you something. We all know this. Every single person in here this morning sins. That's why God says that. For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. You see, you might not be as bad as somebody else, but you're not as good as a holy God. And because of that, you come short of the glory of God. God cannot, think about this, God cannot allow sin into heaven. If God allowed sin into heaven, heaven's not heaven anymore. Heaven's just like earth. Then I heard Romans 6. 23. Part of the message, Romans 6. 23. For the wages of sin Is death. Now, remember what I just said. Go back, I think most of us agree to. Is everybody here a sinner? We're all sinners. There's nobody here that's perfect. And God says this, because we're sinners, for the wages of sin is death. You have a job. You earn a wage. God says this: when you sin, you also earn a wage. What's the wage? Death. But wait a minute. Somebody might say, well, preacher, we all died. Now, listen, everybody dies a physical death. Amen? But what we're talking about here is what the Bible calls a second death. Over in the book of Revelation, chapter 20, verse 14. And death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. Get this. This is the second death And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into hell. You see, listen, we're all sinners. We earn a wage for our sin, that is the second death in hell. Because we sin, here's what God said. Because we sin, we all deserve to go to hell. But here's the rest of the verse. Here's how the rest of the verse starts. But But, you know why that's so important? Because God says, here comes the good news after the bad news. But the gift of God. What's a gift? It's free. It's free. A gift does not cost you anything. If I were to give my watch, now I'm not going to do this, but if I were to give my watch to the this is a nice watch. It's a Marine Corps watch. If I were to give my watch to the preacher and say, preacher, I want to give you this watch as a gift, what does he have to do to receive the gift? Just take it. That's it. Am I not right? Just take it. But suppose I say this, now wait a minute. This this is a pretty expensive one. I tell you what, just give me a penny for it and you can have it Now, a penny isn't much, amen. But once he gave me the penny, is it a gift anymore? No, because he had to pay something for it. God's saying this: I've got a gift for you. It's free. But wait a minute, the moment he takes the watch, what? The moment he takes the watch, does he possess it? God says this: I've got a gift for you. It's free. The moment you take it, you possess it. What is that great gift? Here it is. The gift of God is eternal life Who in the world in the right mind would turn down a gift like that? Eternal life, but wait a minute, through Jesus Christ our Lord. In other words, to get this gift, you've got to go through Jesus Christ. Why? Because He's the one that died on the cross for your sins. He's the one that shed his blood. He's the one that rose again from the grave. When you came to church this morning to get inside the auditorium, you had to come through the doors. If you didn't come through the door, you're on the outside looking in. If you don't go through Jesus Christ as your Savior, you're on the outside looking in. I'm not trying to be me. Listen, folks, you're on your way to hell. And it doesn't have to be. You can be on your way to heaven, you can gain heaven simply by taking the gift, salvation, that Christ offers to everybody. I was sitting there and I was listening to this message, and I'm still thinking, well, what about working my way to heaven? Can I work my way? Can I can I surely my being can I work my way to heaven? Then I heard what the Bible had to say in Ephesians chapter 2 and verse 8 and 9. For by grace are you saved through faith. And that not of yourselves. You can't save yourself It is a gift of God. There it is again. It is a gift of God, not of works, least any man should boast. And all of a sudden it hit me, if I actually could work my way to heaven, I could go up to the throne of God, I could thumb my nose at God, and I say, God I didn't need your help because I worked my way to heaven. You can do that if you could work your way to heaven, but you can't. Because there's nothing you can do in of yourself to work your way to heaven. You say, then what? When you realize you're a sinner, and your sin sends you to hell, and that Jesus died on the cross to save you from your sin, and that He offers you a free gift, you say, then what? Then trust him and him alone to save you from hell. Jesus died for me. That's reality. Jesus has to be your Lord and Savior. Romans 10 9. That if, it's up to you, it's up to you, that if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the prayer of salvation. That if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and shalt believe in thine heart. You see, listen to me, folks. It's not a head knowledge, it's a heart knowledge. There's a lot of people that have history in their head but no reality in their heart. If thou shalt believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. You see, if you're sitting here today and all you have is religion, then friend, you're lost and on your way to hell. If this building was on fire, you'd want somebody to save you. Amen? If you're here today and you have never bowed your head and asked Jesus in your heart as your Savior, friend, Amen. Just like I was years ago, you're on your way to hell. But here's the good news: there's somebody to save you. All you need to do is accept the gift and say yes to Jesus. I'm done, but let me just say this. All across the nation this morning, all across this nation, there are millions of people that came out the church. Why? Because it's Easter. Wear new clothes, light candles, give an hour of their time, go home and have a big meal, hunt Easter eggs, get candy, and listen, I'm not against candy, amen. They get candy. But here's what's so sad. The very day that the world celebrates this morning is the very day that condemns so many of them to hell. Because they have never trusted Jesus Christ as their Savior. Right now, right now, listen, right now Jesus with his nail-driven hands is holding in his hands the gift, the gift. What is it? Eternal life. And if you're here today and you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, you know what he's doing? He is begging you to take the gift. Do you know why he's begging you to take the gift? Because he didn't make hell for you. God doesn't want you to go to hell. God made hell for the devil and his angels. God made heaven for you. But you have to trust Christ and Christ alone as your Savior to get you to heaven. If you have never done that, listen, can I beg you? Do it today. Because you are not guaranteed, there's nobody in here today that's guaranteed they're going to see the sun go down today. Let's bow our heads and close your eyes. Every head bowed. Every eye closed. Nobody looking around.