Acts chapter 2, if you are in your Bibles there, Acts chapter 2. And uh I want to read verse number 41. And then verse 47. Acts chapter 2, 41, and then verse 47. If you would mark these, mark these verses in your Bible. Note these. Notice what it says. Then they that gladly received his word were baptized. And the same day there were added unto them about 3,000 souls. Let me add 42 onto here And it continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship and in breaking of bread and in prayers, then down to verse 47. Praising God and having favor with all the people. And look at this. And the Lord added to the church daily such as should be saved. Here we have an account of the church taking off there on the day of Pentecost. And can you imagine a service where 3,000 people get saved and baptized on one day? Wouldn't that be something? And the people are praising God and they're rejoicing in the Lord. And God gives us a little glimpse into those early days of the church and what it was like, what the atmosphere was like. And what was taking place. And I want to speak this morning, and I haven't done this very often over the years, but I want to speak this morning on what is a Baptist church. What is a Baptist church? Let's pray and ask the Lord to help us. Father in heaven, we come to you this morning with very grateful hearts. This is a very special year. uh in uh in our in the um history of our church, a very landmark year, is our 60th anniversary. And I pray now as we look into your word and we consider who we are and what we are and why. I pray that your Holy Spirit would teach us. I yield myself to you, and I present my body anew, and I ask with all my heart, you fill me with your Holy Spirit. That you would speak through me and touch our hearts and challenge us, convict us, encourage us, direct us. As you know that we have need. So have your way now. Be the preacher, dear Lord, through me, and be glorified. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Been talking a lot lately, and we would continue to do so, that this is our 60th anniversary as Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. We actually began back in 1962, and you'll hear more about this, particularly on Anniversary Sunday, September 25th, but a fellow by the name of Ed Wilt brought his wife and family to uh Oakland, Maryland, at the invite of a handful of believers who were meeting up here. And uh he came into the city and uh into the town, and he started uh what was then known as the First Baptist Church of Oakland, Maryland. And if I understand correctly, if I have my history correctly, it literally was the first Baptist church in Oakland, Maryland. In fact, I had the opportunity to be with Brother Weld on a number of occasions before he passed away. We talked on the phone often. He told me several times people would tell him when he showed up, he said I had a number of people would tell me there will never be a Baptist church in Oakland, Maryland. Well, God proved them wrong For all these 60 years now, what was the first Baptist Church of Oakland, Maryland, then moved out to this location and a name change to the Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. And um This is who we are and where we are today. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church was established from the very beginning. Now get this. This is an important part of my message. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church was established from the very beginning as an independent, fundamental Baptist church. That was deliberate. That was uh uh uh uh very confidently uh established That this church that Ed Wilt was beginning would be an independent, fundamental Baptist church. You know, you and I live in a strange days. Would you agree with me? Strange things going on in the world. We live in a day when people don't know what they are. People don't know what a woman is And people don't know whether they're male or female. They're calling themselves men, referring to themselves as women, women referring to themselves as men, then it's spilling out and just gets absolutely bizarre. And I believe with all my heart, in a day when people who don't people don't know what they are, Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, we ought to know what we are. We ought to know what a church is. We ought to know what it means to be an independent church. We ought to know what it means to be a fundamental church. We ought to know what it me to be a Baptist church And so I want to address that this morning. What is an independent fundamental Baptist church? What are we? Who are we? Why are we? Why do we have those titles, those names? Just something we picked out of the air, or is there a scriptural basis for it? I believe there is a scriptural basis. First of all, I want us, by way of introduction, to consider what is a church. What when we talk about a church, when the Bible, we read and study in the Bible about a church, what are we talking about? Well, I think we all understand a church is not a building. Can we begin there? Everybody agree with me. We say sometimes I tell my wife, I'm going over to the church. I'm at the house. I'm going over to the church. That's really not an accurate statement. The church isn't here at 1005 Broadford Road when nobody else is here. The church is here now These buildings are simply the meeting place, the meeting house for the church. So sometimes we refer to the church's location or the church's building as a church. It's really not a church, it's a meeting house, a meeting place for the church. The church is people. The biblical definition for the word church, where we get that word, is a local assembly of baptized believers. The word itself means to be Called out and called together into an assembly. A church is an assembly Assembling together of baptized believers. That is the most basic definition of the word church. And so the church is a local assembly of baptized believers. Church is people who have been saved. And baptized, and have banded together, and have committed themselves together as a body, the body of Christ. Now, the message this morning is a good bit of teaching. So I hope you'll you'll bear with me here and and and and get something out of this Now, sometimes people ask, especially among pastors and Bible students, a question comes up, when did the church begin? Well, there's a lot of different ideas. Some suggest uh in Baptist circles they suggest it started with John the Baptist Others say the Lord Jesus Christ. Some say it started at the resurrection of Christ. Others say the ascension of Christ. A lot of the majority of folks understand the church began at uh at Pentecost in Acts chapter 2. The Holy Spirit came. So there's different ideas out there. And so since I'm the preacher today, I'll share with you my idea. I have a theory. about when the church began. I don't think, and this is, you can take it or leave it. I'm saying right up front, this is this is my thinking. I don't think there was a specific point in time when the church, boom, the day before it didn't exist, the day after it did. I don't think that's the way it came about. I believe in the book in the Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. In the Gospels, I think you have the church. Now this is a little teachy here, so bear with me, but I think you have the church in an embryotic form. The church is being uh uh being uh put together. Uh disciples are being made and called The apostles are being called. They're assembling around Christ. There's commitments being made to the Lord Jesus Christ. And so it's very embryotic. They're assembling around Jesus Christ. He is the cornerstone. He's the figurehead. He's the center of the church's life and beginning. And it's beginning to assemble around here disciples, apostles. But it's not in a particularly organized form just yet. And then you get to the book of Acts and the Holy Spirit of God falls upon that body of believers, the Holy Spirit of God falls upon that very embryotic form of the church and empowers the church. And we read a few moments ago and Man, alive. Souls are being saved and the gospel is going out with power now, and lives are being changed. And I consider that the church is energized at that point. You don't have pastors in place necessarily. There's some and they're appointing them. You don't have any qualifications given at this point. There's some deacons being introduced in Acts chapter 6, but it's not, there's no real structure to it as uh uh completely it's forming through the book of Acts. So you have the embryotic form of the church, uh embryotic uh form of the church in the in the Gospels. Then you have the church energized In the book of Acts. Then you have the epistles, and that's where the organization falls into place. In Timothy and Titus, Paul gives instructions. All right, uh put out pastors in, bishops And this is the qualifications. Peter says this is their responsibilities. These are the deacons. This is the qualifications. Here's their responsibilities. And by the time you get to the end of the epistles of the New Testament, you have a church that's structured, organized, empowered by the Holy Spirit, and they're being produced, reproduced all across the world. And so that's my theory. How many people like my theory? Raise your hand. How many people don't like my theory? Raise your hand. How many people aren't going to raise their hand? You could care less about my theory. That's what I thought So, when did the church begin? Let me put it this way: the church began in the New Testament. And I want to say emphatically: the New Testament church is not Old Testament Israel. Two completely different entities. Two completely different bodies, if you want to use that term that God used. So the church, we are Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church is a called-out assembly of saved and baptized sinners. That's what we are. We've banded together. We've committed together So the church, the definition of the church, a spiritual living organism, it's referred to as the body of Christ. This body right here. Let me say this: the church is very precious to the Lord Jesus Christ. He shed his blood for this, for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church and all churches. He considers the church to be his bride. How many people I wonder how many of these fellas here back before you got married or Maybe some guys are fixing to get married. You've got that bride to be there. I wonder how many would be okay with people trash talking your bride to be. How many how many fellows would have a problem with that? How many people say there'd be some bloody noses I heard something like that. Yeah. Listen, we need to be careful about trash talking the church. It's a bride of Christ. That that local New Testament church called out assembly of baptized believers had its very, very precious to the Lord Jesus Christ. And so we have to be careful about that. By the way, not everything that calls itself is a church. Not everything, and not everything, not everything that calls itself a church is a church. The church is not just some religious country club. They have a bunch of religious people get together and do stuff. That's not a church. A church is more than just a group of Christians. I heard a preacher say earlier in the summer, he made a statement, anytime some Christians get together, that's the church. No, it isn't. You can have a group of Christians get together and play Mexican train dominoes on a Friday night, and that's a wonderful thing, and praise the Lord, but uh that don't make it a church. You follow what I'm saying There's more to it. There's a commitment. There's a structure there. There's a body that is cohesive. As a local New Testament church. Baptized believers who have banded together, who have committed one to another. In 1962, Ed Wilt showed up in Oakland, Maryland. And they began a church, baptized believers banding together as the body of Christ. In fact, we don't say much about this. I had it in the bulletin For years there, a number of years ago, but we actually have a covenant with our church, a church covenant for all members that make that covenant together as a Part of uh as a member of this church, a part of this body of Christ. I ran a bunch of copies off. They're in the back there. I'd like to get a copy of our church covenant As Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. And so the church is in a local assembly of baptized believers who have banded together for the purpose of encouraging, exhorting one another, and advancing the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, what does it mean to be an independent church? We are an independent fundamental Baptist church. What is an independent church? I had a years ago I had some trouble with my tooth and there was a dentist new in town and he was out in the north end of the county and I went to see him and We got talking a little bit and he says, Now you're a pastor, right? Don't you hate it? They talk to you and they got all that stuff in their mouth And he says, uh what church? Oh, Mount Raker Baptist Church. Uh independent church. What does it mean to be an independent Baptist? And so uh I got to tell him. I got to talk to him, got to share the gospel with him. He didn't get saved, but I got to share it, share the gospel with him. He wanted to know what is an independent church? What does it mean? For our church to be an independent Baptist church. Well, it simply means this. We're not under any denominational or external authority other than the Lord Jesus Christ. Um we uh uh in 1970 when the church first started, uh Brother Ed Wilt was with the associ uh with the General Association of Regular Baptists. Now that was not a denomination. It was a tight fellowship. It was a commitment. But in 1970, that association of churches began to drift in their doctrine. They began to change in their Bible versions, and I believe different false doctrines were creeping in, but they were drifting from where our church was. Hey An independent Baptist church does not answer to an external authority other than Jesus Christ. And when that organization began to drift away from scriptures, the leadership of Bout and Make Independent Baptist Church said, we are an independent church. We're not Committed to them. We're not obligated to them. We're sticking with the scriptures and we answer to Christ and Christ alone. So that's what it means to be independent. We're not under any government agency Now, we recognize the authority of government in general sense as citizens, but as a church, we are independent. We are not part of a denominational hierarchy. We are not the part of a religious fraternity. We are an independent church. Then fundamental. An independent fundamental Baptist church. What do we mean by fundamental? Fundamental, sometimes people are scared of that term. By the way, I have no problem whatsoever with the name fundamental. I don't apologize for that one bit. You have a basketball team, and they say we're sticking to the fundamentals of the game. They don't apologize for that. In fact, that's highly prized. That's praise. That's good. Fundamental Baptist Church, a fundamental church is that means we simply hold strongly to the fundamentals of biblical Christianity. In other words, the most essential doctrines that make someone a Christian. There's about seven or eight doctrines that are absolutely necessary If we're going to be considered biblical Christians. And so we simply hold, somebody says, what do you mean fundamental? That means A bunch of crackpots here like those terrorists over in the Middle East. No, no, no. We simply believe the most fundamental teaching that the Bible has. Some circles, that's radical. As far as I'm concerned, it's biblical. We hold to the fundamentals of the faith, and sometime uh maybe we can preach on what those fundamentals are. But the most basic doctrines necessary We're holding to them. By the way, as long as I'm pastor, we're not leaving the fundamentals of the faith We're holding to it. We're going to be a fundamental, independent, not under any authority, church, a Baptist church. Now the question comes, what do we mean by Baptist? It is possible. Everybody with me so far? Everybody doing all right? It is possible for a genuine church to be independent and to be fundamental and yet not be a Baptist church. A church could be Independent, they're not under any hierarchy, they're not under any external man uh man-made authority. They answer directly to Christ, they can be independent They can be fundamental and hold to this, but not necessarily be Baptist church. On the other side of that, it is possible for a church to be Baptistic. And yet not have the name Baptist on it. You follow what I'm saying? It can be Baptistic in their distinctives that we're going to look at here in a moment. They believe like a Baptist church would believe, but they don't have the name Baptist on it. And there's a number of those around. Personally, I don't believe that's wise. I think if you're a Baptist, you ought to put the name Baptist on. I think if you're selling McDonald's food, you ought to put the word McDonald's up there. Uh I do the grocery shopping in our house, usually Mondays. Sometime I try and get out Monday for noon. It's when the shelves are still full before the end of the week And uh and uh my wife gives me a shopping list. How many men can relate to what I'm saying about? Get that shopping list And I'll work my way down there. And she never puts it in the order that the stuff is in the thing. So I'm over here, then I've got to go all the way over there. I'm working my way down to this, then I go over here. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Takes me five hours to find everything Inevitably, there'll be something on the list like this. I'll go down there, bacon, alright, get bacon. Chicken, alright, got to get chicken. Milk, got milk. Then it'll say this: beans. Beans. Is it green beans? Is it baked beans? Does she want navy beans? Does she want jelly beans? Kidney bees. What do you mean bees? So I call her up. Hey sweetie Beans. Oh, I'm sorry. I need navy beans. Um you just put that name beans out there. That couldn't mean anything. I like to know what I'm getting. You get a can there. It just says beans on it. All right, what's inside there? I don't know. I like, if I'm going to go to a church and it's a Catholic church, I'd like for to know that before I walk in there. Are you following? If it's a Jehovah's Witness, I'd like to know that. I don't want to go, I don't want to go there. And so In my mind, I think it's wise. You can be a Baptistic church, you can be a Baptist church, so to speak, but not have that name on And uh uh and uh but I don't think that's the wisest thing to do. I'd like to I think we ought to identify ourselves. That name Baptist, and Ed Wilt put it on, and among the people there, I believe, under the leadership of the Lord, put that name Baptist on, identified as a Baptist, because of certain convictions and distinctives they believed to be true. They believed the Bible teaches these distinctives, these convictions, we hold to them And that identifies us as a Baptist. Baptists are not Protestants. That's important to understand. A Protestant church is a church that came out of the Catholic Church. They protested. The Pope and the false teaching in the Catholic Church. And so a Protestant church is a church that came out of the Catholic Church, their Protestant church, a Protestant church. Most of Protestant churches were started by men, for instance, and I'm not picking on them, I'm not trying to be critical, I'm just saying there's a difference. Between a Protestant church and a biblically Baptist church. A Protestant church, somebody led that church, that out of the Catholic church, protested the abuses of the church, the false doctrine. The pulpoury and all that. They protested that and they came out. And my hat's off to them. Praise the Lord for those folks that stood up for what they understood to be true. But did you know before Martin Luther there was no Lutheran church? Didn't exist. Before John Calvin, there was no Presbyterian church Didn't exist. They came out and they started the Presbyterian Church. Martin Luther came out, the Lutheran Church. Before John Wesley, there was no Methodist church. There wasn't. Before Men O Simon's, there was no Mennonite church. And you can go down the list So where did the Baptist church come out of? I'm suggesting to you, you can trace the Baptist distinctives, Baptist convictions, you can trace that all the way back to the New Testament. Baptist Church never came out of the Catholic Church. Our position, our convictions as a Baptist church was never in that and never pulled out. Now we weren't called Baptist until about the 1500, 1600s. They started referring to them as Baptists because we baptized believers after they were saved. But the Baptist Church is not a Protestant church So the question comes up, and this is what I want to answer in a little time I've left, is what is a Baptist church? What do we mean when we say we're Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church? Well, the answer is we're a body of believers that hold to a very specific set of distinctives. A very specific set of convictions that we believe that the Bible teaches about the church I am a Baptist, not because I was baptized a Baptist, not because I was born into a Baptist home, which I was not. I'm a Baptist because of my biblical convictions about what the Bible says about the church. It's a biblical conviction. Now you ask your average independent fundamental Baptist, why are you Baptists? And they'll say, well, because mom and daddy were. That's where I tend. Ah, they got a great children's program. Oh, we get free Kona ice cream afterward if you go to children's church there. They got a great new activity center. I believe we ought to understand in a world that doesn't know whether they're male or female or who or what they are, I think the church, the Baptist Church, ought to know why we're Baptist. You ought to have some convictions about it and believe that. Now let me say this: the message this morning, this is not in to say that we're better than any other church. We're not. We're nothing but a bunch of sinners saved by grace. We're no better than anybody else. We're no more valuable to God than anybody else. The issue is not competition with another church. The issue in my mind is being correct on the scriptures. And going by the Bible. Let me just say this. Maybe I'll take some heat for this. I don't know. But the more I study my Bible, the stronger I become in my Baptist convictions. I'm serious. So, what is it that makes a church a Baptist church? What are these distinctives that are unique to a Baptist church? Number one, I put this down: the Bible is our sole authority. This book right here, there is no other authority higher than this book right here in Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church Pastor Leatherman is not the authority of the local church. The Bible is the final authority in the local church. We feel very strongly about that. Listen, we can do without uh I I praise the Lord for wealthy people in our church, I praise the Lord for poor folk in our church, I praise the Lord for educated people, and praise the Lord for uh uh uh uneducated people. I I always try and point out I are a college graduate. You have to listen to me long, know that educ uh that intelligence isn't my strong suit But I know what I believe. And we can live without education and we can live and we can exist as a church without education and we can live with the as a church without great finances and we can live as Of church without fancy facilities But we cannot be a church without the old Word of God. That's our authority. That's our basis for everything we are. On what we are convinced is true, the Bible is our final authority on what we are convinced is true in all spiritual matters. Say, oh, Dr. So-and-so says this about the Holy Spirit. I want to know, what does this say about the Holy Spirit? All New Testament churches are established upon the authority of the Word of God. My concern is not some man's teaching Our concern is not some denominational teaching. Our concern is only what does God's word say about it? That's the final authority, that's the sole authority I have many books in my library. A thousand or more. I don't know. I never counted. I got a lot of books in my library. But only the Bible has any authority in Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. The Word of God is our sole authority. It's possible to be a Baptist church without buildings, budgets, or buses. It's impossible a Baptist church without the Bible. Without the Bible. Number two, number one, the Bible is our sole authority. Number two, the autonomy of the local church. Now what do we mean by autonomy? The word autonomy simply means this: the right of self-rule. We govern ourselves. We kind of touched on this when we talked about the independent aspect of independent fundamental Baptists. In other words, we answer only to Jesus Christ for what we believe and how we live. The autonomy of the illical church. There's no external rule other than Jesus Christ. He's the head Nashville, Tennessee, the Southern Baptist Convention headquarters in Nashville, Tennessee, does not dictate to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church what we believe and how we operate. We're autonomous. We choose our own leadership under the direction of God. We choose our own ministries We determine the use of our finances and the budget. It's not some hierarchy or some authority or some religious board dictates to us who our pastor should be and should not be, who how we spend our money, who our missionaries are. We're autonomous. We make that decision. I would not be a part of a church that wasn't autonomous, independent, self-serving. We answer to Christ and Christ alone. Christ is the head of the church And we are autonomous under the Lordship of Christ. We solve our own problems. And I have verses for all the sweetest of all time. Matthew chapter 8, verse 15 and 16. 1 Corinthians 6, 1 through 8. Church solves its own problems. We don't go to some board. We appoint our own leadership. We commission and send and support our own missionaries who we feel God would have us to do. Not some board dictating our here's your missionaries, you support them. We don't, that's not the way a Baptist church operates. And we answer only to the Lord Jesus Christ. Read Revelation chapter 2 and 3, seven churches there, and the Lord, they answer to the Lord Jesus Christ. So number one, the Bible is our sole authority. Number two, we are autonomous as a local church, the autonomy of the local church. Number three, we believe in the priesthood of the believer. Now let me give you a reference, 1 Peter 2, verse 5 and verse 9. In other words, every saved man, every saved woman, every saved young person. has direct and full access to God themselves. They don't have to go through some human priest. So, well, I gotta call the preacher. He needs to pray for me. Listen, I'm glad and do that, and that's fine. But you know, you can pray for yourself. You can go to God directly yourself. And a Baptist church believes very strongly that every believer, whether it's a young person, or a senior citizen and all points in between, through the Lord Jesus Christ and the shed blood of Jesus Christ, that person can go directly and boldly to the throne of God to find grace to help in the time of need. Directly. Don't have to go to some priest and have them pray to God for me. We have a high priest, the Lord Jesus Christ, and he says, come. You come on and pray. Do you know? I'll tell you I love this. Do you know in the middle of the night your heart's broken, you're scared to death, stuff's going on in your life, and you're confused? Did you know you can slip on your knees And go directly to the throne of God. And the creator of this unbelievable universe will listen to your voice and what you have to say. That's a priesthood of the believer. Priesthood of the believer. When I first got saved, I worked in a meat packing plant. Rough crowd. I've told you about that before And one of the other fellows got saved about the same time I did. He got saved out of the Catholic Church. Now the Catholic Church teaches falsely. That you have to go through their priesthood. You have to go through their priests and their fathers, their saints. You pray to the saint, and then that saint prays for you. Well, we got studied in the Bible. We found out that every saved person is a saint. The Bible refers to every saved young people here, little children got saved, they're saints. Saint James. How about that? Say, wow, never guessed that. But uh so we got walking. So we walk in there and we go and say, hey, uh I'm Saint Dennis. We started calling each other, we started calling ourselves Saint, whatever our first name is. Listen, if you're saved, you're a saint, you're a priesthood, you can go directly to God. And Baptist Church believes that strongly. That's a distinctive of a Baptist church. The autonomy of the local church is a distinctive of a Baptist church, the authority of Scriptures, the sole authority, the Bible is our So authority. That's a distinctive of a Baptist church. Something else that makes a Baptist church another distinctive is we behold to two ordinances. What is an ordinance? That is a practice that is ordained by the Lord Jesus Christ and the Word of God that the church is to carry out to practices, to ordinances. that God instructs us to perform. Those two ordinances are very simpler. Number one, it's believers' baptism. Acts 2, verse 41. They that gladly received his word were baptized. A Baptist church believes that saved people ought to get baptized after they're saved. That's an ordinance of the church. It is not just somebody out on their own, just decide, oh, we're going to baptize some little religious people get together, we're going to baptize. I saw a thing on the computer this week and He's a good man. I know him. I met him uh on occasion. He lives in another state, and he has this ministry, this like camping ministry. He's not part of a church, and he's out baptizing people just through that camp ministry I tell you, that's not scriptural. The local church has been given the ordinance of baptism to be through the local church. And so Baptists believe that after salvation by immersion, one time. Get saved, get baptized by immersion. The second ordinance is the Lord's Supper. 1 Corinthians chapter 11 gives the clearest instructions. You get it in the Gospels. The Lord Jesus established the Lord's Supper for the local church. And as a it's a memorial, the atonement of Christ, of what Christ paid for us. The church is to practice the Lord's Supper on a regular basis. And it's for the local church, the saved, baptized believers. And so two ordinance of Baptist Church holds strongly to. Another, everybody's still with me? Alright? I just felt like I was praying I just felt like it's good on our 60th anniversary to stop and remember and consider who we are and what we are and why we are what we are. We're not better than anybody else. We're not saying our church is better than any other church, but we are saying we understand, we believe this is what the scriptures teach concerning what a church is. And that identifies us, those distinctives, as a Baptist church. The individual soul liberty. Write this down, Romans chapter 14, 4 through 12. In other words, every individual Christian is free to study and interpret Scripture individually. Every Christian, every saved person is free to choose what they believe. We don't force people to believe. Choose it, you study it, you believe it, individually responsible and accountable to God. Some churches teach that you can't understand scripture, you've got to have us tell you what the scripture is because You can't understand it yourself. That is not scriptural. Every child can read their Bible, and God can speak to their heart through their reading and meditating on the Bible. Amen or not? Every dear mother, your hands are full, you're raising children, you're trying to make ends meet, you're trying to be a good mother, be a good wife, maybe you're a single mother. I'm telling you, you can come to that Bible and God can I can speak to you and teach you and help you just as much as the guy standing behind the pulpit studies the Bible Individual soul liberty, we can come to God. We can form our own convictions. We can establish our own understanding. We're free to believe and worship as we understand the Bible teaches. That's a distinctive of a Baptist church. Individual soul liberty. Number six, saved and baptized church membership. Now I hope you'll bear with me this morning But saved and baptized church membership is a distinctive of a local, of a Baptist church. Acts chapter 2. We just read it in our scripture reading, down through 41 through 47 They gave testimony of salvation. And they submitted themselves to baptism. Look at verse 41. They that gladly received his word were baptized. And the same day they were added unto them about 3,000 souls. They got saved, they got baptized, members of the church. Saved and baptized membership. It's possible to be unsaved and be a member of many churches. A lot of churches will say they don't care if you're saved or not. You want to join a church? Yeah, come on. I'm telling you, that is not a biblical church. That takes unsaved people into the membership of that church. Saved in baptizement. Is it possible for a person to become a member of a Baptist church and never really been saved? I'm afraid it happens more than we care to admit. But our understanding of Scripture is that there must be a testimony, a profession of faith, and I've trust in Christ Submission and baptism, then membership. In that order. In that order. And so but sometimes, God forbid God forbid, but sometimes folks come through, make a profession later on, find out I never truly was saved. I'm thinking of Paul Sines, the deacon of the church here. And God convicted him in a revival meeting. And uh came forward, am I correct, Charlotte? That room back there, a deacon in the church, never been truly saved. Bowed his knee, trusted Christ's Savior, got baptized. Now sometimes that happens. We understand that. But we don't deliberately, knowingly bring in unsaved people to be a member of the church. It's the body of Christ. And so a Baptist church does not knowingly accept unsaved members. Baptist Church requires a profession of faith and scriptural baptism. Number seven, I'm winding down here. Two offices. Baptist Church believes there's two offices in the church, period. 1 Timothy 3, verse 1 through 13 gives the requirements. First is what we call a pastor. Sometimes it's referred to in scripture as a bishop or a elder, a minister. We use the term pastor generally. And that's one office in the local church. His job is to preach and teach the scriptures. I tell you, if you got a if a church has a pastor, a leader, a pastor in the church doesn't teach and preach the Bible, he's not doing what God has instructed him to do. The pastor is to preach the book He's to teach what the Bible says. He's to oversee the church. He's called, that's what a bishop is, an overseer. Keep that thing on the straight and narrow way. Keep that thing within the confines of Scripture. Guard that church against false doctrine coming in and dangerous, sinful worldliness creeping in. That's the responsibility of the pastor, the office of pastor. And then there's the office of deacons Deacon, the responsibility of deacon is very simple. He's to help the church, serve the church, and help the pastor, provide the leadership, and protect that church from harm. They're servants, the word deacon means to minister, to serve. These positions provide the structure for carrying out the Great Commission, pastoral leadership, deacons, two offices in the local church. And then I end with this. Distinctive of the Baptist Church is separation of church and state. Now we hear that term a lot. But what we mean by that, and we get it from Romans chapter 13, verse 1 through 7, what we mean by that is A Baptist church ought not to run the government. Now, as individual Christians, as citizens, we're to have influence We're to be sought. We ought to be involved. But as a church, we don't believe in having a state church running the government. There are two entities. God established government, God established the church. The church does not run the government, and the government does not interfere and run the church. The government has no business telling what this pulpit can and cannot preach. The government has no business telling our Sunday school teachers what they can and cannot teach They have no business telling us what our Bible schools can and cannot preach. The church is separate from the government Government does not have authority. That's a Baptist distinctive. Some states over in some countries over in Europe, they have a state church. And the government and the church are tied in. They actually tax you for your tithes. Boy, how would you like that? Automatic withdrawal, tithes. I don't know. I'm kind of thinking about that a little bit Separation of church and state. Now that doesn't mean we don't have a a say in government. That doesn't mean we shouldn't be active. But we don't hold to a state church. 1962. Brother Ed Wilt showed up, handful of believers here have been meeting. So we need, we want to have an independent, fundamental Baptist church in Oakland, Maryland. They banded together, they took the covenant, they signed a charter He said, we are now a local, independent, fundamental Baptist church. And 60 years later, by God's grace, By God's grace, 60 years later, this body of believers, though generations have come and gone, this body of believers still holds to those old Baptist distinctives I want to reiterate. I hope you don't misunderstand what I'm trying to say. We are not better than any other church. Some other churches, no doubt, have strengths have strengths where we have weaknesses. Maybe we have some strengths where they have weaknesses. But what I am saying this, I'm convinced in over 40 years of studying Scripture, Over almost 40 years into ministry, I'm convinced the more I study that Bible, the stronger I become in my Baptist convictions. But that is Bible. That is Bible. Let me ask you a question. Are you saved? Do you know for sure that your sins are forgiven? When you die, you go to heaven, not to hell. I'm telling you, the Baptist Church and no church in the world can save you from sin in hell. Only Jesus Christ can do that. So he says, Ah, yeah, somebody wrote me a letter one time. You think your church is the only one that can save anybody? I don't think that at all. I don't think our church can save anybody. And you can get saved outside of a Baptist church. Goodness, I wasn't even in church I got saved. I was in an attic. Reading a Bible on my knees when I got saved. Attic of a house. If you're here and you're not saved, you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven, you're on your way to heaven, you need to get saved, and you need to get saved today. Don't put that off. If you're saved, you've not been baptized. My Bible says you ought to get baptized. I believe when a person trusts Christ's Savior, they ought to get baptized as soon as possible afterward. Study book of Acts, show me anywhere different Somebody said to me one time, oh yeah, the thief on the cross didn't get baptized. I said, oh yeah, he was nailed to a cross Unless you're nailed to a cross, you ought to get baptized. It doesn't save you, it doesn't keep you safe, but identifies you as a disciple of Christ. So, if you're not saved, you ought to get saved. If you're not baptized, you ought to get baptized. It's submission to Christ. If you're saved and baptized, you ought Be a part of the local church I think Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church is a good church. I like it. We try to hold to the scriptures. We're not perfect. Lord knows that. But we try to hold to the scriptures. And we're not trying to get anybody from another church. We're not commenting on other churches at all. I'm just saying you ought to be a part of a church. If you're saved and baptized, you ought to win the lost. So do everything you can to get other people saved. I don't want anybody, I don't want anybody that I know that I have any influence on, I don't want anybody that I have any influence on at all To die and go to hell without hearing how they can be saved. I don't want anybody. I don't want anybody in Mount Lake Park to die without Christ and their sins and end up in hell and not somebody From our church coming by and saying, hey, here's how you can be saved. We ought to win the loss. We ought to do what's right. Amen. Say, oh it's not popular. Doesn't matter. Our concern isn't what society thinks of us. Our concern is what does Christ think of us. We gotta do right. Even if the stars fall, we need to do what's right. We need to love the brethren. We ought to love one another. You say, oh, somebody said something, got me mad. Why don't you just die to self and forgive them and love them anyway? Why don't we just love one another the way Jesus loves us? Love the brethren. We ought to love God. Tell you, we can be as straight as an arrow doctrinally, but if we don't love our God, we're not right with God. And I'll take somebody maybe that isn't everything they ought to be, but they love the Lord with all their heart. I'll take that over some stick in the mud, self-righteous, high and mighty, religious Baptist. That doesn't have any love for God and doesn't love their brother, brother, that ain't right. Hold to the scriptures. Hold to what we believe is true. But love God with all our heart and love the brethren. Say, oh yeah, they don't believe exactly what I do. Well, I can still love them. I don't have to marry them. I don't have to join up with them, but I can be kind to them and love them and encourage them. Amen or not? Trying to say this, we're not better than anybody else. We're not more righteous than anybody. Our righteousness is in Christ, not in our church. But we're a Baptist church And there's a reason for that. We ought to be kind and we ought to humble ourselves. I don't know how God might use this in your life, but I just want our church to know what we are and why we are what we are. For 60 years now, this church has had some mountaintops. We've had some low valleys. Church has gone up and the church has gone down. I'm here to tell you God's been faithful. God's been faithful. And we still have a job to do, and we still have a world to win for Christ. And let's stay focused and let's stay after it. Amen or not? I'll get it one way or another. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. And a world of confusion to be established on who and what we are. And Lord, this message deserves a lot more time and scripture and references than what I gave. But maybe you'd stir us to at least know who what our identity is and why. If nothing else, we'd be more committed to that old book and to you, Lord, than ever before. Wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, how we say, preacher, I'm saved. I know I'm saved. My Christian life isn't what it ought to be. There's some things there that really need attention. Say, preacher, I want to be a good church member, but more than that, I want to be a good Christian. Saved and I'm saved, I know I am, but I want to be a good Christian. Any like that, preacher, my Christian life needs some attention I don't know what how the Holy Spirit might have spoken to your heart, but I urge you. Whatever God touched your heart about, don't just walk away from it Say, yes, Lord, agree with him. Make those adjustments that the Lord's dealing with you. Trust him. Let him have his way. God will bless you and God will use you. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I know some folks that are dear to me that are unsaved. I want to be a good testimony. I want to be a soul winner. I want to be a good witness. And you say, preacher, pray for me. There's some folks that are unsaved. I'm concerned about them. Any like that? Preacher, pray with me. Of course. About all of us know folks that need Christ. We're not trying to be judgmental, but they need Christ. They need Christ. I wonder if there's some say, Preacher, I've been saved, but I've not been baptized. I know the Lord wants you to. I know that. He tells us clearly in Scripture. Is there some say, Preacher, I've been saved, but I've not been baptized? And I need to get that settled. I need to follow through without any at all by the uplifted hand, preacher. I've been saved, but I've not been baptized. One last question. But there happened to be somebody here in the church or under the sound of my voice. You say, I don't know for sure my sins are forgiven. I don't have assurance of a home in heaven. I don't want to die Without Christ, and I need that settled. And you say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me settle my soul's salvation. And those doubts and questions would be gone, and I I know for sure Lord save me. Is there any like that? Pray to pray with me. God will help me settle that. Any at all? Any at all? Father in heaven, we ask you to use this message. Hands raised and you're speaking to hearts, I pray you'd help us to respond in faith in Jesus' name.