I'm gonna try and be too short tonight and maybe it'll balance itself out. Uh by the way, we had a teenager saved on the way home on the van on the way home from the rally. They left And got talking and um Brother Ken Lake had a good group. There's he had a good group here. Half his group that he had here yesterday had gotten saved last week or a large percentage of just in their service last week and they were at the teen rally and uh I'll be honest with you were a little bit naughty and uh But you talk to 'em about the Lord and it was just the real plain, it was nothing self-conscious about it, and so they're just coming out of a rough background, introduced to Christ, trusted them, and so they're making progress And this is what I thought when I heard about the young person trusting Christ at home. We were praying earnestly that every unsaved teen that's here would be saved, that none of them would leave here unsaved. And I just wonder If that was one that almost got away and the Holy Spirit caught up to them and convicted him and brought him to Christ. Isn't that a kind of a neat way to look at it? So praise the Lord. Good, good day. Good good job by Brother Graham. I appreciate his leadership there. Psalms 19. While you're finding verse number seven in Psalms 19, um Apparently this is a true story. A guy down in North Carolina saw some kids playing marbles. This was years ago. How many people remember playing marbles? You draw the circle, knock them out. Anybody I played that when I was little And um and then we got a TV and I never played it again. But uh played marbles. This guy came by, the little kids were playing marbles on the street on the sidewalk, and uh boy he got all worked up And um uh he broke the thing up and told the quid kids to uh quit quit playing marbles. And when another adult was there and said, What's the deal? Why are you doing this. And again, apparently this is a true story. And he says, I was just warning these boys about sin, trying to keep them from committing sin. And the other person said, they're playing marbles. What are they doing? What sin are they? And he says, um, well you just don't understand the scriptures. Jesus said, marble not that I've said unto you. That's pretty sad. Uh two guys were at work. Oh no, I don't think this is true. Two guys were at work and they got arguing about the Bible. And the one guy they keep telling each other that the other guy didn't know anything about the Bible. And the other guy says, Well you don't know anything about the Bible. One guy finally says, I'll bet you don't even know the Lord's Prayer And the guy put ten bucks down, he says, ten bucks tells you I says I can quote the Lord's Prayer. The other guy put ten bucks down and says, ten bucks says you don't And so he said, Okay, wise guy, here it goes. Now I lay me down to sleep. I pray the Lord my soul to keep. If I should die before I wake, I pray the Lord my soul to take. This I pray for Jesus' sake. Amen. The challenger said, Wow, here's your ten bucks. I didn't think you could do it. And uh some of y'all say, I don't get it. And uh But the point of these are, the point of both those little jokes is this. There's a pitiful ignorance of God's word in the world today. And uh so look at Psalms 19. Look with me at verse number 7 if you would. The Bible says the law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. The statutes of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether. More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold, sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb. Moreover, by them, the words of God, moreover, by them is thy servant warned. And in the keeping of them there is great reward. Of course, these passages, these verses here in this passage are speaking about the Word of God. And my question I want to answer this evening is, what is the Bible? And let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father, thank you for the Bible. I thank you for a church that loves the Word of God. Lord, I believe I speak for all of us, no doubt, that we are committed to your word. We want to be faithful. We want to be obedient. God, we want to live by its principles. And we ask that you would help us. And I doubt I'm going to say very uh anything real new to folks this evening, but just a good reminder of what we hold in our hands when we hold the Bible in our hands. So blessed now I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. I feel like I might just be a tad bit strong here, Brother D. A young man in Reuters News Service, you've no doubt heard of Reuters, they provide news to the news to the TV channels and all of that. Uh on April 16, 2002, they had an article, a report, of a young man by the name of Brigham Bryant. He was a 10-year-old student of public schools in Connecticut. In 2002, he had become, that school year, he had become enamored with a picture that was in the back of the library, just the kind of picture hanging on the wall And for whatever reason, this young ten-year-old boy had gotten captivated by this picture. And he would ask the librarian about it, he would come home and tell his daddy about it, and he just got so wrapped up in this uh uh picture that his daddy finally said, Well I want to go in and see that thing. And his daddy went in there and saw the picture and he got a little digging a little bit. It was all dusty and he asked the librarian Found out it had been hanging on that wall for seventy years in the back of a library. They did a little research, they pro brought in some people that were experts on this type of thing And they found it to be a missing masterpiece that was worth over a million dollars hanging on the back of a wall in a public school library. Just overlooked by everybody, not considered of any value for anything other than just take up space on the back side of a library wall And as I read that report, I thought about the Bible in a lot of people's homes. Something that's just collecting dust. Something that's just a little decorative, maybe on a coffee table, but really don't realize the value of that book that is setting there Now I would like to thank, and I have no doubt, that every one of us here this evening, the Bibles we hold in our laps or beside us on the pew at this very moment, we understand that that book is incredibly precious That book is of tremendous value. Now, what exactly is the Bible? Well, I thought it might be interesting to point out to begin with the fact that the word Bible is not in the Bible The Bible never refers to itself as a Bible, as man's name. The word Bible actually simply means a book or a set of books. You can go into a bookstore or go online and look up books and you can find a shooter's Bible. You can find a crocheting Bible. You can find a Bible for every activity there is known to man And they'll be called the Bibles. So the word Bible is not in the Bible. But there is no other book like the Holy Bible Now, what are some of the terms that the Bible uses for itself? It doesn't use the term Bible. Charlie and I were talking about strongest concordance. You can get strongest concordance. Look for the word Bible. It's not in there. And so what terms does the Bible use for itself? Well, one of the primary terms the Bible uses for itself are scriptures. The scriptures. In Matthew chapter 21 and verse 22 and 26:54, John 5:39, Romans 15:4, and scores of other passages will refer to the Word of God as the Scriptures. The word scripture simply means the writings. The writings, the sacred scriptures. Does anybody know what 2 Timothy 3 and verse 15? Anybody have that verse memorized? What is it? And it's profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction and righteousness. I'm glad you guys knew it because that slipped my mind. But uh scripture, that's a term the Bible uses for itself. Another term the Bible uses for itself is the Word of God In Mark chapter 7 verse 13, John chapter 10, verse 35, how about Hebrews 4:12? For the word of God is Quick and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword. And so the Bible, another term the Bible it has for itself, is the Word of God. That's significant. Another uh one that's not so familiar, the Bible terminology for itself, is the oracles of God This is used about four or five times in the Bible, referring to the writings of God or the spoken principles of God, the oracles of God. Other terms, we read them here in Psalms 19, the law, God's statutes, God's commands, God's degrees. And there's scores of other words used for the Bible. But I thought it was interesting that the term Bible is not in the Bible. The only place you find the word Bible is on the cover. Or in the front where the uh the introduction is. So what is the Bible? Number one, jot this down if you would. Number one, the Bible is a divinely given book A divinely given book. What you and I hold in our hands in the Word of God. Now, I'm not going to address this in this message. We understand here at Mountain Lake, I'm convinced, and this church is convinced That God has preserved his word in the King James Bible for the English-speaking people. So that's what we're talking about. And so when we hold the Bible in our hands, we are holding a book that has been given to us by God. Take your Bible, if you would, and turn with me to 2 Timothy chapter 3. Actually, I don't I think you're right, Stuart. We were quoting the wrong verse. 2 Timothy chapter 3, come there. Verse 15 says, see, Stu is shaking his head no when we were quoting it. Verse 15, what we quoted a little bit ago, says, so from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures. Now look at verse 15, 16, I'm sorry. 2 Timothy 3. 16. All scripture is given by what? Inspiration of God. And his prophet. Is that the verse we quoted? Yeah, we quoted the wrong one But anyway, all scripture is given by inspiration of God. Now, keep your place there. Come with me over to 2 Peter 1 And notice with me verse twenty one. 2 Peter chapter 1 verse 21. Now the first one said all scripture, Timothy said, all scripture is given by inspiration of God. 2 Peter 1. 21 says, For the prophecy, another term for the Bible, for the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man. What's that verse telling us? The Bible is not written by who? Not written by man. It's not man's invention. For the prophecy came not in old time not by the will of man, but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Spirit. Now what are these two passages telling us? These two passages are telling us that God has given to us the Word of God. Sometimes we'll see use this terminology, and I try to catch myself, but sometimes we'll use this terminology. We'll say, well, Paul is the author of the book of Philippians. Technically, that's not true. God is the author of the book of Philippians. Paul was the penman. That was used of God to record it. And Timothy and Peter here tell us that the Spirit of God By inspiration, now you've heard this before. Preachers have said this. We teach in our Bible Institute that God, the word inspiration means to be breathed. To be breathed out. And we saw Well to uh John R. Rice wrote a book, uh, the Bible, God's broad the God breathed book Now that's what the word inspiration means. Now you put that over along with Tim with Peter. It says, holy men of God were spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. We get this picture. This is the way I see it, how God gave us the Bible, a divinely given book. God's Holy Spirit took the words of God, the Word of God as it was in God's mind. And he came and he moved on the hearts and minds of the men that he had chosen to record it, and he put those thoughts, he put those words into their minds as they penned them out Or in some cases as they spoke it and it was recorded down. It was the Spirit of God behind all of that. It's kind of like the word moved by the Holy Spirit It's a very similar word used to where you talk about ships in the book of Acts being blown about by the wind. When the storm hit Paul on his way to Rome, those the winds, they're just going to let the winds drive them. Same word. to move it in a specific direction. Now here's what's happened. Paul's in jail. He wants to write a book to the church at Philippi. God puts that thought, that idea in his mind to write a book to the church at Philippi So he gets his ink and his pen and uh parchment and he begins writing out. And the Spirit of God is moving on the heart and mind of Paul as he is recording those words down And when it's all said and done, he signs it and he sends it off. Jeremiah, Spirit of God, moves on Jeremiah as he's recording, writing down. Now the question that comes to my mind is this. Did these men know at the time of their writing that the Spirit of God was moving them and prompting them to write it down? Uh there's one theory out there, it's called uh um uh the dictation theory, where they just kind of became robots. The Spirit of God came over. And I'm of course I'm being facetious here a little bit, but that's kind of the idea that their mind and all of that was out, and they just kind of recorded it like a dictation machine I don't see that at all. You read through the Bible and you pick up each writer's personality a little bit. And you can see the personality of John a little bit. You can see the personality of Peter and Paul in there And so it wasn't a dictation type thing. It was simply the Spirit of God moving and God's sovereignty overruling their thinking And as they're writing it down, did they know that the Spirit of God was inspiring those writings as they were writing it down? I think some cases they did I think some cases they knew that they were under the Spirit of God was moving upon them and they were writing down what God wanted to do. I think in many cases they didn't know that. They were simply writing down, pouring their heart out to a place, and whatever. I think some of the letters may be from Paul. He's writing them, he's sending them out, and God's hand was behind all of it. So, what I'm trying to say is this: when you and I are reading the Bible on each day in our daily devotions, each day in our daily devotions when we're reading the Bible. Alone. We're alone with God, reading our Bible every day. When we're doing that, get this. Now think about that. I am reading the very words of God. When I'm reading a passage down here, and that passage speaks to my heart, that is God Almighty Speaking to me through his word. This is the word of God. And so when we hold the Bible, when we read the Bible, we are reading the very words of God. Now, by the way, God's word is pure. God's word is good. This book is holy. Man comes up with stuff, and you know a lot of the stuff man comes up with is not very pure. Has anyone found that to be true? It's not very holy, but the word of God is pure and holy. You don't find any nasty, perverse stuff in here. Now, God deals with some sins of man pretty bluntly, but it is not a dirty book in any sense of the way. And that's what bothers me about some of these modern versions. And they'll just take passages of scripture where God is dealing with something that uh pretty bluntly, and they'll use perverse language. The good news for modern man is very notorious for that And so we have to be very, very careful. This is a good book. This is God's word. This is the precious word of God. So my first thought is this. Number one, it's a divinely given book. Number two, write this down. The Bible is a distinguished book. What I mean by that is this. No other book comes even close. To the Word of God. I've got probably, and I don't have the biggest library in the world, but I have a fair-sized library. I've built, added to it over the years, and I use a lot of it. I'd probably have, I'm going to guess a thousand, maybe twelve hundred books in my library, somewhere in that range, close to that, between what I have at the house and over here. And you know what I found? All those books, and I use many of them All those books, none of them come even close to what that book right there is. None of them are even closely in uh don't even come close in the majesty of the Word of God. In the purity and the flawlessness of the Word of God. Some of the greatest men throughout history have honored and praised God's Word, the Bible Presidents have spoken highly. You don't have to look very hard to find quotes of great presidents throughout the years. who have spoken highly of the Bible. Many of our greatest presidents in years gone by testified that they read the Bible every single day. Many of our greatest presidents in past years would urge the citizens of our country to read their Bibles and live by its principles. Uh kings and queens throughout the years have spoken highly and honored the Word of God. Scientists, some of the greatest scientists. in the history of man have spoken highly and praised and honored the Word of God. A statesman, businessmen, some of the most successful businessmen in our country have honored the Word of God. We're in this financial class that we're doing on Monday nights. Uh the the teacher in there made reference to JCPenney J. C. Penny was great one of the greatest businessmen of this country. J. C. Penny was a God-fearing man who loved the Word of God and praised it very great uh greatly. Multnomah, uh uh Multnomah was the name of the fellow. Is that it, George? You were telling about the guy that had the construction out in Oregon. Laterno is who I'm thinking of. A great construction businessman, honored God, loved the Bible. You know what uh Laterno did? He would give 90% of his income to the to the work of God, keep 10% for himself. He took the tithe and reversed it. And God blessed him and honored him a great way. Listen, that is a dignified book that you and I hold there. That is a distinguished book. There is nothing else like it. No other book in the history of man has affected the history of man like the Word of God has. This is a very distinguished book. How many people recognize the name Sir Isaac Newton? He um uh formulated the law of gravity. You know the story the apple falls in the head and all that. The man was a genius. By anyone's standards, a genius. Listen to what Sir Isaac Newton said. If all the great books of the world were given life And were brought together in a great convention. The moment the Bible entered in, all the other books would fall on their faces before the Word of God. What a fantastic way to put it. The Bible is a distinguished book. Hey, a lot of people nowadays and throughout history have ridiculed and disregarded the Bible. But when man ridicules and disregards the Word of God, it is not because of any flaws or inferiority in the Word of God, it is always because of the sinfulness of that man. There is nothing in this book that is worthy of ridicule. There is nothing in this book that ought to be disregarded. This is a distinguished book. And whenever man mocks it, whenever man disregards it, whenever man minimizes the Word of God, it's not because they found some great flaws or Or mistakes in the Bible, it's always because of their proud, sinful heart not willing to submit to its teachings. And so the Bible is a distinguished book Uh write this down. Number three, I put this down. The Bible is an indestructible book. Jesus said in Matthew 24, verse 25, and several other places He said, Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my word shall not pass away. Long after this world is is is uh incinerated Uh at the end of the millennium, the word of God will go on. I love the song we sang tonight. I had it in my notes before I knew we were singing it this evening. I had it, and lo and behold we sang it Uh it's uh it's uh 172. Uh I'm not gonna sing it, don't worry. But uh I love the words. The Bible stands like a rock undaunted mid the raging storms of time Its pages burn with truth eternal, and they glow with a light sublime. The Bible stands like a mountain towering far above the works of men. Its truth never has been refuted, and destroy it they never can. The Bible stands and it will forever. When the world has passed away, by inspiration it has been given. All its precepts I will obey. The Bible stands, every test we give it, for its author is divine. By grace alone I expect to live it And to prove it and make it mine. The Bible stands, though the hills may tumble, it will firmly stand when the earth shall crumble. I'll plant my feet on its firm foundation, for the Bible stands. The Bible is an indestructible book. There was a little rumor went around when we were in Indianapolis, this thing was going around, and they said, you know, you can't burn a Bible. Somebody had said, oh, this house burned down and the Bible went there. There's nothing you can do. You can't burn a Bible. You can burn the paper. The paper that book is printed on will burn. That leather will burn. The material used to store it is not indestructible, but the Word of God itself is indestructible. Long after you and I are gone. For thousands of years, the world and the devil have tried to distort the word of God. They've tried to destroy the word of God. They tried to discredit the Word of God. They tried to defraud the Word of God. Yet God's Word still stands. It's an indestructible book I put this down. Number three, what is the Bible? The Bible is an undivided book. And by that I mean it is in perfect unity from Genesis to Revelation. The teachings and principles behind this book fit beautifully together. There's no contradictions in God's word. I've not found any. I heard people talk about them. When somebody comes, how many folks here, are you ever trying to witness to somebody or you're talking to somebody about the Lord? And they bring up something like this. Well, that Bible's full of contradictions. How many people have ever had you say that to you? I've heard it often. You know what the classic answer is to that? It's very simple. Yeah, just hand them a Bible. Say show me what. You know what the answer I always get? Uh well they're in there. Well, show them to me. Yeah, well, I know they're in there. Okay, I'll give you a week. Come back next week and show them to me. And nobody ever comes back. I had one guy attempted to back when I was working the meat packing plant and he said, Oh it's full of uh full of contradiction. I should show me one He says one verse says that Jesus came into Jerusalem on a donkey, and another one says he came on a fold, the colt, uh the colt of a donkey. I said, well what's the contradiction? He goes, well, was it a donkey or was it a donkey colt? I said, last I checked, a donkey cult is a donkey. Is that right, Stu? Am I correct on that? I think it's uh uh Phil knows. And um So it's an undivided book. There's no contradictions in there. You know what I found? Here's a neat thing I really think at some point in your Christian life you need to start reading that Bible, Genesis to Revelation. I don't recommend it first start-off, we often say that, but at some point in your Christian life, you need to start reading that thing through. Now when you read that thing through, the first time, it's going to be fulfilling. You say, wow, I did it. Praise the Lord. It took me a year, but I got it done. And then you're going to be tempted to say, all right, now I'll just go back to Mobite. You know what I recommend? Go back and do it again. And go back and do it again. And go back and do it again. You say, why would I do that? I'll tell you one reason I'm working on third number 34, 34 times reading the Bible through. You know what I'm finding? The more I read that thing, Genesis or Revelation, the more I read that thing through, the more I start getting an overall picture of what's going on And you know what I start finding out? That thing fits together absolutely beautifully. It used to be you read a little portion here. Read a little portion there, read a little bit of that, and you don't see how it all fits together. But when you read that thing through, and read it through, and read it through, and read it through, and read it through Suddenly you start having this beautiful picture unfolding And that thing fits together so beautifully. It's an amazing thing. Um they say the Bible has taken, it was sixteen, it took sixteen hundred years. The Bible was written over a period of time of 1600 years. There was 40, maybe a little more, a little over 40 authors, depending on who you think may have written various books. So 40 plus authors over a 1600 year period time. And yet that thing fits together beautifully. The best illustration I know of To illustrate how amazing that really is, it would be kind of like this. You have one man take a piece of wood, a thin piece of wood. And he takes a little pocket knife out and he starts whittling uh out of that wood. I can't believe it, I don't have my pocket knife. And uh he uh starts whittling out of that piece of wood a Piece of a puzzle, little shape of a puzzle. He puts that thing up. 120 years go by, a total stranger doesn't know that guy. This guy maybe is a prophet of God. This other guy is a farmer. He gets a piece of wood, he whittles out. a piece of a puzzle. And he puts it up. And over 1600 year time frame, 40 plus different people widow out a piece of a puzzle. Unknown to each other separated by centuries. You take those pieces of puzzle and you put them together And that thing, they all fit together and come up with a beautiful painting, beautiful puzzle of the Lord Jesus Christ. And that to me is what the Bible is. Forty different men over 1600 years writing portions of scripture and it all fits together undividedly in perfect unity. One themed through there, and that's the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm telling you, that book we hold in our hands, there is nothing else in the world anything like it It is an amazing book. So, number one, it's divinely given. Number two, it's a distinguished book. Number three, we said it's indestructible. Number four, it's undivided. Number five, it's dynamic. I love Hebrews 4. 12. For the word of God is quick and powerful, sharper than any two-edged sword. Piercing even to dividing sunder, soul and spirit, joints and marrow, and as a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. This book is powerful I love Christian literature ministry. You know that. Beacon of Truth, Sword of the Lord, Fellowship Track League, all these ministries that are getting the Word of God into paper and giving out You know what? I'm uh my thinking is if I can guess get the Word of God, perhaps the gospel, in printed form and get it into someone's house Get it into someone's pocket. Get it into someone's car somewhere where at some point in time they're going to read that. The power of that word can save that soul from eternity in hell. There is no other writings in the world that can save a soul from hell other than the Word of God. It's a powerful book. Um when I was on hospice, they used to teach us that the last thing for a person to go when they're dying, we really believe, I don't know how you prove this or not, but the last thing to go is what? You've heard it: the hearing. That maybe they can't talk, they may not be conscious, but they can hear. They say folks who have been cut in coma that would come out, they would often reference things people had said that they had heard, and yet nobody knew that they they could even hear. And with that in mind, I used to take the Word of God if somebody was uh was uh un unresponsive and we knew they weren't going to live long and maybe I had uh the idea that they were unsafe, I would take and sometimes I'd take a gospel tract and just sit down beside their ear. I'd just read that gospel tract to them. Or I'd read through that the Romans Road Believing that the power of that word, if they could hear it and somehow in their heart and soul respond to God, they could be saved at the very last seconds and be saved from eternity in hell. It's a powerful book. It's a powerful book. This book, the truths in this book, can save a soul from hell. Hey, by the way, if you don't have Bible salvation, you don't have salvation. There's no other salvation other than what the Bible tells us through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. That's why it's a good thing I think it's a good thing to read carry a Bible around with you. I try to always have a Bible with me. Maybe some chance I get to read the Word of God to somebody and read the The Romans rode to them. We ought to always carry gospel tracts with us and share them and put them out wherever we can, all over the place. That is a powerful I call 'em I like when I do my soul winning training. Uh if you knock on the doors somebody doesn't want to talk to you, at least try and get a gospel track in there or something like this. I'll say, Well Listen, maybe uh we'd like for you to come to church. Go to church. No, we don't go to church. You know church is important, but uh more important than that is dying to know for sure that you go to heaven and not to hell when you die. Well, really not interested. Okay, well listen, we'll come back some other time. But in the meantime, the Bible says we're all sinners, you know, and Jesus died for our sins, and we die in our sin, we'll go to hell, but Jesus suffered hell for us and we'll and the door's closing. And if we'll call on him and believe in him, he'll save it. I don't quite do it that way. But you know what I call that? A gospel grenade. I just think if I can just get the word of God in there, that thing will tick tick tick tick I walk down the road and you hear this kaboom, you know, and not really. But you follow what I'm saying? That truth gets planted in their heart and mind. That truth takes in and lo and behold, maybe a couple months, couple years down the road, that truth bears fruit and they get saved. It's an amazing book. I like what someone said, you can't ever preach the gospel to the wrong person Just give the word of God. It's a powerful book. It's a dynamic book. It'll save a soul from hell. I like this. It'll cleanse a life from sin. Psalms 118, 11. Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his ways by taking heed thereto according to their word. Verse 9, I may have these verses backwards. But it also says, um, uh, thy word have I hidden my heart that I might not sin against thee. Now don't answer this outwardly, but are you struggling with a sin? Is there some sin you just can't lick? You just can't beat that thing, man. It's just it's a besetting sin. Every time it sticks his head up, man, I just I tell you, there's an answer for that. It's called the Word of God. Memorize verses on that. We're sorry, I'm getting a little ahead. I wasn't going to say this, but in 2014, we're going to put an emphasis and a push to get everybody in the church memorizing scriptures I'm putting together a list of a hundred verses that every Christian should have memorized. And we're going to set a goal for next year to get as many church folk as we possibly can to memorize 100 verses, get them in our heart and mind, so that we have a defense against sin. So that we have resources in our hearts and minds that the Spirit of God can use to change our lives. And make us more like Christ. And so the Word of God is powerful, it's dynamic. Save a soul. Cleanse a life. Fill a heart with joy. Tell you what, you know, sometimes there's things happening, sometimes we're not that joyful, but you get in the Word of God and you start reading that, and God puts a joy in your heart and life. Let me give you the last one. The Bible's a dramatic book. Dramatic book. It's dramatic in its content. I'm telling you what, there are amazing stories in here. And they're true. I read through here and sometimes I think Hollywood can't come up with a uh uh drama anything close to how dramatic the stuff in here is. What about Esther? What an amazing story, Mordecai and all those guys and how that twists and turns, and it's not imagination, it's truth. How about that? What about Moses and Pharaoh and his and his parents putting them up out in a little a little boat, a little ark out there, and Pharaoh's daughter of all people finds a And raise up. And lo and behold, he's the one that God uses to deliver them out. What an amazing story. You want entertainment? Go to the Word of God. There's tremendous, amazing stuff. Stir your heart. It'll make you laugh, it'll make you cry. But it not only is it dramatic in its content, you know what I found out? It's dramatic in its effects. And a lot, my life has been anything but boring since I came to Christ. Wow. The doors that this truth of truths of this book have opened up for me are amazing. Drama in interpersonal drama with other people. I've had people threaten my life. Talk about drama, that's dramatic. I've had people laugh and hug me and so happy because of truths I shared them with the Word of God. I'm telling you, you want a little drama in your life, start living by this. It'll stir things up for you. There's nothing like it. There's nothing like it. The Bible's a dramatic book. Here's what I want to leave you with I said all that to say this. I want, including myself, I want every member of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church to determine to read the Bible every single day. It's November. We got two months left of this year. Let's finish this year out reading our Bibles every single day. You say, well, I'm so far off track, I can't keep up with what's in the boat and all that. Alright, then if you're so far off you can't get caught up, then read Psalms between now and the end of the year. Read the Gospels. Do something. Let's read the Bible and see what it'll do. Number two, this is what I'm asking. Let's really commit ourselves to memorizing Scripture God has stirred my heart, and I believe it's the Lord leading and directing, to really emphasize this matter in memorizing scripture. You say, preacher, you know how old I am? Yeah, but memorize scripture. Let's really work at that. Let's make it more than just a little something Brother Grant opens the service with. Let's make it part of our everyday. I want to memorize that verse. I want to get that thing in my heart and mind. We were talking with somebody just this week, I don't remember who it was exactly. And they said this, Pastor, you know the day may come where we need to rely on the memorized scripture more than we realize. It's a very real possibility. So let's understand how valuable this is. Let's commit ourselves to read it, to cherish it, to live by it, to obey it, to memorize it. Get that little card. Man, what a great verse. Oh, give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good. Because his mercy endureth forever. Put that on your car, put that on the mirror. Don't have a wreck, but memorize that thing. And uh put it up somewhere. Amen. Father in heaven, help us to value the Word of God. Job said it's he esteems it higher, greater than his necessary food. I pray you'd help us to see that. Or there's folks around the world that would give their right arm, literally, to have a copy of the Word of God. Help us to appreciate it and to love it and obey it. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many say, preacher, I'm on board with you? I'm going to commit myself the rest of the year, the 60 days that are left of this year. I want to commit myself to read that book every day, at least a portion of it, somewhere, some part. I want to spend some time every day in the Word of God. How many people join with me and say I want to give myself to that? God bless you. I'm telling you, it'll make a difference I'm going to say, preacher, I'm on board with you. I agree with you. I'm going to commit myself to try and memorize Scripture, to make that just part of my life Getting that word into my heart and mind in a definite way. How many people say, preacher, I'm with you on that. I want to give myself to that. God bless you. What a difference that would make in our lives. One last thing, how many folks say, preacher, I want to share the word of God with everybody I possibly can through gospel tracts, personal witness, one way or another, I want to share the word of God with other people. How about it? How many on board with that? Look at that Father, you know our hearts. A lot of hands up. We're giving ourselves to you. We're praying you take us and put a love in our hearts for the Word of God. Put discipline in our character to read it and memorize it. And Lord, put compassion in our heart to share it with others. We ask this in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Maybe at an altar is a place say God, I'm giving myself to read that book. Lord, I want to give myself, help me, memorize those truths and those principles, lead me and direct me in my life By your word, I want to live by its principles. I want to be wise according to the word of God. How about it