Tonight I told James when we were sitting up here on Sunday when Pastor announced that I was preaching and he'd be gone. I said that's probably not a good thing to say, so he might run half the crowd off. I'm glad to see everybody's here. We got a good crowd tonight. It's a beautiful day out today. Uh The message I uh prepared for tonight, uh I heard a message really similar to this um several years ago. Um And when the pastor asked me, Dave asked me what the name of the title of my message was tonight, and I said it's kind of every time I I started it kind of went a different way, but the title that I gave it was What to Pray When You Don't Know What to Pray And he said, could you pick out a little longer title for me? What to pray when you don't know what to pray. I wonder if anyone here has ever been there before You ever been there? You just you just you don't know what to pray or there's a situation and uh you don't know what to pray for. We're gonna look at a little bit of scripture tonight. Uh like I say it's it's uh it's an honor and a privilege to be here and uh to be able to speak tonight. I I feel so inadequate standing up here sometimes preaching in in place of our pastor. Uh Wonderful preacher and teacher he is. Uh need to keep him in our prayers as he uh travels this week and next week he'll be on the road a lot. Um but uh you know the pastor asked me to preach and uh it seems like almost inevitably the the few times he's asked me to preach, I start to pray about what the Lord uh wants me to me to to to speak on and he never fails. He always you know almost just give gives you gives me something right away. And th this message just came to my mind uh right away that I'd heard and uh I I uh just laid on my heart that that'd be a good thing. It was a it was a help to me, and I was hoping it might be a help to uh to someone maybe here tonight. Now if you would turn to John chapter twelve They always tell me I don't speak up. It sounds loud to me, but is it just me tonight? Sandy's shaking her head. It's just good. Not too loud and she's sitting up front, so we must be good to go. Uh John chapter twelve, we're gonna look at verses uh twenty through verses twenty-eight. Um I like these verses because in these verses we uh we not only see the divine side of Christ, but we see his humanity. And these uh these verses. I was talking to my wife tonight a little bit, and uh it seems like so often when I think of Christ I uh I tend to look more at his divine side than his humanity. With Lord's Supper the other night, it's a great time. We were talking to to look back at what he did for us and we see his uh his humanity, his the human side of Christ. And uh in these verses uh I see his hand humanity. Let's uh let's read the text. John chapter twelve Verses 20 through 28. And there were certain Greeks among them that came up to worship at the feast. The same came therefore to Philip, which was of the Saeda of Galilee, and desired him, saying, Sir, we would see Jesus. Philip cometh and telleth Andrew, and again Andrew and Philip tell Jesus And Jesus answered them, saying, The hour is come that the Son of Man should be glorified. Verily, verily I say unto you, except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone, but if it die it bringeth forth much fruit He that loveth his life shall lose it. He that hateth his life in this world shall keep it unto eternal life. If any man serve him serve me, let him follow me, and where I am, there shall also my servant be If any man serve me, him will my father honor. Now is my soul troubled, and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour. But for this cause came I into this hour. Father, glorify thy name. Then came there a voice from heaven saying, I have both glorified it and will glorify it again Let's pray. Heavenly Father, I thank you uh for this beautiful day you've given to us, Lord. I thank you for our church, Lord. the uh privilege we have to come out on a Wednesday night, Lord, and uh be in your house, Lord, and and study your word, Lord. We thank you for your word. Father, I pray that you would be with me tonight as I uh Bring this message, I believe, you've laid on my heart, Lord. I pray that you would fill me with your Spirit, Lord, speak through me, and pray that it might be a blessing to someone here tonight. Pray in Jesus' name. Amen. It's uh at this point uh we see Jesus has uh just made his triumphal entry into Jerusalem just previous to the reading of this scripture here. He was in Lazarus's house, whom he raised raised from the dead. And He was visiting there. Many of you probably know the the story very well. He'd just been anointed by Mary in the house. Many of the Jews had believed on Christ. as as a result of of the miracle which uh which Jesus performed in raising Lazarus uh from the dead. And uh there was also uh the chief priest uh there at that time who were uh not only seeking to kill Jesus because of of the Jews that had believed, but they were also uh seeking to to kill Lazarus because of this And um that's what's taking place uh up up to to the the portion of scripture that we read there uh tonight. And uh Is if you know the book of John, we're uh leading up now into when Christ will be crucified. And uh when he'll go to the cross. And uh as I said Jackie told me not to mention her name. What about this? We were I was just kicking some stuff off of her tonight and uh I got about halfway through my notes and she said what does this have to do with uh with What to what to say what what to pray when you don't know what to pray. So it kinda went a different way. Uh there for a little bit. But uh And these these verses, I uh like I said, I we I I saw and I just started to look at at the humanity of Christ. And sometimes uh we we see here Christ says in verse let me find my place here. Verse 27 he says, Now is my soul troubled. We find, you know, I I don't think of of our you know, of Jesus being troubled. I I see him you know, I think of him performing miracles, you know, turning water into wine, uh raising people from the dead, Lazarus and others from the dead. And uh we see him giving restoring sight to the blind, healing people. And uh I I don't think of of of Christ being troubled, but here in this verse it says Christ says, Now is my soul troubled And what shall I say? The Lord was was uh disturbed here about something. And uh Christ knew, he knew when he prayed this prayer, he knew what what was ahead for him. As we said it this was uh this was leading up to to when he was going to be crucified. And uh s it seems like maybe it's just me, uh but So often, like I said, I I see the divine side of Christ, and sometimes I miss uh his humanity. And that's why I think it's it's so important, uh especially at Lord's Supper, to to remember uh what what Christ had to suffer. I don't I don't know why I I sometimes think that, but uh some I I told Jackie I said sometimes it's even like if you're not if you're thinking that at it about Jesus from a his divine side you're you're uh seeing that maybe You know, we f I think of Jesus as is God, which he is God, but he's also one hundred percent was one hundred percent human and he suffered Just the same as as if if one of us would have been suffering. The pain was is real to him, even though he was God. Uh the you know, the mental, the agony. And uh Uh up after after this reading here he was leading up the he had the agony in the garden, the garden that he had to withstand, uh the mockings that he withstood at coming up the mocking trial, had a crown of thorns on his head. uh the agony uh the uh of being made send for us. And uh we think of that as is this being Just the pain and and what he went through. Uh but the worst thing that he had that he had to go through was uh was being made sin for us. God actually turned had to turn his back on his son. because he couldn't stand to look on on the sin when he when he took the sin of the world upon him. Uh Dr. Heatwell uh teaches our uh Bible Institute class, one of our classes And uh I was thinking about scourging and with the Lord's Supper, and the last couple of weeks I've just been thinking we're leading up to Resurrection Sunday and And just think I've just been thinking a lot about what Christ did, what it what he went through for us. And uh we was just in the institute the other night. He'd given this illustration before, but he gave it again, uh, about what takes place. Um When when someone was scourged. And again, you're thinking what's what does this have to do with prayer? Well we'll we'll get to it here in a little bit. But uh I I don't know. Sometimes I don't know if anyone's like this, but uh I guess it depends. Maybe if you're a nurse or something. Maybe you get used to to Seeing gruesome things and the blood and the broken bones and stuff. But when someone uh Rob uh guy that works with us, sometimes he'll tell me about some of the stuff he sees out in the squad and it just makes me cringe when he starts describing, you know, somebody's broken leg and bones sticking out of their legs and all this crazy and I I just uh it just almost makes me sick to my stomach sometimes. And uh Dr. Hewald was talking about this, uh talking about what what a s what the scourging actually was back in in Christ day and what took place. And uh my understanding they they used uh a cat of nine tails, which would have been uh basically I I envision it as a whip. with instead of one there being nine separate cords with all kinds of bone and rock, uh metal, whatever they had, any kind of sharp, jagged objects that they could tie onto that And uh how many times was uh was they scourged, Brian? How many times was it? Was it thirty-nine or twenty-nine normally? How many stripes did they receive? I can't remember I wonder if it says twenty-nine or thirty-nine. But if you can imagine, I I can't hardly imagine it, being whipped with a cat of nine-tails the way they describe it uh that many times And what what type of wounds that would inflict upon a person's body. And with Jesus, they took his robe off. They they scourged him with That amount of times. And Dr. Hebel, you know you don't think about things, but he said, you know, if you can imagine it, probably his bones and his back were and body were exposed, totally exposed from from the beating that he took And it's just almost it's just unimaginable to think about. And then he said i after after they scourged him, they took his robe and they put it back on him. And can you imagine putting his robe back on his back, and that robe working into those wounds and then drying around his wounds? And then when he they took him to the cross, what did they do to him? Took his robe back off. And just i it's just when when he said that I thought that's just a it's just an amazing thought, you know, just to think. And and that you know, he Christ was human during this. He wasn't This w he was still God, but he withstood the pain and the suffering. And my understanding is is most men wouldn't even s last the scourging. That would kill most people. And he had to suffer that plus make it to the cross and then suffer on the cross. And everything he suffered on that cross is just just un unimaginable some sometimes what he did for us. You know, Hollywood uh portrays the Christ is some weak I told you that some weak, frail, long haired, light complexed, hippie looking guy. And it's just and there's a there was a TV show I thought of um that's been years ago when I saw it. I don't put much stock in what you know they put on TV, but it caught my attention and they uh they were basically showing what they thought Christ might look like, might have looked like. And it was really it was neat because it wasn't what we what we picture in that from from the the Hollywood pictures and the paintings and drawings that we see. Um it was actually pretty good. I wish I I had it. But um you know they they put uh I you know I I think you know Christ would he would have fit in with uh with with the people there. He would have been just like anyone else. uh uh you know his uh appearance, his his facial characteristics they kind of put in the facial characteristics for for that area, that time. Um he would have been dark complexed if you can imagine living uh in the Middle East. He wouldn't be this real light complexed person. Uh they didn't have real long hair on him, they had you know shorter hair and had a beard and he would have been you know he wasn't real this weak guy he was he was strong. He would have been very strong. Of course he was a what what did he do for a living the carpenter, so, you know, he he was really strong. I thought, right Dave? Ronnie? Good for you. I saw Jackie, I said Dave's only he's been working with us for a couple of weeks and he already keeps telling me I never do anything. But Christ would have been strong. He would have fit in, he would have been, you know, darker complexion, probably had a beard, shorter, not this long hair. And and when the when they showed the picture of what they thought Christ might look like. I I told Jackie, that that probably isn't anything what he looked like, but I could see that. I could see him his face looking like that. And just seeing, you know, that was was just it was really interesting. I don't know how I got off on that. But uh you know Christ Christ was human. Uh like I said, most most normal men took the scourgings would have never never made it past the skir scourging And uh in in that verse verse uh twenty-seven it says, Now is my soul troubled, and what shall I say? I see I see Christ's humanity there. His his he was troubled. And uh of course he knew he knew what uh what was ahead of him. In our text here we find we find the Lord praying, what shall I say? He says, Father, save me from this hour. And I I asked a question earlier, have you ever been there? Have you ever been to a point where uh you know you you where am I? You say uh you know what what I don't know what to say, you know. uh save me from this hour. You know, maybe uh maybe you know this could go for for you personally or maybe someone you're close to, a friend or family, you know, maybe they've been diagnosed with cancer. We all know people like that that have been diagnosed with cancer. It just seems to be running rampant these days. Maybe the the doctors told you there's there's nothing more that they can do for you. I think of Mike, you know, when when they told him that, you know, he only had a couple months, a couple of years to live, you know, that you're I I think you would be your soul would be troubled. And uh Sometimes sometimes you just you just don't know what to say. It should be comforting, you know, if you've ever been there, the Lord's there. We find here the Lord was there. Uh he didn't know what What to say he was troubled about about what what what it was leading up what was leading up to. And uh Christ knew, as I said, Christ knew what was coming. He knew That he was going to face the cross, that he was going to suffer the pain and agony leading up to the cross. But He says something uh after that. He says, Now is my soul troubled, and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour, but for this cause came I into this hour. Christ knew what he was facing, what he was up against. And even though in his humanity we see him troubling troubled and uh Asking, you know, Father, save me from this hour, but he says, for this cause came I into this hour. He knew that he had to die on that cross so that we could live. And that's why Christ said he said, Glorify thy name. He says, Father, save me from this hour, but for this cause came I into this hour. He realized why he was there, what his purpose was. He was born to die. We sing the song. Christ was born to die. Uh oh his his main focus was that the the Father be glorified um through his death. I find here a prayer that I believe would be proper and right for us to pray in any circumstances when you don't know what to say, you don't know what to pray In the circumstances, you can always pray, Father, glorify thy name. Like I said earlier, that that's been a it's been a help and a comfort to me. Sometimes I just don't I don't know what to I don't know what to pray. I don't I don't know what the Lord's will is. That's number nine. Verse 28. When he says Father, Christ said Father, and I thought, you know, isn't it good to know That we have a Father who loves us, who cares for us, that we can we can trust him, we can go to him. And in times of of deep distress and trials and troubles and and sicknesses and whatever comes to our life, we can always go to our Heavenly Father. And uh the Bible tells us we can cast our cares upon him. Uh I don't I don't have the reference, but it says casting all our cares upon him, for he careth for us. uh familiar with John three sixteen, for God so loved the world, Romans five eight, but God commendeth his love towards us. Throughout the whole the whole Bible we find uh we find a Father who loves us and we Yeah, it's it it's hard to believe sometime that uh that that he loves us, but uh but he loves us, he cares for us. That's a it's a great comfort to know that. Says save me from this hour. And a lot of times when when I'm faced with those kind of things I uh I find myself saying that. You know, we we we tend to to complain and and uh Sometimes looking to Christ uh is a last resort when uh when we're going through something. But uh I I would have probably, you know, especially facing what what what Christ was facing, that's probably what what I were most of us should say when when uh what we should say is his Father and uh You know, it may be uh I don't know why or or why someone else, uh someone of my loved ones or family members or someone dear to me, you know, sometimes we don't understand why they're going through through the the the trials and and and these these things that come into our life life, um what we can say when when we come up against those sayings, whatever w whatever those the the cause is there whatever cause that we're we're in that hour where where Christ was was was facing, that uh we can pray to the Father and and pray to glorify his that the Father will glorify his name through whatever whatever the situation. uh whatever the situation may be. Um the next thing I add was uh we were we were saved. Christ saved us for a purpose. Christ knew But he was going to the cross. He knew he was going to the cross to die for for each one of us, for our sins. And He we we were saved for a purpose. One of our main purposes, Pastor asked us at the officers' meeting there a couple months ago what the purpose of the church was. the threefold purpose of the church. And the main purpose of the church is to glorify the Father. And as as individuals as say as saved, we have been saved to glorify the Father, one thing, and and to tell others about about what he's done um what he's done for us. Verse thirty-two, I didn't read that earlier, but verse thirty-two John chapter 12 says, And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto me. We got into this in Institute there on uh on Monday night a little bit um that was dealing talking about Calvinism a l a little bit. And uh the the Calvinists will will say that uh you know Christ o predestined that that only certain people are to be saved. And uh as we were studying that, I w it was just uh it's just incredible that you know they say that the that God does not love everyone. He only loves those who He has chosen. to be saved. When the Bible clearly so tells us over and over that that that you know God loves everyone. He's not willing that any should perish. That all should come to repentance. And th this first came up. Um and I've been studying this a lot, so I I immediately thought of this and it says If I be lifted up, that's what Christ be glorified, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto me. He doesn't say all people all men will be saved, but I believe Christ will draw all men. Um man to him. There's one one thing um I see in verse uh twenty-four twenty four and twenty five. There there's something that uh that sometimes gets in the way of us too is we need to get self out of the way. Uh we we read in uh verse twenty four and twenty-five, verily, verily I say unto you, accept a corn of wheat. fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone, but if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit. He that loveth his life shall lose it, and he that hateth his life in this world shall keep it unto eternal life. We need to we need to die to self. And um think about about what what we're doing and and and do it to the glory of God. Uh Bible tells us to do uh Do all to the glory of God. It tells us to let our light so shine before men that he may see our good works and glorify our Father which is in heaven. I uh I know in in my my life I I I struggle with this. I can only assume that that a lot of people struggle with this. Um our flesh seeks uh the pray praise and and seeks praise of others and glory. We and there's nothing wrong with that. We like uh we like when people tell us we do a good job, you know, we go up and sing a special. It's nice to, you know, here Some sometimes whether whether you did a good job or not, it's still nice to hear people say you did a good job. It's nice to hear, you know, the tell the tell you that the the choir sounded good today or You know, it it's it's nice to to to be praised and to be told to be appreciated and and things like that. But uh you know sometimes I find myself uh going up to sing a special or something and I'm I'm worried about I'm more worried about that than than than giving God the glory And I find myself praying, you know, so often, uh, you know, Lord, my my flesh craves, you know, attention and and things like that, but that's not what I want. You know, I I want uh sometimes it's hard to defeat the flesh, but uh I g so I gotta I pray that often, you know. I I want, you know uh what I do and and I want it when our choir gets up there and sings, I want I want it to be uh to him for his honor and for his glory. Now the Bible says he'll he'll take care of we we we we give him the honor and glory and he'll take care of he'll take care of us. uh we'll we'll get we'll get uh what he has for us. Um I pray often, you know, uh Father, you know, it a lot of times we play the pray, Thy will be done. Or you know, it's it's it's basically the same thing, you know, Father, glorify thy name. Um we want everything everything that we're doing uh to be for his honor, his glory. You know, whether you're laying in a hospital bed, whether you're you know Uh teaching Sunday school, singing in the choir, out driving a bus, visiting, uh laying under a bus, working on it, whatever you do, cleaning the church, you know. whatever we should uh you know do do for his honor and uh for his glory. Verse 28 tells us that this is a this is a prayer that that God will answer We know that God answers our prayers. Verse 28. It says, Father, glorify thy name. Then came there a voice from heaven saying, I have both glorified it and will glorify it again. This is a prayer that uh And we can pray. And uh if we pray with the right heart, God will uh will answer uh the prayer. Any anytime anytime uh We don't know what to pray about. To pray, Father, glorify thy name. We want His will to be done in in certain situations. A lot of times we we know what the Lord's will is. You know, we we we know what for certain situations what we should be praying for and and we want to pray in in accordance to his will but there's just there's those times I know we we've all been there where you just you just don't know. Uh I I I uh I I couldn't I can't even think about this or or pr work on preparing this at all without the first person that popped into my mind was Mike. And uh I can't help but think, you know, Mike his his testimony was impeccable. Uh It was just uh wonderful uh through through his whole illness. You know, I I can't help but think that uh Mike might have might have I can see Mike praying a prayer very similar to uh to what Christ prayed here and uh verse uh Twenty-seven and twenty-eight. Um I mean can can you see Mike praying this prayer Now was my soul troubled when when he found out, I forget, you know it's been too many years ago, uh how much how much time they gave Mike. When he was diagnosed. It wasn't very much. And with surgery, he he he beat he beat the odds as far as what they said he he was going to uh to get through. But I I can I can just almost see Mike praying, you know, now is my soul troubled and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour. But for this cause came I into this hour. Now I don't think Mike knew how the Lord was going to work through through his illness. Um he might have had a little bit of an idea. Uh Christ knew what he was gonna do. I don't think he knew, but I can almost just you know See him praying for this cause, even though he didn't know exactly what it was, came I into this hour. Father, glorify, glorify thy name. We wanted Mike to get better. We wanted the Lord to heal him and uh restore him back to health, bring him back in, and uh that wasn't the Lord's will, but Um closer to to the end there it seemed like I I would pray, you know, more and more. You know, I d I didn't want to see him suffer. You know, we didn't we didn't want to see him suffer. We knew he was saved You know, maybe you know, we we were thinking, you know, maybe it's best for him to go home. You know, we'd love to see him perform a miracle in that type of situation. But uh You know, I I I just prayed, you know, Lord, I I don't I don't know what to pray, but Father, just glorify your name. And uh that's just one situation. There there's so many so many situations. I I think as Sandy, you know, going through what she's going through the last couple of years and just your testimony has been It has been wonderful. And uh just seeing the Lord work through these, you know, he's got a plan and uh we we can't see it. Christ knew. I I don't think that made it any easier for him. But he knew what he was facing. And so often we don't we don't know what we're facing. We don't know how it's gonna work out. And it's hard sometimes to to say, you know, um We we we understand we just need to trust him that he's got a plan, he knows what's going on. Uh just trust him, obey him. and uh and and he'll work it out. But uh that this prayer, it just it's just been a like I said, it's been a prayer that that's helped me. I think it's an appropriate prayer to pray when you just don't know what to pray Father, we don't know what we don't know what's going on, we don't know what your will is, we don't know what your plan or your purpose is in some of these situations that come up in our life, but but we just want uh want your name to be be glorified. Um through through whatever the the situation might be. That's all I have. So let's bow our heads and pray.