And the reason I was the whole I will see God has. So good to me he must be friend on his breath. Everything is will I tell my eye. God has said so good to me I will take the return and God has been so good to me He has been a great He will take his pride away and I'll never be. Oh I shall win forever, but I shall be. I will come to eternity And I want the whole I will be Amen. Well, Brother Fox is coming up. Thank your inbooks. Number three hundred and fifteen. Three fifteen. Amen. Three one five burdens are lifted at Calvary. It's written by John Moore. He's an independent Baptist up in Canada. 315. Let's all stand and the choir is going to come down as we sing. Days are filled with sorrows and cares, but burdens are lifted in Calvary. Let's stand and let's sing our best for the Lord 315. Ready? Days are filled with sorrow and care. Hearts are lonely and fair. Words are fair and held. Burdens are lifted and cowarin. Cow hurry. Burdens are lifted and coward. Jesus is very dead. Chast your share on Jesus today. Leave your worry and pay. Burns are lived at Calme. Jesus in every day. Burns are lived at home away. How are we? His very name. Trouble soul, a Savior can see every heart I can say, birds are there and Burns are there and quite good. We have wondering burns. Amen. Good singing tonight. Choir sounded great. And uh we're glad to have you back this evening in our evening service. And uh what a great service we had this morning. What a powerful message. And uh the singing was super, fellowship was good, and uh got to go out to eat this afternoon. My wife was happy about that. And uh even got a nap. And wasn't it great seeing that sun come out for a little while? That was sweet. So how many folks had a good day today? Raise your hand. You say overall it's a pretty good day. Amen. God bless you. A couple didn't raise their hand. I hope we can help you out by this evening. But uh first thing we want to do is get bulletins in everybody's hand. Is there anybody that got in here and you did not get a church bulletin? Slip your hand up, the ushers are coming. We wanted to get you one over on my right, a couple round Anybody else need a bulletin? We want you to have this. Down here on my right, uh Naomi needs fine. Anyone else? Any others around? All right. Let's see, where is Kathryn? Can you do something? Where's Katherine at? Oh. Forget it, just stay there. Kathy, I left something in the Xerox. Would you run and get that? I want to show Share that with the church. Um all right, bulletins. Anybody else need a bulletin? In the bulletin, you'll find a sword envelope, sword subscription envelope. Is there anybody that would need a sword subscription envelope? You'd have to Need one of these, just slip your hands up. We have them right there, fellas, right in the back. There you are. And uh want to get these out. Now, I've been talking about this with uh the deacons earlier a month or so ago about what to do for the seventieth Fifth anniversary of the sword and a couple things we were beating around ideas. One of them is I'd really, really like to present to Dr. Smith, be able to present to him 75 subscriptions for the sword and this is what the sword's all about is the paper and getting it out to people. And so uh I hope you're praying about it. And and uh I've been praying about this for a period of time. I have uh a number that a number of subscriptions I feel like the Lord wants me to do and I hope that uh you'll consider several things. Number one, I'd like you to subscribe yourself. If you don't get it, you really, really should. And I know what some of y'all think. I you're Baptist, I know what you think. You're thinking Well, I get it free at church. You give it out. So and that's true, and I'm glad you get it that way. But it's far better to get it in your home. And so for ten dollars you get one year's worth for ten dollars. You can't beat that with a stick. I mean you can't subscribe to any other paper or magazine for that price. Twenty issues for ten dollars comes every other week Now if you already received in your home, this is what I think you should do. I think you should renew your subscription. Go ahead and do this. Now's a good time and extend it out there And uh I think ours is extended so far. Our great-great-grandchildren will get it off of our subscription. But I just keep on doing it over and over, and uh it supports the ministry there, and I just like doing that Now, here's another thing I really think that if we all did, it would have a powerful impact, and that is this. Subscribe someone else. uh to the sword. Maybe your brothers or sisters are grown living around your parents or you have children that are grown or grandchildren. My dad subscribed the whole family to the sword he has for many many years and uh that's a good thing when Sam went to Illinois I subscribe to him he gets it out there and uh just a great way to influence others Now to help do that, I have a list of uh, and it's not complete, but a good number, of churches in our area, the pastors, and it'd be a great idea if somebody you'd like to subscribe some other church and get this paper. Wouldn't that be something if a church is preaching false doctrine, they get the sword, start reading it, get it straightened out, and they start preaching the gospel, wouldn't that be a great thing? Wouldn't be the first time it's happened And so that's a very real possibility. My wife got the addresses, mailing addresses for all our elected officials locally and uh throughout the state. Wouldn't it be great if our representatives and state senators and local town uh council members and zoning board uh members uh That we don't want vengeance evangelism here. We uh but uh it would be good to get uh these folks, get this paper. They might toss it, but you never know, there may be that one issue that catches their attention. Sit down and read it, maybe just read out of curiosity and have a real profound impact. How many folks here have ever complained about our government? Raise your hand. Anybody here Well here's a chance that maybe we can ha m have some influence. And um by the way, just while I'm talking about it, I think some of y'all ought to run for office and some of these local areas here and get some Christians in there. I really believe that. And so but these are opportunities to uh get it uh it out and I hope you'll do this. I just hope you say, you know, that would be a neat thing to give Brother Smith seventy-five of those And so do what you can. Ask the Lord to um show you what what's going on there. Alright? Is there anybody else need one of these? Anybody that I talk you into it? Anyone else able to looks like everybody Jacob wants one to subscribe. Alright. We're going to sing just the verse of a song, then we'll have some testimonies. Share what the Lord's doing in your heart. I want to say just a word about my trip to Ireland. And uh and uh then I want to hear what God's doing in your heart. Share with others some blessings you have from the Lord. Just one verse 538 will remain seated. 538 will and hold your place here. We'll sing the rest of this after the testament. Five thirty-eight bringing in the sheaves. Five hundred thirty-eight Here we go, everyone, ready? Sewing in the morning, sowing seeds of kindness. Sowing in the noontide and the new eve, waiting for the harvest and the time of raping, we shall come rejoicing, bringing in the seas. Bringing in the sea, bringing in the sea, we shall have rejoicing, bringing in the seas, bringing in the sea, bringing in the seas. We shall have the joy be bringing in us. All right, somebody start us off with a testimony. Larry. Amen. And um nothing for the sword from our princes. Amen. Yes, Amen. Yeah, praise the Lord. Someone else. Karen. Last Wednesday. I don't look that different song there. I knew that Lee should have a problem with the Um, anyways, she can try that she's Amen. I heard Roscoe Bartlett say that one bumper sticker, they did a study and said one bumper sticker is worth like what do you say say fifteen billboards and a bumper sticker actually gets more exposure than a billboard along the road does. So I instructed all the ushers, they're sticking them on your cars right now as we're speaking. Someone else. Brother Dale. Yes. Not the young woman injured. We could go. She's never met anywhere but she finally got back on the ground. The surgeon will meet with her again in a week. That piece of metal was pretty deep. We dismissed her lung. And she's so crude he didn't want to scar her up. But she did good spirits and he told me things. CD. But it really laid it heavy on my heart. That's so important to trust the facts today. The whole family. That's right. The whole family is the day of service and uh brother. Someway without talking about your man, oh I'm too young to worry about this stuff. Oh if I can just tell you some things. Two weeks later. And this past weekend down in Phillip, a car load of TA. A young man went too fast, went around, he hit another car with Georgia. The car went up in flames. One young person was killing us. The other one they tried to get to her to see no had her family before they could do her out and they said, go flames and then do a turn this week. Mm-hmm. Young people. If you've got the young ones that you're around, your teenager in school keep handing out their cases. When we leave is where we're going, when we leave here. So the urgency of the hour, whether you're coming or over, we're going to go out of here. That's right. Amen. Amen. Good testimony, Dale. Someone else, Becky. And at least Flower and what they have to use where you can straw to them. And they are I was going to appreciate the fact that it's possible to be Yes. Amen. Amen. That's a good point. I think uh Vicky and Andy had what, nineteen on the bus this morning, so praise the Lord for that. And Kathy and Vicky have been visiting every Sunday. I appreciate Jim and Carol. Uh of course Jerry and Connie had to leave uh area for her his daddy's funeral and they've kept that bus running right through when Jerry was sick and all that and uh been bringing it. So appreciate our bus workers so much. We really could use some more workers in our bus ministry. Good testimony. Someone else? Any others? Roger. Salvation and the scene without seen anything. Yes, Amen. Yeah. Yeah. That's good. Molly. Amen. Molly was in there when she was born. So praise the Lord for Little Lucy Clare, Lucy Claire Browning. Five more and they'll have ten. I told them they're just getting started. Why quit now? Yeah. Now that focusing on things to go back in part, just remember a prayer that metal comes. Yeah. Rebecca Hardy? Yeah. Okay, we'll pray for her. Chip. Yeah, it's an incredible feeling if there's something that's wrong. Just I can't explain what you just feel further. Sounds like the start in the back how much I was now. You guys are pretty good. So appreciate it. Amen. Amen. Did anybody happen to have the opportunity to lead a mother and a daughter to the Lord this afternoon, this evening for the first time? Brother Jamie. The uh do I have console in uh some of the exam have several months it's kind of uh pay first off Actually, I just want that being the boy. Amen. Amen. Amen. Yeah, real exciting. And uh that's neat oh. Anyone else? Any others? Jacob. Amen. Praise the Lord. Anyone else? Kathy. My whole town. The girls are super hard. And since we've been here there's been so many deaths in that little town that everybody knows everybody. And um Well, it was just eight years old. We noticed the students on what happens, but sure she was like and she ended up having a point here, she passed away. And the little girl that passed away recently at the Kemia seemed to her holiday. And one of the teen girls that we lost several years ago passed away. So now this girl that we're in farming threading, the girl with the side name is her cousin. And she was in the young friendly very close and written And they were secret plays. And um the girl it they just are so young every day, just the timing. The mayor just likes bunches and so they're hard. And um it's really neat, they tend to be all high You know, it's really festival either. And they always text me, we love you so much. Praise God. And we play together at the night or PlayStation, or we text prayer or please though. Amen. Lord's really blessed that class. And they text all hours of the night too. We're starting a texting ministry. Any others? Any other testimonies tonight? Some you're praising the Lord for, answer prayer? Anyone at all? Patty. had to go to the hospital today because while I was in church this morning I got this awful pain in my chest and it made fingers on all day and it got so bad this afternoon that I had to take some medication. And I went in my bedroom and I'd s kneel down beside my bed and I'd pray. And when I got ready to come to church this evening the pain was all gone. Amen. And I thank God for my Amen. Lord answers prayer, no doubt about it. Might want to go to the doctor and get that check too. You might want to check on that. Anyone else? Any others? It's good to see Mr. and Mrs. Kimball here. I failed to recognize. God bless you. And Toby and Fran back there God bless you. We're glad you folks are here. Any others? Well I appreciate so much your prayers for us when we were over in Ireland. Uh took Dan over the 14th. Two weeks ago tomorrow, as you all are aware. We got over there, had a great time. Tuesday we got there was pretty much downtime because of jet lag and all that and the change Night prayer meeting, and I would say probably twenty to twenty-five of the folks that were there were saved just within the last six months And they are fired up. They're you know, y I don't know how you I had a picture in my mind, you know, Europe, Ireland, stiff, very formal. Quiet. Man, there's Chouton Holler and there's a girl from Pow Poland had gotten saved not long ago. Andrea or Alexandra was her name She's hollering and waving her Bible, praise the Lord, amen. And uh it was exciting service and give the invitation and man they all respond And uh so that was stirred up. Thursday we did a little sight cham. When Friday I had an interesting experience. Uh Reformers Unonymous. I don't know if folks are familiar with that too much, but it's foreign addictions um type ministry. And uh they have that there in southern end of Dublin. Another church has it. Brother Hayes speaks at that. He's a part of that ministry. So he took me down. He asked me to speak There's about 15, 20 guys there. Um I gave my testimony. I thought that may relate to them a little bit. Gave my testimony what Christ In sowing in the shadows, bearing neither clouds nor winds or chilling graze. By and by the harvest and the labor engine, we shall come rejoicing. Bringing in the seas, bringing in the sea, bringing in the seas, we shall have rejoice in Bringing in the seas, Amen, Bringing in the Seas. Raining in the seas, wisdom of the Lord says, bringing in the seas. Going forth with weeping, so we for the master, so the Lord say our spirit often raised. When our weeping sober, he will be the twelve. We shall come rejoicing, bringing in the seeds, bringing in the seeds, bringing in the seeds, we shall come rejoicing, bringing in the seas. Bringing in the seas, bringing in the seas, we shall have rejoicing, bringing in the seas. Man, you may be seated and brother. Fox is going to sing for us actually. Listen, uh three seventeen in your book, let's sing our little uh little uh chorus. I'm blessed, I'm blessed every day that I live. Volume Blessed 317. You probably think about hearing this about now, right? But read the book in 317. And you're allowed to smile while we say. Okay, I am learning. I am learning every day. When I wake up in the morning, if I get together, I am glad. 119. 119. I feel that the Lord if we ought to work on this just a little bit. John three sixteen says let me sing for haven't we done it in Sunday school this morning here? We did it in Sunday school? No, no. I mean conflict three more Let me sing it once and you look at it and sing it with me. Listen. For God so love the world, his only beginning son. I think so every other room everlasting life. Alright, here's my time. Here we go. I believe the Lord let us scriptures to views. No use is a great teaching tool. I mean how did you learn your alphabet? A B no, that's not how we learn it. How we do it? A B C B E F H I A. You remember the song, right? Yeah. I mean I learned that in first grade, but I can still say that. Now I never will forget how to say my alpha bed. I mean I still remember that little channel. It's a great teaching tool And so I believe that the Lord has led us to what the scriptures there's a famine in our country, Israel. Not a famine of food. I mean, I'm on four guys. I was not getting up eating one. Mommies, boys and girls And so I believe the Lord led us to this. We turned to the copyright on this. I said this in the twenty-five script for the first one. Copyright wrote me back, wrote me anyway Run me back said. Said Brother Paul's first dance who wrote the future. Who wrote the words? I wrote them back. I said, these are script. So they wrote it back a second time. Brother Fox, you and your people wrote the you did who wrote the words second time? I wrote it back. I said these are out of the Bible. Wrote it back the third time to Brother Fox. Member Sam, you wrote the unit? Who wrote the words? I said these right in the team, Gen and Five. Brother Fox, firsthand you wrote the unit, who wrote the words? I would say this. God is the author of the Bible. He wrote the words. Said it back. We're saying that. Five times what they got. Sing it one more time. Ready one nineteen. I can do that on the list. I like that one. All I can 2 Peter chapter 3. 2 Peter chapter 3. Hope you brought your Bible. Turn with me. 2 Peter chapter 3. Well, thanks to everyone who's come back tonight. I appreciate you coming back to the house of God and and uh I thank the preacher for letting me be here and invite me to come again. And uh our good message this morning. We appreciate that. Just a good Sunday school hour, everything. We've had a good day. We're turning to 2 Peter chapter 3 2 Peter chapter 3. And um I mean a good day. I I woke up. You know, that's a good start by the grace of God And then we had a uh the Sunday school hour, morning service, had the um had a good meal, got the Baptist coma in, the na the nap. I got one I liked it. And uh then so went and had the good report. Brother, you got to lead two people to the Lord. That's a blessing. I sat across from him when we was kinda doing our get together and um I just looked at you and I thought, man, he's the youngest guy in this room. And you got to go, I think you were today. At least you look very young. How old are you, Rhode JD? Twenty-eight. You're probably the youngest in the room. And um and got to lead somebody to the Lord. That's great. And um now the choir practice had a good choir practice, Second Peter three. The two young men I had with me uh made it back to Winchester to be at their church tonight And both of them got college tomorrow and jobs to do tomorrow and so forth. And I was glad they were able to be here. Um be back Monday and Tuesday. Subscribe somebody. I've got my subscription filled out. Turn that in here a little bit. I hope you'll stop by and get some music CDs. I believe Christian homes ought to have Christian music in them. I don't need anything helping me sin. I need something to help me live for the Lord. And uh so if you want to get some of these, the uh those Bible songs for kids, there's three different volumes, the newest one, volume three, and uh A number of you like this one with the uh banjos, guitars and so forth. That's the title Rejoicing and Jesus. Miss Kathy's wanna help me uh at the C D table. They're just donation. Now there are a few hymnals back there. They're not donation. They are fourteen dollars. I'm under contract with all that but everything else just donation all right you can give um twenty dollars a C D $100,000 a C D whatever you want to give you know because $100,000 it needs to be in cash Your checks are not going to be good, you know what I'm saying. 2 Peter 3. Hold your finger at 2 Peter 3. Turn to Ecclesiastes 1. We're going to start there. Hold your finger. 2 Peter 3 The title of tonight's message is What Do We Have to Live For? You turn over there to Ecclesiastes 1. We're going to start. But 2 Peter 3 is going to be our main text tonight. Title is What Do We Have to Live For? I've been asked to write a book about suicide. Um In America, every sixteen minutes, on average, somebody kills themself. Around the world, it's every seventeen seconds. Um there's advocacy groups online that teach people how to kill themselves. The leading cause of teenage death today in America The leading cause is suicide. One out of every seven American teenagers have either killed themselves or tried to kill themselves. It's amazing. 14. 2% In the Bible, there's six people who committed suicide. Maybe seven, depends on how you classify Samson. I'm not sure if he was a death and battle or if it was a suicide. But you've got Judas's carriot, the greatest imposter of all time, as far as I am concerned. I mean, Benedict Arnold, we call him a big traitor, do we not? Yeah. But think about Judas Iscariot. He betrayed Jesus. I'm always moved when I think about it where Judas Iscari came to betray Jesus That Jesus said, friend. Jesus called him friend. Why art thou come? You know something, there's grace available for Judas Iscariot. But he rejected it. Best I know, Judas Iscariot after he killed himself, went to hell. According to Acts chapter 1, best I can tell. Well, we've got he committed suicide. We've got Saul first king of Israel. Saul reigned for about 40 years. First year wasn't so bad. Uh next 39 went Straight downhill. It was bad. It was awful. The Bible says three times the Spirit of God came on him. Does that mean he is saved? I don't know. I don't know if Saul was a saved man or not. I do know this. If Saul was saved, he's in heaven. If Saul was not saved, he'll be forever in hell. Brother, what you gave in your testimony is true. Today is the day of salvation. Everybody in Mountain Lake area, everybody, I mean Oakland all around us, everybody needs to get saved And everybody's either saved or lost. And uh we go on, we see Saul, we see Saul's armor bearer killed himself right after Saul did. We find Zimri. A king that only reigns seven days is a wicked man. He chose wickedness. Did that which was evil in the sight of the Lord Killed himself, burnt his own house down. We find a hithofella in the Bible who uh was counselor to the king. When his counsel wasn't taken, he was so upset about it, he hung himself. On and on we find these different folks. Gideon's son killed himself. All these suicides. What do we have to live for? Ecclesiastes, we find Solomon here, a portion of his life. Solomon. Now when I just say the name Solomon, what's what's one word? What's one word that comes to your mind when I say Solomon? What's a word? Wisdom. People who have followed the Lord in their lives or sometimes said the Bible, that's the first word comes to your mind. Wisdom. Why? Because Solomon prayed to God. God said, What would you have me give you, Solomon? Solomon said, I'd want you to make me wise, that I'd be a good king, that I'd lead your people the right way. And the good Lord was so pleased by that prayer And God gave him wisdom, God gave him fame, God gave him safety. In the Bible, during the reign of Solomon, you find one battle took place. And that one battle lasted one verse long. That battle was over before it started, basically. There was safety in the land while Solomon was king. He was a famous king, many riches and all these things that the Lord blessed him with. And in Kings chapter 3 and verse 3, it says this about Solomon. Solomon loved the Lord. That is a fantastic compliment. If that could be said about me and you tonight, wouldn't it not be a good thing? Those folks over there at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, they love the Lord. That'd be a great compliment. That's what it says, that's what the Bible says about Solomon. Solomon love the Lord is young and is life Young man, young king, and he he's serving God, and and he he's uh he's building the uh uh the the the temple and he's leading Israel to uh uh worship God. But he did not guard His heart. Keep thy heart with all diligence. Is that not what the scripture says? The Bible says in Deuteronomy chapter 17 and verse 17 that a king was to have one wife. Alright? Did Solomon obey that? No. If you add his wives and his concubines together, how many did he have? A thousand. A man with a thousand wives. In some ways that's hysterically funny. But it's pitiful. One of the most immoral men who ever lived. Solomon. Well what did what did that do to his life? Tonight's message is what do we have to live for? Look at Ecclesiastes chapter 1. Look at this. And verse 14, everybody look with me in the Bible. Solomon says this, I have seen all the works that are done under the sun. Y'all help me here. And behold, all is what Vanity and vexation of spirit. Look at Solomon's outlook on life What do we have to live for? Solomon says, I've seen all the works that are done under the sun. And behold, all is vanity and vexation of spirit. That which is crooked cannot be made straight, he says. And that which is wanting cannot be numbered. 2 Peter chapter 3. I'd say this right now while you're turning back to 2 Peter 3. Our outlook on life should never be that of Solomon's. Amen. What do we have to live for? Well, you know, people say that. Sometimes young people say that. Sometimes older folks say, What do I have to live for? What should I be living for? Well, you know, the Bible gives us some solid answers and expectations as Christians as to what we're supposed to do with our lives. We don't have to go through life uh guessing, playing some guessing game about life and and uh wondering what we ought to do with our lives. No, the Bible has a definite plan, and God has a definite plan for everybody. Amen. 2 Peter 3, verse 1. This second epistle, beloved, I now write unto you, in both which I stir up your pure minds by ways of remembrance. That ye may be mindful of the words which were spoken before by the holy prophets and of the commandment of us, the apostles of the Lord and Savior. Verse 8: But beloved, be not ignorant Of this one thing that one day is with the Lord is a thousand years. And a thousand years is one day. The Lord is not slack concerning his promise. As some men count slackness, but it's long-suffering. Praise God God to usward, and not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. But the day of the Lord will come, as a thief in the night, in the which the heaven shall pass away with a great noise, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat The earth also and the works that are therein shall be burned up. Seeing then that all these things shall be dissolved, what manner of persons ought you to be? Here it is in all holy conversation and godliness, looking for, and hasting unto the coming of the day of God, wherein the heavens being on fire shall be dissolved And the element shall melt with fervent heat. Nevertheless, we nevertheless we, according to his promise, look for new heavens and a new earth, wherein dwelleth righteousness. Wherefore, beloved This written to save people. Beloved. Wherefore, beloved, seeing that you look for such things, be diligent, that you may be found of him in peace without spot and blameless. Let's pray a moment. Lord As we think just a little while tonight on what we are to live for, would you please help me? Would you help these young boys here in this room? And the young ladies, and Lord, my age group, and just every age group, all the preachers in this room. Lord, I'm so glad you called out preachers and put them in the ministry, and I'm glad you let me in the ministry. for you. I pray you would help us tonight. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Some folks say, you know, I'm just tired. Of waiting for God to work in my life. I'm just tired of waiting for God to come through for me in my life. You know, we cannot hold God to a clock. Verse 8. Beloved, be not ignorant of this one thing that one day is with the Lord is a thousand years. A thousand years is one day. I heard a joke out in California, wrote it down so I might get it right, okay? There's a man in this joke that he died and he went to heaven and he ran into Peter up there. So this man said, Hey Peter, what's a minute like here in heaven? Peter said, Well, man, up here in heaven, a minute is like a million years. The man said, Well, Peter, how much is a nickel worth here in heaven? Peter said, man, a nickel is worth a million dollars. The man said, hey Peter, can you loan me a nickel? Peter said, Sure, in just a minute Some people think God's moving too slow in their lives. God's right on time. In fact, the Bible says this. Listen to this fantastic scripture. Lamentations 3. 25. The Bible says The Lord is good unto them that wait for Him, to the soul that seeketh Him Listen to that again. Lamentation three twenty-five, the Bible says, The Lord is good unto them that wait for him, to the soul that seeketh him. What do we have to live for? Here's three things according to 2 Peter chapter 3 that we have to live for. Number one Me and you, we are living to carry out God's program to the world. We are living to carry out God's program to the world. What is God's program? Verse nine is God's program. Look at it. The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness, but as long-suffering to usward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. What is God's program? Here it is, redemption. That is what the Lord is interested in. And what the Lord is interested in is what we ought to be interested in. Amen. Redemption. That's why we had the five o'clock soul winning time. And I'm so glad for the dozen or so folks that got to go out. Me and both chip went out. First door he knocked on, a man came there and Brother Chip introduced us and he gave him the packet that uh has the the hamper on what must I do to be saved? And before a little while uh went by, Brother Chip had his Bible open, you just got that brand new Bible, that brand new New Testament. You're just taking a highlighter with yellow highlighting and highlighted them verses just minutes before we got there And Brother Chip pulled that Bible out and began going through the scriptures with that. Now we didn't see him get saved there, but we we gave him the gospel. And that's what we're living for, Brother Chip. That's what our church, that's what we are living for, is to carry out God's program, redemption, bind back, the Bible calls that. Now, who is it? Who is it that represents God's program? What group is it? It's the church, man. It's the church. A couple years ago I came across this group of folks that they say the church has failed. And so they've organized this new outfit called Christian Nightclubs. Just listen to that. I'll just tell you right now, I'm not for that. I'm staying with the church. In fact, that's Jesus, He loves the church. That's what the Bible says. How much do you love the church enough to die for it? Amen. I'm going to stay with the church. By the way, the church has not failed. He said, I will build my church. Now, I've got an insurance agent. His name is Jim. He's a Christian man. He and I have been out soul-winning together. I like Brother Jim. And he's the insurance agent that I use. He's the agent. He's a representative of nationwide insurance. And uh he's my friend and he's the agent. He represents nationwide. Well, we are representing the Lord, and we are here to carry out God's program. It's us, the church. I mean, who is it that sends out missionaries? It's the church. Who is it that supports missionaries? It's the church. I mean, Brother Chip, when you go on deputation, do you go to Christian colleges and get those young people to support you? Man, they're broke. They don't have they they ask you for something, man, when you go there. He said, well, I thought Brother Chip got it from the mission boards. Where's Mission Board get some money from? From the church It's the church that does that does the support. It's the church that prays. It's the church that carries out God's program. What are we living for? To carry out God's program. My secretary, who's been with me a lot of years now, is kind of like a second mama to me. Her name is Susan. If you've called it Bible Truth Music, Most of the phone calls, I don't know, a large percent of the phone calls, Susan has answered. And uh she's great at it. She's just and I'm not talking about ladies talking on phones, I'm not going there I don't want to get in trouble, you know what I'm saying? That's a little tick, which okay? Texting all night long to teenagers, all that stuff, you know. And um but Susan, she's great on the phones Her husband's name is Marion. Marion and I are great friends. Marion's dad, his name was Clyde. Let me tell you about Clyde. Clyde was Marion's dad. Clyde had lived a rough life. Awful. He'd been pretty cruel most of his life. In fact, Clyde had never told his son Marion. Clyde had never told his son that he loved him. Finally Clyde came down with the cancer and Mary had said to me, said Brother Fox, will you go and try to win my dad to the Lord? So I found where he lived and I went there and I had my Bible and I just made myself at home. And for the next two or three hours I talked to him about his need of Jesus Christ as Savior. And Clyde got saved. Let me tell you something. Clyde's life changed. He only lived a few months after that. But I'm telling you what, every doctor he saw, everybody who came to see him, any family member, any uh medical person who came to see him in that nursing home that he finally went into every who came to see him. Before they left, he'd ask something like this, said, hey, I've got one more question for you. And the doctor say, oh yes, uh Mr. Mr. Martin, what question is that? Are you saved? Everybody he saw the last several months of his life, what he was living for was tell other folks about Jesus Everybody who came to see me, any family member said, I got a I got a question for you. He'd always say that, I've got a question for you. Oh yeah, what's that? I mean a man with cancer, he's laying there died, and he's got a question, you ready? What is it? What can I do for you? Are you saved? Who are you living for? By the way, he told his son he loved him. The gospel can change the most savage man. Amen. What are we living for? What are you living for? What do we have to live for? What do we have to live for? Number one, we are living to carry out God's program to the world. Number two. We are living to establish God's priorities in our lives. We are living to establish God's priorities in our lives. Verse 11. Seeing then, look at your Bible, seeing then that all these things shall be dissolved, what manner of persons ought you to be in all holy conversation and godliness. So what are we living for? To establish God's priorities. Living holy, living godly lives, being obedient to God. Just obeying everything God has told me and you to do. The things He's told us not to do in this Bible, let's not do them. The thing that God tells us to do, let's find ourselves doing those. Amen. Look back in verse 6. Look at verse 6 and tell me who this is talking about in the Old Testament book of Genesis. Verse 6, who's this talking about? Whereby the world that then was being overflowed with water perished. That's referring back to the flood, and what's that man's name? It starts with an N? I'm trying to make this easy, you know what I'm saying? Noah, first mention of the Bible. Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. First time grace mentioned the Bible. It was Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. What did Noah do? Well, he did. That's right, Brother Larry. Aren't you proud of Brother Larry? That's good. I liked how he testified a while ago too. And he went first. That was good. That was good Noah found grace in our glory. God said, I want you to build this ocean liner-sized vessel. It's going to rain, it's going to flood. And Noah established God's priority in his life. He obeyed God. He's out there building this great big vessel. Now wait a minute. Hey boys, it's never, it's never rained. It's never even sprinkled. It's never sprinkled at all. He's out there, hey, you need to get right with God. You need to get right with God. Did anybody get right with God? No. Noah, his wife, his three sons, their three wives, those eight people. Establish God's priorities in their lives. In Genesis chapter 7, God says, Come thou into the ark. Noah and his family goes inside the ark. God himself closed the ark door up. What happened? It began to rain. Eight people had established God's priorities in their lives. That rain came, the flood came. Yeah, Noah preached for years. Decades. He had been preaching. You need to get right with God. You need to establish God's priorities in your life. Oh, Noah, you're crazy. Well, that flood came. What happened? Everybody perished. You know, judgment day is coming. Everybody needs to establish God's priorities in our lives. Well, verse 12 has got some confusion about it. Verse 12, look at it. Looking for and hasting unto the coming of the day of God. Some people think, according to verse 12 That uh, well, okay, Brother Fox, I'm going to try to establish God's priorities in my life. I'm going to try to be completely obedient to God. And Brother Fox, according to verse twelve, if I will be completely obedient to God, I'll speed up The return of Jesus Christ. I don't think that's what verse 12 is talking about. I do not believe that I can speed up the return of the Lord When is Jesus going to return? I don't know the hour. No preacher knows. Any preacher who says he does. He's not telling you the truth. You can mark it off. That book came out in 1988. 88 reasons. Well, the Lord's gonna come back at 88. Wow, this is 2009, man. He wrote a book in 89, 89 reasons. Nobody bumped that book, you know. When is the Lord coming? I don't know. But I cannot speed up the Lord's return. The Lord's going to send Jesus at exactly when God wants him to come. My job is to be obedient. So then what is verse 12 talking about? Let me illustrate what I believe. I prayed about it, sought advice. I believe this is what verse 12 is talking about. Let me illustrate first 14 or 15 months ago was me and my wife's 25th anniversary. Every year in July, we have our anniversary treatment. And we took our anniversary trip around Pittsburgh and we had a oh about eight or nine days. We had a I mean we just had fun. We did some things that I'd never done before. I I I wanted to go see a Major League Baseball game, never been one I went and saw Pittsburgh and Houston playing. We was out there watching the game. Man, they're in that stadium. Uh uh the Mountain Dews were this big And they cost five dollars. That's too much. I had one. And um Nachos and cheese, five dollars! That's too much. It's my one time in a lifetime going, man. I had some Hey, there's giving away free caps. You know what I'm saying? If you bought nachos and cheese and a drink, man, you got a free cap. No, man, you pay for that cap. You know what I'm saying? And uh by the way, it rained us out in the fourth inning. I've seen three innings of Major League Baseball. On the way back to where we're staying, I had a little idea. There was something that my wife wanted for our anniversary. This is something she wanted. I got her several things. Married 25 years. I bought her some stuff, you know. But here's one thing she wanted. She wanted one of those we programs. W I. Wii. How many of y'all know what a Wii program is? Yeah. You know that thing. I mean bowl on it, archery on it, all that kind of stuff, man W on your TV or monitor, you know what I'm saying? So we found one finally because it's sold out all the time. And uh we found one that night after the three innings of ball And the five dollar Mountain Dew. We uh we found one. Two hundred and some dollars for that crazy thing. I'd save for that thing. And my wife ordered it. And so we bought one that night, hooked it up ten minutes till ten that night. Hook that thing up. Y'all played this thing? Listen, me and Renee and uh two of our friends, Nathan and Melanie, uh, we started bowling at about 10 o'clock that night You know what I'm saying? And then it was ten thirty, and then it was eleven o'clock, and then it was eleven thirty, and then it was twelve o'clock, and I'm still bowling, and it's twelve thirty, I Trying to get a perfect game and it's one o'clock and then it's one thirty and then it's two o'clock and then it's two thirty and then it's three o'clock Amin, the Ta' was flying and I still haven't got that perfect game. And you that have been following me on Facebook some, you've been seeing me talk about me and Renee bowling on that thing. I still haven't got that perfect game But we like bowling and we like archery and we like well a three-point ball, you know what I'm saying? Shooting them things, you know, and yeah, and you are getting a little bit of exercise. How much exercise is that? Not much And I try to hang my tongue out like Michael Jordan and man all that. We time just flies when me and my wife get to play that we You know something? I think that's what verse 12 is talking about. About the time just flying when you're serving God. When you're walking with Him. Hey kids I've been saved 37 years. Got saved when I was eight years old. Got called to be a preacher when I was 12 years old. Began uh preaching and leading and singing at age 13 and at age 15 began preaching in churches and all these years The time had just flown by. This Bible I got here, Oliver Green said, You need to get an old Schofield Bible. I got that 31 years ago. I'm still carrying that one with me. Heard those old timers. Harold Seitler preached. First time I heard him preach, took outline down in that Bible that I'm carrying tonight. I was 17. I'm 45 now. Woo! The time has flown. When you're serving God, it's wonderful. Sweeter gets the journey. Amen. I think that's what verse twelve is talking about, looking for the coming and hasting unto the coming of the day of God. What are we living for? Number one, we're living to carry out God's program. Number two, we're living to establish God's priorities, and lastly, quickly. We're living in the light of God's promises. We're living in the light of God's promises. I mean, look there in verse 9. The Lord is not slack concerning his Promise. Look in verse number 13. Nevertheless, we according to his promise were living in the light Of God's promises. I mean what do we have to live for? Well we're we're living in the light of God's promises. I'm walking in the light of God's promises. I'm resting in God's promises. What do we have to fret for? I'm walking with God. I'm living according to the Bible. I need to be living according to the Bible. I need to live according to His promises. And whatever God has promised will come to pass. Amen. Now, in the last 15 years as an evangelist, I have promised preachers all across places that I would come and preach. Out of a little over 7,000 preaching appointments. I've shown up every time except twice. It's bad not to show up. There's been two Christian school chapels that Brother Fox just forgot. Forgot what day of the week it was. Didn't go. That's bad. Now most of the time when I make my throne