Genesis chapter 42, verse 26. I'm going to read down through the end of the chapter. As I've said, we're studying the life of Joseph. He's been in prison. We know the story interprets the dreams for Pharaoh. He's placed number two in command of the what is possibly the most powerful nation in the world at this point in time. He's the number two man with all the prestige and the wealth and the influence and the authority that goes with that position. The famine, seven years of uh prosperity, seven years of famine. They're well into the seven years of famine that people are feeling The bite and folks are coming to Egypt from all around that part of the world looking for grain, which Egypt has plenty of under the leadership of Joseph And uh his brothers show up. And um I and I I'm operating on this assumption and I'm the more I study I think I'm I think I'm correct here, but um but I'm operating on this assumption that at this point Joseph is struggling in his attitude towards his brothers. And as I said multiple times, I probably will say it again some more, but you know, a tremendous man of integrity, uh incredible integrity. um and uh impeccable testimony. But nevertheless, he's still a man, he still has a sinful nature like everybody else. And so there's no reason to think that he did not have struggles. Would you agree with me? His brothers treat him pretty rough. I mean what they did was wrong. And it would be it would be an incredible thing for anybody, regardless of their level of integrity, to not struggle with having an attitude about that. And so I'm operating on that assumption. This brother show up. He speaks to them roughly. Remember? He accused them of being spies. And he just gave them a hard time. They don't know who he is, he knows who they are Uh puts him in prison. Then I think he softens up a little bit, says, alright, I'll let you go back. One of y'all stay here, Simon, stay here. Send the rest back, but you bring your yo younger brother that you told me about, which is who? Benjamin. He says, you bring your younger brother back, then I'll know your word's good and you're not a spy. So that's where we're at in the story. Let's pick up in verse 26. And they, the brothers, laden their asses with the corn and departed thence. So Simeon's back in the prison. The rest of the boys are heading back home. And as one of them opened his sack to give his ass provender in the inn, he espied his money, for behold, it was in his sack's mouth. And he said unto his brethren, My money is restored, and lo, it is even in my sack. And their heart failed them, and they were afraid, saying one to another, What is this that God hath done unto us? And they came unto Jacob, their father, in the land uh unto the land of Canaan, and told him all that befell them, saying, The man who was lord of the land spake roughly to us, and took us for spies of the country. And we said unto him, We are true men, we are no spies. We be twelve brethren, sons of our father. One is not, they're referring to Joseph. And the youngest is this day with our father in the land of Canaan. And the man, the lord of the country, said unto us, Hereby shall I know that ye are true men. Leave one of your brethren here with me, and take food for the famine of your ho for the famine of your households, and be gone. And bring your youngest brother unto me, then shall I know that ye are no spies But that you're a true man. So will I deliver you, your brother, and ye shall traffic in the land. So he says, you go back uh here they're telling Daddy, listen, we can go back and forth. We just got to take our little brother down here He shall traffic in the land. Verse 35. It came to pass as they emptied their sacks that behold, every man's bundle of money was in the sack. And when both they and their father saw the bundles of money, they were afraid. And Jacob, their father, said unto them, Me have ye bereaved of my children. Joseph is not, Simeon is not, and ye will take Benjamin away. All these things are against me. And Reuben spake unto his father, saying, Slay my two sons if I bring him not to thee. Deliver him into my hand, and I will bring him to thee again. And he, Jacob, said, My son shall not go down with you, for his brother is dead, he is left alone. If mischief befall him by the way in which ye go, then shall ye bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to the grave. I've entitled tonight's study, just I took it from verse 28, What is this? What is this? They said, What is this that God hath done unto us? Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless our study now. This portion of Joseph's life. Lord, we are convinced that you've preserved this account for our benefit so that we can learn. We can see principles of faith and Christian life and examples. So I ask that you would uh Holy Spirit be our teacher tonight that we can learn from this section. Lord, I yield my will to you and my mind. I pray that I would speak only that which you would have me to say, not my own rationale or reasoning. I ask that you would fill my body with your Holy Spirit and speak through me, that just be an instrument for you to speak through, that you would be the teacher tonight, the preacher. Help us have open hearts and minds to what you have for us. I pray. In Jesus' name I ask this. Amen. God often allows us to go through difficult circumstances. How many people could testify to that? Sure, we've all been through difficult circumstances. God allows these. Sometimes he sends them deliberately. Sometimes he allows them in his permissive will. But I think he uses them for various reasons. I think God allows us to go through various trials, circumstances for different reasons. One of those reasons, I believe, is to get our attention. These boys went through this. I'm a little ahead of myself in this statement, but they start talking about God. They hadn't been talking about God before. Now they're saying, what is God doing to us? This circumstance God used to get their attention. Direct our thoughts to himself, see his hand working in our lives. Everything's going well, everything's going our way, bills are paid, health is good, everybody's happy. Sometimes we don't see our need of God so much, but he allows us to go through something and suddenly we start thinking, you know, I need him more than I realize. So circumstances, God allows them, sometimes to get our attention, sometimes he allows us to go through circumstances to realign our priorities. I tell ya, sometimes our pro anybody here ever get your priorities out of whack? Yeah, some we get caught up in something, man, we get and all of a sudden we go through something and we say, wait a minute, wait a minute, is this really that important to me? And so to realign our uh priorities. It's interesting to me as we're looking what these fellows are going through. This famine they're facing and and uh the boys coming down here. I think Jacob and the boys are looking at this famine as a tragic Just chance of nature. Just something to happen. There are famines. And there are. There's all through history There have been famines. And so I don't know that they see anything spiritual spiritual significance in this famine. It's uh no indication they saw God's hand in any of this It's just something that happens, you have to deal with. And that's what I think the Jacob and the boys' perspective is going into this However, Joseph, on the other hand, I'm convinced he sees this famine in a totally different perspective He understands that this is not just a chance of nature, but this is the actual hand of God doing something. Now I mean we know that he knows this for two reasons. Number one, his dreams about him being placed in a position of authority have have been fulfilled. Those prophetic dreams have been fulfilled. He saw it firsthand. Remember when he saw his brothers? He remembered his dream. He said, God's in this. God is doing something. This is what God said would take place And so he Joseph is in this situation in a much more confident, with a much more confident perspective than what the his brother is doing, his daddy. It's just something that happens. Joseph says, no, no, no, God's doing something. And then also, he interpreted the prophetic dreams for Pharaoh, which said specifically, seven-year plenty, seven-year famine. Joseph was confident that all that was taking place was taken place by the hand of God. That God was in this. And I don't know about you, but I think it's a whole lot more comforting, a whole lot, there's a lot more assurance when I can be confident that whatever's happening in my life isn't just some happenstance, no purpose, just The way things happen, can be a whole lot more confident when I say, you know, I might not know exactly everything God's doing, but I know God's in this I know God's in control. I know God has a plan and purpose. So you have these two very different perspectives on what they're dealing with and what they're going through. Uh the boys, Jacob, it's just we gotta deal with it, we've got to go to Egypt. Joseph, very, very confident God's in control. I think the famine itself, before we get to our text here, I think the famine itself had a threefold purpose. We touched on this in an earlier message, but one of the purposes of this famine famine was to get The family of Israel, it's not a nation at this point, they're just a family, 70 members, plus uh various households, uh workers involved, to get them down to Egypt. God had told Abraham That his descendants would be in Egypt for 400 years. And so God has a plan, He's purpose, He's put together. I think it was part of God's plan to coalesce this family into a nation Transform it from just a big family to an actual nation, which they are today still. And so bringing Israel down to Egypt is this famine is part of its purpose is to get them down there Number two, to exalt Joseph to the leadership position. As we mentioned, God told him you're going to be in this position. And so this famine brings Joseph up to that position. But I think there's a third purpose, and we're seeing this unfold here now. And we will in the next several lessons. There's a family relationship being restored. The brothers had betrayed and, in all intents and purposes, murdered Joseph. In their minds, they they believe he's dead. Joseph, Jacob believes he's dead. And so Joseph is struggling. He sees his brothers. I think he's struggling with his attitude to get revenge and he could crush them. He could destroy them if he wanted to And he's struggling back and forth. And God is working, God is working to bring that family back together again. And we'll see when it's all said and done, that family's reunited and they're together And so famines and circumstances God brings in our lives for various reasons. And we can look at it, it's just, well, there's just nothing, no purpose, no meaning to it. Or we can say God's doing something here God's working. Here's my outline of beginning in verse number 26 through 28. My first thought is this. I notice their return home. They're returning home. Look again at verse number 36, uh verse number 26. And they laden their asses with the corn and departed thence. Now, I don't know about you, but there's no doubt in my mind, their heads are spinning. They're leaving Egypt. They are thinking to themselves, what in the world just happened? All we've been through, accused of spies, our brother is in prison. We were in prison and Simeon, we're leaving Simeon back here in a strange land. What in the world is going on? I'm confident their heads are spinning, they're asking uh I I see them traveling uh up the path with uh with all their supplies and their They're beasts of burden and and they're traveling. And I'm I don't know. This is my imagination, but I see every one of those boys just kind of staring in their own thoughts, trying to figure out what in the world's going on here As they head home, what took place. I notice, first of all, notice here in verse 27. As they're returning home, they discover their money. Look at verse 27. And as one of them opened his sack to give his ass provinder in the inn He has spied his money, for behold, it was in the sack's mouth. Now I did a little digging here, and I found out it's about approximately 250 miles. From where they are in Egypt back to Canaan, where Jacob, where home is, about 250 miles. And so your average donkey, according to what I found, looking things up, I'm not a donkey expert. But they said your average donkey pulling a burden, carrying a burden, could travel uh 25 to 30 miles a day fairly comfortably. So they're loaded down heavy. They they're coming in heavy. And uh they've got no doubt scores of donkeys They maybe have some wagons or carts, we're not sure, but they're hauling these supplies that's going to have to last them probably a year from Egypt up to their family, which is 70 plus members at this point. And so they're loaded down. And they got to travel about 250 miles. And it says here in verse 26 that as one of them opened his sack to give his ass provender at the inn. He finds this money. So going 25 miles a day, got to go 250 miles, so if they went one day, they're one-tenth of the way home. Now, it doesn't tell us how far they are into this journey home. Did they only travel one day? Have they been traveling several days and they come to this inn? Where they stop and they open up this sack. We're really not told. They probably had two categories or two types of sacks with them One of them would have been a sack that would have provender or provisions for while they're traveling. That would be a much smaller. It would just be enough to get them till they get home. Then they would have the larger sacks with the supplies. And these would be very, very large containers of some sort. And so they had this this provision sacks where they're going to feed the animals and they no doubt maybe make some bread or whatever out of themselves but it's just for traveling. That's what they're opening up. Now I want to mention the inn. It says they stopped at this inn. They may have been traveling several days. And they had their own supplies. They used up what they had. Now they're breaking into what they got in Egypt, these traveling sacks, provender sacks. They get to this end. Now, the end is not what you and I would imagine an end to be. It's not what we're picturing. It was not a holiday end. Alright, they didn't have a check-in and swimming pool and a weight room and all that stuff. In fact, there was probably, as I was studying this, there was probably no permanent residence there. There may have been some sort of structure a little bit, maybe to get in out of weather, perhaps. But um everyone I everything I studied about this They described it, one in particular, fellow, described it as kind of like a campground. It might be some sort of oasis there, some sort of water Maybe some greenery, but it was just a good place to stop. And there was right along this caravan trail. We talked about it in an earlier study. where they had this route where these caravans would travel from uh upper Middle East down to Egypt. And they were stationed on these inns or these supply these watering hole type things But it's nothing like what you and I would picture an inn. It's nothing like the inn that's referenced when Jesus was born, Mary and Joseph, there was no room for them at the inn. It's not even like that At best, it's a campground type thing. So they get there, perhaps they've been traveling a couple days, they've used whatever was ever left over, their supplies coming down. Now they're breaking into what they got in Egypt. And one of the fellows, and we're not told who, opens his sack, this provinder sack, this smaller one probably for the uh animals And it says that his money was in the sack. Now look at verse 27. Notice at the end of the verse, God makes the point to tell us where the money was in the sack. Where was it at? In the sack's mouth. In other words, as soon as he opened up, the money is right there. It's not buried. It's not stashed away down in there. It sounds to me like it was deliberately placed there so it would be found immediately. You know what I think? I think Joseph's messing with them. Joseph wanted to make sure he put it in that provinder sack, which he knew they were going to have to open. at some point on the way, and he made sure they found it first off. He was making sure they didn't miss the fact that they had money in the sack. He emptied their sack. Oh, by the way, it says it was um uh it was in the sack's mouth. Come over to verse 35. When they eventually get home We find a little different scenario. Look at verse 35. It came to pass as they emptied their sacks that behold, every man's bundle of money was in his sack. These are the supply sacks. No doubt, these are much larger. With a huge amount of grain. It sounds to me like in those larger sacks all their money is buried down in there. They don't find it until they empty the sack, and then they find the money However, this back in verse 27, it's right in the mouth. They find it right away. I think Joseph's struggling. I think uh he's I think Joseph Is wanting them to be afraid. He wants them to be afraid. Now, some have suggested that Joseph was just trying to be nice in a secret kind of way. And he's wanting to put this, give them their money back, but not let him know, you know, in another way. I don't know. Uh this is an awfully scary way To be a blessing to somebody, which I'm no doubt he was wanting, you know, to make take care of them, but I think he is wanting them to understand he is in charge and he wants them to be afraid of them He wants them to be afraid of him. That's my opinion. So the discovery of their money, then look at verse 28, the first part, the dread of their situation. Verse 28 he says, it says, um, uh let me get back here. Verse 28 says, and he said unto his brethren My money is restored, and lo, it is even in my sack. Now look what it says. And their heart failed them, and they were afraid. Two statements. Their heart failed them. That phrase their heart failed men, it's probably a reference to the fact that they went into a state of hopelessness. We are dead meat. We barely got out of Egypt alive. And now we've got the money. They're going to think we stole it. And they're going to think we don't have a chance. We're dead. Their heart failed them. Any hope of of surviving this situation is gone And then they were afraid. That word afraid is literally translated other places in the Bible to tremble. I mean, they are literally shaking in their boots. Have you ever been so scared that your hands actually trembled? Anybody ever been there? I have. And that's where these guys are. They are scared to death. Now think about this. These are the boys that were standing over Joseph's pit, saying, You're dead, boy. You're dead, son. Code of many collars mocking him. Now that thing has completely turned around. I tell you, the Bible says, he that exalteth himself shall be what? Abased. They exalted themselves over Joseph, and now they're on the other end of the stick. And so their heart fails them, the dread of the situation. Again, I believe Joseph is deliberately scaring these boys. I think he wants them to understand that he's in charge and he can do what he wants. And then here's what caught my attention. This is where I got the title from for the lesson. Their discussion turns to God. They discover the gold, dread takes over, and now they start discussing God. Look what they said at the end of the verse. And they were afraid, saying one to another. It's not just one guy saying this. They're talking back and forth. What is this that God hath done unto us? I did a little research. This is the first time I find these boys talking about God. This is the first time I find these boys considering that maybe God is active in their life. Maybe God is real and alive and actually doing something. This is the first time they consider the fact that God may be working in their lives. You know, God knows how to get our attention, doesn't he? Man, he can get our attention awfully quick. Do you ever notice when a tragedy strikes, I don't know anymore, I don't never watch news, and the whole news structure, how it's given out, has changed But back in the day when there was the three network stations and some tragedy would hit, almost without exception, the news broadcaster would say something, our prayers are with you. Anybody remember back in the day? I remember Peter Jennings saying, I think it was 9-11, he was saying, our prayers are for our nation. Now these are the guys that mocked God. These are the guys that ridicule Christians and fundamentalists. But I tell you, God has a way of shaking us. God has a way of getting our attention And get us thinking of the Lord. Revelation chapter 3 and verse 20, a lot of us are familiar with that verse. It says, Behold, I stand at the door and knock. When you knock on someone's door, you're trying to do what? Trying to get their attention. Somebody's here, somebody's out there. When we go soul winning, I always like to when I go up to the door, I like to knock good and firm. I like to knock on the frame, not just the door, but on the frame of the door, and knock good and hard, because I want to get their attention, whatever they're doing I want them to stop and realize, hey, somebody's out here. Now some of our soul worders, when they knock on the door, I think they knock like this. Oh, nobody's home. Listen, when God knocks on our door, when God wants to get our attention, he knows what to do to get our attention. And he's got these boys' attention. He's got them thinking about the Lord. God is knocking on these boys' doors, and he is knocking loud. Is getting their attention, getting their attention. So, number one, the first thing I notice in verse 26 through 28 is their return home, their journey home. Now we get to verse 29 and we have their report to their father They finally got home. 250 miles. They made it home. First thing they do, they go to daddy. Look at verse number 29. And they came unto Jacob their father. First thing they do, they go right to Daddy. They came unto Jacob their father, unto the land of Canaan, and told him all that befell them. Unto them, say, the man who is Lord of the land spake roughly to us And took us for spies of the country. And we said unto him, We are true men and are no spies. We be twelve brethren, sons of our father. One is not, and the youngest is this day with our father in the land of Canaan. And the man, the Lord of the country, said unto us, Hereby shall I know you are true men. Leave one of your brethren here with me. Take food for the famine of your household and be gone. And bring me your youngest brother unto me, then shall I know you are no spies, but that you are true men. So will I deliver you your brother, and ye shall traffic in the land. I think that's obvious. They respected, they recognized their father's authority, and they respected that. Now remember, these are grown men. They're perhaps in their 50s at this point, 40s, 50s. The first thing they do to go to daddy, he's the authority in the home, he's their daddy They respect that, and for all we say about these boys, all the negative characteristics of these boys, one thing we find throughout their account is they always respected Jacob. And that's a good thing. And so they show up there, and the first thing they do is they describe their experience. And if you notice, when I was reading it all the way down through verse 34, they really go pretty accurate description of what took place. I don't find any exaggeration on their part. I don't find them altering what happened. Now they leave a few things about the three of them, about all of them spending three days in prison They don't share that part, but for the most part it's very accurate and a pretty detailed account of what took place down there. So they describe their experience, then they uh they discover the rest of their money. Look at verse 35. It says And it came to pass, as they emptied their sacks, that behold, every man's bundle of money was in his sack And when both they and their father saw the bundles of money, they were afraid. Now these would have been these larger sacks, as we mentioned before. that would have been on the the beasts of bird and carrying them. They wouldn't have touched these while they were traveling home. This is they're going to bring them home. They're going to empty these into some sort of storage. And this is what they're going to live off for the next months. Till they run out or till the famine ends. And appears, like I said before, I mentioned, this money was hidden down in the sack. They were down in there. If they opened them right up, they didn't see it. But as they dumped them out. My guess is any other situation, they would have been glad. Knowing these boys, I mean they had no problem slaughtering a whole slew of people back when they messed with their sister They had no problem throwing their going to kill their brother and end up selling him for a couple coins as a slave. So knowing their mentality, knowing their morals I would imagine if they would have gotten all this and they got the money back, in any other circumstance, they'd have been, look at this, yes, we got all our money back, right? You follow what I'm saying? But this is a whole nother scenario. They've got the most number two most powerful man perhaps in the world. Giving them a hard time, and they show up with his money in their sacks. And so Joseph has them afraid. Joseph has them scared. Whatever he was trying to accomplish, he got it. But I think there's another factor here, and we talked about this last week. I think there's a guilty conscience in play here. Do you ever notice when you have a guilty conscience, every you become sensitive to a lot of things? Anybody know what I'm talking about? You get a little um uh the the wicked flee when no man pursueth And that old guilty conscience, I think, is working away at them. And they're looking at this, and it is fear down in their hearts. So number one, we have to return back. In the first couple verses. Then they report to their father, verse 29 to 35. Then last of all, we have the reaction of Jacob. Jacob reacts to all that took place. They just told him all this stuff. And notice how he reacts. Verse 36. And Jacob their father said unto them, Me have ye bereaved of my children. Joseph is not. Simeon is not. And he will take Benjamin away. All these things are against me. Jacob goes into instant despair. I mean, he instantly goes into that dark hole of despair. He loved Joseph. Joseph is gone. I think he loved his boys, loved Simeon. Simeon is gone. And now there's in his mind a very real likelihood that he's going to lose Benjamin also. And he is in absolute despair. Now, Jacob is an interesting character study. He's a unique man. He's different than Isaac, he's different than Abraham, and he's certainly different than Joseph. Jacob is characterized, as I look at his life, I see two characteristics of Jacob. Number one is negativity. Jacob always sees the dark side of something. He's characterized by self-pity. If you would come over to chapter 47, just a few chapters back here. This is later they're down in Egypt and Joseph is wanting to introduce his father to Pharaoh, the most powerful man And notice what Jacob says when he's introduced to Pharaoh, and he makes a statement about himself. Chapter 47. Look with me at verse 9. Now we're jumping ahead a good bit here. But I just want to point out the fact that he tends to be very, very negative. Self-pity. Verse 9. And Jacob said unto Pharaoh, now he's being introduced, verse 8. Pharaoh asked him how old he is. And he says, the days of the years of my pilgrimage are 130 years. He could have stopped there. I'm 130 years old. But he doesn't. The days of the years of my pilgrimage are 130 years. Now look what he says. This is him. This is Jacob Pew and evil have been the days of the years of my life, and I have not and have not attained unto the years of the life of my fathers in the day of their pilgrimage. Do you hear a little hint of self-pity there? Oh, 130 years old, oh, they've been rough years. They've been terrible. Oh, 130 years and I didn't live as long as my fathers did. Nothing positive. He's meeting perhaps the most well known human being on the planet. Perhaps the most powerful human being politically speaking on the planet, and all he can say is how terrible he's had it and how short he's lived. That's Jacob. Jacob Negativity. And then he's also characterized by weak faith. Come back here to our text, chapter 42 again. And verse 36, Jacob their father, this is his response to what he just heard. Me have ye bereaved of my children, Joseph is not, Simeon is not, and ye will take Benjamin away. All these things are against me. Do you notice anything missing here? I see no mention of prayer You would think, being a patriarch, I mean, he his granddaddy was Abraham, man of phenomenal faith. Isaac, tremendous man of faith. You would think maybe when all this came in, he might have said something like this: you know what, boys, we need to pray. We need to get on our knees and pray. How many people think that would be a rational response of somebody that has faith in God? I'm going to pray. So I if something happens, you know, goes on, I said, Man, I gotta I gotta pray. Not Jacob No mention of prayer whatsoever. Not even a consideration of going to God for wisdom, for direction, for help, for understanding. God to intervene. No mention of prayer whatsoever. No mention of faith, trusting God. You know, this is a patriarch. This is a great man. And it looks like maybe, well fellas, listen, we don't understand what's going on, but we're going to trust God. We're going to have faith in God. Remember when Abraham was called to go out of Ur, and he was supposed to go to a land which he knew not? The Bible says by faith he stepped out and did that. Jacob doesn't have that at all. Now, I don't want to be too hard on him. This is a tough situation. But we have the resource of prayer. We have that opportunity. You and I have the tremendous promises of prayer. We can come to God and pray. And find grace to help in the time of need. We can come to God, James says, and ask God for wisdom. And ask Him for strength and ask Him for help. How many times do we neglect to pray when we can pray? And we can trust God. The verse that got me through my Bible college years, Matthew or Mark 11, 22, Jesus answering some of them, have faith in God, have faith in God. Man, you're at the end of yourself and it's and it's difficult and you don't know the answers. Listen, trust God. Proverbs 3, 5, and 6, of course Jacob didn't have these passages, but he had the truth. He had faith available. Trust in the Lord with all thy heart. Lean not known into thine own understanding. In all thy ways, acknowledge him. He'll direct your paths. Trust them. Let them lead you. How wonderful it might have been. And again, I don't want to be too hard on Jacob because I don't know that I would have responded much better. But he could have prayed and he could have said, let's trust God. Let's see what God's doing here. And by the way, God was doing something. They just didn't say it. They didn't see it. So he goes instantly into despair. He goes instantly into despair. Then in verse number 37, we find this irrational solution that Rubin comes up with. Look at verse 37. And Reuben spake unto his father. Now they need to get Benjamin down there, one, so they can get Simeon back, and number two, so they can get more food. They're going to run out eventually. So Simeon is being pragmatic here. He's trying to say, you know, Daddy, listen, let's get this over with. Let's get the boy. Give me Benjamin. I'll run down there. We'll get Simeon back. We'll pick up some more supplies. And then this will all be over with. But listen, I don't know, I call it an irrational solution he comes with. He's trying to talk his daddy into letting him take Benjamin down. Look what he says. Reuben spake unto his father, saying, Slay my two sons. If I bring him not to thee, deliver him into thy hand, and I will bring him to thee again. He goes, Daddy, let me take Benjamin down there, we'll get Simeon back, we'll prove him we're not spies. Maybe we'll get some more supplies. I'll be back here another ten another month or so, and this will all be over, everything will be fine. And if I don't, you can slay my two children Now, I'm looking at this, I'm thinking, what satisfaction would Jacob get in killing his two grandsons? Doesn't even make sense. The rationale. Now here's the thing: when we get in despair and we get overwhelmed with fear, we tend to say and do irrational things, right or not? We tend to say stuff we really don't mean, and we tend to do things we really wouldn't have normally done. And they are absolutely overtaken by fear. They are absolutely overtaken By despair, and they're not thinking clearly, and they're not acting rationally. Slay my two sons. What possible satisfaction would Jacob get? In slaying two of his grandsons. No prayer, no faith leads to foolish actions. And then last, verse 38, I notice this. And he, Jacob, said, My son shall not go down with you. And I can hear in Jacob's voice how emphatic he is. He is saying, this is not happening. My son shall not go down with you, for his brother is dead, and he is left alone. If mischief befall him by the way in which you go, then shall you bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to the great. You will not do this. Let me ask you this. What is Jacob's primary concern here? Whose well-being is Jacob concerned about the most? Jacob's well-being. And that is the root of his negativity, and that is the root of his lack of faith. He is obsessed with himself. It's all about me. And he makes this he takes this inflexible stand. He's not given any wiggle room at all. This is not happening. No prayer, no faith, just a stubborn, self-centered decision. Me. Me. But you take your Bible, and I'm going to end with this. Go with me to James chapter 4. Now the interesting thing is I just preached on this Sunday. James chapter 4, and look with me at verse 13. Now remember, Jacob said, he is not going down. You are not going down. This is not happening at all under any circumstances whatsoever at all. James chapter 4, verse 13 says, Go to now, ye that say, Today or tomorrow, we will go to such a city and continue there a year and buy and sell and get gain. Let me rephrase that for the context of Jacob. Go to now, ye that say, we will not go to such a city, and we are not going to continue there. We're not going to buy and sell. We are not doing this. Verse fourteen, Whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrow? Or what is your life, even a vapor pierce for a little while For what ye ought to say, if the Lord will, we shall live or do this or that. Let me put it in Jacob's context. If the Lord will, we shall not do this or not do that. But now you rejoice in your boasting, and all such rejoicing is evil. Anyone want to guess what happened? Jacob said, We are not going down there. Benjamin is not going down there. Guess who ended up going down there? Oh yeah, they did go down. And they were glad. And they were glad. We have to be careful that we don't exclude God from our thinking. We have to be careful we don't operate on our own rationale and our own reasoning and our own stubborn self-centered will and say, you know, maybe God's doing something here. How much better, and again I'm being critical of Jake. I don't know how I'd respond in his shoes, but how much better would it have been to say, fellas, let's trust God? Let's just pray, let's have faith in God. And God wills, we'll go down there, we'll take Benjamin down, we'll clear this all up, get this all cleared up, we'll get it taken care of. But he didn't, but he didn't. Now God works. God works and brings all this around and eventually God's will is accomplished. But I found it's a whole lot easier to cooperate with God and let him have his way than to fight God and have him force his way. Anyone know what I'm talking about? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless and help us, Lord, to trust you. Help us to pray. Help us have faith And Lord, we'll just see what you do in our lives and how you use us. I wonder if heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder if there'll be some tonight say, you know, God spoke to my heart. And I need to learn to trust God a little bit more. Just have faith in God. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray. I just need to learn to trust God. My hands raised. Goodness. What if there's some say, preacher, I need to make prayer higher priority rather than just leaning on my own rationale, but come to the Lord for wisdom and for understanding and direction. Are you like that? I need a break prayer. You know, I think that's a lifelong struggle in the Christian life. Just keeping these things, faith and prayer, keeping them in place. Father bless. Now our invitation in Jesus' name. Amen.