Uh uh I I'm glad that we can report when things are going well. We're seeing a lot of professions, a lot of decisions, and then we report when maybe we don't have as many, but we keep it before us and we pray and we work hard and just stay at it So um thank you Mark for that. If you would turn to James chapter five. We're coming towards the end of our study of the book of James. One other thing while you're finding your place there. Last week all the kids down is this from Children's Church, Brother Dave? Is that where that was from? And the kids in Children's Church put together some nice little packet with candy and gifts and notes in there for all our bus workers And we weren't able to get it in on the bus Sunday, but um it's up here and we're so we're gonna divvy these out, Brother Andy. I'll give you first choice you can work through and then we'll divide them up among our bus workers. But I thought that was great. All the kids down there put that together for the bus workers. James chapter 5, and uh we're just going to look at verse number 14. I'm going to read 14 and 15. We're not going to get to verse 15 in this message. But uh notice what verse 14 says, Is any sick among you? Let him call for the elders of the church, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. And the prayer of faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise them up. And if you have committed sins, they shall be forgiven him. I notice in verse number 14, it's a very clear statement. Is any sick among you? Then he tells us what to do. Let him call for the elders of the church. Let him pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. What to do when you're sick? Let's pray and ask the Lord to help us. Now, Father, as we look at this passage, please teach us, Holy Spirit, and open our hearts and minds that we can accept your teaching here, apply it to our lives, our church ministries. I yield my body to you and present my body and yield my will and ask with all my heart, Father, you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit. Lord, I want to be correct In teaching this, I want to be true to your word, and so guard my words and direct my thinking as we teach our understanding of this passage. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Big issue. in our country right now and actually for Kathy and I in our individual lives is the issue of health care And how do we provide health care for people in our country? I was down in New Zealand a couple months ago. I had several people in different cities we were in in meetings. We got talking about different things Uh it's interesting to me how people in other countries are very concerned about the elections in United States of America. But several of them are asking me about the health care situation. One fellow in particular, we talked for quite some time about the health care situation in America. I said really to boil it down, it's a disaster. It's a mess. And a big issue is our health care. Should the government provide health care for us? Should it be a private thing and we can uh do that way? I want to suggest to you that here in this passage, among other passages throughout Scripture, God gives to us a health care program. What to do when we're sick. And this is God's health care program. I think if you'll notice carefully when we take prayer requests, pay attention. When we take prayer requests, Wednesday night, well this Wednesday we've got missions conference, next Wednesday, we have a regular prayer meeting, and we get that prayer list. I want to challenge you. Look on that list as to what list is the longest. The list with health needs is probably two to one longer than any other request that we have. When I have people come and ask me for prayer, they'll say, Pastor, will you pray for I would say eighty percent of the time or more, it's something related to health care. It's a physical need And so our physical well-being. So he addresses this here. Now here's what is. What do you do when you're sick? Is anyone sick among you? Here's my first point. Let me get right into it. Number one, I want us to notice the problem addressed here The problem addressed here. There's two aspects to this problem. Is any among you sick? First of all, the first aspect of this problem is the seriousness of this sickness. Now I get that from this. I got looking up that word sick and how it's used and what exactly does it mean. You know, that could have a lot of different uh applications, a lot of different uh uh areas being dealt with when you say some sick. You could say, uh, I'm sick of eating hot dogs every day at lunch. Well you're not physically sick, you're just tired of it. It's getting old. You can say I'm sick and you can talk about being physically sick. What does he mean when he says sick? The word sick here has this idea behind it, has this. To be sick to the point of being powerless. Or to the sick, sick to such a degree that I'm unable to function. When he says, is any among you sick? He's not talking about, does any of you have a common head cold? He's not saying, Do you have a headache? You got brasitis. You got a corn on your toe. When he says, is any among you sick, he's talking about a very extreme case of sickness. I got looking how that word is used throughout Genesis in different places or not Genesis, Gospels in different places. I found out the word is used, it's almost always, whenever there's a list of issues, and the word sick, this word sick is in the list of issues. It always has a list of people with leprosy, demon possession, uh uh withered hands I mean, this is not just a trivial case of discomfort or just common ill ailments that we face throughout life. When he's asking the question, is there anybody sick among you? He's saying, listen, is there anybody that is so sick that they are incapacitated? They're unable to function. Um a an extreme case of sickness. So keep that in mind when he goes through here and instructs us what to do. He's not talking about if you've got an ear infection or you've got an abscess tooth. He's talking about serious, serious illness here. So the second aspect, the first is the seriousness of this sickness. The second aspect, the saints that are sick. Notice what he says here: is any sick among you? He's addressing a specific group of people here. He is talking about the folks within the local church. He's addressing people who are believers, people who are part of the family of God. He's not out there, he's not suggesting that we go out and have healing campaigns. And just invite everybody in the world, come on out. If you've got some sickness, you come on out. We're gonna have this healing campaign, we're gonna have this special prayer. No, that's not what he's talking about at all. He's saying within the body of Christ, within the household of God, within the local church. Are there somebody in your church In your body of believers, in the household of God that is seriously, seriously ill. That's what he's talking about. So, first of all, is the problem addressed here. Second of all, are the prayers that he suggests The prayers that he suggests. Again, look at this. Is any sick among you? Let him call for the elders of the church and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. He uses that phrase let him. That suggests to me, and I may be wrong on this, but I don't think so. I never think I'm wrong, but I may be. But my understanding of when he says, let him do this, he's making, he's giving this as an allowance. He's not commanding us to do this. He's not saying if you get seriously ill. We have a fellow here this morning, one of our members, Brother Rick Cup, is having tests on a thyroid. They're testing for cancer. That's pretty serious. That's pretty serious there. And he says, all right, in a case like that, and something where it's very serious, and it has potential being capacitating Let him do this. He's not commanding him to do this. He's allowing for this. I take it as a suggestion, an option that I have. Now what is the option? I see two prayers here, actually. Is any among you, is any sick among you? Let him, and there's Two quote-unquote prayers given here. Let him call for the elders of the church. The word call there is a form of prayer. He's asking, making requests, making invitation for the elders of the church. So there's kind of a call for the elders is a prayer of sorts, an invitation. And then it says, have them pray over him. That's the first one is a invitation. The other one is intercession. Where the elders of the church are going to come by, they're going to anoint him with oil, and they're going to pray over him. They're going to pray for him. They're going to stand before God on behalf of the one that is ill and pray for him. So the invitation, call the elders, the intercession, have them pray for him. Now I want to give you, I want to go through this quickly. I want to give you what to do when seriously ill. We're going to take this passage and we're going to incorporate in other passages of scriptures. I want to suggest maybe jot this down. I think this might be helpful to us individually. Might be able to enable us to help others. But when we're seriously ill, what should we do? The Bible gives us several suggestions. I want to go through these quickly. When seriously ill, number one, this is what we should do. Number one, we should entreat the Lord. Entreat the Lord. In other words, when I get sick, the first thing I need to do is what? Pray. That's what we mean by entreat the Lord. Philippians 4, 6. Be careful for nothing, but in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your requests. Be made note unto God. I want to suggest to you, in every need, whether it's sickness or not, my first response should be prayer. Not my last response. It kind of gets under my skin, and I've probably said this myself, and I get under my own skin sometimes, but uh uh I get to some well I guess there's we've tried everything else. Now we just have to pray. I want to suggest, rather than waiting until we've tried everything else, why don't we pray first? Why don't we seek the Lord first? In fact, I want to suggest For a mature Christian, if Christians walk with God, when something comes up of serious sickness, my very first, my instinctive reaction Should be, I need to go to the Lord with this. I need to bring this to God. So, number one, when seriously ill, or not so seriously ill, the first thing I'll do is entreat the Lord. Number two I ought to be examined by a doctor. When I'm ill Very first reaction is, oh Lord, please help me. Help me get well. Lord, I'm asking you not to make this serious illness. I ought to pray first thing, but I also ought to be examined by a doctor. Somebody says, Preacher, you ought to have faith. You don't trust doctors, trust God. Well, in Matthew 9:12, Jesus sanctioned going to doctors. He made this statement. He said, They that are whole need not a physician, but they that are. Sick. Jesus says if you're sick, you ought to go to the doctor. If you're ill, you'll go to the doctor. If you're well, don't go to the doctor. Now This is a little tangent, but if you are well, it doesn't hurt to go to the doctor every now and then get checked up. Make sure you're well, right? And uh but anyway Uh what should we do? All throughout the Bible, doctors care and medical uh uh and medicine are commended by God. You go through Isaiah. He talks about putting plaster on uh who was it? Is it Hezekiah's uh uh boils, he had boils, and he suggested making this plaster and putting it on there That's a medicinal thing. Uh the good Samaritan. He found this fellow along the road and um he went and cared for him and he anointed him with oil and he did these different things and did some medicinal type things He didn't just say, brother, we're just going to trust God, make you will. God has gifted mankind with the ability to uh practice medicine. And doctors, so uh number one, if I get sick, I'm not well, I ought to pray, first of all, and treat the Lord. Number two, I ought to be examined by a doctor. And so that's important, and we believe that. And uh I'll just throw this out. When the doctor tells you to take certain medicine, you ought to take the medicine. Amen? You ought to do what the doctor says. Number three. Entreat the Lord, be examined by a doctor, and this brings us to our passage. Entreat the Lord, be examined by a doctor, and then entreat spiritual leaders. Notice he said here. Any sick among you? Let him call for the elders of the church. I want you to notice a few things in this statement here. He tells him, let them call for the elders of the church and let them pray over him and anoint him with oil. There's three things. Call for the elders. They pray for him and they anoint him with oil. Let's look at those three things. Notice the one initiating the response, the one responsible. for the initiative here. Who is that the one who is the one setting up that the elder is coming in praying for this person and anointing them over? Who's the one initiating that? The one that said It is the individual who is not well. It's their responsibility, if they so desire, to seek the elders of the church, the leadership of the church, and have them Pray for over them and anoint them with oil. The elders do not go to the sick. Now the elders is refers to the pastor, no doubt pastors, but it also would include spiritually mature folks in the church, primarily men spiritually mature folks in the church. But they do not go to the sick person. I don't show up and say, hey, I am here to pay of you and anoint you with oil. There's nothing wrong with me showing up praying with them and praying for them and all that. But in this context, the one that is sick. There's a very special incidence where he's calling in the elders. And they're anointing him with oil. He's praying for them. It is not the elders' initiative. It is not the church's initiative. We do not put out invitations to the public for folks to come here and we anoint them with oil and pray for their healing. That is not scriptural. And all these groups out there that have these great healing meetings and they're promoting this and saying, bringing them all in, that is not scriptural. It is the individuals who is not well their responsibility in in this context to seek them out. And um I and I got studying this and and I again I may be wrong in this and I need to research it a little bit more But I uh and and and and if I'm if you can think of somewhere where I'm mistaken on this, correct me later. Um but uh uh I can't find anywhere Where Jesus is calling out for to bring sick people to him. Now I may be missing somewhere, but Jesus is always going, going, going, going, and the sick are coming to him. They're bringing the sick to Jesus. Jesus isn't putting up healing campaign in Galilea this Friday night You don't do that. Oh, we're on a healing campaign and uh beside the Sea of Galilee. You don't do that. In the context here, someone's seriously ill, they seek out. They go to the leadership. So the one responsible to take the initiative is the one sick. The ones requested to intercede are the elders That's the spiritual leadership of the church, primarily the pastor, pastors, but to include other spiritually mature believers. Folks that have been around for a while, experience they have a testimony, walking with God, being mature and wise in the things of God. And then the response that's instructive. What are they supposed to do? Two things. First of all, they're supposed to pray over him. That is very appropriate. Let men of God pray over the sick. They come and pray. They intercede. On behalf of this one who is ill. And uh we've done that many times over the years. There's folks in the service here. We've done this along these lines. Where we come, gather some men together, maybe the deacons, the pastors, some spiritually men, get them together, and we stand before God on behalf of the one who is not well, and we ask God on their behalf for God's healing. For God to make them well and uh bring them. That's appropriate. That's compassionate. That's a church who cares about its people When they come request that prayer, and we pray for them. But they also pray over them. But then he gives this instruction, and this is where the questions arise. He says, anointing him with oil. Now, what is he talking about here? The word anoint simply means this, to place upon To take the oil and put it upon the one who is sick. That term is used throughout the Bible in previous passages. It's used with the idea of putting on makeup. Putting makeup on and uh you know you I d I'm not I don't know how this works, but I've seen my wife do it and you know you put that stuff on there and uh You know. And that's how the word is used, you're putting that on. Uh it's also used with the idea of putting on perfume. Uh cologne. You put a little here, a little here, a little dabble, do you, right here and there, and uh you're good to go. That's that's the idea behind the word anoint. And it has uh the idea of using ointments, some type of medicine. Like um we used to get s uh get uh get sore muscles, you put on bengay or uh what's that other? There's another kind, had a little roller you'd roll on there Uh absorbing junior. And that's the idea. You're putting that on there and and rubbing on. That's the idea. He says, All right. He says, all right, if you're seriously ill, you take the initiative You invite, you call the elders of the church, you ask them to come in, you want them to stand before God on your behalf, pray for you, but you also ask them You can let them anoint you with oil. Take this oil, no doubt, olive oil of sorts, and anoint that on you. Put that on you. Now that can mean one of two things. Some Bible scholars whom I highly respect and I go to sometimes to for to get trying to get answers to my questions about the Bible, some of them suggest that this is simply a medical procedure. That you're asking the elders of the church, the pastor of the church, to come in and take some oil and rub it into you like you would Absorbine Jr. Or some type of sun uh tan lotion or you got burn and you're putting Absorbine Junior uh or uh what's the other stuff? Uh cortis uh uh what do you when you get poison ivy? Um I never heard of that. But um Benadryl, you get a bee, a bee stings you put Benadryl on there, the baby don't go to sleep, give it some Benadryl. Um that type of thing So I had some of the Bible scholars that I go to their books and I'm looking up and they're saying, nah This is you have the elders of the church come in, they pray over them, and they take this ointment wherever they're sick, you rub it in there as some type of medical treatment, and hopefully that'll make them well. Now there's men that I highly respect believe that and say that's what this is teaching. idea behind that and that is this it's symbolic that the oil anointing them with oil is symbolic Of the Holy Spirit's presence and power. Oil is often associated in Scripture with the Holy Spirit. And the Holy Spirit's praying, and what they're doing, it's symbolic of seeking God's divine healing. Upon that person. Now you say, Preacher, which do you think it is? I'll tell you what I think it is. If it was medicinal I don't think you'd be calling in the preacher and the elders of the church to practice medicine on this person. You would call in a physician. You would call in a doctor. Um, this is an aside, but several years ago uh brother um Schindler was had to school in Philly and he conveyed upon me an honorary doctorate. And I was very uh it was very uh uh uh flattering and very uh um I was very honored by that and I was grateful for it. No way I deserved it, but I was very grateful for it. And I was going out shortly after that and one of the church members said, so what do we do? Call you a doctor now And um I said, I'm not your doctor, I'm your pastor, so call me pastor. And uh I don't believe he's call he's saying have the the pastors come in and perform a medical procedure on this person. That doesn't make sense to me. I believe when he's teaching here that you're sick, you're very seriously ill, you call in the leaders of the church, the elders of the church, They pray on your behalf, intercede for you, and they anoint you with your. . I think it's a symbolic gesture, symbolic act. That I am seeking and trusting God for supernatural healing on the one that is ill. I think that's what he's talking about. I do not believe for one minute there's a person on planet Earth that has the gift of healing. I think that's what done away with the apostles. I do not believe that anybody has the gift of healing, but I do believe with all my heart God miraculously heals people. We've seen it in our church, where God divinely intervened and healed people of a potentially serious illness, some cases very serious illness. God, listen, I I do not concede miraculous healing to the charismatics. It is biblical. Now it gets twisted around a lot where people claim to have these gifts and all that. That passed away with the apostles. I'm convinced of that. But God still heals. And what this is teaching, I'm convinced, is that if I am ill, very seriously ill, and we have several cases of that in our church, of our own volition. I'm not commanded, but I'm given this option. It is a suggestion. I can call in the elders of the church and say, I would like for you to do two things. I would like for you to pray over me. Intercede on my behalf that I get well. I would like to be anointed with oil, a symbolic gesture that God can and does often heal miraculously. Divine healing of God. I believe that's what he's teaching. We have prayed many times. I'm getting way ahead of myself in my notes here, but we have prayed many times where somebody was very, very ill. We prayed over them on some occasions. We've anointed in different times. We've anointed with oil. We don't do a lot, but if they request, we'll do it. And um and uh we asked God To intercede here and perform miraculous healing. We prayed that. That is a biblical prayer. I'm saying to you, there is nothing you and I can ask God for that is too big. You tell me God can't take cancer away, I don't believe that for one minute. You tell me God can't take some sickness, disease away, I don't believe that for one minute. All the miracles of the Bible, God is still able to perform. He's not lost his power. He's ever the same yesterday, today, and forever. Now my question is this, does God heal miraculously every time I request of him? No. And that leads me to my next point. I said what to do when we're seriously ill? Number one, entreat the Lord. Pray. Number two, be examined by a pa uh doctor. Get checked out. Number three, entreat the spiritual leaders. Ask them to come in. Pray over you, anoint you with oil. That's fine. That's what the Bible says. And then number four, I'll put this one down: Establish my attitude. And I I'm going to end with I'm going to end here in just a moment. Turn with me if you would real quickly to Psalm 119. And this is where Paul Science comes in. Adjust my attitude. Would you turn to Psalms 119, just about the middle of your Bible? And yesterday I sat beside Paul and we talked a little bit. I found in my files a poem Paul had written about Kathy and I on our 40th birthday. Anybody remember that? He wrote a little poem. It's about five pages long. I found that thing. I took it over there and Paul and I read it together and laughed. It's tremendous. And um we got talking a little bit, and I said, Paul, he made reference to when he got saved. It was a Sunday. He sat right up here on the second row. You just went through the whole thing with me yesterday. He sat right up here on the second row. He had just found out that he was very, very sick, that he had this disease. 1983, I think he said And he said, God gave him a verse when he got saved and when he found out about the sickness. It's Psalms 119, and notice with me verse 67. And we read this together. Psalm 119, verse 67. It says, before I was afflicted, I went astray. But now have I kept thy word. Thou art good and doest good. Teach me thy statutes. Yesterday we read that with Paul and he began to weep. He said, God gave me that verse. When I found out I was very sick, I had this disease. You know what God did? God adjusted Paul's attitude about that sickness. God allowed this sickness to come in so that I would get things right and I would seek the Lord, that I would cease going astray, and God is good in what He's allowing me to go through. Listen, we can call all the elders in the world in. We can be baptized in oil. But sometimes God's not going to heal us. Sometimes it's not God's will to heal us. And the most important thing I can do in that case is adjust my attitude and understand whether God heals me or not, He's good. He does right. Look over at verse 70, same chapter. Look at verse 71. It is good for me that I have been afflicted. Why? That I might learn thy statutes. The law of thy mouth is better unto me than thousands of gold and silver. Psalmists here is saying, listen, sometimes it's good for us to get sick. We understand more about God than when we weren't sick. That Bible makes more sense to me sometimes after I've been through it. After I've been through a difficult time, after I've been very, very sick, I've been staying faithful to God, I trusted God, and now I learned more things about God. Job said that For he went through his horrendous sickness. He said, before I heard you with the ears. Now I've seen what you can do And so, whenever I get sick and seriously ill, first of all pray. That's the first reaction. Go to the doctor, get checked out. Get the uh leadership of the church to come in. If you show desire, have them pray for you, anoint you with oil. But get your attitude right. Don't get bitter about that. Whether God heals me or not, God is still good. God is still good. Then the last one, and I am with this: exercise faith in God. And this ties in with establishing my attitude. The Bible gives no blanket formula for miraculous healings. It's not there. Well do this, this, and this, and boom. God promises you'll be well, you won't be get sick anymore. I've had people say to me, just recently I had somebody say to me, a lady say to me, it's not God's will for anyone to ever be sick. I said, I don't agree with that. The Bible makes that clear. In 2 Corinthians chapter 12, Paul was very ill. He was suffering a thorn in his flesh. And he besought the Lord three times to take that away from him. And God said, not take it away. You're stronger spiritually with that sickness than you are without it. I'm going to leave it. And Paul said, most gladly therefore will I glory in my infirmities, for when I'm weak, then I'm strong. That's exercising faith in God. If God heals me, praise the Lord. If God doesn't heal me, then God's still in control. God's still good. And I trust him. God does not make mistakes and God is not unkind. I can trust him. I can trust him. Deuteronomy chapter 3, Moses, the Bible says, I want to have time to look at this, but we don't. Moses comes before the Lord and he says Moses is going to die before the Israel enters the promised land. And I'm paraphrasing here, but Moses comes before the Lord and says, Lord, I'd like to not die Lord, I would like to go with your people into the promised land for forty years. I've been leading them for forty years. We've been talking about it and anticipating it. Lord, I would like to go into the promised land. And God says, in so many words, God says, No, Moses, you're going to die. You smoked a rock twice. I told you to speak to it. As a leader, consequences of our actions are far greater. I can't you can't go in. Moses rejoiced in the Lord. He said, okay, okay. I cannot, listen, we have to be careful that we don't claim promises that God didn't make. Be very careful about that. God has never promised that He will heal every disease and that will never be said. Can God heal diseases? Absolutely. Does God heal diseases? Yes, He does. But he didn't promise us that every time, if that was the case, there'd be people who never die. But God in his wisdom allows it. And so we exercise faith and we trust Him. I tell you, I said this before, and I don't want to overdo this, but Paul's testimony right now is tremendous. You talk about somebody that's on heaven's doorstep and fully trusting God Now no doubt if this drags out no doubt he'll go up and down. He's human. I'm sure he'll struggle with that. I would. I don't think I'd be as strong as he is. I don't know. But he has faith in God. He has faith in God And that's the challenge to us. When you get sick, you get really sick, pray. Go to the doctor, get checked out, do what he says. If you're so inclined, call for the leadership of the church. We'll come and pray with you and for you and herb you. We'll anoint you with oil. Do just what this verse says. And we'll ask God to miraculously heal you. But if he doesn't, Make sure your attitude's right, that God is good. Don't get bitter at God. And then trust Him. And however that thing plays out, He's doing his best. Romans 8. 28. We all know it. And we know. Say it with me. And we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. That's having faith in God. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we live in a false world. We understand that sickness is a very real issue. We deal with it continually. And Lord, we ask you would teach us as Christians, as children of God, to deal with the sicknesses that come our way in a biblical fashion. Trusting you and having faith in you and putting ourselves in your hands. We thank you for many you've healed. We've seen it firsthand. And Lord, for those times when you choose not to. And we love you and we trust you. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many tonight would say, Preacher, I want to live a life of faith? I want to be stronger in my faith, just trusting God, whether I'm sick or not. And just following his leadership and and letting him lead me and direct me and however he leads and whatever he allows, I'm going to have the right attitude, I want to have a right attitude, and I want to live by faith. Anything like that, uplifted hand, God bless you, that my hands raised, that's certainly the way I want to live. Now never forget and don't ever not believe that God cannot do the miraculous. He can, he does. But he doesn't always choose to do that, and so we trust him. We trust him. So someone here tonight say, preacher, I'm not sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know I'm saved. I want to be sure of that. Anybody at all? Anybody at all? How many folks here know someone that's not saved? Your burden for them, concern for them, all around. Our hands are raised. Let's live a life of faith and be a a walking sermon. Of God's goodness and God's grace. And share the word of God with Him. Father, bless now. I pray as we give the invitation. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Here's