To the book of Mark, Gospel of Mark, not the same guy. And uh we're gonna look Ralph and Edna were a happily married couple. They lived in a mental hospital and um they'd been there for years and We're kind of settled in. One day they're walking past the hospital swimming pool, and out of the blue, Ralph jumps into the swimming pool headfirst into the deep end, goes straight to the bottom and just stays there upside down, head first, in the deep end of the swimming pool. Well Edna jumped in immediately Swam down, grabbed him, pulled him out, got his head above water, and cleared his breathing passage, got him to the edge, got him up, uh, did um not CPR um What's Mount to Mount resuscitation and uh did all that and saved Ralph's life. Yay! A couple days later, the head nurse found out about Edna's heroic act and how she had uh did all this and she ordered Edna to be uh discharged from the hospital. She'd no longer be there. She was considered mentally stable. So she went to tell Edna the News. She says, Edna, I have good news and bad news. The good news is you're being discharged since you were able to rationally respond to a crisis by jumping in, saving the life of the person you love I concluded your act display, sound mental stability, and you're free to go. The bad news is, right after you rescued Ralph He hung himself in the bathroom with his bathrobe belt uh right after you saved him. I'm so sorry, but he's dead. And he replied, he didn't hang himself. I put him there to drive. Can I Can I go home soon? So if you ever find me hanging by my neck somewhere, my wife was drying me out. Mark chapter 8, and I'd like for us to read a verse that if it's not very well known to us as Christians, it ought to be. And that is verse number 36. And uh I'd like us, as I said, to read this together. Ready? Let's read it together. For what shall it profit a man if he shall gain the whole world and lose his own soul? I'd like to speak this morning. What profit is the world? Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven, thank you for the opportunity to be in the house of God this morning. Lord, it is good for me to uh be back in church and behind the pulpit here. And uh we're so grateful for your goodness to us. I know there's many other folks that have been sick. and uh been dealing with uh winter issues and so we ask you to bless them and be with them. Thank you that Sandy could be out this morning. God, what a blessing there. And uh we give you the glory for that. Now as we look into your word. I pray, Father, that your Holy Spirit would open our hearts and minds, and that you would apply this simple truth here, apply it to our lives as believers, or perhaps folks with us or listening in that Do not have assurance that their sins are forgiven, that when they die they're going to heaven and not to hell. I pray that this truth today would uh uh help them settle that matter And find forgiveness of sins and a hope of heaven. Lord, please fill me with your spirit. I yield myself to you. I present my body anew. Fill me, I pray, Lord, and speak through me. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. I don't know of anybody that ever ruined their life by living within their means. I don't know anybody that ever destroyed themselves because they simply would not spend more than they make. But many folks have ruined their lives, have ruined their marriages and their testimonies by spending more than what they earn, and thus getting themselves in a terrible, terrible situation. Some people ruin themselves financially and in the relationships with others, not necessarily not simply by spending more than what they earn, but they ruin themselves by Not keeping, now this is what I'm trying to get at here, not keeping a clear record of the resources they have available. In other words, thinking that I have more available to me than what I really do. Does anybody know what I'm talking about? Swipe the card, you think it's good, and it says insufficient funds. Some people put it this way, oh I've got plenty of money. I still got a slew of checks in the checkbook. There's lots left. Many have ruined their lives, ruined their homes, ruined their testimonies by misplacing Their values. Not keeping a clear record of what they have available, and/or by misplacing their values In other words, they put a high priority on things of low value. They will something that is really of little or no benefit to them, yet it becomes a huge priority in their life. And they end up destroying their selves. Now, as bad as these scenarios are that I've just briefly mentioned, as bad as they are in the financial world, And as bad as they are in the material world, they are 10,000 times worse in the spiritual world. When we fail to realize that which is really important in life and that which is not so important. And we get our priorities out of whack and we begin putting high priority on things that are spiritually little or no value. We invest a lot of time and money and effort Into things that really are of no eternal value. And on the other hand, things that are of tremendous spiritual importance Our soul, our relationship with God, where we spend eternity, heaven or hell, these things are intensely important And yet we give so little attention, so little priority to them. Missed placed values We think everything's to use a fellow that I w a friend of mine from college or high school days before we were saved to use his terminology, we think everything's cool with God. When in reality everything isn't cool with God. We don't have an accurate understanding of where we really stand, of what our condition really is, and we think everything's okay. And we think, oh, I've got plenty of capital to spend, spiritually speaking, when in reality we're broke spiritually. In verses 34 through 38, which we had Dr. Browning read here a few minutes ago, Jesus is discussing the realities of the Christian life. He's talking about in the verses previous to what we read together, verse 34 and 35, and then the last couple verses, he's talking about what it costs to be a genuine Christian. Now, verse 34 and 35 is not talking about the price of salvation. Salvation is free to you and I. Christ paid an awful price. But we can't save ourselves by denying ourselves and following Christ. That's not what saves us. But that is what makes us a good Christian And he's talking about being a genuine Christian, somebody who really wants to live for God, somebody who really wants their life to count, somebody who, when it's all said and done, they can stand before God and hear God say, Well done. You fulfill the purpose for which I've given you light. He says, if that's what you want, if that is important to you. In verse 34, he says, You've got to deny yourself. Take up your cross. Follow me. So he's talking about genuine Christian life here and the price that being a good Christian costs. Then in verse 36 and 37, he kind of flips the coin there a little bit, I think, and uh he deals with facing death, facing God. With have and making sure our values are in line with reality. In other words He says, What shall it profit a man if he gains the whole world and loses his own soul? This person who he's asking in this question has lost sight of the reality of the importance of the soul. They don't understand the priority that my relationship with God has to have in life. Gaining the world becomes so much more important than having a right relationship with the Lord. The sad thing is, even within Christianity, sometimes we get our priorities out of line. Sometimes, I tell you, if you listen to these yard birds on TV too much, you'll get the idea that somehow, now listen carefully how I word this. Get the idea that great gain equals godliness. Huh? Boy, if you have more, and the more you have, and the nicer car you have, that somehow that's an indication that God's favor is on you, and you're really a great faith They make statements like God does not want anybody to be poor. They'll make statements like it is not God's will for anyone to ever be sick. And that is just flat out unscriptural. And so if we're not careful Even within Christianity, we can get this mentality of the world and get our priorities out of line And get the material aspects of life become such high priority, and the spiritual aspects of life become secondary, even within Christianity. We get the idea that somehow prosperity is an indication of God's pleasure. Now, before I go any farther, I want to stop and just make a statement. I am not, and the Bible does not suggest that it is sinful to be wealthy. It's nowhere. Abraham was a tremendously wealthy man. Um Job. Was uh was uh was a wealthy man be uh I mean to put it in modern days, I would say Job would have probably uh been a man of wealth on the caliber of uh Gates, what's his first name? Bill Gates. I mean, on that level. And yet God said that Abraham and Job were men of tremendous faith, men of integrity. Job in particular says he's perfect. He loves God and hates evil, yet he was insanely wealthy. So wealth and prosperity, all that is is not in and of itself wrong. But not one time is Abraham ever commended by God for his great wealth, but he's always commended by God for his great faith. Job is not commended by God for his tremendous possessions. He is commended by God for his tremendous integrity. And what I'm trying to say, and what I think is the implied in our text here this morning, is that we have to be very careful that we do not get misplaced values. That the material, the financial, the physical aspect of life becomes all-encompassing in our life. And our walk with God and our standing before God and our eternal destiny becomes secondary Jesus in Mark chapter 8 and verse 36 is asking a hypothetical question, I believe. He says, for what shall it profit a man if he shall gain the whole world and lose his own soul? Now You can correct me if I'm wrong after the service. But I don't see that it's possible for a person to gain the whole world. I don't think that is a literally something that could even happen. He's asking a hypothetical question. What if that could happen? Um as powerful as the United States President is, and I think we can say arguably he's the most powerful man in the world. Politically speaking, as powerful he is, he still has not gained the whole world. Huh? I mean, not even close. You'd be hard-pressed to find someone that has more influence around the world than the President of the United States of America, yet he has not gained the whole world. As wealthy as Bill Gates and Warren Buffett and George Soros and uh nameless other multi multi-billionaires there are around the world As wealthy as they are, they have not gained the whole world. As popular as folks like Oprah Winfrey Okra, get it? Okra, it's Ofra. As popular as uh Oprah Winfrey may be with her media Dynasty magazines as her own cable network. And just I read an article, it's been some months ago, I believe, is I'm correct in this. If not thee, one of the most wealthy, powerful women in the world, yet she has not gained the whole world. So I think the Lord's asking a hypothetical question here. Just suppose you could. Somehow you could own every dollar. That is an existence in the world. You could own every square inch of land. You could have total control over every living thing. There was absolutely nothing that this world has to offer that is withholden from you in any way, shape, or form. If that could be, what would that profit you if you lost your own soul? Again, there's nothing wrong with being in a powerful position. I think of Joseph. He was number two to Pharaoh. You could say Joseph was the second most powerful man in the world in his day and age. God never commended him for his tremendous power, but God commended him for his tremendous integrity, his tremendous faith. So there's nothing in and of itself wrong with having great wealth or being a powerful physician or even being very popular. In and of itself, there's nothing wrong with that. But when compared to the value of a soul, that wealth, that power, that popularity, becomes no value, of no profit. When compared to the value of having assurance that when I die I'm going to heaven and not to hell, becomes Of low priority. Now, I want to give you three thoughts here this morning, and we'll let you know, get you get out of here. I know it's a little warm in here this morning, and so um we want to try and get going. Number one, if I should gain the whole world And lose my own soul, what profit would it be to me when it comes time to die? When it comes time to die. Last Saturday night I spoke for Brother Sean Updograff up in uh Bradensville, Pennsylvania. They had a wild game dinner. Sean did a great job. And uh they had about 188 guys there, I believe, is the number he gave. And I was able to speak with him and give some thoughts. And my final thoughts to the crowd there, the guys there was this. And I was using kind of illustrations from hunting and all of that. And it was this. There always comes, every season, there comes a last day of the season. There's always a last day. Put the guns up, clean them up, put them away, putting the hunting clothes away. Season's over. My point was this, and I reiterate it this morning. There's coming a last day of our life's season. It's coming. Somebody else will fold our clothes that day. Somebody else put our shoes away. And it's over. Now think of all the money you may attain, think of all the popularity had, think of all the possessions you may have accumulated when it comes that last day when you die What profit is any of that going to be to you? Lay there in the bed. I've been on the deathbeds, beside the deathbeds of rich and poor. Popular and unpopular. And I never ever saw anybody have a pile of gold beside them on their deathbed and finding great comfort and peace. and strength through that gold they have accumulated as they go out into eternity. What profit is there in the day of death If we gain the whole world, no amount of money can buy off the day of death. Oh, you can get some procedures and maybe delay it a little bit. But no amount of money in the world is going to keep Bill Gates from dying. No amount of popularity in the world is going to keep Oakford Winfrey from dying. No amount of political and personal power of the President of the United States can attain is going to keep that person from dying. What should it profit a man that we gain the whole world on the day of his deathbed? All die the same. They go through that door alone They step across that river alone and everything they've had, everything they've accomplished, everything they've done is left behind The devil has us duped into thinking that our value as individuals is based upon what the world thinks of us. Our young people are eat up with it. We can thank Hollywood and the music industry. We can thank the modern fashion industry. For infiltrating the minds of our young people and getting them to believe the devil's lie that Their value is based upon how cool they are, or how fashionable they appear, or how attractive their physical features are. And boy, if you don't have the latest threads, and if you don't ha if you're not thought the coolest by everybody in the community, and if you're not uh you're not um uh really the best looking there is if you're not just knocked down, drag out, drop dead, gorgeous, well then you're of little or no value. And that is a lie of the devil. Physical features will do absolutely nothing in the day of death. The latest clothes, you can put them on an old dead carcass. Doesn't make it any less dead What should it profit a man? He gains the whole world. And the day comes when the season is over and he dies. What's that going to do him? What has all that accomplished? What good does it do at death So, what should it profit a man that gains the whole world? What's it going to do when it comes to death? Let me ask the second question. What good would gaining the whole world profit me when I stand before the judgment of God? When I stand before the judgment of God. Now listen, you're not going to hear this from Hollywood You're not going to hear this from majority, and don't misunderstand what I'm saying here. You're not going to hear this from the majority of the pulpits of America anymore. Now, I'm not saying we're better than anyone else or anything like that. I'm simply saying this: every individual person must someday stand before Almighty God at the judgment seat of God and give an account of ourselves to God. Now that is reality. That is truth. That is an inescapable event that every person is going to have to give an account of themselves to God. Now how is gaining the whole world? How is being the most popular person, how is having the biggest house? How is driving the fanciest car? How is that going to do me any good? Be of any profit to me when I stand before Almighty God and give an account for the character of my life. Huh? What should it profit a man? He gains the whole world when he stands before the judgment seat of God. A clothed standing before the Lord, clothed in the finest suit and dress. God's not impressed. A wallet filled with bills God's not impressed. We come with our awards and our recognitions and citizens of the year awards, and God's not impressed. Now don't misunderstand. Every person will stand before the judgment of God, but not every person will stand at the same judgment of God. How many folks here this morning? You're saved. God has forgiven your sins. There's no doubt in your mind that's settled. You know it. Say amen. You say, oh, praise the Lord. I'm I don't have to face the judgment of God. Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh The Bible is very clear. In fact, we're going to study it here in a little bit in Sunday school. Every believer, every child of God is going to have to stand before Jesus Christ at the judgment seat of Christ. And I'm going to have to give an account of myself as an individual, personally, how I lived my life as a Christian. Now, if a person is unsaved, God forbid that there be someone here this morning. God forbid that there would be a member of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. That dies without Christ, dies in their sins, never truly born again, never finds forgiveness And they die in their sins. The Bible says at the end of the time of this earth, there's what's called the great white throne judgment. Christians are not involved in this judgment. Saved people are not involved. This is for people who died without Christ, who died unforgiven in their sins. The Bible says they stand before the great white throne judgment of God. And there the books are open. The Bible says, whosoever is not found written in the book of life is cast in the lake of fire. Now you tell me. What does having a nice big house, what profit is that going to be to a lost man or woman when they stand before the great white throne? What is driving the latest car profit going to profit me when I stand as a Christian before the judgment seat of Christ? All that time, all the relationship with Christ I sacrificed, all the disobedience to God, all the neglect, all the lack of faith, so that I could have more and enjoy more of this world. And then I stand before the judgment seat of Christ, it does me no benefit. What shall it profit a man? It gains the whole world. At the time of death, the time of the judgment of God. That's which so many value so highly here and now. Will find to be of little or no or be of no value at the judgment of God. Would you take your Bible with me? Turn to the last book of the New Testament. Revelation, the book of Revelation. And chapter number 20, Revelation chapter 20. Again, this should be, I believe, a very familiar passage for Christians. Revelation chapter 20, and if you would, go to verse number 11. Revelation chapter 20 and verse number 11. Now, this is not an allegory. This is not just some mythological story. This is a very literal event that is going to take place in the future. It's presented very clearly in Scripture. As an actual event. Verse 11, I saw a great white throne, and him that sat on it, from whose face the earth and the heaven fled away And there was found no place for them. And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God. And the books were open And another book was opened, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books according to their works. And the sea gave up the dead which were in it, and death and hell delivered up the dead which were in them, and they were judged, every man according to their works. Look at this. And death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death. Now look at verse 15. And whosoever was not found written in the book of life, was cast into the lake of fire Now let me ask you a question. You could have your name in Who's Who. You could have the largest account at First United Bank. You can drive the latest sedan or the latest sports car that uh Detroit comes out with. But if you die in your sins Whether you're a church member or an outstanding citizen of the community, if you die in your sins without Christ And you stand before the great white throne, judgment of God, and the book is open, and there's no record of your name there, having ever trusted Christ, and you're cast in the lake of fire. What does all of that do for you? Of what benefit is it? What shall it profit a man? It gains the whole world. At the time of death, what's it going to do him any good? None. At the time of the judgment of God What will this world profit? And last, thirdly, I want to ask this question. What shall this world profit a man if he ends up in hell? He ends up in hell. Again, one last passage of Scripture, if you would, turn with me to the Gospel of Luke, third gospel of the New Testament. Luke chapter number 16. Luke chapter 16. And begin reading in verse 19. We won't read this whole event. By the way, this is not a parable. Story we're going to read here. It's not said to be a parable. Jesus does not present it as if it's a parable. He gives a very specific name. And so we understand this very clearly that this is an actual event that Jesus is giving an account of. And it says in verse number 19 of Luke 16, there was a certain rich man who was clothed in purple and fine linen. And fared sumptuously every day. I wrote in the morts of my Bible, he gained the world. He had it all. Verse 20, and there was a certain beggar named Lazarus, which was laid at his gate full of swords. And desiring, Lazarus, desiring to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the rich man's table. Moreover, the dogs came and licked his sores. And it came to pass that the beggar died. It was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom. He ends up in heaven. Look what it says: and the rich man also died. Rich and poor both die. The ver the saddest of it all, look at verse 23. And in hell, he lifted up his eyes, being in torments And seeeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom, and he cried and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me. Send Lazarus may dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue, for I am tormented in this flame. Beside verse 19, I put he gained the world. Beside verse 23, I put he lost his soul. Gained the whole world But lost his own soul. Again, this is not just a story. Or is this not making something up here? He's telling us about a ver two literal men who died very real deaths and ended up in two opposite destinies, one in heaven, one in hell. I'll be very honest with you. As I stand before you here this morning, you sit in these pews, I stand on this platform, down below us. Who knows how many miles down there is a rich man still burning in hell. Has been for 2,000 years. Let me ask you a question. What is Richard's doing now? His popularity. Everyone thought he was the he was it. Everybody wanted to be like him. Now he's burning in hell. What should it profit a man who gains the whole world and loses his own soul? Again, it's nothing wrong with being wealthy. There's nothing wrong with being popular in and of itself. But when that becomes more important to me than my standing with God Then something is very, very wrong. When getting my way is more important than being right with God. Something is very, very wrong. Hey, I'm here to tell you there is nothing in this world worth going to hell for. Nothing. There is nobody in this world that is worth dying and going to hell for. You say, preacher, if I get saved, I'll lose my friends. This world has never produced a friend that's worth going to hell for. And by the way, if your friends don't want you to get saved, you need to reconsider your friends. There's nobody worth going to hell for. There's nothing in this world worth dying and going to hell for I was reading this week about uh Some tribes over in jungles somewhere, South America somewhere, and they would hunt monkeys. I wish we had monkeys around here. I'd like to hunt some. Wouldn't that be fun? But uh they hunted monkeys in a strange way. What they would do is they would get a coconut, they'd cut the coconut in two, drain all the milk out of it. And inside they put a little orange. They drill a hole just the size where a monkey can get his hand down in the hole They'd drill the coconut back together and they would fasten it to a tree. The monkeys would be going through the forest. I want to make it real. And monkeys go along and he smells an orange. Ooh, monkeys love oranges, I'm told. So he goes over, written around, sniffs inside the little coconut. Sure enough, there's an orange in there. And that monkey will reach in and get a hold of the orange. And they say the monkey will not let go of that orange, no matter what. Even when the hunters approach And the monkey sees them coming. That monkey will be terrified. But he will not let go of that little orange. And with his grip fist around the orange, he cannot pull his hand out of the hole. And the story goes on, and I have every reason to believe it, the story goes on that that monkey will hold on to that orange even as the hunter comes with a machete and takes the monkey's head off of its body. It will not let go of that orange. I don't know about you, but I think that's a stupid monkey Right? That would be a dumb monkey to do that. You know what's sad? We've got people by the millions that are no smarter than that dumb monkey. And sacrificing their relationship with God And dying and going out into a devil's hell. Rather than trust Christ, holding on to this world Jesus gave a powerful warning earlier in the book of Mark. And he made this statement, and I reference it periodically. He made this statement. He said, if your right eye offends thee, it is better for you to pluck out your right eye and go to heaven with one eye than to go to hell with two eyes. He says, if your right hand offend thee, it's better to cut off your right hand and go to heaven with one left arm than it is to go to hell with two hands. It's better to cut off your right foot if it offends thee and go to heaven with one leg than go to hell with two. Now what's he saying? You got to pull your eyeballs out and cut your arms and legs off? No. You know what he's saying? There's nothing worth going to hell for. Whatever it takes. To settle the matter of your salvation, you ought to be willing to do it, even to the extent of pulling your eye out of your head. Whatever the price, whatever it costs to escape hell, we ought to be willing to do it. I talked to Larry Koontz, the director of Neighborhood Bible Time, or Thursday, and then again Friday, but Thursday we were talking and we ended up on the phone a long time. And he said, he said that last summer a pastor called him and said, I got a story I thought you might find interesting He said there was a boy in their community, was very well-known, very popular kid. Athletic, big shot, everybody liked him, everybody wanted to be like him. Nobody knew it, but he kept a little personal journal. Found this out later. And in his journal, he had picked a date at the end of the summer when he was going to take his life He was going to commit suicide. He had the date, had it written down how he was going to do it, what time of day, had it all detailed out, referenced it throughout his journal. It's coming out. He had it all settled. Already decided it was going to happen One month to that very day before he was to take his life, somebody invited him to come to Neighborhood Bible Time. That night the evangelist preached on hell. And that the worst thing that could possibly happen to a person is for them to die in their sins without Christ and go to a devil's hell for all eternity. And Mr. Popular, big guy in the community, Cool, had his act together, it's going to take his life. At night, walk the aisle and trust Jesus Christ as Savior. Brought his journal the next night and gave it to the pastor and said, Pastor, I don't need this anymore. Christ has changed everything. Isn't that incredible? Let me ask you a question. What does it profit a man if he gains the whole world? And loses his own soul. Doesn't profit him at all. Father in heaven, please help us to keep our priorities straight. God help us to understand the value of our soul and our destiny. God, open our eyes to see how important it is that we settle this matter of our salvation That we maintain and establish a daily walk with you, that our lives please you. God, I pray As pastor tonight, this morning, I pray that you, Holy Spirit, would loosen our grip on this world. God, break our love for this world and establish in its place a genuine love for the Lord Jesus Christ and that which is real and eternal and good and pure and just. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, I know I'm saved? There's no doubt about it. Christ has saved me and forgiven my sins. But you say, Preacher, I need to re-evaluate my priorities in my Christian life. I want to make sure the things of God are in the place they ought to be and not let this world crowd out My relationship with the Lord. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I know I'm safe. I know I'm saved, but I need God to help me reevaluate my walk with God. How about it? Uplifted hand. God bless you. Hands all around Now that's the beginning. Say, Lord, you know, I've neglected my walk with you, and I've neglected the spirit to important things of life. I want to get that back and right and in place. Maybe there's some here this morning to say, preacher, I don't know for sure if I die now I'd go to heaven. Say, I don't want to go to hell. Nobody in the right mind wants to go to hell. Christ doesn't want you to go to hell. You say, preacher, pray for me that I can get this settled, that I can know for sure my sins are forgiven, that I'm going to heaven when I die. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I need that settled in my heart and life. How about it? Any at all? Preacher, pray for me. I don't want to go to hell when I die. I want to know I'm going to heaven Pray for me, preacher. About it. Any at all? How many this morning say, preacher, I know someone that's unsaved, and I'm not trying to be judgmental But it's very clear, very obvious. They don't know Christ as Savior. They need him. You say, preacher, I want God to use me To influence them to come to Christ. I want to be a positive influence for the gospel in their life. However, God will enable me to do that. But you say, preacher, somebody's very much on my heart and mind this morning. I'm burdened for them. Pray with me that God will help me be an influence in them coming to Christ. Any like that by the uplifted hand? We all know folks like that Let's ask God to help us. Let's ask God to give us wisdom, to give us the courage, to do what we need to do. Write a letter, make a phone call, make a visit, whatever it may be. Let's ask God to help us. Because there is nothing in this world worth going to hell for. Father, bless our invitation now. You know our hearts. Help us, we pray, dear Lord, in Jesus' name.