He would turn with me, Proverbs eleven. That's a good song he just sang. And uh sometimes we get pretty self-confident and we're get our shoulders back and our head high and the Lord reminds us how much we need him and uh knocks us down a little bit and keeps us humble before the Lord. Proverbs chapter eleven, verse thirty. I doubt I'm going to say too many things that we haven't heard before at some point in our Christian life, at least if we've been saved any length of time But I believe that what we're talking about tonight is extremely important in our own personal lives and in our church also, and that is this. What is soul winning? What what are we talking about When you hear the preacher or you hear somebody talk about soul winning, what what do what does that involve? And the second question up is, the follow-up question is, is that for me Is that something I am to be involved in? Should that be a part of my Christian life? And so we want to look tonight and see what the Bible says. Look at me at Proverbs chapter 11. And verse number 30, very well-known verse for many of us. The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life, and he that winneth souls is what? is wise. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now. Lord, my heart's been stirred by what you're doing in our world today. The seed that's been planted this week. The thousands of tracts given out and the words spoken and folks that profess faith. God, I just pray you would uh just continue to work and move. We've been praying for revival. God, we've been begging you to use us to influence our world. And I pray you'd use the truths here tonight and the verses that we look at. I pray that you would uh speak our hearts and challenge us and help us uh to make the right decisions about this matter of winning souls. Fill me, I ask dear Lord with all my heart, fill me with your Holy Spirit, and use me now to help our church in Jesus' name. Amen Uh from the moment I got saved, something down inside, it wasn't somebody twisting my arm, nobody was beating me over the head, but something down inside me wanted to tell other people about Jesus Christ, what he had done for me, and what he could do for others. I remember the first day I went back to work, uh I got saved as you know Monday night Next morning I was on the job at the meat packing plant, six o'clock in the morning. We're cutting meat. And uh first thing I something in my heart and soul, I just had to tell these guys here that I had gotten saved I didn't know the terminology. I didn't know exactly how to explain to them what had happened, but I wanted to tell them about it. Uh the church I began attending there just right after I got saved for uh year or so about a year till I went off to Bible college. Uh it was a good church and uh they preached the Bible. They but they They didn't talk much about soul winning. They had tracks there. They didn't say much about it. They weren't involved in uh too many soul winning events. And uh I remember in particular One evening the pastor had talked about visitation and I don't know what happened, but I had showed up and no one was there, and there was a stack of tracks in the track ratchet so I just took the tracks. Right behind the church, the parking lot was a uh a large apartment complex. There's probably several hundred apartments all through that complex. So I thought, well, I'll just go there. I never did this before. I had no training I didn't have anybody with me, I didn't know what to say or do, but something inside me stirred my heart to go and tell people about Jesus Christ. And so I started knocking on doors. I said here, give you a Here's a little gospel track. Here's a track. Come and visit our church. This so uh this so I knew the phrase accept Jesus as your Savior. You need to accept Jesus as your Savior. I was I was going through this And I wanted to share my faith. I think I'm talking to a bunch of folks. You know what I'm talking about. You understand. You got saved. God put something in your heart. You wanted to be a witness In fact, Acts 1. 8 says, ye shall be my witnesses. I mean, that's part of getting saved. God puts that in our hearts. uh and resolve to be saved. So I knew I I wanted to be a witness. I wanted to share my faith, but I didn't know about soul winning. Year later, God called me to go to Bible college, went a year down in Philly, and then uh transferred down to Tennessee Temple. I got down to Temple. So I had been learning. I had been under the teaching and preaching of the Word of God for about a year and a half now, almost two years Probably two years, I should say. And um and so I knew this matter of being a witness was very important. I was trying to do that, but I never experienced what the Bible teaches as soul-winning. I got there, showed up down in Chattanooga. I didn't know Fred, I didn't know one person within 500 miles from where I was sitting at lunch that day. I was a total stranger, total new part of the world Across from me was a fellow by the name of Randy Miller. He's been here. Some of you have met him. He pastors out in Illinois now. Good man. He was a year ahead of me in Bible college. I was a transfer student And uh we were sitting there talking. I told him where I was from. I was just got to the school and and uh he says, Well what ministry are you involved in? I said, well I don't know yet. I said, um I I haven't really given a lot of thought. He said, well you've uh uh how about the bus ministry? He said, would you come and help me in the bus ministry I said, sure, I don't know anything about it. What is it? So he told me, he says, you meet me at this one pl building, we have a meeting, 8 o'clock, uh, you'll sit through the bus meeting with me, and then we'll go out visiting. I said, okay, sounds great. So I met him there. And uh again we sat together, went through the bus meeting, it was exciting. There's uh you know you got a bus ministry of 42 buses, you know, there's quite a staff of workers, and so there's probably 150 people at this bus meeting. And uh they're stirring us up and this is what the treats are and this is what we gotta do and go out there and go get 'em. And I was just uh, yeah, all right, amen. I had no idea what I was getting into And uh so Randy said, All right, you're coming with me. We're going visiting down uh downtown Chattanooga. So we got down there and uh here here's what happened. We're walking down the street and I'm all excited and uh you know he's visiting different bus kids and here's a guy sitting, I can still see it in my mind, this guy sitting on an upside-down five-gallon bucket It's a white bucket and this older guy sitting there and uh it's all of course it's inner city and and uh we come up and uh I've given out tracks before, I've asked people and Randy walks up to this guy and he says He says, I'm Randy Miller from Highland Park Baptist Church. He says, uh, if you die right now, do you know for sure you go to heaven and not to hell? I about fell over. I said, you don't just walk up to somebody and say that to them. And uh Randy, lo and behold, Randy ends up kneeling down beside this guy with his open Bible and goes through the plan of salvation with this old boy And I learned something that day. I learned that you can just anywhere, almost anytime, take the Word of God and tell people how to be saved and lead them to Christ. I didn't know that. I wanted to be a witness. I was trying. But I this concept of being a soul winner. was new to me. And uh and God stirred my heart about being a soul winner. Preacher back in the early 1800s, a great preacher. His name was Lyman Beecher. I think he was Presbyterian. But he made this statement. He said the greatest thing a person can be is not a scientist, though being a scientist is very important. He said the greatest thing a person can be is not a statesman, although being a good, strong, godly statesman is very important. He said the greatest thing a person can be is not even being a biblical theologian. And he said that is very important. He said the greatest thing a person can be is a person who brings people to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ as their personal. What he was saying is the greatest thing you and I can be is a personal soul winner. Sharing the gospel of Jesus Christ. First thing, my first point tonight is this: the concept of soul winning The concept. What do we mean by this? Look at our text verse here. And he says, The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life, and he that winneth souls is wise. I did a little word study on that word, winneth, and how it's used various places and in different contexts, and I found out it has three different aspects to its meaning. One of them is a military term He that winneth souls is wise. The idea is this you have an army, and that army wins over a city or a province, a part of a country. They've won that In other words, they have taken control of that city. They have taken control. They own it, so to speak. They have won that for their cause. They possess that. There is also a uh uh um uh a marital term, a military term And a uh marital term. Is that the word? Am I saying it right? Uh as has to do with being married. Maritual? Is that right, Sandy? She always knows this stuff. Marital term. In other words, a young man wins the young girl's heart over. Now what do we mean by that? Somebody wins their heart over. Brother Grant, they got married in January, right? And he it's pretty obvious, won Krista's heart over at some point before that. Wells he paid her a lot of money, I don't know, but uh uh he won her heart over Uh that's the idea here, this marital term, that uh suddenly she is now in love with him. She is devoted to him, she is now uh his, so to speak. Ah yesterday my son married Sarah and uh he had won her over to gain for oneself But there's also a fishing term behind this. It has the idea of to catch a fish. It's used in some terms, in some contexts, of catching a little bird And you would lure that bird in. Uh I don't know how you lure a bird in, but and then you would catch it in the thing or fishing. You have a lure and you Capture that fish and uh and it becomes one. And so a winner of souls Here is a person, an unsaved soul. And he comes by and we throw Greg throws the lure out of a chalk drawing his wife is doing. And they stop long enough and they hear the gospel message, and they are one to the Savior. They are captured, so to speak, for the Savior. They are won over to believe and trust in Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. That is the whole concept of it. Um to win a soul is to have a person, God uses me to have a person to make the decision That they are going to submit their faith to Jesus Christ, accept him as their personal Savior, and be the Lord's The influence one to trust the Lord. So that's the whole concept. I can hear a Christian saying a Christian saying, yeah, preacher, uh the preacher ought to be a soul winner He ought to get people and win them to the Lord and persuade them to put their trust in the Lord and convince them to be the Lord's and submit themselves to it. I agree with you a hundred percent. The preacher ought to be a soul winner But the Bible teaches that all God's people should be soul winners. And so that's the concept. God using me, me making myself available to the Lord, speaking up, presenting the gospel. And God uses me to bring people to a saving knowledge. Number two, what is the constraint to win souls? What is it that would motivate us? What is it that would constrain us To share the gospel and try and win others to put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Did you bring your Bible with you? Anybody got your Bibles with you? Let's go ahead and use them, okay? Turn with me to Matthew. We're going to look down at several verses. And I want you to look at these verses. I was thinking about this this afternoon. There's only one of two routes that the Word of God can get into my heart. Either God can speak to me from His Word, from His Word, through my eyes And into my heart, right? Or he can use speak through from his word through my ears into my heart. And so my thinking is, if I'm hearing the Word of God, it's coming through the ear gate, and it's also coming in through the eye gate, has a much more chance to get a hold of my heart. Does that make sense? So let's look at these verses. Look with me and would it, Matthew chapter twenty and verse number nineteen I'm sorry, Matthew twenty eight, I'm sorry. There we go. Look at Matthew chapter 28, verse number 19. Notice this is Jesus speaking. If you have a red letter edition, this is the Lord Jesus Christ speaking. Look what he said here. Are you there? Matthew 28, 19. Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and the Holy Ghost. What is it that constrains us? To go to others with the Word of God and seek to win them to Christ, teach them what the gospel says, get them to trust Christ, and to go on and submit to Him. Number one, it's the Word of God constrains us. God's word tells us that that's what we are to do. Here we have it in Matthew chapter 28, verse number 19. Come over with me to Mark chapter 16 Mark chapter 16 and verse number 15. Turn over there. Some of you have this memorize, no doubt. Mark sixteen fifteen. Notice what the Bible says. And he, Jesus, said unto them, his disciples, Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature What is he telling us? We are to go out into all the world. Would that include Garrett County? Absolutely. Kazakhstan Countries of the world go into there and teach them and preach to them the gospel of Jesus Christ. Seek to get them to hear what Christ has done for them. He died for them, was buried, and rose again, and persuade them to trust him Catch them, lure them for Christ, win them to Christ. Turn with me if you would to Luke chapter 14 and verse 23. And we could go to scores of other passages, but look at Luke chapter 14 and verse number 23. Here the Lord is in a parable and uh urging the idea of going out and and uh winning others to Christ. Look at verse 23. And the Lord said unto the servant, Go out into the highways and hedges, and what? Compel them to come in that my house may be full. That word compel there has the idea of winning them over. Stirring and influencing them to a point that they would desire to come and have what you're offering. And so there we have it. Go to Acts chapter 1. I quoted this just part of this verse a few moments ago. Acts chapter 1. And verse number eight. The word of God constrains us, motivates us, tells us that we're to go and win souls. Look at verse number eight, Acts 1. But ye shall receive. power after that the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be, I circled the word, shall be. Ye shall be witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem and all Judea, Samaria, unto the othermost part of the earth Here he says, you shall be a witness unto me, an aspect of winning souls. One more. If you want to go to Romans chapter 10 and verse number 14. Romans ten and verse fourteen Well, we're going to begin in verse 13. Romans 10:13. Of course, we know what Romans 10. 13 says. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be what? Saved. Now look at verse 14. But how? Then how then shall they call on him? If they call on him, they'll be saved. But how are they going to call on him in whom they have not believed? And how are they going to believe on him and whom they have not heard? And how are they going to hear without a what? Preacher. Oh, there it is. It's the preacher's job. Listen, this phrase preacher here simply means one who proclaims the truth. One who declares it. I believe now hear me out before you get mad, stand up and walk out. I believe in women preachers. As long as they're preaching the gospel one-on-one out around the streets, we don't believe in women pastors. Bible's very clear about that, standing behind with it. But uh this includes, hey, uh my wife can preach. I'll tell you that right now. And uh she's very effective. Are you listening, girls? She's very effective at sharing a gospel with other people And so this isn't talking about the office of the preacher. This isn't talking about the office of the pastor. It's talking about all God's people. Going out and sharing the gospel. How are they going to believe when they have not heard? And how can they hear if there isn't someone to tell them? The word of God constrains us and compels us that we are to take the gospel to the lost. Let me give you another constraint for preaching the gospel. I put this down: the reality of hell. The reality of hell should constrain us to go soul-winning. Turn with me, if you would, to Revelation chapter 20. Boy, what a sobering passage of Scripture. Revelation chapter number twenty, and I want to read the last few verses of this chapter. portion of scripture out and read down through here and remind ourselves as to what the unsaved people face. Revelation chapter 20, look at verse number 11. And I saw a great white throne, and him that sat on it, and whose face the earth and the heaven fled away, and there was found no more place for them. Look at this. And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God. And the books were opened, and another book was opened, which is the book of life, and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books according to their works. And the sea gave up the dead which were in it, and death and hell delivered up the dead which were in them. And they were judged, every man according to their works, and death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death. Look at this. And whosoever was not found written in the book of life, was cast into the lake of fire. What a sobering passage. Now listen, that stirs my heart that every person I'm going to meet this coming week, every single person, if they don't know personally Jesus Christ as Savior and they die in that condition. That person is going to be at this judgment and will be literally cast into the lake of fire. Now, I'll tell you that for most of us, that is not a reality. That is just something we read. It is something that is far away and almost like a fairy tale, but it is not an actual reality that affects us. But I'll tell you what, for God, that's a reality God knows this is happening. God knows this is for real. And the very fact that people are going to die and be c die and go to hell, be cast in the lake of fire for all eternity, ought to stir our hearts and compel us. What happens when a man is a fireman and that siren goes off downtown? He knows somebody is in danger. He knows somebody's life and property is in great danger. And he drops everything he has, and if he's the middle of the night he gets up and he gets dressed, and whatever he has to do, he gets down there because The danger facing the people compel him and constrain him that he has to go and do something. I tell you what, there's a greater danger than the house burning down. That's eternity in the lake of fire. Doesn't that stir us to do something? What are we going to do about people who die in their sins and go to hell? Are we going to do anything? The reality of hell constrains us. I like what Charles Spurgeon said. He said: if sinners be damned, at least let them go to hell over our begging bodies. If they perish, let them perish with our arms about their knees. Let no one go to hell unwarned and unprayed for. Boy, what a great statement. You know what he's saying? The reality of lost people going to hell ought to stir us. That we are not going to let that happen without us doing everything we possibly can to keep them from going to hell. The reality of hell constrains us. I believe if we would spend three minutes in hell, you and I could spend just three minutes in the devil's hell, we would come out obsessed with winning souls. What was the lost man in hell, the rich man in hell? What was his great prayer request? Send someone to my brothers. Send someone to my brothers. Abraham sends someone to my brothers that they do not come to this place of torment. Tell you what, just a few moments in hell would do us a heap of good, to give us a concern for the loss and let us get over our self-consciousness and our love of the world and the things of the world and our comforts and all that and step out and do something to keep people from going to hell. The reality of hell. Let me give you another aspect of this idea that constrains us to win souls is the love of God. Would you quote with me John 3. 16? For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. That is a great soul-winning passage. That God loves this world so much that he would give his son so that they could escape. His judgment in hell. 1 Timothy 2. 4 says that God would have all men to be saved God loves this world. I tell you, we had some unusual looking characters come by the fair booth this past week. Did you notice that, Brother Ed, Charlie? Uh Paul, some of these guys come by. Uh they had metal more metal uh in them than my car has on it, I think. I mean they were just And uh, you know, tattooed up and just rough the goopiest looking haircuts you ever saw. And uh I just think anybody with hair is carnal, but um No, I'm kidding. But uh I mean to tell you, people, and you know you look in their eyes and they're just hurting. They're just hurting. I think as they go by, I think God loves that person so much. I had a fella come by on I think it I only got there a couple days, but um come by and uh we got talking I gave them a gospel track and we talked a little bit and we got these little gimmicks we use. Look in here, see who Jesus died for and look in there's a mirror. And they go, oh, that's me. And um then we got this thing, the name Jesus hidden in a in a thing, and you gotta look at it real carefully. And uh they're looking at it and so what do you see? I said that what that banner says scares the devil to death. They're like, oh, what does that say? What does that say? And I keep I said keep looking at it. Devil hates that. Hates it. Oh it just drives them nuts. I said what that says is the only way you can get to heaven. And I look at it, look at it, look at it, and finally say, oh, it says Jesus. And we do these little gimmicks to get their attention. This guy was and I went through all that with him and did different things. And he just kind of kept standing there because generally people come and take it and move on. You don't get a real good conversation all the time with them But this guy kind of stood there and I said, Let me ask you a question. Has anyone ever shown you from the Bible how you when you that you can know that when you die you go to heaven and not to hell? He goes, I don't nobody's ever shown that to me So I got my little I said, tell you what, I can do it right now in just a matter of minutes. So he said, okay, I got my Bible, put it upside down, right across the table, went through the plan of salvation. This guy was with me. He knew he was a sinner. I mean you can tell when you've got someone's attention. And I said, and I explained to what it means to call on the Lord. And I use my little illustration with fishing, and the guy falls off, he's drowning. Help save me, help save me. And I save him from drowning. I'm going through all that. That's what it is. We're sinners on our way to hell We called the Lord, Lord, save me. I'm trusting depending on you. And I said, you know, uh I I forgot his name, he gave me his name. I said, you know, Jesus loved you so much that he died and suffered hell for you, just right the way you are Would you be willing to call with him now and trust him? And he said, he said, right here? I said, yeah, right here in front of God and everybody. And as he started to say yes, his girlfriend came up. And she said, Come on, come on, we gotta go. I said, just take a second. Why don't you pray with me? I can't, I can't. And I tore my heart out. I took one of the tracks. I had a little prayer. I said, listen, this isn't magic words. Just saying these words isn't going to save you. I said, but I think you know what I'm talking about and you know this is serious. I said, if you get home, take this track And that little prayer there, that can help you call on the Lord and trust him to Savior. He said, I promise I'll do it. I hope he did. You know what I thought about, God love that guy so much. God loves that man so much. Everyone that went by, Jesus loved him enough to suffer hell. All that he went through on that cross for that person. You know what that compels me, constrains me. I need to tell them about that. Christ would love them that much. And so the constraint for the love of God. 2 Peter 3:9, God is not willing that any should perish. June 22 and 23, some having compassion make a difference. The love of God for people, just caring. We just care about people. Sam and I, well, we did a lot of reminiscing this week with him getting married last night. And by the way, I thought I did pretty good not bawling my eyeballs out uh up until it actually started and then it just fell apart. But we did a lot of reminiscing this week and one time we were down Swanton we were going hunting a little property down there at Chuck knows And uh we were going down and we it was going for the afternoon, evening, we're deer hunting and we're driving down and we come by this little r ra uh ram shackle. cabin, I mean it was just looked like a five year old nailed it together. It was just all shambles. And we looked at it and the whole porch is on fire. I mean smoke coming out the windows and a big fire you could see inside the door was open fire burning and we both drove by and looked at it and I looked at it and I said was that house on fire? He goes I think so I said, we better go back and check. So we stopped and backed up and well, there's a little fire there on the porch in front of it. And I holler, ho, anybody, ho, hey! And this old guy comes out and I said, Sir, I think your house is on fire He goes, No, I just built burn that to keep the dog warm. I said, Your porch is on fire. He says, That's all right, I do that all the time. I said, Well you sure? And uh he goes, Yeah, the dog gets cold Alright. Couple days later we came back, the things burned to the ground. There's nothing left to the house. It's just But you know, we couldn't just drive by that thinking there's somebody in there. They might be in danger. There's something in the heart of man that has a little bit of compassion, says, I need to do something about that. You know what I'm saying? I think some of the coldest, hardest people in the world are preachers in particular that know the truth of the Word of God and do not preach against sin and do not warn people about hell. That is cold-hearted to not even care. And the fact that God loves people, loves our community and people in our community, and not just the down and out, the up and ins Need Christ also. We talked about that this morning. Alright, number one, the concept of soul winning is getting someone to put their trust in Christ. I do what I can to influence them, that they'll accept Christ and be won over to have put their faith in Christ. The constraint is the reality of hell, the commands of Scripture, the love of God constraints us, motivates us to want to do that. All right, how do I develop confidence in this? Preacher, I've been coming here for years. Always preach on soul winning and so on. Come on out. Alright, I'm scared to death. How do I get confidence? Where I feel confident enough that I can go to somebody and share with them the gospel and try and persuade them to trust Christ. Let me give you a few tips real quick. Number one, pray for boldness and a burden They did that in the book of Acts. God asked me to uh uh help me. Uh God helped me to see the lost the way you see the lost. God, open my eyes. Help me when I go to Walmart. Help me when I go to Sheets. Help me when I go to Southern States. Lord, knows people there. Help me to see them the way you see them. And give me a boldness. I remember when we first moved here, we went up to Morgantown. I had to go to Ruby Memorial and visit uh someone on the children's floor. I've never been in there before. I've never seen that before. I think it's the ninth floor. Is that correct? I think it's the ninth floor, is the children's floor up there. Sixth floor. Sixth floor went up there. And here I am, a young preacher, 33, 34 years old. Just getting started in this pastoring business and I walk in there to find visit a little girl. I tell you what, I walked past those rooms. I saw those poor little kids. With cancer and tubes in their bodies, and so sick. I'll tell you, I came out of there just weeping You know I ask God, I ask God, help me to see people as you see them, sin sick. I see so I I hear folks using foul language and I get ticked. You know what I think when God sees it? I think his heart's broken. Jesus looked on the multitudes and he says he had compassion on them because they were without sheep, without a shepherd. Ask God to help me see people the way He sees them. God, give me boldness. God help me to see the reality of eternity. Help me believe in the power of the gospel. Just believe if I give the gospel to him. That it's powerful enough to save them. So number one, pray for boldness and a burn. Number two, schedule a time to go soul winning I think it's one of the most important things you could do. Pray, but schedule a time to do it. Everybody says, yeah, I know I need to go soul. One of these days I'm going soul winning. Bless God, I'm going to go soul winning. Well schedule it. It's never going to happen if I don't schedule it. That's why I think it's important for a church to have scheduled times of soul winning Where people can, alright, that's when I'm going to go. I'm going to do this, what God says. I can be a part of it, work it in my schedule and be it, do that. Now of course we witness all the time. Number three, uh, just go soul winning You know who I found the best bike, most confident bike riders are? Bicycle riders? How about it's people that ride bicycles? Are the best bicycle riders I've ever seen. Little Ashton got a minibike. She had it, what, two days? She already wrecked it. And um you know who I found the best motorcycle riders are? Those that ride motorcycles You can watch videos on bike riding, you can uh read books on bike riding, you can go to seminars on bike riding, but if you don't go bike riding, you're not going to be a bike rider. That's profound, right? And if I don't go soul winning, I just gotta do it. Get out. There's opportunities to get out and just go and talk to people about Jesus. Just go soul winning. And that's how we learn. Number four, put this down. Expect conversions. Psalms 126, 5 and 6, he that goeth forth and weepeth, bearing precious seed, shall doubtless come again with rejoicing. I think it's important when we go out, we just expect that somebody's going to trust Christ. We went into this fair this week. I was expecting we're going to have some people trust Christ. If we give the word of God out, it's going to bear fruit. I put this one down. Dethrone self. I think one of the biggest aspects is just dying to self, dying to self, dying to self. You know what keep putting pride? My love for my comfort, my love for uh what people think of me. I think too highly of myself. One of the great soul winners was John the Baptist. Multitudes came out to be baptized because of John the Baptist. You know what he said? You know what the success the secret to his success? He said, Christ must increase, but I must decrease. I gotta dethron myself. Paul was a great soul winner. Man, he went city to city, winning souls to Christ, establishing churches. You know what he said in Galatians chapter 2, verse 20? It's no longer I that liveth. But Christ that liveth in me. You know, he said, I've got to die to self. Let me give you last of all the cheer of soul winning. Psalms 126, verse 5 and 6. He that goeth forth and weepeth, bearing frous his seed. shall doubtless come again with rejoicing. We win souls that cheers God. We win souls that cheers the saints of heaven. When we win souls that cheers the one that gets saved. David talks about the joy of salvation. I like when we heard the testimonies tonight. People said, I'd just like to first of all thank God for my salvation. How many other people do you think are out there would like to thank God for their salvation? If we just tell them about it, they'd be glad Then it cheers the soul winner. Cheers the soul winner. According to Daniel chapter 12 and verse 3, the crowd that's going to shine the brightest at the judgment seat of Christ are those that win souls. They're going to shine like stars. And who are the stars? Bible Time says we are the stars. Winning souls I told this story so many times, I love it. Down in Chattanooga, I never witnessed before. I've tried to different things. I'd seen it with Randy and uh a gal from the school there, Mildred Lee. We repaired up. We knocked at a house, a little slum, inner city slum. This black guy comes to the door with on a wheelchair, Mr. Hogue. Jenny's witnessing to him. She I didn't know it. She never won a soul to Christ before. She never witnessed. She goes through and sure enough he wants to be saved. We come in and she's kneeling down. She's going through the Bible. And she didn't know what to pray with him. So she got to the point, Mr. Hogue, would you be willing to call the Lord Trust me and Savior? I sure would. He's just cried. I sure would. I want to be saved. And she goes, Okay. They called me Denny then. They said, uh, Denny will pray with you. Danny Who? I don't know what to say. You know the rest of the story. I know down now I lay me down to sleep. I pray the I didn't know what to pray with him. And so we stumbled through a prayer, and Mr. Hogue accepted Jesus as his Savior. You know who the happiest 22-year-old boy in Chattanooga was that day? It was Denny Leatherman It came out of there stirred up. God used me to save a soul from hell. All I have to do is take a little bit of time, put a little bit of effort in, tell someone about Jesus. What is soul winning? It's the greatest thing there is. Is it for me? Absolutely. Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us to be soul winners. Help me, Lord. I'm constantly challenged with this. I pray that our church would be a church that the gospel goes out in power. And souls are saved from snatched from the devil's eternity. And please use us. Give us boldness. Give us a burden. Our heads bowed in eyes closed, say, Preacher Leatherman, Pastor Leatherman, my heart is stirred to be a witness. My heart is stirred to win souls to Christ. And you say, pray with me that God will give me boldness and give me a burden. That God will help me see others the way He sees them, see the reality of heaven and hell. God will use me to be a soul winner. A soul winner. You say, pray with me. How many like that? Uplifted hand. I want to be a soul winner. God bless you. My hand's raised. I'm asking God, God, help me be a soul winner. God will help us, but it begins with prayer. The harvest is great. The labor is good. Pray, the Lord of the harvest. Let's pray tonight. We go into the end of summer, finish out summer, that God will make us soul winners and use us to bring people to Christ. Father, bless our invitation, I ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand together.