Second Corinthians five and Romans fourteen. Keep uh brother uh uh Pastor Grant and his wife in your prayers. They're traveling back from Michigan tomorrow. He was ordained tonight. Six o'clock was the service And so uh he had talked to me about this some time ago. I said, you know, definitely needs to go up there and all the preacher boys that graduate from the college there, they have an ornation service uh several months later for those that uh are called to the ministry. And uh it's a good thing to have uh uh churches stand behind you and say yes we believe in this person. We've uh We recognize God's call in their life. We're setting them apart, at least as far as a reference is concerned. And uh it's very, very helpful, I think, as um as he ministers and in his future, uh I think it's very helpful. So I'm very glad for him. Are you there? 2 Corinthians chapter 5. I want to read verses 8 through 11. As I said, keep that spot. Then we're going to go over to Romans, and I want to read a few passages there and then get into the message. Notice in Second Corinthians five verse number eight, the Bible says, We are confident, I say, and willing rather to be absent from the body and to be present with the Lord. Wherefore, in other words, because of that, because of that truth, we labor that whether present or absent we may be accepted of you. Now look at verse 10. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that everyone may receive the things done in his body according to to that which he hath done, whether it be good or bad. Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men But we are made manifest unto God, and I trust also are made manifest in your conscience. Now, as I said, keep that. Come over to Romans. And chapter 14, just a few pages earlier in your Bible, and I want to read verses 10 through 12. Romans 14, verse 10. But why dost thou judge thy brother? Or why dost thou set it naught, thy brother? Look at his statement. For we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ. For it is written, As I live, saith the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, every tongue shall confess to God. So then every one of us shall give an account of himself to God. I want to answer this question tonight. What is the judgment seat of Christ? We read it twice here. You hear preachers talk about it. I reference it. What exactly is the judgment seat of Christ? I want to just be real simple tonight. We're not going to We could really get into all kinds of stuff. I just want to read real basic. So let's pray one more time. Ask the Lord to bless the message. Father, we look into your word, at least in my mind, Father, this is a very sobering subject and um very important for all of us as believers. And I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit and that you through me would help us to grasp the importance of this event that lies in our future. Help us to see the reality of it. And I pray you'd impress on our hearts the proper response that we should have to this upcoming event. Again, I present my body anew. I ask you to fill me and speak through me in Jesus' name. Amen. The most important event, now mark this down. The most important event in my future as a believer and in your future as a believer is when we stand before Jesus Christ personally at the judgment seat of Christ. I can think of no other event in our future more important or more significant than that upcoming day. Now, people are fascinated by the study of prophecy. Am I right or wrong? There's some preachers got awfully rich. Writing books and uh novels and different things about prophecy, speculation, and there's a lot of fascination with it And there it is fascinating. The Bible has some amazing things to say about the future. But I made a conscious decision many years ago That I would never allow the Bible teaching of prophetic events to simply be a fascination or a curiosity But I want what the Bible teaches about future events to have a direct impact on how I live my life. You follow what I'm saying? I want my behavior as a Christian to reflect the fact That someday I'm going to stand before Jesus Christ at the judgment seat of Christ and give an account of myself, how I live my life. I don't want it just to be some imagined fascination speculation type thing. I want it to affect my daily living. And that is my prayer, not just for me personally, but for us as a church. Uh we've held a number of prophecy conferences over the last 20 years. And they're fascinating. In fact, the first revival meeting, I don't know if any of you remember the very first special meeting we had was a prophecy conference, I believe was our first one. Uh no, a second, was Dr. Williams. And then the second one was um uh with uh was a prophecy conference with um I forget the guy's name out of Louisville, Kentucky. Um He's over in Africa. But anyway, a prophecy conference. It's fascinating. But we as Christians and we as a church cannot allow prophetic events To just be a curiosity. They have to have a direct impact on our understanding and our lives. And that's what I want to be true here. Now here's my outline for our answer to the question, what is the judgment seat of Christ? Number one, it is a comprehensive judgment It's a comprehensive judgment. Look at here the passage and you'll see what I mean by that. Romans, here, we're in Romans, verse 14. Look at the last part of verse 10, chapter 14, last part of verse 10 For we shall, what's that next word? All stand before the judgment seat of Christ. Come to verse 11. For it is written, as I live, saith the Lord, next two words. Every knee shall bow. Every tongue shall confess to God. Look at verse 12. So then every one of us Shall give account of himself to God. Now we're going to jump back and forth a bunch. Come back to 2 Corinthians again, where we started. I want you to notice this. Look at verse number 10 with me, 2 Corinthians 5. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. And then he says there, a down and load, apparently all appear before Judge Christ, that everyone may receive the things done in the body It seems like God is almost going overboard in emphasizing the fact that nobody, now talking about believers, no believers are going to escape the judgment seat of Christ. It's comprehensive. It includes all of us. There are no passes. There are no doctors excuses given for this. Every one of us, the Bible is very clear, are going to have to stand before the judgment seat of Christ and give an account of ourselves. Now, it's important to understand that at the judgment seat of Christ, it is only believers there There are no unsaved people going to stand at the judgment seat of Christ. The unsaved, those are the folks that die in their sins, that die without trusting Christ, they're going to be at a judgment themselves, but not the judgment seat of Christ. They're going to be at what judgment? Great white throne judgment at the end of the millennial period at the uh when the heaven and new new heaven and new earth they'll stand before God. It's not a judgment to determine whether they go to heaven or hell. That's already settled. It's more like a sentencing The books are open, they're cast in the lake of fire for the rest of eternity. The judgment seat of Christ is only for believers. But it is for all believers, every one of us. There will be no exceptions We're going to stand before Jesus Christ. Young believers are going to stand before Jesus Christ, give an account of themselves. Elderly, folks that lived a long time and died elderly, maybe, or raptured elderly. They're going to stand before the judgment seat of Christ. Rich believers, poor believers, believers from every nation. are going to stand before the judgment seat of Christ. We must not allow ourselves to think that we are going that we can possibly escape Standing before Christ at this judgment. It is comprehensive. Boy, I hope you're listening to me. Every one of us Are we going to have to stand before Jesus Christ and give an account of our lives? And if we stop and think about that and what that means, That reinforces in my mind that is the most important, most significant event that I face in my future When I'm going to have to stand before Jesus Christ. It is a comprehensive judgment. I put this down. Number two, it is a scheduled judgment. In other words, there is a very definite time and a very definite place that the judgment seat of Christ is going to take place. It's not just, well, someday, somewhere, sometime, somehow, it's going to happen. No, God's got it all laid out. It's very scheduled. As far as the time is concerned, go with me if you would to First Corinthians chapter four. First Corinthians chapter four. And I kind of I this kind of caught my attention actually as I was reading over this. I didn't notice this initially, but uh it caught my attention that a lot of the Bible's discussion, a lot of Paul's discussion writing under the inspiration of God concerning the judgment seat of Christ is directed to the church at Corinth. Now in my mind, that's interesting. What do we know about the church at Corinth? The disaster is the most carnal, worldly, uh divisive, messed up church in existence in its day. And Paul repeatedly is writing to them, referencing the fact of the judgment seat of Christ. And that tells me something. That tells me that maybe one of the ingredients in revival is reminding God's people that, hey, we will be held accountable. We do face judgment. And maybe that is what God was using through Paul to help that church get to be where they needed to be. And maybe that is what we need as believers in the United States of America. Maybe we need to be very bluntly reminded, hey, as believers, we do face the judgment seat of Christ. So look with me if you would at 1 Corinthians chapter 4, and I'm going to read uh from begin reading in verse number 2 And I want to read down through verse 5. Look what the Bible says. Moreover, it is required in stewards that a man be found faithful. But with me it is a very small thing that I should be judged of you. Or of man's judgment. Yea, I judge not my own self. So in other words, he's saying, listen, it doesn't mean anything to me that you're making judgment of me For I know nothing by myself, yet am I not hereby justified. But he look at this, he that judgeth me is the Lord. Therefore Judge nothing before the time. Look at this. We're talking about the scheduled judgment. Judge nothing before the time until the Lord come. Who both will bring to light the hidden things of darkness and will make manifest the counsels of the heart, and then shall every man have praise of God. Now he's not real clear in how he words it here, but I believe he is referencing the judgment seat of Christ. He says, when Jesus comes, Then the hidden things will be manifest, the counsels of the heart, and every man shall have the praise of God, the rewards of God. Come with me, if you would, over to 2 Timothy. Now we're looking around. We brought our Bibles. We might as well use them. 2 Timothy chapter 4. I feel like I might just be a tad bit strong here, Dave. I'm afraid to raise my voice Uh 2 Timothy chapter 4. Look at verse number 7. 2 Timothy. That maybe we went too far that way. Some some people you can't please them no matter what you do, Brother Dean. Uh 2 Timothy chapter 4, look at verse 7. For I have fought a good fight. I have finished my course. I have kept the faith. Where is Paul at in that verse I just read? Where is he at in his life? At what point in his life? He's he's at the end of his life. He knows he he he's finishing up, he's he's uh he's uh finishing up here So he says, I fought a good fight, I finished my course, I've kept the faith. Look at this. Henceforth, there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, and we'll come back to that. which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at that day. And not to me only, but unto all them that also that love his appearing So these two passages, and we could go to a number of others, tell us that the judgment seat of Christ, this event that none of us can escape, we're all going to have to stand before it, is going to take place when the Lord returns. Now we understand as we look at Scripture that the rapture is the next event in God's timeline. Every believer will be caught up in a moment in the twinkling of an eye, will be raptured out of here at the trump of God Norchangel shout will come before Christ. And at that point, I believe the Bible clearly teaches we will stand before the judgment seat of Christ. To give an account of ourselves. So the timing of it is at the Lord's return immediately following the rapture. Now, where is the judgment seat of Christ take place? Is it going to be in Jerusalem? Is it going to be uh where is it going to be? Well, we have to go to 1 Thessalonians. Now, if you would, turn over there. 1 Thessalonians, and I want you to see these in your Bible. 1 Thessalonians chapter number 4. It's the great rapture chapter. And he makes a reference here as to where we are going to meet the Lord, where we're going to stand before him. First Thessalonians 4, look at verse 16. For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, with the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first. So that what event is that referencing The rapture. Now look at this. Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. So there's the rapture. Now look where we're meeting the Lord. Where at? In the air. The word meet there has the idea of stand before, to come face to face to. So I think this reference is telling us here that the timing of the judgment seat of Christ is going to be immediately after the rapture, the first part of the Lord's return And it will be with the Lord in the air. Now, where in the world in the air is, I can't answer that, but wherever the Lord is at that point, that is where we're going to be, and that is where the judgment seat of Christ is going to take place So we said, first of all, the judgment seat of Christ is comprehensive. It includes everybody. No Christian. Now everybody, I mean it includes all Christians. No believer in the Lord Jesus Christ is going to escape the judgment seat of Christ. That means every one of us here, they're sitting here right now. How many folks here? You're saved, you know it. Say amen. Mark it down. Every one of us are going to stand before the judgment seat of Christ. Now when will that take place? Well, it's immediately after the rapture. You know what that means? That means if I die And the rapture doesn't take place for another hundred years. I do not stand before the judgment seat of Christ for another hundred years. I don't go immediately upon my death to the judgment seat of Christ. I die as a believer. Whenever the rapture takes place, I am resurrected, a new glorified body, and I stand before Jesus Christ after the rapture, and that is the time that I face the judgment seat of Christ. Anybody want to take a guess? Why would we not face that judgment immediately upon death? Why does God wait until the rapture when the Holy Spirit's removed, the church is removed? A whole new dispensation really begins during the tribulation period. Why would there be that delay? Why wouldn't he just do it the moment we die? Can I offer a suggestion? I don't care if you want me to or not. I'm going to. My suggestion is that because our works, the influence that we have in our life, carries on beyond our own death. And it's very possible for a person that lives for God, that is faithful, and has a has an effective witness that even after they're removed in death, we're dead and buried That influence goes on, and we can continue to gain rewards in the result of our influence. Does that make sense And so the Lord doesn't reward us and doesn't judge us for our influence, positive or negative, until that influence is completely played out, when the rapture takes place, the Holy Spirit is removed, and we begin that new period. It's a scheduled judgment. The time after the rapture, at the Lord's return, the place is wherever the Lord is in the air, that's where it takes place. Now, I put this one down. Number three, uh, it's a crowning judgment. A crowning judgment. In other words, it is a judgment for reward. None of us, now get this, this is important. None of us will be judged for our sin at the judgment seat of Christ He said, Boy, I I said a bad word. Uh I know I shouldn't have and boy that guy cut me off in the the traffic jam in Oakland and um And uh uh man, I I said I I said a bad word to him and now I'm gonna be judged for that sin at the judgment seat of Christ. No, no, no All of our sins have been judged where? On the cross. On the cross Jesus Christ suffered the judgment for all of our sins when he died on that cross. Well, here's the amazing thing. Now, this is a concept sometimes it kind of boggles the mind. But as far as God's concern concerning my sin, it's as if I've already died and suffered and judged for it and suffered hell and I'm back again, it's all paid for. Because I was crucified in Christ. Judgment of my sin took place on Christ. So the judgment seat of Christ is not for sin. That's already taken place. There's already been a judgment on that sin. Hey, as a believer in Jesus Christ, if I was judged for my sin, God would be administering double jeopardy. What is double jeopardy? It's not a game on TV. Double Jeopardy is to be condemned twice for the same crime, right? And that is unjust. That is unfair. And God is just. So if he judged Jesus Christ for my sin on the cross, and then he would judge me again for my sin at the judgment seat of Christ, that would be double jeopardy, and that would be unfair. And God is not unfair. So my point is this the judgment seat of Christ is not for my sins. It's all been taken care of. That's all dealt with. But it is rather for my works as a believer. It is a rewarding judgment. Look with me, if you would, to 1 Corinthians. Come over there real quickly again. Another passage, chapter 3, 1 Corinthians chapter 3. And I'm going to read beginning in verse 13. First Corinthians three and verse number thirteen. Now notice the wording here very carefully. 1 Corinthians 3. 13. Everybody find it there? Now notice what it says. Now I want you to notice here, and I have key words circled in my Bible. Every man's what? Work shall be made manifest. I circled the word work there. For the day shall declare it. What day is he talking about? Judgment seat of Christ is what I'm convinced it is. The day the judgment seat of Christ shall declare it. Why? Because it shall be revealed by fire, and the fire shall try every man's what? Work of what sort it is. If any man's work abide, which he hath built thereupon, he shall receive what A reward. If any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss. But he himself shall be saved. Yet as bet yet by fire. Now what is he saying here? Notice how many times is the word work used there? Four times. Work, every man's work, every man's work, every man's work. Who in the world has ever been saved by working? Nobody This is not talking about a judgment of my salvation. It's not a judgment of my sin. It is a judgment of how I live my life as a Christian. The service I gave to Christ, my dedication to Christ, my work for Christ. No one's ever saved by works. Works are the result of salvation. And God says, those of you who were saved, you will stand before me, give an account of yourself for how you lived for me as a result of your salvation. In fact, at the judgment seat of Christ, we're already in our glorified bodies. Now I had a ongoing debate with a local minister of sorts in town here. uh years ago. We were going back and forth in letters. I guess it was before email, so we were writing letters back and forth. And he kept using these references to the judgment seat of Christ as if it was being judged for our salvation. And I said, You're missing it completely. You're preaching a work salvation. No, no, no, we're saved by grace, but we got to live it or you're going to lose it. And he'd go by this. Look at the last part of verse number 15 If any man work shall burn, he shall suffer loss, but he himself shall be saved, yet as by fire. This is not for salvation. It's for how I live my life as a Christian. Here's the thing. Jesus Christ holds each of us personally responsible for our actions as a child of God. Did you get that? From the moment I accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, Jesus Christ holds me personally responsible. For my obedience, for my service, for how I live my life. And he's going to hold me accountable to that. It is a reward for how I live my life. Now, if you study scriptures, and we could go on and on, I'm just going to just list them. There's five categories. That I see in Scripture that God, that the judgment seat of Christ will encompass five areas of our life that Christ is going to judge us with. And then reward us accordingly. My first one that I see in Scripture is this: our faithfulness to the Lord in the midst of trials. Jesus Christ is going to look at our life, and he's going to judge us how faithful we were to him. in the midst of difficulties and trials. Now we don't have time to go to all these passages. I'm just going to give them to them. James chapter 1 and verse 12 Says that he that endureth temptation trials shall receive a crown of life It's one of the crowns, one of the rewards that God gives to his believers, his children, if they are faithful in the midst of trials and difficulties. Now, I'll be very frank with you. Somebody today we were talking, they said, Praise the Lord. We haven't faced any, God spared us from persecution so far. I say, thank God for that. That's a good thing to praise the Lord for. But I tell you, there's a lot of people around the world that are not spared that Hey, there are a lot of people, listen to this. There are a lot of Christians around the world that are dying rather than disobeying God. They would rather give up their life than displease their Savior. Now that's very difficult for you and I to comprehend that. But it's very real for millions of Christians around the world and has been for centuries. People have died Rather than disobey God. Now think about modern Christianity. Man, it's tough anymore to get Christians to simply inconvenience themselves to obey God. Let alone die. And Jesus Christ looks at our life. And James 1:12 tells us that those that stay faithful To him, in obedience to him, and faith in him and love for him through difficulties, he says, I've got a reward for you And our dear brothers and sisters in Christ over in the Middle East and around the world that are giving their lives, Christ says, I've got a reward for you. I've got a reward for you. I'm jumping a little ahead of myself, but let's use our sanctified imagination here a little bit. Let's put ourselves in line of the judgment seat of Christ. And in front of me is a young man or a young lady, maybe a teenager from Pakistan or somewhere, that had their hands chopped off because they carried a Bible. And they're about to go to the judgment seat of Christ and receive award. And I'm standing there and said, I wasn't even willing to inconvenience myself to obey God. I didn't even have time to read my Bible, let alone have my hands chopped off for owning one. It's a reward time. Here's another category that I see in Scripture that the judgment of Christ will encompass. The fulfillment of God's calling on my life. God has created us and saved us for a very specific purpose. I'm convinced of that. That He is an area of service. He has given you and I specific gifts. For a specific area of ministry within the body of Christ. Corinthians makes that clear. And I believe Christ looks at our life and says, All right. Did you fulfill that calling on your life? The purpose I gave you. Now, the reference for this is 1 Peter 2, verse 2 through 4. The specifics there is Peter is writing about the pastor. And he says, I have a crown for those who faithfully and humbly fulfill the calling in their life. Now, the direct passage, as I said, the context of that passage, he's addressing the pastors. But I'm con this is this is Leathermanism here, so you can take it or leave it. But I'm convinced that God doesn't have any more reward. For the person who's called the pastor of church, any greater reward, I don't think I may be wrong, any greater reward for the person that's called to pastor church than he has for a person who maybe God's called them to some other ministry and they invest just as much time and energy and effort and commitment and faithfulness to that ministry that God's called them to as he does to the pastor. And so my limited understanding is listen, Christ is looking for faithfulness to the calling that God has given. And he rewards accordingly. And it's called the crown, the crown of glory. The crown of glory. Sometimes people call it the pastor's crown because it's referencing the pastor. But I believe it is a category across the board Christ looks for. I tell you a sad thing. That had a profound impact on my life years ago in Indianapolis. And I've referenced this occasionally over the years. But uh part of my responsibilities as youth pastor was to counsel the altar. So we were always up here. There was a man attended pretty faithfully for the whole time I was there, an old very dignified man, probably mid-sixties, late sixties maybe. And um he was there, always had his Bible, had a family. Preacher preached, I don't remember what the subject was, but I do remember this. He was at the altar on this side over here, and I came over, and he was sobbing and sobbing and sobbing. I knelt down beside him and I went up and I said, Brother so-and-so, I said, uh, can I pray with you about something? And he kind of collected himself and he said, Pastor Dennis, he said, years ago, back when I was your age, a little younger, God called me to the ministry. And he said, I said no. I wasn't willing to do that. And he said, I fought God and fought God and fought God until God finally let me go. And he said, now I'm at the end of my life. I've completely missed God's purpose for my life. Just crying. Judgment seat of Christ, one of the categories I'm convinced, is Christ is going to say, Did you fulfill the calling I had on your life? Did you fulfill the purpose and ministry I had for you in your life? If so, I will reward you. With that crown of glory. There's another category I see in Scripture, and that's this. I put it this way: fervency in reaching the lost. Fervency in reaching laws. 1 Thessalonians 2 mentions it in Philippians chapter 4. We refer to it as the crown of rejoicing. What is it at the very heart of God's love for man? Is the salvation of the lost. That's the heart of God, for God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten, so whosoever believes in Him shall not perish, but have ever last life. But the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which is lost. As the Father has sent me, even so send I you. The longing of God's heart is for these people, is for mankind to be saved from sin in hell. And Christ, at the judgment seat of Christ, I believe he judges our lives by our fervency in getting the unsaved to Christ. And he says, if you committed yourself to that, if you were fervent in that, I want to reward you. If not, I have no reward for you. Our fervency and reach loss, another category, a fourth category, is our affection for the Lord's return And 2 Timothy 4 and verse 8, we read it here a little bit ago, references the crown of righteousness for those who love the Lord's return. A love for the Lord's return. Now, Paul longed for Jesus Christ to come back. Do you agree with me on that? You can't read his writings under the inspiration of God. You can't read his writings and not see that Paul longed for the coming of the Lord. He said, We which are alive and remain shall be caught up together to meet the Lord in the air. He was convinced Jesus was coming in his lifetime. He was convinced that Jesus was coming back. He longed for that And he says the Lord has a special reward for those that are longing and looking for and have that affection for Christ's coming. Let me ask you a question. The reality of the coming of Christ, what type of impact does that have on my life? Would you agree with me? If we knew the Lord was coming back, Let's let's be honest, all right. How many folks will be honest here now, next few minutes, be honest? Two people, okay, good Just with ourselves, not to me, just between you and God, alright? So relax. I wonder, don't answer this out visibly. I wonder how many of us would behave ourselves a little differently after church tonight if we knew for certain the rapture was taking place at 10. 35 this evening. I wonder how many be a little more careful what we watch on TV when we get home I wonder how many of us would be a little more careful what we talked about, what we listened to on the radio drive. I wonder if us would be a little more fervent in our prayers before we go to bed if we knew the Lord was coming back. My point is this The return of the Lord, the reality of that, when we grasp the reality of it, it has a profound effect in purifying our lives. Bible teaches that. And so the Lord says, Listen, those of you that long for and look for my coming, you had a fervent desire for me to return, that had a very profound effect on your life. purified your life and you caused you to live a more godly life. And I've got a crown of righteousness that I'll give to you. Now the folks that had no thought about the Lord's come really didn't care about it, never pfft, whatever, no reward. Nothing. There's another category, and that is this firmness in self-discipline. 1 Corinthians 9, verse 25 to 27, Paul talks about serving the Lord lawfully and keeping his body under and buffeting his body. And he says, henceforth there is laid up for me an incorruptible crown, or a victor's crown. How many folks, since you've been saved, you found out that there's a sinful nature within you and there's a godly nature within you? And that fuss is going on constantly. Can I get a witness? Yeah. I mean it is nonstop. It is like sometimes I'm like, all right, enough already. It's just a constant warfare, constant battle. The old sinful nature, the new nature, indwelling, spirit of Christ. And this battle is going on, this spiritual warfare. And Christ recognizes that. And he knows that to be true in our lives. What did he say to the disciples? He said, the spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. He said there's a conflict going on there. I'm aware of it. I see it. And he says, those of you in Corinthians, I think he's telling us through Paul, those of you that will discipline yourselves, die to self, mortify the deeds of the flesh, conquer that thing. And yield to the Spirit of God and live and walk in the Spirit and not in the flesh. He says, I recognize that, that you accomplished that. You did that, and I will reward you. But those of you that just gave into the flesh and just fulfilled the sinful desires of your flesh as a believer. No reward. I don't have anything for you. I don't have anything for you. That's why the Bible talks about suffering loss. Oh, they're saved, sure. They go to heaven, but such as by fire, there's nothing. They have nothing for Christ. And that leads me to my last point, and that is this. The judgment seat of Christ is a very disconcerting judgment. Now let me explain what I mean. I want you to come to our last passage, 2 Corinthians chapter 5, where we started out. 2 Corinthians chapter 5. And notice verse 11. Now consider. Well I'm going to read 10, then 11 to put it in context, but consider who is saying this. Verse 10, for we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that every one may receive of the things done in his body, according to that which he hath done, whether it be good or bad. The word bad there means worthless. Now look at verse 11. Knowing therefore, referencing the previous verse, the judgment seat of Christ, knowing therefore, the what's the next word? Terror of the Lord. We persuade men. Paul in verse number 11 is referring to the judgment seat of Christ that he mentions in verse 10, and he refers to it as a terror. Something and the word terror, I got looking that up and how it's used in scripture, and it simply means this: an intense fear. Now get this: the Apostle Paul. Says the fact that I'm going to stand before Jesus Christ and give an account of my life as a believer, that fact, that truth, scares me to death. Paul said that. Read his resume sometimes, the things he suffered for Christ. The stand he took, the sacrifices, if you want to call them, that he made, the price he paid to obey God is incredible. And it looks to me if anybody would say, I can't wait to get to the judgment seat of Christ and just see how all God's going to record me. It would be Paul. But Paul doesn't say that. He said it's terrifying. Why would he say that? I think Paul clearly saw the price that Christ had paid for his salvation. And he understood there was no way he could possibly live up to and pay back in any way, shape, or form that which Christ had done for him. And he felt like he had so fallen short of what he could do for Christ. This is terrible. And he says, I've got to persuade man, I've just got to give myself to this. Now, this is not some legalistic burden that hung over his head. It was a love for Christ that drove him and that terrified him. He would not be able to express and serve Christ with the love that he deserved. Does that make sense? The judgment seat of Christ. I'm afraid that we as Christians take our responsibilities To live for Christ much too flippantly. I really am. And I include myself. I study this event that that's in my future. And I look at myself. I say, am I really living my life in light of what is inevitable? It's very humbling. It's very fearful. And I say, Christ, help me to do better. Help me to keep my life pure and to serve you. Examine these categories and live for you like I should. I think I speak for no doubt most of us this evening when I say this: I love the Lord. Amen? We love the Lord, He saved us from hell. Lord, we want to live for you. We want to please you. We don't want to take it flippantly. We're going to take part in the Lord's Supper in just a moment. Just about every month we stop and we examine what Christ did for me. The price he paid, how important I was, he would rather suffer hell than live in heaven without me. Think about that. It's like, Lord, I owe you everything. I want to live for you. I want to please you. I want to stand before you someday, and I want to hear you say, Well done. Now here's the coolest thing about the judgment seat of Christ. I don't have time to go into it. When we get our rewards, Revelation tells us we're going to look at the ones we do happen to get. We're going to look at them and say, if it was me, I'd be in hell. I don't deserve this. And you know what we're going to do with them? Throw them at Jesus' feet. Not because we don't value them, we do. But we say, Lord, these are all yours. I don't deserve this. I don't deserve this at all. I want all glory to go to you. And when we think about the price he paid and what he did for us, that makes sense. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we do want to take very seriously their teaching here. Paul was terrified by it.