Let's take our Bibles, please, and turn to the book of First Kings, chapter eight. First Kings chapter eight. Now 1 Kings is real easy to find. It's right before 2 Kings. Alright? So you can't miss right All right. All right, I want you to I'm not going to for sake of time read um all that I'd like to read, but um uh I want you to um we're gonna jump right into to uh the story So if you will look please at verse 4. Verse 4, it says, And they brought up the ark of the Lord. And the tabernacle of the congregation, and all the holy vessels that were in the tabernacle, even those did the priest and the Levites bring up Alright, now jump down please to verse 6. It says, And the priest brought in the ark of the covenant of the Lord unto his place. Now, where is his place? Well, into the oracle of the house, to the most holy place. even under the wings of the cherubim. Alright now let me just get you uh catch you up to what is transpiring here. Solomon is building, has been building the temple. Now you will remember that God told David he could not build the Lord's house. And the reason he could not do it is because he had so much blood on his hands. But he said, Your son uh ca uh will build the temple But David went out and he prefabricated the temple That's amazing. You ought to read about that. He prefabricated the temple and had all the pieces uh uh cut, he had all the stone cut, he had all the cedar cut, he had all the gold made, everything was Everything was laid out. Uh all Solomon and his and his workers had to do was just take the blueprint that David had made and uh and take the pieces and build the temple. And it all was just like a Lego set. It just all fit together and uh the people in Jerusalem were astounded. uh because they did not hear the work of construction. They it was quiet. Why? Well because David already had everything cut All they had to do was uh wa was just take the pieces in order and put them all together and the temple was built So it was an absolute amazing thing. Now when they got it built, uh uh Solomon said, Get the tabernacle and all the things that are in the tabernacle, and uh get the uh the the Ark of the Covenant and bring it all up and we're going to put it in the new uh temple Alright, so that's where we are, and it says in verse 6 that the priest brought in the Ark of the Covenant, and they placed it under the wings of the cherubims. Alright, so those golden cherubims that uh were in the Holy of Holies, and they placed that uh ark underneath the uh the the uh wings of those golden cherubims. Alright now if you will look please at verse uh seven it says and the cherubim spread forth their two wings over the place of the ark And the cherubims covered the ark and the staves thereof above. And they drew out the staves. Now you remember they carried the ark on staves. They weren't allowed to touch it. That ark was holy. It belonged to God. And they were not to touch it. Now you remember back earlier when the Philistines had captured that ark And they took it to their cities and they uh and uh they m mocked God with it, and uh uh and um as they were uh bringing it back, as the Israelites were bringing it back They put it on a cart and uh they were bringing it uh uh back to uh to the tabernacle and uh something happened. It started to tip And there was a guy there by the name of Uzzah. And he reached out his hand to keep it from falling off. And when he touched the ark, bang, he went down. Dead You say, boy, that was brutal. Yep, it was brutal. But that ark was holy, and it was not to be touched by sinful man. So they made these little ringlets on the four corners and they put these staves through there and they put it on their shoulders, four men, and they would carry it, and that's what they did here So once they got it inside, the Holy of Holies, they pulled the staves out, and uh uh and they uh and and the writer here says And they were not s uh were not seen without and uh there they are unto this day. Alright now look at verse 9. Here's my text verse. Notice The writer here says, there was, what's the next word? Nothing. There was nothing in the ark Save or accept for the two tables of stone which Moses put there at Horeb when the Lord made a covenant with the children of Israel when they came out of Egypt. Alright, so when they got the the ark in there, there there was only there was only one thing that was inside that ark. And the Holy Spirit makes sure that we know and we understand that there was only one thing in that ark. There was the the the two tablets, that was the law. And there were uh it was the law of Moses. There were four on one tablet and six on the other tablet. The four on the one tablet Commandment one through four, and these are not the ten suggestions now, they're the ten commandments. Okay, let's make sure we understand that And uh and and the author here makes sure that we know that there were two tablets. One had the four Which describes man's relationship to God. The other had six. And that describes man's relationship with his fellow man. And that's what was in the ark. Now, I want to speak to you tonight on this subject. What was missing from the ark? What was missing from the ark? Let's pray, and then I'll show you what was missing from the ark. All right, let's pray. Father, thank you so much now for your wonderful word. Thank you for the music we have heard tonight, for the great message of challenge that we heard uh earlier. And now Lord, we ask your richest blessings as we take one more look tonight. At your precious word. I ask you to help me as I speak. I pray you will fill me with your spirit. I pray that you will enable and help me. I want to be a blessing. But Father, I need your help in order to do that. Fill me with your Spirit, Lord, and we'll all rejoice in what you do. In Jesus' name we ask it. And amen All right, let's um let's notice that when they uh went to move the uh the ark They um they they they they put it in the Holy of Holies, and when they put it in the Holy of Holies, Whoever wrote this book of 1 Kings under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit said There was nothing in the ark save two tables of stone. Now, you're probably wondering, well, uh, Pastor How do you know what was in the ark? Well, the reason I know what was in the ark is because the Bible tells us Go over in the book to the book of Hebrews in the New Testament, please. The book of Hebrews. To chapter 9. I tell my church folks all the time that the book of Hebrews was written to the Hebrews to get the Hebrews to quit being Hebrews. All right? That's it in a nutshell right there. Alright, let's um let's look at uh verse Uh let's see. Let's look at verse 1. It says, then verily the first covenant had also ordinances of divine service and a worldly sanctuary. For there was a tabernacle made, the first, wherein was the candlestick and the table and the showbread, which is called the sanctuary And after the second veil, the tabernacle, which is called the holiest of all. Now, look at verse 4. It's going to tell us now what was in the Ark of the Covenant, which had, watch this now, which had the golden censor And the Ark of the Covenant overlaid round about with gold, wherein was, number one, the golden pot that had manna. Alright, the golden pot that had manna. Alright, and then secondly, Aaron's rod that budded. And then thirdly, which was in the ark when they moved it into the new temple In verse 4, it says, and the tables of the covenant. Or in other words, the two tablets that had the Ten Commandments on them. Written by the way, by the finger of God. Alright? So those are the three things. But notice back in First Kings when they moved the uh the the ark into the the uh holy of holies We notice that it was depleted of those first two things that are mentioned in Hebrews 9 and verse 4. It was supposed to have in it a jar, a golden jar, that had the manna which the children of Israel went out and gathered every morning as uh for their food while they were in the wilderness. And it also was to have Aaron's rod that budded along with the tables of the law. But when the ark was placed into the temple, the jar of manna was gone And Aaron's rod that budded was gone. And the only thing left were the two tablets of stone. Now I think that there is a good little application that can be made from this passage of Scripture. Notice three items were to be in that ark. Three. Three is the number of completion in the Bible. God is Father Son and Spirit. And these three are one. He's complete God made us in his image. Man is body, soul, and spirit And these three are one. We are made in his image. And so three is the number of completion in the Bible. And yet there was only one thing remaining, two of the items were missing So let's consider now these two missing items and let's make some application uh about them tonight. First of all I want you to notice with me the missing sustenance. The missing sustenance. If you look at At verse 9, you will see of 1 Kings, you will see that there was nothing in the ark save the two tablets of stone. So the first item that we noticed that was missing was this golden jar of manna. Now, hold your place here in 1 Kings, and let me take you back, please, to the book of Exodus. So go to Exodus chapter 13 Exod or sixteen, I'm sorry, Exodus chapter sixteen Exodus sixteen. Let me let me show you where this is found in the Bible. Alright, so here in verse 32 of the 16th chapter, the Bible says, and Moses said, This is the thing which the Lord commandeth. fill an omer of it to be kept for your generations, that they may see the bread wherewith I have Fed you in the wilderness when I brought you forth from the land of Egypt. And Moses said unto Aaron, Take a pot And put an omer full of manna therein, and lay it up before the Lord to be kept. for your generations. And the Lord commanded Moses, so Aaron laid it up before the what Testimony. The testimony is the Ark of the Covenant. And he laid it up, and you'll notice, to be kept. Alright now, what can we see here from this? Well, you get over to 1 Kings, and that manna is missing. Now, folks, think about it for just a moment. What did that manna signify? What did it represent? Well, I submit to you that the manna is or was a type of the both the living word, Jesus And the written word, the Bible. You see, the living word is Jesus, and the written word is the Bible. That manna fell from heaven every morning, and all they had to do was go out and gather it up. And when they ate it, it was sweet to the taste like honey, and it satisfied their hunger, and it nourished their bodies. Folks, does that not sound familiar to you? I mean, David tells us in the Psalms that that the word of God is it is sweeter than honey and the drippings from the honeycomb. Man, it it just doesn't get any better than the Word of God. And so they went out every morning And uh and they gathered it up. And Solomon makes sure that we understand that the pot of manna was missing. And folks, the sad thing today is that in just uh more churches than not, the the manna is missing in our churches today. I mean, you you just uh uh uh you just don't hear much about the Bible today. And you don't hear much about the Lord Jesus today, the the living word. You know, we we have done everything in our power to get Jesus out of the picture. And what they've tried to do is make baptism The way to salvation. No, sir, my friend. No, sir. A couple of months ago This fella came up to me after the service and he said he said um I noticed that that that uh lady got baptized this morning. And I said, uh yeah, she did. He said, uh, well I'd like to get baptized. And I said, well, are you saved? And he looked at me and said, from what? Well, I knew right there he wasn't. And uh and I said, Well, step over here and I'll I'll explain it to you what I meant. And so he stepped over and he said, No, wait a minute, wait a minute. I'm not talking about I want I want uh you know uh uh uh t I I don't want Jesus. I want to be baptized. I said, why? Well, he said uh uh uh in my family, uh the the where I grew up, you know, you're baptized into the church And I said, yeah, you are here too, but you get saved and then you get baptized. In the book of Acts, it's always that way. They got saved and then they got baptized. You don't reverse it. You don't put the the cart before the horse. You see, it it that's not how it's done. But he wanted he wanted to get to heaven on his baptism. And I told him, I said, Sir, you go in that water a lost sinner and you will come out of that water a wet lost sinner. Because that wonder cannot save you. And folks, it cannot I I I I've um I've heard so many people that that today that they want to uh get saved through every other means possible in their minds There's only one way, though, folks. And that's through the Lord Jesus. You can't get into heaven any other way. There are people that come to our church and uh and bless their hearts. You know, I I can spot them when they come in. First of all, they're normally not dressed the way they ought to be dressed to come to the house of God. But nonetheless, they come. I'm glad they're there. When they get right with God, they'll dress right. That's what I think. That's what happened to me. I got a haircut and I I had the morning I got saved, I had on a pair of bell bottom blue jeans with the American flag and a peace symbol sewn on to the back pocket. Yeah. You know, not a not a soul said anything to me about my long hair. And not a soul said anything to me about that, those bell bottom blue jeans with the American flag in the peace symbol uh uh uh with the two fingers up, not the inverted cross thing, in the form of an American flag. Nobody said if they had of I'd have got offended And I may not have walked down. I may have walked out, but I may not have walked down But I came down and got saved, and then uh about two Sundays later, I I went to the to the pastor at the door, we and you shake hands with him and when you left, I thought that was a a a a must uh thing. Everybody did it, so I did it too And he said, Well, how's it going? And I said, Good. And uh he said, uh, he said, uh, see you haven't got a haircut yet. And I said, um, is that a problem? He said, well, you know, the Bible says it's a shame for a man to have long hair A shame? He said, yeah, it's not a sin, it's a shame. I said, Well, if it's not a sin, what's the big deal? And he looked at me and he said, I heard you singing. Because we sat right down front. You know, we wanted to get right up close where where the getting was good. He said and he sat right here and I sat right there and he said I heard you singing. You ever think about joining the choir? And I said, Yeah, it's crossed my mind. You got to get a haircut I mean listen, one night I was I was preaching and I Beard and started chasing a rabbit? I do that a lot. Matter of fact, I'm doing it right now And and and I s I was just preaching my heart out. And I was talking about uh uh about um how the devil will do anything and everything in his power to keep you from getting saved. I said, I I said, he'll put a stumbling block in front of you He'll put some uh Christian in front of you and show you a weakness in that Christian. I mean, the devil just never lets up. And I said, some of you aren't saved because you're still smoking on those old cigarettes. I said, well, actually, it's the cigarette that smokes. You're the sucker Amen. I bet it's been a while since you heard anybody preach on cigarettes, hasn't it? And I said, I said, then the devil will just use the world and he'll s he'll just ensure you And I said I said, uh, you let your hair grow out long and and a and uh and you get those men, you'll get those earrings in your ear and uh and man I was just going at it. I mean like that. And I gave the invitation, and folks were coming down and kneeling at the altar, and there was a fella came down and He walked right over and knelt down at the altar, and one of our uh men went over and knelt beside of him, and when I looked down there at him, he had a ponytail down to here I went, wow. And then I come up a little bit and I looked, and he had an earring in his ear. I thought, wow. You know, most of the time they get mad at me when I say stuff like that. And this guy comes down the aisle and gets saved. And he has been one of our most faithful men for for years now. You see, folks, the Bible still works. The word of God still works, but you've got to preach the word of God. If you're going to see a change, Dr. Smith said, there's nothing like the Word of God. And if you're going to see the Bible, do what the Bible can do, and that's change a heart. Well you gotta preach the Bible. Don't be afraid to preach the Bible I was preaching one night down in West Virginia. There was a guy sitting on the back row, six foot four, and he you know, he he was uh shoulders about that broad and uh great big man. I mean great big man. And I was just preaching away and he stood up and he said, That's not right I looked around, the preacher was nowhere to be seen. That's not right. And I thought, all right, this is not going to work. I said, what's not right? Man, everybody in there turned. They were, everybody was frozen. What's not right? And he started making his way down the aisle. So I walked over here. Like this. I just walked right over and I met him right here. And he stopped And he pointed his finger down at me. He was way up here and I was way down here. He pointed his finger down at me. And he said, what you said is not right. I said, well, sir, what's not right about it? He said, I don't know, but it's just not right. I said, are you done? Yeah, I'm done. I said, then go sit down. And I walked back over here and he walked back there and sat down. Wanna know who the first person down the aisle to get saved was that night? Yeah Yep. Yep. I asked him after he got saved, I said, What wasn't right He said it wasn't right that you could stand up there, you little old skinny pr I was skinny then. I was skinny then, Doc. No comments, all right? Um but He said, you little old skinny preacher, uh uh I was I was in my late twenties when this happened, and uh he said uh he said it's just not right that you little skinny old preacher could stand up there And tell me that I'm going to hell. I said, Well, you were He said, yeah, but I'm not now. Amen. Folks, listen, it's the Bible that makes the difference. But not only is our devotion to the Bible missing, but I'm telling you, devotion to the Savior is missing too. You remember what Paul said? For me to live is there you go. There you go. I mean, his whole life was wrapped up in his relationship to the Lord. And that's the way it ought to be. That's the way it should be. Oh, that we would get back to a love for the written word and a love for the living word. I made up my mind years ago, years ago that I was going to put great emphasis upon the authority of the Word of God And brethren, if you put authority upon the word of God, then you are also putting authority upon the the living word of God. Not just the written word, but the living word. And that's what's missing in our arts today. Let me ask you a question, Christian. Do you read that Bible every day? Huh? Boy, you better. Amen. Yes, Lord. I mean you need it. I need it. We need the Word of God. I mean, just as sure as we're all standing here, we need the Bible. We need to learn it. We need to love it. We need to memorize it. We need to hide it in our hearts so we won't sin against God. You know one of these days when you get to heaven, you're gonna be walking down the streets of gold just having the time, and you're gonna see somebody coming towards you, and he's gonna smile and stick his hand out and say, Man, it's good to see you. And you're going to say, Well man, it's good to see you too. And he's going to say, uh, uh, what's your name? And you're going to tell him what your name is And then you're going to say, I hope you will in return, what's your name? And he's going to smile real big and say, My name is Habakkuk. I wrote a book in the Bible. Did you read it? Hey, there's no lying up there No, no, no, no, no, don't even think about it My name's Joe. I wrote a book in the Bible. Did you read my book? And man, we could just probably go on and on and on, couldn't we? Folks, we've got to get back to the word of God. We've got to get the manna in our ark. I tell you folks, I am praying, oh my soul. I remember how it used to be I've been preaching long enough. I remember how it used to be. I remember when people used to come to church. Yes, sir. I remember that. And I'm longing for that again. Amen. I'm praying for revival to sweep our country. I'm praying for revival to sweep America. I would love to see America wake up and vote these socialist, communist, anti-God, abortion-loving, murder-loving liberals out of office. Get out! You have destroyed our country. Liberals destroy religious liberals, political liberals. A liberal's a liberal. I'm praying for God to do something. Man, I tell you, if we don't, we're going to lose our country if we haven't already lost it. If we haven't already lost it, I'm praying for a heaven-sent revival that will sweep across America and then spread over to Europe. Not this pseudo quasi emerging hip shaken, uh uh no Christ, no gospel, no Bible stuff that's going on today. Man, that old dog never treated anything, did it? I'm praying for God to send a real revival, and I know you are too. You're the one that got me started praying like this, you sorry thing. Folks, we need to get our country back to God. We really do. What's in your arc? Hmm. You got a pot full of manna in there? If you don't, you better get you one. Secondly, notice the missing staff. The missing staff. First we saw the missing sustenance, but second, there is the missing staff Now I'll I'll I'll not turn to it because I don't have time, but you can write it down and read it after a while. Numbers 17 and verse 10 And here here was the story. All right. God told Moses to bring Aaron's rod and place it uh the the rod that budded and place it in the ark as a testimony, as a reminder You know when someone gets saved, we encourage them to follow the Lord and believers baptism, don't we? What are they doing? They are remembering that it was the Lord Jesus and the Lord Jesus alone that saved them. When we sit down on uh uh uh in church and we have the Lord's table, why are we doing that? Well Paul said That we are to take the bread and we are to take the cup in remembrance of our Savior He said, This do ye as oft as you eat and as oft as you drink in remembrance of him. All right, so every six weeks in our church we we stop and uh we we uh have the Lord's table. And I tell folks, I said, look here guys, when the ushers are passing out the elements, don't sit there and uh and look around and see what everybody else is doing. Man, you spend that time with God. You make you keep short accounts with God. That's what communion's all about. It's uh it's to remind you as often as you do it that wait a minute, Jesus died for me. He shed his blood for me. And it just draws you back to him. Alright? So So God did the same thing in the Old Testament. He said, you put that jar, that pot of manna in there, and you put Aaron's rod that budded in there. And uh uh and it was always to be there as a reminder that uh that would speak to them of two important matters that they were never to forget. The first matter is this. That rod spoke to them of the rule of God, the authority of God. The up the uh the power of God. You see, if you go back and read the story in number seventeen, there was a dispute in the camp of Israel over which tribe was going to be the priestly tribe. God had all the the uh tribes. He told Moses, you have all the tribes bring a rod to the tabernacle. And all twelve of them did. When they were uh all together God told Moses that the one that budded was the tribe that was to be the priestly tribe. And And Aaron's rod uh uh was was uh of the tribe uh of Levi was the one that that budded. So the Levites were the priestly tribe. God settled that argument. God said the one that uh that buds This will be the priestly tribe. And it was it was the rod of Aaron of the tribe of Levi that budded. Now, folks, listen Who made that cut piece of wood bud? God did. God did. There was no hocus pocus. involved in that. I mean there was no there was no uh uh uh hocus pocus at all. It was dead the moment it was cut from the tree that that rod was dead All right? But the authority, the rule of God was involved here. And God uh uh did it, God made it happen, and God chose the tribe that he wanted. Dispute over Dispute over. I heard about a church that I used to pastor. They decided that they were going to have a business meeting, and the pastor wanted to change the Bible from the King James to the to the uh T E V, today's English version And they were going to put it in the Constitution. That's how serious he was about this. Folks, you don't have a business meeting and vote on what God has already said. You just don't do it. Well, uh you know, I think maybe we oughta get together and see if we can ordain some women. You know, we gotta get woke here. We gotta get we gotta bring the church into the twenty-first century and we need to ordain some women. No. No, no, no, no, no You say, well, what's wrong with that? Well, there's a couple of things wrong with that. Number one, the Bible says that the pastor is to be the husband of one wife. All right. And there is no transgender policy connected to that. Right. Come on. Dwell in the Greek or Pui. No, no, no. Don't even go down that road. Women preachers? No. No. Now you say, well, I don't like that well. Take it up with God. I didn't write the Bible. I'm just telling you what it says. I'm just telling you what it says. And you know God is no longer our rule, is he? God is no longer our rule, either in our lives or in our churches, or in our nation. You say, Well, who's the rule? Culture Culture. You know? If you don't i if i if uh i if you don't behave, well they'll just stick the FBI on you They'll come knocking at your door with drawn guns. You better I I have told our young people this and I'm telling you, I d I don't know, just Lord just laid it on my heart to say this. You young people, did I quit? What happened? You young people, listen to me. You better be careful what you post on that social media. Because once it's on there, it's there. And there are people Who, when you get out of college and you fill out a job application, there are people trained To go back as far as they need to go to see what you have put on book face And Instagram and all the rest of them. Now you uh Twitter, better be careful Now you better be careful. You're going to split your britches if you're not careful. Then you're going to wake up one of these days and say, Well, I can't find a job anywhere. I wonder what the problem is Well, knucklehead, it's that post that you put on Facebook fifteen years ago When you were a dumb kid. But they don't care that you were a dumb kid. They don't care. There's no explaining it away. So you better be careful now, I'm telling you. You know what I do before I hire anybody? I check them out on the internet. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. One more thing and I'm done. The rod also speaks not only of the rule but of the resurrection of Christ. You know that's a doctrine the devil hates. All you gotta do is just look around at all the churches that no longer believe in the resurrection. You take the resurrection out of the Bible though, you've destroyed the gospel. I mean, Paul said, if Jesus is not resurrected, we're of all men most miserable. We have no hope. If he died and was buried and he's still in the grave somewhere over in Jerusalem. And you and I have no hope for a resurrection ourselves And I'm looking forward to a resurrection, aren't you? Man, this old body of mine is uh uh you know, my dad used to tell me, son, you better quit acting the fool I get on that motorcycle and man climb a tree if a bark didn't slip It was that serious. I wrecked that thing so many times that I uh I I hit a guide wire, you know, coming down off a telephone pole Don't laugh. It about killed me. I hit a guideline. And it hit the Lord was watching out for me. It hit above the tire and below the steering wheel And it just stopped that bike like that and sent me about as far as from here to the front of the church in the air. You have all kinds of things run through your mind when you're going through the air end over end. The first thing I thought of was, this is it. Tell my mom I love her. Seriously. And now I'm s I got I got arthritis so bad because I've broken everything at one time or another. I've broken everything. And when you get old you pay for it, don't ya? Yes you do. I need a new body. Can I get a witness right there? Yeah, I knew you were on my side. I knew it. Folks, we I don't care how much religion you have. I don't care how many churches you belong to. I don't care how much money you've given to the building fund The Bible is very clear that if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and shalt believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. That's it. The resurrection is fundamental to anybody's salvation. So let me ask you, Zaren's rod that budded in your ark. A pot of manna and Aaron's rod that butted. That's what was missing from the ark. And they were in dire condition without missing. They were in bad shape. The folks look around at America. We're in bad shape. God help us to get back to the book. And God help us to get back to the foundational principles Of the resurrection and the authority of God. Let's pray. Father in heaven, you know our hearts tonight. I pray the Holy Spirit of God will work on us. Father, help us to to look inward and do a little inspection what's what's missing from our ark. Are we in the Word of God like we should be? Are we reading our Bibles? Father, what's important to us. And I pray you'll search our hearts tonight. Father, just send a revival spirit. That our hearts will have that great desire to want to get right with you and rejoice in the salvation that you've given. So, Father, would you speak to hearts tonight? Our heads bowed and our eyes closed, no one looking around. Wonder how many folks would say, Preacher, God's dealing with my heart tonight I'd like for you to pray for me. God's dealing with my heart. Would you lift your hand and let me pray for you tonight? Amen. Wonderful. Wonderful. Thank you so much. All right, now with our heads bowed, let me ask one more question. Is there anybody here that would say, preacher, I'm not 100% sure that I'm saved and going to heaven? I'm just not 100% sure. I wish you'd pray for me tonight. Could you lift your hand and let me pray for you and ask God to help you? Just lift your hand and hold it up. I won't embarrass you, I promise, but I will pray for you Anybody like that? All right, Father, you know our hearts tonight, and I pray that you will bless and speak to hearts, draw us to yourself. Father, there were many hands raised tonight, and I pray that we'll be more comfortable up here praying and getting right with you than we are in our seats. And Father, we we've designated these few days to revival and soul winning. But Father, we've got to be submissive to your authority. We have we w we have gotten so accustomed to feeling that conviction and then resisting it. And it's become easy for us to resist the convicting power of the Holy Spirit. So, Father, I ask you to speak to the hearts of the people tonight And just draw us to yourself. Lord, we need revival. Stir our souls, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.