5, 2 Corinthians chapter 5, if you would turn there. And uh want us to read together in unison verse number 17, 2 Corinthians 5 and verse 17. How many folks while you're turning there and getting to that, how many folks recognize the name Stuart Hamlin? Hamlin, H A M L I N. Anybody recognize that name? Brian and Sandy? always recognize the names. Doc Williams and uh Glenda back there recognize a few Stuart Hamlin. Stuart Hamlin as I understand was an actor I believe and uh And um I believe as I understand was reading about it, he was known for his uh chasing women and Drinking and just pretty wild guy. He was friends with John Wayne. And uh lo and behold, Stuart Hamlin got saved And his life was changed dramatically as the story goes. And uh John Wayne made a bet with Stuart Hamblin, and his bet was that this transformation in his life would not last six months. John Wayne said in six months from now you'll be back living the way you were living before. And um uh six months went by, and John Hamlin, as I understood, uh Stuart Hamlin I should say, John Hamlin Money or not, but um uh I I thought you wouldn't last six months. And Stuart Hamlin made this statement. He says, you know, John, it's no secret what God can do. And uh then out of that came that song, which I'm not the biggest fan of that song in the world. But I thought it was interesting that here's somebody that had their life completely changed And it became very evident and very visible to folks all around. Now look with me if you would at 2 Corinthians chapter 5, verse 17. In fact, I would like for us to read this verse together with me if you would. Ready? Beginning of verse 17. Just the one verse. Ready? Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. I want to preach this morning on what is a new creature. What is that talking about there? Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, thank you for the wonderful blessing of being in the house of God It's been a real joy to my heart to be with your people, to sing these hymns, and uh what a blessing and to fellowship together. Sunday school hour was a blessing. Now, as we look into your word for a few moments, we pray that you'd open our hearts and minds again. And Lord, as James prayed, I pray that it would be you speaking through me, God, to each of us. And uh Lord, with that in mind, uh once again, for this time, I yield my will, I present my body anew, I plead with you to fill me with your Holy Spirit. Be the preacher this hour is my prayer. In Jesus' name. Amen. Verse number seventeen of Second Corinthians five, what we just read together here a few moments ago, was one of if If not the first verse I memorized after I trusted Christ as Savior. I made reference in a recent message to the two young men who in the church there where I got saved and began attending, they kind of took me underway. Terry and Arden was their name, Terry Wilcox, Arden Musselman These two young men took me under wing and discipled me, and they got me to memorize this verse 17. Therefore, if any man be in Christ He is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. Now this verse became very significant to me. For a number of reasons, but primarily one, because I knew this verse to be true, not just because God's word said it, but because I had experienced it. Now, we believe the Bible is the Word of God. Amen? We believe the Bible is the Word of God. By the way, if we say anything that you agree with or you say is true, you can say Amen. That's a good thing. That's a biblical thing. Let's try it. I'm glad I got an extra hour's sleep this morning. Amen. See, there you go. That's how it works. So, anyway, we believe God's word is true. If God says something, we're convinced it's the truth just by him saying it. But If God says something is so, and then we experience it Then we know it's true, not just because God said it, but also because we've seen it in our life. You follow what I'm saying? And that is what's true for this verse here. I am absolutely convinced beyond a shadow of a doubt that if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. That old things are passed away, all things are become new. I know that's true. I know that's true. Not just because God said it, but because I can look at my life and see it I can look at myself and say that verse is true. Um now There are many Christians. There's many folks in this service right here this morning. You could stand up and say, preacher, that verse is true about me also. God changed my life. God gave me a new life. Not everyone not this Becoming a new creature, being a new creature. It's not as dramatic for everybody as it is for others. In other words, and I'm using myself here this morning, but you understand, I believe, what I'm trying to say. For myself When God made me a new creature, it was boom. It was instantaneous. It was dramatic It was incredibly obvious immediately. Monday night I went to bed uh Monday morning I got up, a lost center on my way to hell, messed up. Monday night I went to beg to bed, a forgiven saint, a changeline. When I showed up at work m Tuesday morning, it didn't take long. Folks knew something was different about Leatherman. Now that was the case for me, and no doubt there's others in the service you could stay and say, you know, that's the way it was for me immediate dramatic change. But it's not necessarily that way for everybody. Some folks The change takes place. The change becomes evident over a period of time. Things begin to For others, there may not be a lot of dramatic outward change, but it's an inward new man You follow what I'm saying? For instance, you have a young person who grows up in a good, godly Christian home. They're in a good strong Bible preaching church. They're taught the Word of God. They're taught convictions, their fun their home has standards and whatnot, and uh they grow up and uh uh outwardly they're just a good kid and they love uh their they have Christian characteristics And they finally get saved. By the way, kids from Christian homes need to get saved just as much as kids from non-Christian homes need to get saved. Well what I'm trying to say is this, because of their upbringing, because of the Christian influence on them, when they trust Christ as Savior, there may not be as dramatic outward change. But there is an inward change. And so this verse has significance to me personally. There's no doubt it may for many of you. In this one verse, 17, this verse is full of spiritual truths I was reading through my devotion some time ago and this verse stood out again to me and uh I got looking at it and and uh Just uh pay uh paying close attention to it. And I got thinking you could have a series of sermons on 2 Corinthians 5. 17. It is chalk full of spiritual truth. Very practical truths. But I want to look at one statement here. I actually have two thoughts, but from one statement here. And that's the first part of the verse. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Two thoughts this morning. 75 subthoughts, but only two thoughts. The first one is this, what does it mean to be in Christ? What is he talking about being in Christ? And the second thought is this: what in the world is a new creature? What does it mean to be in Christ? This verse says, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. What does it mean to be in Christ? How does that happen? What in the world is a new creature? What am I becoming? So the first thought is, what does it mean to be in Christ? Well, every person in the world is in one of three positions in relation to Jesus Christ. One of three positions. First of all, there are folks who are without Christ. Without Christ. How many folks have your Bible with you this morning? Anybody got your Bible? Okay. Shame to bring your Bible to church and not use it, huh? Let's turn over to Ephesians chapter 2. Just a few books back towards the back of your Bible, 2 Corinthians, Galatians, Ephesians, and chapter 2. Ephesians, chapter 2. And look with me at verse number twelve. Paul is speaking to a church, he's writing actually to a church in the city of Ephesus. These are saved people. These were Gentiles, people that had trusted Christ. And he's referencing what they had been, what they were before they came to Christ. And look at verse 12. He says that at that time. Ye were without Christ, being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel. Now look at this Strangers from the covenants of promise, all the promises in the Bible, they were strangers to it. They didn't have any relation to it. having no hope and without God in the world. That's a pretty bleak picture He is saying that these people at one time in their life were without Christ. And because they were without Christ None of the promises to God's people in the Word of God were true for them. They couldn't claim them. They did not have God in their life. In fact, he makes some very dark statements. He says, they were without hope. Without hope. A person who is without Christ cannot claim the promises of God. Person who is without Christ does not have the presence of God in their life. A person who is without Christ has no hope as far as this world is concerned. Now here's the kicker. Every single person is born without Christ. We're born without Christ. We're born spiritually dead. You may be born into the greatest Christian home that has ever existed, but nevertheless, you are born without Christ. Nobody inherits Christianity. Born without Christ. You can be baptized into the greatest church on the planet and still be without Christ. You can be a church member and be without Christ. You can be very religious and be without Christ. To be without Christ means to be without eternal life To be without a home in heaven, to be without the forgiveness of sins, means to be lost. Under the judgment of God without Christ. You know, it's tough to be without money. Can I get a witness? Anybody. Yeah. It's tough to be without money. Connie spends all Iran's money, so he knows what it's like. It is lonely to be without friends Right? It's tough to be without money. I mean that's tough. It's lonely to be without friends. It's very difficult to be without health. Huh? We got a lot of folks dealing with that. But I tell you, the worst thing of all is to be without Christ. Be without Christ. I'd far rather have Christ and no money than to have money without Christ. I'd far rather be lonely with Christ than be popular without Him. I'd far rather be sick with Christ than to be healthy without him. The worst thing, worst position and condition a person can be in is to be without Christ. Without Christ. To die without Christ means that I die unforgiven. Let me say this right here and now. The most important thing in every person's life is that that person finds forgiveness for their sins. If we die unforgiven, we die lost under the judgment of God for all eternity. The most important thing in the world is to find forgiveness of sins. By the way, many other religions see that. And they're seeking to find forgiveness of sins in sacrifice. And ceremonies and rituals, and they're not looking for it in Christ. So to be without Christ means to be without forgiveness of my sins. To be without Christ means to be in my sins. To be without Christ means to be under God's judgment. To be without Christ means to be separated from God and all that's good. To be without Christ means to spend eternity. Eternity in hell and the lake of fire. And yes, in the year 2011 going into 2012, hell is just as real today as it ever has been before. And people who die without Christ go to hell and spend eternity in a lake of fire just as real as it's ever been without Christ. If you're here this morning and you are without Christ, the most important thing for you today is come to Christ. Trust Him as your Savior. You say, well, preacher, someday, someday I'll trust Jesus as my personal Savior. Someday I'll get that settled. Most people who say that die before that ever happens. And die without Christ. Without Christ. So he says, if any man be in Christ, what does that mean? Well, there's There's three relationships, three stages of person can be. One is to be without Christ. The other one is what's referenced there in 2 Corinthians 5. 17, to be in Christ Now, what does it mean to be in Christ? Well, it means more than simply following the teachings of Jesus Christ. It's more than simply say, well, I'm gonna try it, I'm gonna be in Christ, I'm gonna try and live my life by the teachings of Jesus. I'm gonna go by the Beatitudes. And I'm going to follow the golden rule, do unto others as they I would have them do unto me. And I'm going to turn my cheek and I'm going to give to the poor and I'm going to try and follow the teachings of Jesus. Listen, you can follow the teachings of Jesus and still be without Christ To be in Christ is not merely following Jesus' teachings. It's not simply attempting to do what Jesus would do. There's a idea going around, and it's in and of itself, it's not that bad, but wjd. Anybody familiar with that? And it's not bad. I mean it makes nice people But simply trying to do what Jesus would do doesn't put you in Christ. Might make you a nice person. But it doesn't make you a Christian. I can follow Christ's teachings. I can attempt to do what Jesus would do and still be without Christ. To be in Christ. How many folks are glad you came to church today? Everybody with me? Everybody alright? How many people are glad you got an extra hour's sleep? How many folks are squeezing a little bit more in right now? Yeah. That's great. I'm glad we can be of service to you. Folks say, oh yeah, I left church refreshed and rested up. Feel great. Actually, that phrase to be in Christ is actually a legal. Position. As far as God is concerned, it's a legal, it's to be placed into a legal standing before God. In other words, if I am in Christ, What that means is when God sees me, Dennis Leatherman, he sees all the goodness, the righteousness, all the merit of Jesus Christ. He sees me as. You follow what I'm saying? It's a legal standing. It's in other words When God looks at Dennis Leatherman, it's like he sees Jesus. I'm in Christ. I am in the standing that Christ has with God. I am, it means, now this may blow a few short circuits, but um it means that I have as much, I am accepted by God. As much as Jesus Christ is accepted by God. Isn't that something? How many folks believe with all your heart that God accepts Jesus fully, completely, without inhibition? If I'm in Christ, I'm accepted by God to the same degree. Same degree. It means to be in Christ means I have the same access to God that Jesus Christ has. Let's suppose how many folks you say you know you know me a little bit. You say, yeah, I know preacher. Some of you know me more than I care to wish it was so. But um uh let's uh you know me I am what I am. Let's say we had a supernatural, miraculous elevator back here in the Ladies Baptist Street. And so I said, I want to show you something amazing. So we make sure nobody's in there. And we go back, and we all get on the super supernatural, miraculous elevator, and we go to heaven. We get up in heaven and uh Peter's there as I don't know where we come up with this idea that Peter's there, but Peter's there Is everybody okay? Maybe let Melissa get Let's have a word of prayer. Father in heaven, we ask now for your grace and uh for your help, and we pray, Lord, that uh you'd be with us with uh Beverly and um just please help there we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Let's uh keep her in prayer. But let's say we get in this elevator. We'll just go ahead here. And um we get up to heaven, Peter's there. I say, hey Pete. He says, hey, Den. And we go back. I say, Peter, show these folks the way God sees me. We say sure. So we go over to God's library, legal courthouse in heaven. I'm of course I'm being fictis fic fictitious here. And uh he goes through Leatherman, Leatherman, Leatherman. Ah, right here it is, Dennis Lee Leatherman, f born May 6, 19 1560. Yep, this is him. What's it say, Pete? It says holy, righteous, without sin, pure, godly, good. You say, well that sounds like Jesus record. Yeah, I'm in Christ. You follow what I'm saying? It's a legal standing where when I accept Jesus Christ as Savior Look with me if you would look at uh verse 21. Come back to 2 Corinthians chapter 5. Look at verse 21. This is what we're talking about, verse 21. It says, for he hath made him, Jesus, to be sin for us, that we might be made the righteousness of God, where? in him, in Christ. When I accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, the righteousness of God, the righteousness of Jesus Jesus Christ. All the goodness is put to my account. All my sinfulness, all the things I've ever committed, all the laws of God I've ever broken are placed on Jesus' account and Jesus' righteousness and put on my account. Is put on mine. That's what it means to be in Christ. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. That happens, all this righteousness happens the moment I trust Jesus Christ as Savior. Now, how does that happen? You say, what in the world do I got to do to get rid of my sin and have God see me as something who's good and righteous? What do I have to do to do that? It's really a very simple act. It's very simple on my part. It's simply accepting what Jesus Christ has done for me, buried and rose again, simply accepting him, that he did that on my behalf. It's an act of faith. Now it's very simple. It's not always very easy. We become very proud. Well, you know, I got this. I just think that. I don't know how many folks have said to me over the years, preacher, that's just too simple. Simple. Well, it's not too simple. We're just too proud. We want to complicate things. Well, I had a lady set in her office. Well, I was always taught, look what the Bible says. I know the Bible says, but I was always taught The issue isn't what we were taught. The issue is what does God say? To accept Jesus Christ as our personality. So, number one, a person, we're all born this way, is without Christ. The second aspect is to be in Christ. There's a third one that the Bible addresses, and that is to be with Christ. To be with Christ. Are you there in 2 Corinthians chapter 5? Come up to verse number 8, would you? Come up to verse number 8. 2 Corinthians 5. 8. We are confident, I say. And willing rather to be absent from the body and to be what? Present with the Lord. In Philippians chapter 1 and verse 23, the Bible says, Paul says, I am a straight betwixt two, having desire to depart and to be with Christ. Let's let's let them let her I feel like I'm competing here. Let's let them take care of Beverly here real quick. I'm gonna keep Beverly in our prayers. God bless you, Beverly. We're praying for you. I'm glad to see her up and walking a little bit. Amen. I was real concerned Okay. Very good. Let's have a word of prayer just again, real quick, just to settle our hearts. Father, once again we come and we ask that you You would be gracious and uh be with Beverly and Billy and I pray that she'd be well and help the folks as they care for her, give them wisdom and uh what to do that would best help her. Touch her body strengthen her and bless her now we ask again in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Alright. Let's try and get back here. We're talking about without Christ With uh in Christ, and the last one here is to be with Christ. That happens the moment a believer dies. Absent from the body, present with the Lord. Now I was telling my wife this week as I was preparing the message, it's surprising to me how many folks, Christians who are in good churches, When I do funerals and different things, will come and say to me, I never realize the moment a person died, they go to beta with the Lord immediately. Nevertheless, that is Bible teaching. The moment my heart stops beating, the moment this body dies, which by the way, we say this all the time, we'll keep on saying it, you and I are not a body, we inhabit a body. We are the soul. The moment this body dies, my soul, me, I leave this body and I go immediately To be with the Lord in the air. I don't see anywhere in Scripture where you hover around for a little while in the room on the way up. I don't see in Scripture anywhere where you go visit Aunt Alice or somebody, you know, on the way It's immediate. Luke talks about the rich man died in hell. Lazarus died in hell in Abraham's bosom. Boom. To be with Christ happens when a believer dies, that moment that heart stops being, that moment that soul leaves the body, is immediately in the presence of the Lord. Now, I think most folks are aware of this, some may not be, but this past Wednesday evening, about quarter to eleven, Mike Stubler went immediately to be with the Lord. The body died. He went immediately to be with the Lord. He is with Christ. In his presence. Now the only person That is with Christ is the person who was in Christ when they died. You cannot be without Christ when you die and be with Christ after you die Follow what I'm saying? If a person dies unsaved, if I'll use all the different terminology talking about the same condition, if a person dies without Christ, if the If they're unsaved, they never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, they've never been born again, whatever terminology you want to use, if I die in my sins without accepting Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, I will never be with Christ. I will for all eternity be separated from God in hell and eventually in a lake of fire forever and ever and ever and ever and ever. It is imperative that every person come to know Christ as Savior and be in Christ. Have their sins removed and the righteousness of God put on them. So, what does it mean to be in Christ? It means I've trusted Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. It means in God's eyes I'm forgiven. The righteousness of Jesus, all the good things Jesus did are on my account. I'm accepted fully by God. So that's what it means to be in Christ. Now, what does it mean? to be a new preacher. The Bible says every person that is in Christ, that's accepted Jesus Christ as their Savior That person is a new creature. Well, the biblical term for creature simply means something that is created. And you see that in the in the word itself, creature, created thing. And so it is more than just a changed attitude To be a new creature means more than just changing my attitude. It means more than adopting a new lifestyle. When I got saved, my life, as I mentioned, beginning the message, was dramatically changed. The guys at work saw it immediately. Outwardly, uh it was still me. I still had then I had hair and um outwardly everything was the same. The nose was at the same place, ears, everything was just the way it was was. But something was obviously different about Leatherman. And I remember one of the guys made this statement. They said, Leatherman, you turned over a new leaf, didn't you? I didn't know a whole lot, but I knew this. A whole lot more happened to me than just turning over a new leaf. Later on I made the statement, I said, you know, you can have poison ivy And turn over the new leaf, and all you've got is upside-down poison ivy. Right? Being a new creature is more than just changing my lifestyle. It's more than just adopting a Christian Christian lifestyle. It's more than changing my attitude about something. It is a new creation, a new being. If you're around church and preaching much, or you do much reading of Christian writing and stuff, you'll come across, I mean of anyone that's any good, you'll come across a term, and a term is this: regeneration. How many folks have ever heard that term, regeneration? It simply means to have a new life created. The creation of a whole new life. And that is what this verse is talking about. To be a new creature means I have an entire new life created. It's not something I've worked up, it's not a new lifestyle adopted, it's not changing my attitude about things. A lady down when I worked at the hospital gave my testimony. She was, well, uh, Mr. Leatherman, you finally grew up. No, I didn't grow up. I was born again. Very few folks have accused me of growing up, but um it's not just maturing It's a whole new life. A few thoughts about what it means to be a new creation. First of all, it's a dynamic change takes place Entirely new being. Not a revision of what I was before, but something I never was before. It's not a reformed nature, but a completely new nature. When I was young, and a lot of you did this, when I was young, we'd catch a little caterpillar. They always had these big fat green ones. I don't remember what they're called. Caterpillars. And we'd they'd be on a thing and we'd put them in a jar, and lo and behold, they would uh they would uh uh make a cocoon And they'd go in that cocoon. And they'd start out as a caterpillar. Or as my bo my boys called them, pata killers. And um uh and uh they they'd be in there and several weeks would go by And what happens? That thing busts out and a completely new creature comes out. Completely brand new. It's not a different kind of caterpillar. It's not a caterpillar anymore. That's exactly what happens when I trust Jesus Christ as my Savior. I made a new creature. Not physical change takes place. Now eventually it manifests itself sometimes in a physical change changes in my life. I I go in, I go into Christ a sinner and I come out a saint. Before my salvation so badly, I want it to be be a new man. I told you about when my when I was living with my dad and dad would go off to church. I'd stay home, I'd get the photo albums out when I was little. I remember I can still see it in the dining area. I'd had those pictures of me as a child scattered and I'd just cry and cry and oh God, what have I become What have I done to myself? What have I become? I found out that through Christ I could be a new man. I could have a whole new life. I'd be something I never was before. A new creature. Maybe you're listening to me this morning. Let me say I don't like what I've become. I like the sin, the emptiness, the purposelessness of my life. Listen, you can come to Christ and He'll make you something completely different. He'll make you a completely new creature. Any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. A new creation. That's a dynamic change. I also see it as a divine work of God. In other words, being a new creature is something God does. God is the only one in existence that can create. Man cannot create anything. Only thing man can do is take what God has already created and manipulate it. You heard about the uh uh atheists, scientific atheists that had an argument with God. And uh they say, God, we want to challenge you. We think that we can make a man better than you made man with all our science and technology and chemistry and we can make a man. And um God says, Alright, I accept the challenge. They said, Alright, you get some dirt, we'll get some dirt. God said, get your own dirt God's the only one that can create. And if a new creature means a new creation, it is something that God does. There is no human explanation for biblical Christianity apart from that fact that it is God does something in that life. Man cannot create. We can only manipulate what has been created. When a person is in Christ, when they accept Jesus Christ as Savior A life is created that only God can create. This world cannot do for you what Jesus Christ can do for you do for you. No way. This world cannot give you the quality of life. That only God can give you. This world cannot give you purpose and joy and confidence that only God can give you. Listen, there is strength, there is a life available for every man, woman, and child that so far exceeds what this world has to offer, and that is found in Christ. It's a life that God gives us. A life that God gives us. I have yet to meet a genuine Christian who says, I would rather, I wish I could go back and be the person I was before I came to Christ. I have yet to hear somebody tell me. Tell me that honestly, sincerely. Because the life this world offers is nothing compared to the life that Christ offers us. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature, a new creation, a divine work. Christianity is not something you and I can work up. Christianity is not something you and I can make ourselves into. It is something God does to us. It is a supernatural work of God New creature. A new creature. I got thinking about that. Do you realize it costs God more time and effort to create a new man Then it cost him to create the entire universe. What did Christ have to do? What did Christ do to create the universe? How long did it take him? Let's start there. How long did it take him? Six days. What effort was involved in Christ creating the universe? God spake. And it was so. He just spoke a word. Let me ask this question. How long did Jesus live on earth? 33 and a half years. What effort was involved in you and I having new life? Dying on a cross. Suffering shame and anguish. I'm telling you, it costs God more in time and effort to give you and I a new life than it costs Him to create everything that exists. New life. New life. It's a divine work. There's more opposition to God creating a new man than there is to God creating the universe. Nothing stood in God's way. Nothing had any opposition to God creating everything there is. But brother, you and I have got a stubborn, hard, sinful free will. And that free will fights God and fights. I'm curious. How many folks here you're saved to know it? Say amen. How many folks say, Preacher, I struggled with that long time. I fought the conviction of God before I came to Christ. Anybody, can I get a witness? I did five months. I fought that. Said no to God. Said no to a new life of purpose and freedom and joy and confidence and meaning. And here I am languishing in this wicked, sinful, empty, dark, aimless life. He said, No. No, no. How sad. How sad. The new life, the Christian life, is a work that God does. Supernatural. Something the world can never offer. By the way, you get more in one day of Christianity than you have a lifetime of drinking liquor. Amen? I'd rather I'd rather spend one minute as a Christian than ten years in drunkenness. And any other sin you mention. It's a divine work that God does for us. It's a dynamic change. It's a divine work. And last of all, this new creature is a delightful result. I got studying this. Look here at verse 17. I am with this. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, there's a word caught my attention. I never really paid much attention. to it before. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Hmm. New. I got looking that up and seeing how it's used. You know what I found out? It's not talking about new in relation to time. I'm not talking about chronologically. It's just come out recently. It's talking about a whole different type. The word new itself is translated other places fresh. Isn't that interesting? A fresh life. It has the idea of something being clean, good, unique Pure. In one of the definitions, it had the word forgiven. The life that God gives us is a life that is pure. That is good. That is refreshing. A life that puts a smile on your face. A spring in your step, lightness of heart. My father told me, and some of y'all might think this is crazy, and we're not being gobbledygoop terrorism Well my dad said when he got saved, I was ten years old at the time, when he trusted Christ, he was a truck driver for his whole life. He said he pulled out that next morning after he had trusted Christ. He was going down the road. You know what he said to me? He said the flowers were brighter in color than he'd ever seen them before. He said the sky was bluer. He said everything looked Different. Fresh. A new life. When I trusted Christ as Savior, those next few days, like I said, I didn't understand a whole lot, but I remember one One thing I had said several times in the church talking with especially with the two young men that were helping me. I said this for once in my life, something good Has taken place in my heart. I did something good. I'm a new creature. Wouldn't you like Would you like to have a good life? Wouldn't you like to have a life that is fresh, clean, forgiven? That's what being a new creature is. I'm in Christ, and if I'm in Christ, a supernatural birth, a supernatural Supernatural life has been given to me. That is so different than the life this world has. There's nothing to compare to it. I read about an Indian Christian From India, Ajayai Prakash. Let me read to you his story. My maternal grandfather, who was a devout Hindu by birth went to school at a missionary school in the state of Haryana in the north of New Delhi, India. Listen to this He had learned about Christ and had been invited to accept him as his personal Savior, but shrugged off the opportunity. After qualifying as a pathological technician, he started work at a hospital. Being a bachelor, he lived across the rail tracks opposite to the hospital and walked daily to work. In the 1940s, on one of those early morning walks to the hospital, he encountered a train standing on the tracks waiting for a green signal. He was getting late for work, so he took the risk of crossing the tracks by going under the area where the carriages were joined together. He was about to cross onto the other side and the train started to move. If he embarked on returning or crossing the other side, he would have been sliced in half by the wheels of the train carriage. In the spur of the moment, he decided to lie down between the tracts. As he lay there in fear and trembling he would trust Christ as Savior and surrender his life for God. After the train passed away, onlookers surrounded him to see if he was dead or alive. And he had surrendered himself to Christ, he gotten saved, and he went on to live for God. God transformed his life. A Hindu Realize that God was real. He trusted Christ, and God changed him completely. Now listen, don't wait For a train to run over you. Come to Christ. Those of us that know Christ, let's share this with others. Amen. Father in heaven, bless now, I pray. Lord, those of us that have experienced this new birth, what you've done for us, Lord, we to say thank you seem so trite. God, we owe you everything we are. We want to live for you and please you. We want this new life to be visible and evident. As we go throughout our week. Lord, perhaps there's some here this morning that do not know for sure that their sins are forgiven, do not have this new life in Christ. I pray that today they would come and trust you as Savior, find forgiveness of sins and new life in the Lord. Lord, perhaps there's some And we would devote ourselves, as a new creature, devote ourselves to taking the gospel to others, of serving you with this new life you've given us Help us, we pray, Lord. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, I know this new life you're talking about, this new creation. I know what you're talking about. I've experienced it. I've trusted Christ. I'm living This new life. You say, Preacher, I'm not all I ought to be. Lord, preacher, I know it's real, and I want to serve God as a new creature. I want to serve And live for him and please him with this life he's given me. You say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me devote myself to the Lord Jesus Christ. How about it? Any life Like that by the uplifted hand. God bless you. Hands all around. Hands all around. There's some here this morning say, Preacher, I don't know for sure that when I die, I'm going to heaven. I'd like to know that my Sins are forgiven. I'd like to have some purpose and meaning in my life, direction. You'd say, preacher, pray with me that I could have this settled in my heart and life. I could know this new life that's in Christ. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. I need Christ to be my Savior. I need to be in Christ. About it. Any at all? Now, Father in heaven, bless our invitation. A lot of hands raised. I pray you'd have your way. Help us, Lord, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's going to play a few verses of invitation. And God spoke to your heart Why don't you slip on out? Just come to the old-fashioned home and say, Lord, I want my life to count. This new life you've given me. I want to live for you and serve you with it. I want it to be have some meaning. I want to influence others to come to Christ. Maybe you've been saved, but you've not been baptized. We invite you to come follow the Lord in baptism. Say, baptized, not a member of the church. We invite you to come on. Maybe there's somebody in particular that you know that needs Christ. I'm not trying to be judgmental in any way, but Someone you know, they need the Lord Jesus Christ. Father in heaven, again we're grateful for your Holy Spirit, for speaking in our hearts. Have your way in our lives, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.