Well, have you found your place in Matthew chapter 28? Good. The story of the Lord to me is about revival and soul winning. Well those two things that we need, don't we? Revival and so on. Revival's for God's people. We know that, right? And soul winning, that's what everybody needs. Everybody needs a soul winner to come to them and tell them how to be saved. That's why I still try to go to the mission field. That's why we're still having citywide crusades. We just had one in Suffolk, Virginia, that there's 34,000 doors in Suffolk, Virginia. And we mailed to all of them. We went in person to more than two-thirds of them in person to try to win folks to Christ. And um personal soul winning. There's no substitute for it. Boots on the ground. And it's not God's will for preachers to win the world of Christ. There's not enough preachers to get that job done. It's God's will for all of God's people to try to be soul winners, to let your little light shine. And uh what would what would take place in America if really if every one of God's people started letting their lights shine? Mm, be a good thing, wouldn't it? And it'd be a right thing. Let's look at Jesus', some of his final words that he said. Look at uh while he's on earth. Matthew chapter 28. Verse 16, then the eleven disciples went away into Galilee into a mountain where Jesus had appointed them. And when they saw him, they worshiped him. Amen. Ah, but some doubted. And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, Now here are some of the final words Jesus Christ said. That's recorded for us. All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. Go, ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Now look at this: teaching them. Teaching them to observe all things, whatsoever I've commanded you, and lo, I am with you always Even until the end of the world. I titled this this morning, What Matters to Jesus? What matters to Jesus? Hmm. If you want to know what really means a lot to people, think about some of their last words. I was preaching in Ohio and a good church and a good meeting. We had people saved Sunday morning. Beautiful. My father-in-law was in the hospital. My father-in-law, my favorite preacher that I've ever heard on earth, heard him preach over a thousand times. I was his assistant for 12 years. I loved hearing him preach. Now he's in the hospital at this point. I've been with him, spent one Thursday with him just before what I'm about to tell you. My father in law was a big man. He'd lost all appetite. When you can't get a preacher interested in Chick-fil-A, hunger's normal. It's a sign of life. Well, I had to go on to my meeting and I went on. And I my phone began to go off on this Sunday evening, just before the evening service, and into the evening service. And I finally sent a text to my wife, who was right there beside my father-in-law. I said, Do I need to step out of the service now and talk to him? Because he's calling for me. He's calling for me. And he learned I was about to preach. And he sent one word to me. Preach! So I preached my heart out. And I preached the next night and then I drove to be with him. He was in hospice care at this point. Between Sunday and Monday, he went into hospice care. I remember my last conversation with him. Last song he wanted sung was Amazing Grace. He wanted all the kids to live for Jesus. You know, the last words you find out what's really important to somebody. I'll tell you one thing that has bothered him the last two weeks of his life is passionless Christians I'm with him. We ought to have some holy zeal. Amen. But I'm remembering my last conversations with him. I think about what matters to people. Well, what is it that matters to Jesus Christ, our beloved Savior? See, my favorite preacher is Jesus. And what did he tell us here? Well, he did tell us some things. Verse 18, all power. Is given unto me in heaven and in earth. We serve an almighty God today. Amen to that. He's omnipotent. He has all power. Amen And then he said in verse 19, go. Go. There's three things in this passage. We're supposed to try to win folks to Christ. Winning folks to Christ. That's paramount. It's important. And it's urgent work. It's needed work. It's necessary work. These God bless America rallies, these revival meetings, we're always trying to get folks out of the pews and out there in the fields. The fields are white under harvest. I was in a city and led a couple of folks to Christ and The people said, How did you do that? I thought back to Sergeant York when he brought those prisoners in. He said, Well the woods are full of 'em. The world's full of lost folk. They're all over. He that winneth souls is wise. You can tell me you're successful in business. That's good. But if you're not trying to win souls, you're not wise. You can tell me how clever you are. But if you're not trying to win souls, you're not wise. He that wineth souls is wise. And Jesus says, Go and teach all nations. And then he talks about baptizing them. After someone gets saved, they're supposed to get baptized. It's not the second half of salvation, we know that. But it is obedience. And we're to do it. It's one of our two ordinances that we practice. So these last three things that Jesus gave to us, what matters to him, number one is win folks, number two, baptize folks, and then what I want to talk about a little while today. and try to preach about in verse 20, teaching them. Teach them. Teach them. Make disciples. Make disciples. Now all three of these are important. You can't teach folks until you've won some folks. You've got to win them. You need to baptize them and then teach them. And so we want to want us to think a little while about discipleship. Now, becoming a disciple is a lot different than just going to church one or two times a week. Now I believe we ought to be in church. I believe a Christian ought to be in church. We were out door knocking yesterday being pastor. You know, I get exhausted with some things. The last few days I've gotten so many belly aches and so much blah. I said to the pastor, I said, can we go soul-winning? Amen to that. Some things will just zap you. Watch the news all day long, that'll zap you. Watch 12 minutes and then turn it off. In 12 minutes you'll find out what's going on. And go out there and try to win somebody. But then we've got to disciple folks. And discipleship is a lot more than just going to church once a week or twice a week. It's more than just getting moved by the preaching. Now I do get moved by preaching. I get moved by good preaching and by bad preaching. I said recently, I said, I quoted somebody, I said, you know, some preachers are kind of like the cross-eyed javelin thrower. They're not very good, but they do keep your attention. I do get moved by preaching, but discipleship's more than just getting moved and and emotional. I I like good singing. That gets me stirred up too. But now but now discipleship is a brand New orientation to life. All things become new. All things. Salvation is simply the introduction to God's goal in our lives. It is God's will for everyone to be saved. Amen to that. But then we're all supposed to be a disciple lifelong and following Him and learning of Him. Here's a definition of discipleship. Discipleship is that development process of the local church That progressively brings Christians from spiritual infancy to spiritual maturity so that they are able to reproduce the process with someone else. Well, I like that definition. To remain baby Christians is not honoring to the Lord. All of us should try to be growing Christians. Growing Christians. And to be a growing Christian, you've got to have some nourishment. Where do you get that? Right here. I had me seven delicious chapters this morning. Yeah, let me tell you something. Stay in that Bible. Amen. Read the Bible. Feast upon the Bible. And grow as Christians. Got to have some nourishment and you've got to have some exercise. Do the things of God. Get that exercise in. Well, I've got a 10-point message, but I really don't think I'm going to get it in today. Point number one. The concept of discipleship. The concept of discipleship. I'd say first off, it is a right concept The concept of discipleship is a right concept. You know, being a disciple means you're a learner. You are a student. The Greeks, they had disciples Um Plato, he's often called the father of philosophy, and he discipled his students. And Aristotle, he took that to another level. He built gymnasiums. Gymnasiums were not originally for sporting events. No, they were for teaching these philosophies in the ancient world. These gymnasiums were for the Hellenization, for for uh for teaching and spreading uh these philosophies and it influenced the world. Well, Jesus Christ said you need to be disciples, need to need to be teaching the principles of the Word of God. Discipleship, the concept, number one, it's a right concept. Amen to that. Secondly, that discipleship has the right information. Amen to that. In this program we're talking about, it's not a man-made program. It's God's program. God's information. You know, this world is filled with lies. Lies. Our young people told lies all the time. They've been told lies by their school teachers I was on an airplane this year, a commercial flight, and I was sitting with seven Nassau scientists. Wow. They learned I was a preacher. One of them leaned over. These clever folk. Six young men, young lady. Young man leaned over and said, I don't want to cry. But why don't you believe in evolution? I said, I was just hoping somebody would ask. I got my Bible, I said, the only true understanding of cosmogeny. They were impressed I knew the word cosmogeny. The study of how things came to be. The truth right here is this, gentlemen, right here. A scientist, it's right here. It's right here. I said, I opened the door, went to there, I said, hey, look out here. This did not evolve from some primordial ooze, man. You fellas know these the second law of thermodynamics. Things aren't getting better. It's getting worse according to your laws. I'm just talking to them. They're a little stunned. I said, let's pretend I've got a cowboy hat. Let me take my cowboy hat off. Disassemble your watch. Let me shake it for one million years. Do you fellas really believe that thing's going to get reassembled and keep precision time? They started talking about the apostles and finally got on global warming and I told them I believed it. Peter chapter 3, this place will melt fast. I said, I don't know if it's about the stuff y'all talking about. But I said we've never had anybody talk to us this way. I like the truth. Our kids have been told that big fat lie of evolution. They've been told from Hollywood and from the world's music that immorality is okay. It is not okay. When you commit adultery, you sin against yourself, you sin against your family, you sin against the church, you sin against this nation. When I worked at UPS. When I was in Bible college, our big boss fired two men for committing adultery. He said if they'll cheat on their wives, they'll cheat on UPS. That was a long time ago, but I'll tell you, you'll break those sacred vows, no telling what you'll do. God is right. And this information that's being taught in the discipleship is the right information. It's accurate. It's true. The infallible word of God. And then it brings the right skills. This discipleship program, it brings the right skills. Amen to that. The right skills. Knowledge alone does not make you a disciple. Knowing something of the Bible, that doesn't mean you're a disciple. No, no. It's applying these great truths to our lives, incorporating these things. I would like to build my entire life on the Word of God. Isn't that what you want? And follow all the clear teaching and the concepts and the and the precepts and the divine instructions from Almighty God. It brings the right skills to your life. I'm amazed at our Lord and how he teaches us and works with us patiently. This discipleship, I got in his discipleship program 40-some years ago He let me in when I got saved. He let me start studying the word and beginning to learn a few things and then applied them to my life, and it brings the right skills to your life. And God blesses these skills. Now let's say you had to have a kidney transplant. Well, if you're going to have a kidney transplant, wouldn't you like your surgeon to have had a little experience? You go in there to meet with your surgeon. He says, oh yeah, I've learned about it. How many have you done? Oh, I've not done any. But I've read about it. I've heard about it. You'd be saying, uh uh have you ever seen one? No, I've not ever been there to see it, but uh I've read about it No, I want you to have been in the room. I want you to have some experience. I want you to have some skills. Well, this discipleship program, oh, of the Lord's, it brings the right skills. So that's the concept. Let's talk about one more point in this sermon, the process of discipleship. What's the timetable on discipleship? How long does his discipleship last? Is it four weeks? Six weeks? A year? No, it's once you get saved all the way home. All the way home. The temptation at my age group, you know, I'm a baby boomer and I like my group. I like the millennials, I like Generation X, I like, I like everybody But the temptation of my age group is we think we've arrived. And we don't want to take that next step. Every Christian needs to take the next step in their walk with Christ. All the way home. It is a race uphill. All the challenges didn't take place just when we were young, all the challenges in giving, all the challenges in letting our light shine. All the challenges of standing before others and maybe even rebuking a little bit Trying to help people get on the right path, giving warnings. Grandads, discipleship program's not over. No, there's no time length on this. No, no. You just keep going. As fast as you can, Matthew chapter 11. Matthew chapter 11. Let's talk about just about this process. Matthew chapter 11 We're talking about discipleship. Just think of just a few minutes this morning. Matthew chapter 11. You know these these words of our Savior. Matthew 11 and verse 28. I love the first word. Come. I like that invitation. Come over to my house and let's play some games. Come over and let's have a meal together. Come on, let's have a good time. Come. Comes an invitation word, and Jesus gives the invitation. Come unto me All ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon me, upon you, and learn of me For I am meek and lowly in heart, and ye shall find rest unto your soul For my yoke is easy and my burden is light. Talking about the process of discipleship, there's three things here. Number one, submission. Get that yoke on Getting the yoke on indicates submission. Submitting to my Lord. You want to grow as a Christian? You want to go forward as a Christian? Submit to God in every area. I had a friend named Don. He was leaving Virginia, moving to Minnesota. I'm helping him pack up. He said, Brother Fox, we'll give you our dog. I said, I don't want your dog. I'll give you a sneezy. I don't want sneezy. Sneezy sneezed all the time. Finally I said, I'll take sneezy on a trial basis. You're still in town for a couple of days. I'll take him for a day and see how it works out. Got him home, sneezy, bit my wife. That's not gonna work. That my daughter has not gonna work. Bent me not going to work I grabbed old Sneezy up. I got me a newspaper. Makes a lot of sound, doesn't do a lot of damage. Whoa, wham, wah, wah, wah, wait, wait, wait. Sneezy! I am in charge around this house. I am the pack leader. After a while, me and Sneasy came to an understanding. But he did not last at our house. There's not a submissive dog inside of our heart. I'm not going to have a dog that bites my wife, bites my not going to have that. Dog needs to be submissive. Amen. Christian needs to be submissive to our Master. Just say, Lord, you just tell me what to do, and He'll tell you. You want to hear from God? Get the Bible out. He'll tell you how to live. But you got to submit to it every single day, submitting to God. And then getting in that yoke implies some work Some hear that R-word again, responsibility. I have some responsibility before my Lord. I am to try to win folks to Christ. I am supposed to try to disciple some folk. I've got two preacher boys traveling with me right now. Preacher boys. I like preacher boys. And these boys are ready to preach at the drop of a hat. They're ready to drop a hat. They're ready to go soul-winning. They're ready to pray through the night. Hallelujah for boys like that. I wish they were here today. I wish they were able to be here today. But I'm trying to disciple them. I'm trying to disciple them. And I told them I don't want you to become a syncophant and just believe it just because I believe it. But you get in this Bible, you find out what God says about things, and then get in the work, boys. Amen. So we submit, we have some work. And then lastly There's companionship in this discipleship. There's someone in that yoke with you. I'm glad of that. I get to work with God's people. That last chapter, Mark, says the Lord working with them. The last verse in Mark. These disciples, they get in a partnership together in world evangelism and discipling folks, baptizing discipling folks. And they're partnering with God, greatest partnership in all the world. So, what we're going to do in this discipleship? We ourselves should be disciples until we die. But then we need to find some folk. Win them to Christ. Get them baptized in our churches. Acclamate them, and then teach them the Word of God Last night, my phone after 10 o'clock, a gospel singer calling me and the preacher taking a stand about something. And he wanted to know, is it true? I said, well, according to the Bible, your preacher's right. Amen. I'm not going to circumvent a pastor first off, but I'm glad when the preacher's right. I said, well, he's got Bible for what he's telling you. Amen to that. Oh Lord. Thank you. Thank you for raising up this church. Thank you for the sword of the Lord. Thank you for the Bible. Thank you for your great work. Your salvation is great. Everything about you is great, Lord. I do pray that there will be a revival of soul-winning Of us not just talking about it, but actually giving folks the gospel. And then Lord, I pray you'll draw people to you. Right here in Oakland, Maryland, and throughout All of our state, so many of our people are not saved. And so many have not had anybody even witness to them lately. Oh, that we would get back to soul winning, a revival of soul winning. And then, Lord, for you to empower us with your Holy Ghost. We cannot do without you, Lord Thank you. We pray it all in Jesus' name. Amen.