Is to get us started this morning. Brother Grant read from Mark, and that's primarily where we're going to be, so you want to mark your place there. But if you would find Deuteronomy chapter number six Deuteronomy 6. We're going to read a passage there, a couple passages from Deuteronomy, and then Matthew chapter 22. So Deuteronomy 6, Matthew 22, and then we're going to end up in Mark chapter 12, where our scripture reading was a little bit ago. Deuteronomy 6, Matthew 22, and Mark chapter 12 in that order. While you're finding your place there, I read about a deacon that had a parrot And of course parrots repeat things and say things. Well he was very embarrassed about his parrot because all his parrot ever said was, let's kiss. Let's kiss. Let's kiss And a deagon's very embarrassed. You got to have people over and his parrot saying this is embarrassing. We found out that the pastor also had a parrot. And This parrot would say, Let's pray. Let's pray. Let's pray. Well the deacon found out that the pastor had this parrot and what this parrot said, and he approached the pastor. And he said, Would you mind if I left your parrot my parrot with your parrot for a period of time so it will change what my parrot is saying and uh help my parrot be a little more uh um appropriate in what he says and not be so embarrassing. The pastor said, sure. Uh come on over. So he brought the parrot over, dropped it off at the pastor. He brought it in, put it in the cage, a nice big cage Both the parrots are in there, and sure enough, right off the bat, the deacon's parrot started saying, Let's kiss. Let's kiss. Let's kiss. And the parrot's pastors said uh the The pastor's parrot said, Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, praise the Lord So you gotta be careful who you run with. I hope that wasn't an inappropriate joke this morning. I was I felt bad I was reading, but How was that, Mary? No. Thumbs down, huh? Right. Alright. Alright, let's get into it now. Matthew, uh Deuteronomy chapter number six. I'm going to read a portion of this. I'd like for you to do is read together with me as we go through these different references. Read together with me in unison certain verses, and I'll point them out as we come to them. Deuteronomy chapter 6 And this one I want us to read together verse number five together. I'll read the verse before and a few after. But when we get to verse number five of Deuteronomy chapter 6, I want us to read that together in unison. Ready? Verse 4 says this. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord. Now, verse five, all together, all of us. And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy might. And it goes on and says, And these words which I command thee this day shall be in thy heart. Now shalt teach them diligently unto thy children And shall talk of them when thou sittest in thy house and when thou walkest by the way, when thou liest down, and when thou risest up. Now, would you turn over to chapter ten of Deuteronomy? A couple other passages here in Deuteronomy. Chapter ten And I'd like for us to read together verse number twelve in unison. Verse twelve. Then I'm going to actually read verse thirteen and fourteen, but verse twelve we read together in unison. You ready? You got it there? Here we go. And now, Israel, what doth the Lord thy God require of thee? but to fear the Lord thy God, to walk in all his ways, and to love him, and to serve the Lord thy God with all thy heart and with all thy soul. Verse 13 goes on to say, To keep the commandments of the Lord and his statutes which I command thee this day for thy good. Behold the heaven, and the heaven of heavens is the Lord thy God, the earth also with all that dwell all with all that therein is. Now, uh chapter eleven and verse number one, Deuteronomy. Chapter eleven, verse one, right there where we're at, and let's read that verse together in unison, if you would please. Verse number one, chapter eleven. Here we go. Ready all together. Therefore, thou shalt love the Lord thy God, and keep his charge, and his statutes, and his judgments. and his commandments always. Now let's come to Matthew. Back to the New Testament. I'm doing all this for a reason. Matthew 22 And I'm going to begin reading verse thirty-five. When we get to verse 37, I would like for us to read verse 37 together in unison. Alright? Now bear with me and work with me here. I think you'll see what we're doing. Chapter 22, Matthew, I'm going to begin reading verse 35. We get to verse 37 altogether. Verse 35 says, Then one of them, which was a lawyer, asked him a question, tempting him, saying Master, which is the great commandment in the law? Now pay attention to that question. The Lord responds, verse 37, altogether Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart and with all thy soul and with all thy mind. Then the Lord goes on and says, This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. Now, one more, back over to Mark, and that's where we'll be for our message. Mark chapter twelve and Brother Grant already read this whole section, so just number 30 together, verse number 30. All of us. Ready? Here we go. All together. And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart. And with all thy soul, and with all thy mind and with all thy strength, this is the first commandment. My message this morning is entitled, What Does God Want from Us? Let's pray together. Father in heaven, we bow before you this morning. We humble ourselves before you, and we ask you, Lord, if you would, to meet with us in this hour in a special way. Father, I ask that you would, your presence would be very obvious. I pray you'd open our hearts and our minds to your will for our lives as our Creator, as our God. That you would show to us from your word what it is you want from us. And I pray you'd help us to respond in faith Believing what your word says and then implementing it into our lives. Father, as the preacher in this hour, I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body anew to you. I yield my will to you. I plead with you with all my heart that you would speak through me and challenge us and help us. In Jesus' name, amen. Throughout the summer, we've been considering God. We've been determining from God's word, does God actually exist? Is he just a figment of our imagination, or is there really a God? And if there is, what is he like? How can we know if there is a God and what is he like? Well our conclusion, and I've been very repetitional repetitious on this on purpose, but our conclusion is yes, there absolutely is a God. That is undeniable in my mind. It's obvious on every hand. We've repeatedly pointed out that In our very souls, we are aware of God's existence. We are born with that awareness. It is an inherent part of our being to be aware that there is a God Every society, every culture that ever exists recognized an existence of a God of some sort Now, many, if not most of those were distorted, were incorrect, but there was an awareness that there is a God. And we look around us in creation. And on every hand, we see evidence of a designer. We see evidence of a purpose and plan, intelligence. We had a wonderful time yesterday. We took a group of our juniors, fourth, fifth, and sixth graders, a few of us got in on that, and we went to Cooper's Rock and hiked around, got rained on, soaked. Roasting hot dogs in rain, hiking in rain, and uh we had a blast. It was fun. Anything you do with juniors is gonna be fun And while we're hiking along there, one of the girls, uh Renee Harvey, found a little stone laying uh along the path. I mean there's millions of stones there. She found one. She picked it up. It was unique. This stone was yellow. I mean bright yellow It had designs of little flowers all on that in different colors, and across the top of it, you could make out it said smile. We picked that thing up and we looked at it. We said, this is amazing. Millions and millions of years. of weather and falling around and different things happening and all of this and it produced this amazing word that we can read there and this design on this thing Not one of us said that. Every one of us picked it up. She picked it up and showed it to us. Every one of us said, Wow, look what someone made. Now why would we think someone made that little rock painted yellow with smile and flowers painted on it? Why would we think someone made that? Because every one of us would say there's no way that could just happen Obviously, some intelligence did this. In a tree, right above that little rock, was a bird. That bird had eyeballs that are the most technically advanced organs you can imagine. Intricate design, fascinating intelligence behind that bird. It can fly, it can reproduce. The design of the feathers is mind-boggling. And we see a little rock that has a design on it, and we say, there's no way that could just happen. Somebody did that. And we look at the bird that is that is um 10 billion times more complex and we say, oh, that just happened In my book, that is nonsense. The evidence of God's existence is so obvious That to deny his existence in my mind is a deliberate act of the will It is a decision to deny the obvious. There is a God. He created, he is intelligent, he is powerful, he has purpose, he has a will. We can see all of that all around us. Ten billion instances. Of the evidence of God's existence. Now, I know I've belabored that throughout the summer, but I'm telling you what else gets belabored. This lie of evolution, the world belabors. That lie. Everywhere you look, they're forcing it on. Everywhere you look, they're giving it to our children. And it is such an obvious lie But yet, if you repeat it often enough and you repeat it loud enough, people will what? Believe it. And so we're considering, is there a God? Our conscience tells us yes, there has to be a God, or we have this awareness in us. We look around us and it's overwhelmingly obvious somebody made this place. Somebody, highly intelligent design, and we see God. And of course, the Bible verifies the fact that God exists. Yes, there is a God. Now the question is, what's he like? There's a God. Who is he? What is he like? Where is he at? We looked in the Bible. The Bible tells us. The Bible gives us that information. We found out that God's name is Jehovah. We found out that God is all powerful. We found that God always has always exist and always will exist. He has no beginning, no yet. He transcends time. That is mind-boggling. This God has no beginning. We found that God is all knowing. The term is omniscient. He knows everything. God never learns anything. He never forgets anything. He knows everything. God is all powerful. He is ever-present. There is nowhere I can escape the presence of God. We found that God is a spirit, that He is not a material being He's invisible. We found that God is a person. He has personality. He loves. He rejoices. He grieves. He expresses joy, he expresses anger. God is a personality, is a personal being. We found that the Godhead is made up of God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. Three distinct personalities, each one, totally God, equally God, yet only one God. You say, how can that be? I don't understand that, but that is the essence of this God And so we've considered at length the fact that God is holy. He is a holy God. And by the way, much of Christianity today has forgotten that our God is a holy God. He is holy. God is love. This God that created us, this powerful, incomprehensible God, He loves me. He loves you. He thinks so highly of us. So much that he gave his own son to die on the cross. This God loves us. This God is merciful. When we fail to live up to his expectations, his demands, we fail to live up to the God that created us. We fail to live up to what he requires of us. Yet he's very merciful to us. He doesn't overlook our sin. He doesn't just brush aside our sin. He deals with it, but he does so in mercy. I'm thankful our God is a merciful God. Every day I get up and I look in the mirror at a man who has failed his God repeatedly. And yet my God is very merciful to me and to all of us. He's invisible, He's triumph. We look throughout the summer at the I hope that all of us have a greater appreciation and perhaps a greater understanding of who this God is that made us, that exists, and what he's like, and what he thinks of us. Now we come to this question. Alright, there's a God. We comprehend at least a little bit. We hopefully maybe scratch the surface of comprehending as to what this God is like. Now here's my question. God, what do you want from me? God, you made me this world. You love me and you've been merciful. You're holy. I failed to live up. God, what do you want? All through Scripture, God makes very, very clear in very strong statements Exactly what he wants from us. The people he created in his image. There's no question. There's no guessing as to what God wants from us. He's very, very clear. And that is this. First and foremost. God wants us to love Him. To love Him. To love Him with our whole heart. To love him with complete devotion, to love him. God loves us. And in response, God wants us to love him in return. Made a statement a couple weeks ago. I want to restate it now. When we love someone, we want them to love us back, right or wrong. Sure we do. I love my wife. I want my wife to love me back. I love my church. I want my church to love me bad. God loves us, and God wants us to love him. What is God? God, what do you want? I want you to love me. I want you to love me with all your heart. With all your soul. Look at Mark chapter 12 here and verse number 30. Now I deliberately went through and pulled out a number of passages where God says very clearly what he expects from us. I had us read them all together so it's very, very clear in our minds what God is saying he wants from us. Now look at verse number 30 in Mark chapter 12, and I want you to notice a word he uses four times. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and with all thy strength. I circled those. Four words. All, all, all. The word all means exactly what you think it would mean. Completely, every bit. Every aspect of it. Now I want to go through and look at these four areas where God says he wants us to love him. And that'll be the content of the message this morning. Notice, first of all, he says, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all, every bit, completely with all thine what Heart. With all thy heart. I put it this way, and I'm going to have to explain the terms I'm using here, but I put it this way: this is dictatorial love. Dictatorial. There's a $35 word for you. What does that mean? If someone is dictating they're behaving dictatorial. They're behaving like a dictator. What does a dictator do? He dictates. Ah, I've got an intelligent crowd here this morning, I can see. I don't think that is this thing Okay, we're good. He dictates, exactly. In other words, the dictator, he's telling everybody how it is, right? He's running the show. He's in charge. He's he's uh he's the man in charge I'm dictating you do this. I'm dictating you do that. Now, what does God mean when he says that he wants us to love him with all our heart? That's a dictatorial dictatorial love. In other words, All my love is controlled by my love for God. All other relationships, all other loves are under the dictatorship of my love for God. Am I making sense? Are you following me here? I've used this illustration before. I want to use it again because I think it helps you pitch in your mind what I think he's teaching us here. If you have a bicycle wheel, We got the tire around the outside, you got the bicycle wheel, and you have I don't know how many scores of wires coming from the rim into the hub. What do we call them? Those are the spokes. And so the spokes provide support for the rim that holds the tire. But in the middle of it all is a hub what we call. And all of those folks come out from that hub. That hub controls, dictates that wheel. I want to submit to you that our love for God, what God wants from us, is to love Him with all our heart. Now, does that mean there's no room in our hearts to love anything else? No. We are commanded, husbands, love your wives. Wives are told, older women are told are told to teach the women to love their husbands. I'm to love my neighbor. And to love, Jesus said we are to love our enemies. So obviously, there are other loves in our lives. We love our family. So we love our children, we love our brothers and sisters, uh, we love our neighbor. We love there's room in our hearts and lives for love. God expects that from us. But if we love God with all our heart All these other loves are governed by my love for God. Follow what I'm saying? Just like the spokes come out from that hub, they are controlled, they are governed by that hub. So all my relationships with others, my love for others, is governed first and foremost by my love for God. My love for God governs my love for my family, my love for my church, my neighbors, my enemies. governs that. So God, my love for God is to dictate every other area of our life. I touched on this on the Wednesday night message and I wish you'd come out Wednesday night midweek service. We're having tremendous time in the song of s in uh in the um Sermon on the Mount. And we touched on this. Jesus made a statement. He made a requirement for being one of his disciples, and this was the requirement. This sounds outlandish. If I didn't read in the Bible that Jesus said this, I would tend to not believe that he actually said it. But Jesus said, if you want to be my disciple, you have to hate Your father, mother, brother, sister, children, yea, and your own life also. Or you cannot be my disciple. How many people would agree with me? That's kind of a shocking statement. You agree with me on that? That's that seems outlandish. What in the world? You want me to hate my wife? You want me to hate my boys? I mean I hate my sisters? Well, I that may but No, I don't hate my sisters No, God is and we we dwelt on this Wednesday night, and I think Brother Sam Davison touched on this also, but I just want to reiterate here. When the Lord is telling us, making this statement, I can't be a disciple of Christ if I don't hate these people, he's not telling me that I need to despise them, that I should not love them I believe what he's teaching us is that our love for the Lord God is so wholehearted, is so complete. Is so supreme that I love God so much that it comes across as if I don't love my family like I should Uh I had to take my dad home Thursday. We took him right drove back to Philly, just through him up, spent the evening, turned around, came back Friday. And uh I'm going across seventy and up eighty-one. And the closer you get to the cities The faster people drive. Looks like it'd be the other way around. Out here in the country, nobody's out here, you can just fly. No way. The more crowded is, the faster I'm doing I'm not telling. None of your business how fast I was driving But I'm telling you, I'm cruising along and I'm going at a what I consider a comfortable speed and there's guys coming by, these BMWs and Mercedes-Benz, they're just And they passed me like I was standing still. Now, I wasn't really standing still, and again, never mind how fast I was going. But they were going so fast it appeared it would look like I wasn't even moving. I think that's perhaps what the Lord is suggesting here. That our love for God is so overwhelming, so supreme, so so uh govern every area of life, so complete. That's like man eh you love God so much, don't you love your family? No, I love my family dearly. We talked before we talked Wednesday night about some missionary families where they would take their children, their family, and move over to a third world country and say, What? Don't you love your family? Why would you go do that? You got a nice place in America. Live here. You must you must hate your family to take them to a place like that. We got a missionary over in Papua New Guinea for the Josh Florence. Beautiful family, little children, lovely wife, nice home, had a nice thing here, very intelligent man Why in the world would he pack up and go to the jungles of Papua New Guinea and hike five miles to preach to a handful of people? And uh he mustn't love his family to do that. No, I know Josh. Spend a lot of time with him. Josh loves his wife and children very, very much. But he loves God with all his heart. And his love for God dictates His love for his family. Am I making sense? So what do you want, God? What do you want? You created us. You made us. What do you want? I want you to love me. With all your heart, with what I'm calling a dictatorial love. In fact, I want to suggest to you, when I love like I should, all my heart, I'm going to be able to love my wife and children correctly. When I love God with all my heart. I'm going to be able to love my neighbors even when they're not very lovely. Huh? Say, I've never loved my enemy. I hate him. Uh, if you love God the way God wants you to love him, Then I can love my enemies. Why would I love my enemies that are so hateful to me and their adversaries are trying to hurt me? Why would I love them Because I love God and God wants me to love them, and I'll love them because I love God, and that's what God wants me to do. Make sense? Makes sense. We have missionaries. I mentioned others, uh Josh, and we have I don't know seventy five, six missionaries we support around the world. And um you say, boy, those missionaries must sure love some of those people in these countries. You got a missionary going to China. He must sure love the Chinese people. And I'd say, yeah, he probably does, but I'll tell you why he's going there, not because he loves the Chinese people. He's going there because he loves God And the missionaries I found that get onto the mission field, difficult mission fields, are not there necessarily because they love the people, but they're there because they love God. And God loves the people and God wants them to be saved. Because they love God, they say, We'll go. We'll go. Or Lewis Howe. He's flying back this Thursday back to New Zealand. And he loves it there. Don't misunderstand what I'm saying. He loves the people, but I'm telling you That's a hard country to crack for the gospel. I've been there a number of times now. I've seen firsthand, these are people, for the most part, generally speaking, the population wants nothing to do with God. And yet there he is. Why would he go down there and try and tell people about a God that they hate, they reject? Because he loves God. God loves them. And so what do you want from me, God? I want you to love me with all your heart with this dictatorial love. Let's look at the next word here. It says, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart. And then he expands on that. You know, it looks like God could say, uh, what's the first and great commandment? Love God. But he doesn't say that. He goes to great lengths to elaborate on this, what exactly God wants from us. All our heart. Then the next one is, with all thy what? soul. With all thy heart, I'm calling it dictatorial love. With all thy soul, I'm calling that devoted love. In other words, I want you to love me. The soul there, I believe, has the idea of my life. Living my life. And he's telling us here, I want you to love me with all your heart, but not just an emotional love. But rather a life's devotion, a devoted love. A devoted love. In other words, I love God with all my heart. Therefore I am devoting every aspect of my life to expressing that love to God. We think of young people dating And then falling in love and getting married. There are stages you go through. One of the first stages, generally speaking, and this is just non-expert observation, but a lot of times it'll be c what we call infatuation. Right? Everybody know what I'm talking about? You get infatuated with somebody. This young guy sees this girl. And all the hearts twittering and there's little tweety birds flying around and ha little hearts floating up bubbles and popping. Oh And he can't think of anything else and any time is that he's looking at her and uh um will you can we have lunch together? Yes. They're infatuated. He doesn't know nothing about her. I mean she could be psycho for all he knows. Or vice versa. But they're infatuated. And they write little notes. I like you. Do you like me? Check one. Yes or no. And he sits there and his heart's pounding at his chest and her heart's pounding at her chest and a What do you want to order? I don't care. What do you want to order? Oh uh n uh anything is fine. You know what I'm saying? Infatuation. Generally that doesn't last very long Sometimes she finds out what he's really like and that little bubble boom. It's like yuck And they went from this emotional infatuation to yuck. I want nothing to do with them. The Lord says that's not what I want. Are you listening, young people? I don't want you to just emotionally love me. I don't want just to be some emotional experience. We we see that. We do that. We'll go to a revival meeting or something, or go to a church service, and man the preacher will preach a song and man it stirs our heart and the tears are streaming down our cheeks and our emotions are stirred And there's nothing wrong with that. But that's all it is. And we walk out and we go right back to the same lifestyle, and we go right back to doing the same thing, and nothing in our life has changed. It's just the emotional Oh God I love you so much. And there's nothing wrong with that in and of itself, but that's not all it should be. The Lord says, I want you to love me with all your heart, but I want you to love me with all your soul. I want that love to produce a devotion. And that's coming back to our young couple. And they get defatuated, and that's all they can think of. Then they start learning about each other, they start getting to know each other. You know, he says, you know, she's got something to her And she says, you know, there's something to this guy. It's not just good looks and fancy words and Yeah, I I think he's something. And they get to know each other, and they get to the point where they say, you know, I am willing to devote the rest of my life to you. They make the marriage vows, which is a devotion. Richard Poor, b uh Richard Poor, um Sickness and in health, um better for wor w better for worse. I better figure this out. Elizabeth's getting married here in a couple weeks I'll just say, oh whatever, you guys, fine. And they make a decision to devote themselves together. I think that's what the Lord's talking about. He said, I want you to love me with all your heart. God wants us to love him as his creation. In his image, he wants us to love our God with all our heart, but with all our soul, to be devoted to him. Not just some emotional type thing. Loving God, one person put it this way, loving God more than I love my own life. Every aspect of my life devoted to the Lord. Here's what we get very good at, and I believe to some extent we're probably all guilty of this. We compartmentalize our relationship with God. I've touched on this a little bit recently. In other words, Sunday morning church, that's for God. I love God, I give him Sunday morning church. And then this time is this, and This time is my family and this is work and this is my hobby. We got our life all compartmentalized and none of these have anything to do with the other It's all just different sections and while I'm while I'm on the job, God and the family are not part of it, and while I'm on the hobby, job family God are not part of it. And God says, No, no, no. Why don't you love me with all your heart and with all your soul? Every aspect of my life. How I work on my job ought to be a reflection of my love for God. How I treat my family ought to be a reflection of my love for God. Priorities I have are all a reflection, are governed by my love for God. I'm devoted to the Lord. Early in my Christian life came across this chorus, and I don't remember where uh I learned it, where I came up, where I was exposed to it, but sometime early in my Christian life there's a little chorus And it has absolutely stuck with me. And when I remember when I first heard it, it challenged me Listen to the words, and maybe some of you are familiar with it. It's not a chorus, I don't think we sing very much, but it goes like this. I'm not going to sing it, praise the Lord, I just say it. But it goes like this. More than life I love thee, Lord, more than this world can afford. I have given myself to thee. O Lord, I love thee more. And that one phrase, more than life, I love thee, Lord. What a level of devotion to be able to say, I love my God, my Savior, my Lord, I love Him more. And I love my own life. We've seen illustrations of that throughout church history and throughout the Old Testament where people rather than deny their Lord. Would not only give their life up, die, but they would give it up in violent ways. Say, no, I'm not denying my Lord. You'll kill me before I deny my Lord. I love him with all my soul. That is devotion. That's what God wants from us. To love us with all our heart, with all our soul. Then he goes on and uses another term. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. I put this down as deliberate love, or to explain a little more, intelligent love. God wants us to love Him on purpose. God wants us to love him because we decide to love him. Some people say this, well I just don't feel it. I just don't I don't know, I just don't feel if you're waiting around for some feeling of love for God, if you're just waiting around for somehow that love to just develop, it isn't gonna happen. I've got to make a decision. I love God. What's the song? Again, another chorus we sing. I have decided to follow Jesus. I think this is where a lot of our young people mess up badly and and true doubt true of adults also. I think a lot of our young people they don't decide what kind of Christian they're going to be. They don't decide what kind of person they're going to be. They just let things happen. They just let life happen. And they end up looking back and finding themselves into a situation or becoming a person that they never really wanted to be, but they never made a decision, they never decided I'm going to love God with all my mind, intelligently, deliberately, on purpose, choose to love my God. And thus they just wander off. And nothing ever really happens. God wants us to love them on purpose. God wants us to love him because we choose to. Not one of us men here, and I'm sure it's true of the ladies, but as a man I'll speak as a husband. There's no husband in the world wants his wife to love him because she has no other options I wouldn't love you if you were the last man on earth. I don't want her to love me because there's no other options out there. I want her to love me because she chooses to love me. My wife wants me to love her because I choose to love her, not because I have no other options. God wants us to love him because we choose to. You know what? We've got other options. We can love ourselves. We can love things of the world. Demas forsook Paul because he loved this world. He had a choice. And you and I have a choice. Did you ever wonder, I had somebody, a young person, ask me this just within the last month or two. They said, if God knows everything, why in the world did he give man the option to sin? Why didn't he just if he knew man was going to mess up and sin, why didn't he give him the op just why did he even give him that option? Why did he put that tree of knowledge of good and evil in there? Why didn't he just create it where he couldn't sin? Now, to be honest with you, it's hard to answer the question why God does something unless God expressly tells us For instance, I know why Jesus died on the cross for our sins and rose again. God expressly tells us because He loves the world For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten. So I can answer the question emphatically, why did Jesus die on the cross? Because the Bible tells us very clearly. But why did God give man an option? I can't answer that dogmatically, but I can tell you what I think from studying scriptures God created the world. Everything there is. He created Adam and Eve. He placed them in the Garden of Eden. And he gave them, think about it, very minimal restrictions. They had no doubt tens of thousands of trees that they could eat the fruit of. I mean, their options were no doubt innumerable. And he said, there's one. Just one. Do not eat of that. In the day you eat thereof, you shall surely die. Now, do you agree with me? That's not unreasonable. That's not unreasonable. So why would God even give them that option? What if he just took that away and they had no choice? I'll tell you, I believe that God gave man the option to sin because God wants us to love him because we choose to, not because we have no other options. God wanted Adam and Eve to say, no, I'm not going to do that. I love my Creator. I love my God. Not one tiny little thing I'm going to do without because I love God he's done so much. Of course they failed. And you and I fail. And God has provided an amazing way, an amazing display of love. He's provided a way for us to be restored back to this God that loves us. through Jesus Christ suffering the judgment of our sin and being buried, rising again. And he gives us the option we can accept that gift of God, eternal life. Or we can reject it. And we have the option, I can choose to love God with all my mind, or I can say no. I love myself. I love this world. What God wants from us is what I believe He wanted from the very beginning. Adam and Eve. What I think was his desire in creating everything he created was so that there would be a being in existence in his image that could love him back deliberately choosing to love him just as he loved us and chose to create us and love us God wants us to love him on purpose. Love him with all our mind. Then he says one more, and I'll end with this. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. And he adds a fourth one on now, and he says, with all thy strength. All my strength. I put this down as this way. This is dynamic love. Dynamic love. I think he has there the idea of loving God with all our strength, the idea of living it out practically. The strength no doubt applies to our abilities, the gifts and talents we have, the actions we can perform. All of these governed and dedicated by my love for the Lord. I love for the Lord. Genuine love is always practical, active, dynamic love. Sometimes folks will come in and they'll need help in their marriage or counseling or whatever, and they'll say, Oh, he says he loves me, but he never shows it. You know what she's saying? I want him to love me not just with his mind and with his heart. I want him to love me with his strength. I want to display it to me. I want it to be evident in his actions that he loves me. That's what God is saying. I want your love for me to be evident in your actions and your behavior, not just emotional, just in expression, just words only. We don't have time. I really wish we did. We don't have time, but if we can go to 1 Corinthians 13, the classic chapter on love. Charity is the term the Bible uses. But if you'll notice very carefully, I think it's verse 4 through 7 In 1 Corinthians 13, every one of those words used to describe love, charity is the word, are action words Every one of those words are words that are exhibiting some sort of behavior, some sort of action, some sort of attitude. Again, I wish we had time to go to John 14, verse 15, 21, 23, 24, verse 31. Jesus makes this statement in ver he uses it He varies the words he uses, but this is a statement. He says, If you love me, you will keep my commandments In fact, I think it's verse 31. I think this is the verse. He says something to this effect. This is how the world knows I love my Father because I do the things he tells me to do. God wants us to love Him with our strength. Not just sit around and sing, oh, how I love Jesus. Not just to say when the preacher says, how many people love God? Amen. Not just that. Those are all good and fine. There's nothing wrong with that. They ought to be true. God says, I want it to have some substance in your life. I want how you live your life. To display your love. We can say we love God all we want, but if it's not lived out in our lives, it's not true. Years ago was a fella, he told me, I love my wife. Come to find out he's beating her up. He's hateful to her, cheating on her. And he'd say to me, Oh yeah, I love my wife. I love her so much. Back when we were left Chattanooga, we w went up to Indianapolis. It's like nineteen eighty-seven. There's a big newspaper article, a guy, they got married. Uh the day of their marriage, he shot his wife. And the statement was, oh, I just love her so much. I miss her. You knucklehead, don't love me, you know. God says we can say we love God all we want. If it's not lived out, if our life doesn't if we're breaking his commandments and we're blaspheming him and disobeying him, we're leaning on our own understanding, doing our own thing, we say we love God, God says that's not what I want Well, you love me with all your strength, a dynamic love. Dynamic love. If we genuinely love God with all our heart, we'll have no problem keeping his commandments. They're not grievous. Isaiah 29, 13 says this, for as much as this people draw near me with their mouth, with their lips do honor me, but have removed their heart far from me. Jesus quoted it in Matthew 15. He says, The people draw nigh to me with their mouth and honor me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. Again in chapter, Mark chapter 7, he said, This people honor me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. I'm afraid in America and perhaps around the world we have a lot of Christians that say Christian stuff And they quote Bible verses, and we sing good hymns, and we honor the Lord with our lips. But our hearts are in love with the world. Our hearts are in love with ourselves. We have no intention of keeping his commands. We have no intention of following his instructions. But we honor him with our lips. And God says, I don't want that. I want you to love me with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, with all your strength, your life, dynamic, lived out, lived out for me. Our Lord's first and greatest commandment, as he says to this disingenuous lawyer That's his greatest desire. Well God, what do you want? That's what he's saying. This is the first and greatest commandment. This is what I want above everything else. It's interesting. I can't find anywhere in the Bible where we're told to love something other than God with all our heart, soul, mind, and strength. I can't find anywhere in the Bible where God tells us to love our family with all our heart, with all my soul, with all my strength, with all my mind. It doesn't say that. I can't find anywhere in the Bible he tells me to love my church with all my heart, strength, mind, and soul. I can't find anywhere in the Bible where he tells me to love others. With all my heart, mind, soul, and strength, doesn't teach us that. It's nowhere in the Bible. The one thing he does tell us to love at that level. And that's Him. And when that love is in place, everything else falls in place. We know God exists. There's no doubt about that. That's a given How blind the world is to say there is no God, to not see him, that's deliberately closing eyes to the truth. What is this God? What is he like? The Bible tells us abundantly what God is like. And here's the question. What does he want from me? As his creation. Create in his image. God wants us to love him. To love. That's a decision we make. Let's pray. Father in heaven. I pray that this message would challenge us. I pray that our hearts and minds would be clear. And from myself on down through the congregation. Those listening in electronically, I pray that your Spirit would help us to see exactly what you want from us above all else Help us to respond in kind, in faith, and choose to love you. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many of you this morning And say, preacher, I know I'm saved. I've accepted Jesus Christ as my Savior. There's no doubt about it. My sins are forgiven. I die, I'm going to heaven, not to hell. I have a Bible basis for that assurance. But you'd say, preacher, I can't honestly say I love the Lord like I should. And this world and my own self become so I become so enamored with it. Very honest, between myself and God, I need to love God greater than I do. I need to develop and work on this loving my Lord. Is there like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, my heart is challenged this morning by God's word and his desire for us. God bless you, hands all around. How about it, others? Now maybe what we need to do is just make a decision in this hour while the Spirit of God is dealing with our hearts and say, God, I'm choosing. To love you and lead me and direct me how to express that in these other aspects of my being. My heart, my mind, my soul, my strength. And God will help us. Is there some of you this morning say, preacher, I'm not saved? I can't honestly say that I know for sure that Jesus has forgiven all my sins and that when I die I go to heaven. I can't honestly say I'm sure of that. I'm concerned about it And you'd say, Preacher, pray for me that God will help me. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know I'm going to heaven. You'd say, Preacher, pray for me that God will help me settle that in my heart and life, that matter of my salvation. Is there any like that this morning? Preacher, pray for me I am concerned about where I spend eternity and I need the Lord to help me. Any at all? How about it? Any all, just slip your hand up. We'll pray with you. That God will help you settle that. How about it? Any at all? Now, Father in heaven, you know our hearts. I pray you'd take us and help us to decide On purpose to love you with every ounce of our being. Bless this invitation, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are back