So many people have called and said, Brother Harding, what can we do? What can we do? What should we look at this? From what kind of vantage point? And uh, you know, we see things going on we never thought was ever going to happen where churches were told they can't hold services. that they were fined, hundreds of thousands of dollars, for singing just inside their church. We saw people remove under God from the pledge in Congress. It's not removed from our pledge. We still say under God. But in the House of Representatives, they're no longer saying under God. Most of them anyway. There I know there's over 30 of them that are. There are people that basically are defunding, wanting to defund the police, and defunding the police, that makes a lot of sense, huh? And then they wonder why their crime rate is going through the roof. And it's not by accident. It's so that they can Get a federal police force like the KGB established, in my opinion. Uh I'm there in Washington, CC, so I know these things and know h how they think and uh on both sides and uh open borders which of course is so ridiculous and uh educational systems now that are indoctrination stations and they're uh trying to uh perpetrate upon us the w the critical race theory uh which has nothing to do with race. Uh it is a Marxist ideology that's born out of hell and uh they use that same thing to destroy uh the um countries who formed the the former Soviet Union and back then it wasn't race, it was classification, class systems, it was always the oppressor and always the oppressed. And to tell our young children in elementary school because the color of their skin, they are oppressors. Uh that is wrong. And uh even of course uh some men that always stood for civil rights, I remember one man saying, don't you, he was looking forward to a time when a man or woman was not judged by the color of their skin, but the content of their character. And that's exactly opposite of what the critical race theory is doing. about the six sixteen nineteen ideology and then government trying to hide uh from us the things that they're doing and spending and spending and spending and the I mean trillions of dollars You understand the rubber band, which is our economy, is going to break sooner than later, and we need to be in prayer about this. I was talking to a couple uh during the break there. And uh we have something called the World Reserve Currency status. Most people don't even know that it belongs to the United States, and so any nation that wants to buy oil buys American currency first. And then they can buy oil. If we lose that World Reserve currency status to the Chinese, then you're going to see gas go and this is just gas, everything else will go up as well. You'll see gas go from two and three dollars to to seven, eight, and nine dollars overnight. So those are things we need to be concerned about. And when you look at what's going on in Afghanistan, you see it's not something that was just done because of the incompetence of this man that's posing as president. It is concerted effort to bring our country down, to give us a black eye in the world community and to embolden terrorists. And so all these things come into play and people are saying, Brother Hardy, just What should we do? And you know, uh when it started a year ago plus, I said, Lord, I need to know so that I can Help pastors. I'm in the helps ministry of pastors, and I need to know what I can tell pastors and their people that we can do during perilous times. Because that's where we are right now. We're in the last of the last days. And by the way, you say, Brother Harding, are you worried? No. I'm not worried. I slept like a baby last night. Cried all night, sucked my thumb. Okay? And but uh but no, I I sleep I sleep like a log, you know, I keep rolling over and over and over You know, it's a good thing we have two beds in the hotel room we're staying at so my wife doesn't get rolled over on, okay? But uh but I sleep well. I I'm concerned, but I'm not worried. In fact, you know what I am? I'm kind of excited Because this is the most exciting time for a Christian to live. Because we are going to see the end times. And uh I believe this. I believe that, you know, if the people in this room, if everything goes according uh as I think it's going to, we just may experience the rapture Amen? And I don't know about you. I'm kind of looking forward to it. I'm looking forward to the rapture. Even so, Lord Jesus, come. Right? But while we're here, okay, we're not just supposed to be waiting around We're supposed to be active and busy about our father's business and not running around in circles like the chicken littles that are telling us things to do and the news media, even conservative news media, uh follow a particular pattern that we're going to go into in here in just a minute So in these days that we live in right now of national strife and international confusion and there's hotbeds of radicalism, ignorance, and would-be anarchists and whether or not It is on the uh ideological, governmental, or educational type of level. We as God's people need to do certain things from God's word, and that's what we're going to talk about. this morning and then we're going to continue tonight. Amen? So everyone okay? How many are glad to be in church today? Say amen. I mean rather be here than the best jail in the area. Say amen. Okay, good. Second Timothy. 3 if you would please, 2 Timothy chapter 3. And this is what to do in perilous times. What to do in perilous times. And We're going to see exactly what Paul tells Timothy through and by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. What you do in perilous times. I love being a Baptist, don't you? Because Baptists are biblicists. And the God of the Bible, the God of the universe tells us what to do. And when we do that, guess what? We get blessings. I don't know about you. I'd like blessings, amen. I I was blessed yesterday to see all these men come, uh almost a hundred men here. And I love that, amen, because it's time for men to act like men again. Amen? To stand up and be leaders, right? And uh and so to hear those men, as your pastor has already said, to hear them sing, hear them laugh, and then to watch how they came to an old-fashioned altar, and in humility Pray to God for some miraculous things to happen, there are certain things we need to know And of course, Timothy is Paul's son in the ministry. He's that spiritual son that he's mentoring. And so he says in 2 Timothy 3 and verse 1, it says this, this No also. So this is some of the things that he wants us to know. In the last days, perilous times shall come. And then he lists a catalog of corruption. And you see, if you don't understand that God's word is right up to date, because what we're about to read, you can see on the news today. For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers. Disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy, without natural affection. Truth breakers, false accusers. How many times have you seen them accuse Former President Trump of things. They accused him, accused him, and none of them panned out, right? Now they're accusing those conservatives and those people that are standing for right in Washington DC and other forms of leadership. Fierce. You've seen these people incontinent and fierce, as they burn down buildings, as they beat up people, despises of those that are good. You've seen police officers ambushed And literally sniped and killed. Okay? It goes on to say, look at it, traitors. That's exactly what they are. Hetty, high-minded, lovers of pleasures, more than lovers of God. And then he starts to talk about the pretenders having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof. He says, From such turn away. And I want you to understand this, that in verse seven, for sake of time, ever learning and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth. So they're learning all these things and And those scientists that are trying to tell us, oh, this is right and do that and get a vaccine and oh th they have no idea what they're saying. They have no idea what the long-term effects are going to be of the vaccine. And again, everyone's decision, I'm not going to criticize anyone for getting the vaccine or not getting the vaccine, but Whether you do or not, do your homework. Amen. I'm not going to go there right now, but in any case, it goes on to say And look at verse 9. Here gives me some great, great hope. But they shall proceed no further, for their father shall be made manifest unto all men, as theirs also was. So God says, look, I'm still in control. Now I don't know about you. I was surprised at this last presidential election. Amen? If you weren't surprised, you had your head in the sand. Okay Because in my opinion, by everything that I've gathered and talking and and listening to even specialists from MIT, the mathematicians from MIT and everything that went on, uh this man that was the 45th president is actually the 46th president, but he's not there. Because of very nefarious and false elections. My opinion, I have a right to my own opinion. If you want to differ with me, that's fine. You can be wrong if you want to. Okay? But Everyone was surprised except for God. God wasn't surprised. Say, Brother Harding, why do you think God allowed that? I think that God allowed that. He didn't orchestrate it. I think he allowed it because too many people were putting too much faith in a man. And may I say this? I think President Trump, and I'm a student of history. I think he was our best president in our lifetime. And did more in four years than most presidents even did in eight. And surpassed even people like Reagan. And I love Reagan. No disparagement of him. But this man was unlike any other president we've ever had. Was not a politician. And it was like you either lead, follow, or get out of the way. And I like that. And sometimes, of course, our eyebrows raised when he said certain terms that we wouldn't use. Okay, so how he said what he said, uh, I didn't like how he said it sometimes, but I sure did like what he said. and the fact that he moved our embassy to Jerusalem. How he took care of our veterans. How he was a protector of the life of the unborn. How he was a protector of the free market system that gives us the greatest standard of living in the world and many, many other things that he did, which were simply amazing. I mean he took care of ISIS where people said that would never be able to get done. And I'll guarantee you things wouldn't be happening in Afghanistan like they are right now if he was the president. But I believe this. I believe we were putting too much faith in a man and God will share his glory with no one. So I think maybe God allowed this for us to get back to our knees and start praying to Him again so that He can be the one that gets the honor and the glory for pulling America's fat out of the fire. Amen Now I want you to see this. It says, look, look at this now in verse 10. So all these things that have happened, this the pretenders, catalogue of corruption, but in verse 10 it sends us in a completely different way. It says this, but thou So Paul talking to Timothy through the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, and by the way, talking to us this morning, as fresh as it is this very moment. But thou hast fully known, and then he lists seven things. Number one, my doctrine, two manner of life, three purpose, four faith, five long-suffering, six charity, seven patience. So these seven things he basically tells Timothy, I want you to understand. You know these things. And then he says in verse 11. Persecutions, afflictions was came unto me at Antioch, at Iconium, unto me at uh look at at Lystra What persecutions I endured. I love this next phrase. Look at this. But out of them all, the Lord delivered me. Amen? Not most of them, not some of them, all of them. And then in verse 12 it says, yea, and all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. Hmm. Isn't that interesting? And now I want you to see now. Look at this. Is it good to get any better, Brother Harding? No, it's not. But evil men and seducers shall wax worse and worse. deceiving and being deceived. But here it is, going in the positive direction again, but continue. Thou in the things with that which thou hast learned And hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them. So what do we do in perilous times? What do we do in these last days? We continue. How? And these seven things. So I want to just Give you what to continue to do in perilous times. Seven ways from God's Word. Heavenly Father, thank you again now for loving us. As we steal our minds and our hearts for these next few minutes, Lord, we pray that you would. Enter into this service through and by that holy unction of your Holy Ghost, that his presence might be readily evident. O God, that he would have free reign in every mind and heart. Create and maintain that hedge, bind off the wicked and the evil, and help the cares and burdens of life, the aches and pains just to disappear for a while. Help us to focus on these eternal truths and apply them to the life that you've given us. So that our life might count for you. So that we might live by thy grace and for thy glory. Father, I pray you'd articulate my speech, clarify my thoughts. But most of all, Lord, and dwell me through and by your Holy Spirit And Father, everything that I say might be an honor and glory unto thee. Season it by thy grace and Lord. Infuse it into our hearts and minds. again for thy purposes, and we'll be very careful to give you all the praise and glory for what you're about to do. Well we ask this in the precious name of your Son and our Savior, by the power and the merit and the authority That is the name of Jesus Christ. We love you, Heavenly Father. Amen. So, what can I do, Brother Harding? What can I do in these perilous times? Simple. Just continue Just continue. Now when we say continue, we meet to progress. Amen. Don't just continue in a downward slant or a forward, but go upward. Amen. So the first thing we're supposed to continue to do is in this book right here. Amen? Now I don't know about you, it makes sense to me. There's only two things that are going to get out of this world intact your eternal soul and this eternal book So it's only, I think, reasonable that we put these two things together. Amen? And that we as God's people make more of this book than we've ever made before. Hey, Paul's answer to perilous times is that we know God's word. We read God's Word. We obey God's Word and we pray God's word. He says, till I come, give attendance to reading, to exhortation, to doctrine. Hey, never outgrow the Bible. Too many times you know what we do? That book stays closed. The television stays on. Hello? If your phone's ringing, pick it up. Amen? We need to get into that book like we've never gotten into that book before. Why? For this little one that just sang for these young people that are up here in this front row. For your neighbors that still don't know Jesus Christ. So we can continue in peace and prosperity, by the way, which is a byproduct of liberty Everyone wants to come here because of the peace and prosperity. But may I say this and hear me very closely. Those people that want to come here for the peace and prosperity and they're trying to come here legally are going to destroy the liberty that produces the peace and prosperity. Amen? Doesn't that make sense? I'll say it again Those people that want to come here, especially to the southern border, and they want to come here illegally for the peace and prosperity, if they do that, it's going to destroy the liberty, by the way that's law-born, amen, and that liberty, the thing that produces the peace and prosperity, they're going to destroy that, so it won't be here for them to get You understand, right? That's why we need to have a border. That's why Buddhists are protecting a people on both sides. of the border. We need to realize these things and and understand it's not out of compassion that they're trying to let everyone in. It's out of control. And so we got to go back to God's word. Make it the foundation of your life. Love it. Believe it. Obey it. Follow it. It makes you strong. Knowing the Bible now can save your life later. You hear that? Knowing the Bible now can save your life later. Hey, the world will get worse. Don't be surprised The tough times are coming. Don't be discouraged. It's easier to stand strong if you don't stand alone. You say, what do you mean? I mean stand together with truth. Because when you stand with truth, you're never alone. Because truth has a name In his name is Jesus Christ. Amen? And so we need to understand that that, hey, God's given us a ministry in these last days. He's given us things to stand for. The life of the unborn, the traditional family, the free market system. On and on and on we can go. We need to understand our standard right here, spiritually and civilly, is everything that our constitution stands for. Our constitution is based upon the Bible Our standard as Christians is eternal. It's perfect. It was made flesh and dwelt among us. He, Jesus Christ, die for us on the cross, was raised from the dead, and sits on the right hand of the throne of God Whether you believe it or not, it makes no difference at all. God is God. Amen. And everyone is going to bow the knee. Some too late. I don't know about you. That is not smart. Amen. I don't want to bow the knee too late. That's why I bowed my knee to him at the age of 21. And I made sure that I knew Jesus Christ as my Lord and Savior, because I never wanted to come to a point at the great white throne judgment as all of humanity looked on and hear God look at me and say, Depart from me Into the lake of fire. Prepared for the devil and his angels, for I never knew you. And I love that part where he says this to the lake of fire, prepared for the devil and his angels. He doesn't prepare that for man. But guess what? If we don't follow God's way, we're following the devil's. Amen? Oh well I'm gonna do my way. That's what a lot of young people think, you know. I thought that when I was a teenager. I'm gonna do it my way. Hey, there is no your way. There is a way that seemeth right unto a man, but the end thereof are the ways of death. So follow your way. Go ahead. It's not your way. The devil is making you a fool And you will follow him into the lake of fire that will burn for all of eternity. Where the worm dieth not. That's your conscience. That means you'll be able to think for all of eternity. I really didn't need to be here And the smoke of their torment rises up forever. It is a place that God doesn't send you. You send yourself because the wages of your sin is death. That's why we need to make the Bible our standard. It's what everything else should be measured by. Our standard liberated us from the tyranny of sin. I don't know. I'm glad about that, aren't you I was basically under the death penalty. The eternal death penalty. I had no hope. There was no way I could pay the wage of my sin. But the judge behind the desk came down and said, I will take his place. And then went back and said, He is free now, he can go. I don't know about you, that's what you call a real meal deal. Amen. Right there. And God gave me the gift of eternal life. I'm on my way to heaven no matter what happens down here. That will never change. And there might be someone here today in this group that you've never come to the knowledge of the truth. You've never accepted Jesus Christ. There may be even some people that that are pretending to be a Christian, but you know in your heart you're not. What we need to understand is this book is the very thing that has liberated us from the tyranny of sin. And by the way, it's also liberated liberated us from the tyranny of man. Amen? I'm glad I'm free from the tyranny of men, but we're about to enter into it because again we've not followed this book as we should. Hey, the standard, this book right here, is the very thing that guided our statesmen. That's why they signed the Declaration of Independence, because it was biblically based. These men knew they were walking lockstep with destiny. I don't know about you. I sure am glad that they did what they did for you and I And they paid a price that we will never pay as far as people go. You say what do you mean? I I'm never gonna be a billionaire. I really don't think anyone bill is there any billionaires in here Please let me know your name. I'll talk to you afterwards. Okay? None of us will be billionaires, right? I mean these men were so highly educated I mean it was amazing the education that they had. And not only that, they had libraries. And you know, just owning one book. That meant you were pretty wealthy. Owning a library, that meant you were extremely wealthy. Oh, by the way, these men were also royalty in America, the gentry. That means they could say, this person did this to me and you didn't have any rights because they were royalty and you were not, you went to jail, or you were put to death. And yet they turned their back on all of that for you and I. And they did away with the royalty class. You get that, right? When they said all men are created equal, equal, that means they were turning it back on the row thy status. That means it was going to take two or more Witnesses to point at a man or a woman say they're guilty. Not one, another. They turned their back on all of these privileges in life. That we have no idea about today, nor will we ever know until we get to heaven what these men did And they did it freely. You understand? Without any coercing whatsoever. And I think the main reason they did it was because there was a pastor there. That challenged them to do it. Do you realize these men were thinking about turning in the Declaration of Independence without any signatures? You get that? That's like sending a letter to someone that is, you know, really dressing them down and not signing it. You know what that is? It's cowardice. So a pastor stood up by the name of John Witherspoon, and I'm not going to go through the whole rendition of his speech, but you know what he said? He said that document, that definitely puts the author into great notability should be signed by every man in this room. Every man that doesn't sign that document is unworthy of the name Freeman He said this, for property I have some, for reputation more, that property and the reputation has pledged its state on the contest of this my sacred nation. And he said this, although these gray hairs must sooner descend to the sepulchre, I would infinitely rather that they descend there by the hangman's noose than to desert this cause. I don't know about you. That put them it puts me under conviction. I mean I feel like standing up when I when I read that and signing something. Okay? Give me something to sign. Amen Man, after I read that by Dr. John Witherspoon, the only pastor out of the fifty-six men that signed the Declaration of Independence, I said, Mayor give me something, give me something to sign. And you know, someone says, Oh here's a blank check. No, I'm not going to sign that, you know, but something else assign, okay? And that's who these men were. And they stood up and they signed a document, by man's estimation, that made them traitors. See, they didn't care about what men thought. They cared about what God knew about them. Because of that book right there. It guided them. By the way, it also girded our men. I told the men yesterday, you know, most times When our Continental Army rushed into battle, they were sick, starving, not enough clothes to cover their bodies, cold, frost-bitten feet, dilapidated weapons, but they kept on marching And they kept on going into battle. Why? Because most times their commanders were their pastors. Amen? I think Brother Leatherman, he made a pretty good commander, don't you think? I can kind of see him dressed up in a uniform, you know, and all you guys, you know, following him into battle. Come on, man We're gonna storm the lake. Amen. But that's what it was. Men trusted their pastors. And their pastor said, men, this isn't just another battle. This is going to settle the fate of millions of souls to come. So they can hear the gospel freely preached in our country. The Bible was the very thing that girded our Warriors that ran into battle time and time again. Our weapons today are not count carnal. They're not swords and cannons. They are spiritual Mighty, through God's pulling down of strongholds. Our weapon is the truth. And look the reason why a lot of our culture has responded so badly to the CCP virus is because we don't have the anchor anymore. Call God's word That's why. The reason why much of our culture is in panic. They have nothing about God's word in their makeup, but God's people, we need to respond differently. Amen. The news is sensationalizing it. Oh, they're running around in circles. Even conservative news medias hear me. And while they sensationalize it, while the left wing politicizes it, while the sleigh face weaponizes it, God's people, we must biblicize it. We can look at it from the Bible. And don't be running off in three different directions. Keep your heart with all diligence. The way you keep your heart is by focusing on God's Word. That's where all the issues of life come from. From His Word right here. Doctrine, that's what we see from God. Our manner of life is what we give to God. What's our manner of life? That means being the same all the time, everywhere we go. Our manner of life Based on our belief system in all areas. I love the American Creed. The American Creed was written in the 1800s by Thomas Jefferson. It hangs in the Annapolis Statehouse, which was our national capital for about 90 days. Listen to what the American creed says. Quote, I do not choose to be common It is my right to be uncommon. I seek opportunity, not security. I do not wish to be a kept citizen, humbled, indulled. by having the state look after me. I want to take calculated risks. I want to dream, to build. I want to either fail or succeed. I refuse to barter incentive for dole handouts I prefer the challenges of life to the guaranteed existence, the thrill of fulfillment, to the state of calm of utopia. I will not trade freedom for beneficence, nor my dignity for a handout. I will never cower before any master, nor bend to any threat. It's my heritage to stand erect, proud, and unafraid, to think and act for myself, to enjoy the benefit of my creations, and to face the world, and boldly say, with God's help, this is what I have done. American ends in I can. We don't need the government doing things for us we can do for ourselves. Freedom is always what you have to give to get free stuff. That's never a good exchange. Amen. And we need to understand the government that can do anything for us, can and will do anything to us, and our manner of life should be the same everywhere we go, no matter what we do. Matthias Burnett said this. Listen. He said this on an election day where they used to bring the pastors in to preach. to the elected officials. Consider well the important trust which God has put into your hands. To God and posterity, you are accountable For those rights. Let not your children have the reason to curse you for giving up those rights and prostrating the institutions which your fathers have delivered you. End quote. That's what's going on today. Those people in Washington DC, they get elected. They have good motives when they get there, and then they get on a slippery slope. And if we're not there to keep their hands up in prayer, like An and Her held up the hands of Moses They're going to fall and they're going to start slipping and compromising and they're going to go into regret and the Constitution will not be followed. Their constituents will not be represented And they will not consider their oath of office. And that's what's going on today. Our manner of life should be the fact that we have a duality of citizenship. You have responsibility to God By that flag right there. You have responsibility to your country by that flag right there. We are who we are. And there's a boat coming up. You get this right? Now hear me. There's a boat coming up. You want to pray about something? Pray that God's people will get stirred up to get back to the voting booth. Well, because a lot of people are going to say, well, they cheated. Look all the way. Any sense in going to vote? They're fixing the election processes in those six battleground states. I'm helping pastors I've met with four of the six battleground states, pastors from the four of the six battleground states right now, and showing them what they can do with their legislatures to get that back into where it needs to be free and fair election That's what I'm doing. That's what I have done. So that we can get back and vote. Because what happened? 2016? Boy, we showed up. Unbelievable. I believe I told you the last time we went from 18% of Christians voting in previous presidential elections to 81%. From 18 to 81. That's a miracle. You know what happened then? What I feared was going to happen. We went back to sleep in the midterm election. Amen We had maybe 20% of Christians show up. What happened? Donald Trump told the lobbyists, go away for four years. We don't want you. Go away for four years. Because what he knew that Legislators coming into office shouldn't be wealthier leaving office than they did when they came into office. Amen. And John Adams said, any lawmaker that leaves office wealthier than he went into office is a crook. Trump said, see ya lobbyists, goodbye. You're not welcome. And with the lobbyists, more House representatives left Than any time in history. Know what that tells me? Most of those people, not all of them, I know, I'm not going to broad brush everyone Most of those people left because they realized they could make more money in the private sector than in the public sector. And if that's why they were there, they shouldn't have been there. But then we didn't show up We didn't show up for the midterm. Christians didn't show up. Not 80%, not 70%, 60%, 50%, 40%, 30%. No. 20, about 20% of us showed up, and so we got a bunch of crazies. To replace those people that left. At least we're playing the game. These people are just outright Marxists, outright God haters Anti-Semitic against the people of Israel. That's smart. Where God says, I'll curse or bless those that curse or bless my people. Amen. And then they are, I mean, literally perpetrating violence Tell people continue to riot in these cities. And the reason why is because we didn't show up. Oh well, Brother Hardy, I don't think that vote, a vote is in the Bible. Yes, it is. The vote's in the Bible, they call it the lot It says this, and I want you to hear it very clearly. Proverbs 16, 33, the lot is cast into the lap, but the whole disposing thereof is of the Lord. God says, I've given you the vote, but it doesn't really belong to you. Amen. The whole disposing thereof is of the Lord. That means God says, the vote belongs to me. It also belongs to these people. This person, this young person, these young ladies right here belongs to them. You know why? This young fella? Because they're hoping that we vote biblical values It also belongs to those people that have preceded us, the veterans that have given their last good measure. Men like I know, like Woody Williams, the last World War II veteran still alive that received the Congressional Medal of Honor. And Gary Bykirk from Vietnam, who's fighting a losing battle with cancer. And the 68 other living Medal of Honor recipients and all those others that have gone on to their reward. All those people that are buried underneath those tombstones in Arlington Cemetery and the other cemeteries throughout our country and overseas. I've been to Normandy. I've walked through the graveyard there in Normandy that's been very publicized through movies and other things. And it was almost like those tombstones talked to me He being dead yet speaketh. I mean I walked through, I saw this, I saw Patton's tombstone. Talk about someone that was interesting. I like I kinda like Patton, you know Some people don't. I I did. I I like the fact that at least he believed in God. Even though sometimes his verbiage wasn't very good. I I remember one time he told the chaplain, Chaplain, I want you to get together with the Almighty in order good weather tomorrow. There's been too much rain in our tanks are sinking into the mud. And the chaplain said, Sir, I just can't go to the Almighty and order up weather. He said, are you my chaplain? Yes sir. Are you connected with the Almighty? He said, yes sir, then I'm giving you an order. I'll guarantee you that chaplain prayed with more fervently that night he probably had ever prayed with in his life. The next day, it was good weather. The mud was drying up. Patton walked by the chaplain. Good job, Chaplain. I'm sure the chap was going I saw those those tombstones. And and honestly, it was like they spoke to me. I was sixteen, lied about my age. Rolled into Normandy. I was killed on the beach. I was seventeen. My mother gave me permission. I was about to turn 18, never did. Rolled in Normandy and I jumped off that Higgins boat into the water and drowned because all the men were getting shot in my boat. I was twenty-some year old, I was a teacher. Family and children I will never see again. I was a 30-some year old and I was the commander of these young people and I was trying to lead them and I got shot right through the head. Swept into eternity. Never been able to go back home. My body lies here. I gave everything. For liberty. What are you doing with your life to hold on to it? I gave my life for it. What are you doing with your life? To hold on to it. See, it's a real easy trade-off. For me or anyone else to humble and get to an old-fashioned altar and say, God, no matter what You want me to do. When we pray and fast, that's easy compared to giving my life on a beach and dying all alone. Last words on my mouth. Mama. Last words on my mouth, O God, into thy hand I commit my spirit. It's an easy trade-off for me to leave our home every week and to go out to help people to understand the urgency. So we can start praying with fervency for our country. That's easy for me. What about you? Easy trade-off. I know there may be some veterans here. I've never had anyone shoot at me And I realize this. I realize that our manner of life should be the same everywhere we go. And when the vote comes out, we need to go and vote biblical terms. A lot of times people say, well, how do I vote? Find out where they are in life. Because if they're right on life, they'll be right on just about everything else on the political spectrum. Deuteronomy chapter 30, verse 19 says, And I call heaven and earth to record this day against you. I have set before you life and death. Blessing and cursing. Therefore choose life that thou both that both thou and thy seed may live. So we need to just choose life. But what we need to do before that is we need to ask God to stir the hearts of people because if we don't see something happen in the midterm, And we don't get the majority back in the House and the Senate, we may be gone. You understand? Say, Brother Harding, how should I pray? What's some of the things that I should should pray about The two people that are holding the line in our country right now by standing for the filibuster are Christian Cinema And Joe Manchin. Two Democratic senators. One from West Virginia, Kristen Cinema from Arizona. Democratic senators that are standing for the filibuster, if the filibuster falls, they'll pack the courts and we'll never have justice again, and they will Bring HR one, we'll never have a free and fair election again. They'll bring in DC and Puerto Rico to be the fifty-first and fifty second second nation, excuse me, country in our nation And our country is gone. That's where we are. That's how far gone we are, where there's two democratic senators holding the line. You want to pray for someone? Pray for those two people. Well we have to understand is look we have a manner of life. We need to live it everywhere we go. And understand this. The next thing that I'm going to cover tonight, and I'm going to stop right here because I've run out of time, but the next thing is this, and don't miss tonight So well I I'm I need to stay home and get ready for work tomorrow. I I need I got a program I want to watch. If that's where you are, have mercy on our nation. See, you know what the litmus test is for Christians today? Is whether they have the wherewithal to come back to a evening service. Because it's God's day. It's not God's morning. Huh? You know, we become soft. Soft underbellies. No people say, well, I'm a man, you don't like it. No, no, no. I'm talking about your character. Talking about who you are with God. And if we can't have enough wherewithal to come back to an evening service to know what we can do for our country. And for these little ones down here, for these young people, so they can grow up in a free nation, for those in the nursery. Well, I guess there's not any hope for us If we can't get Christians back in the evening service, and I'm saying, no, look, if you have to work, I get that. If you're in jail, okay, I'll get that too If you get incapacitated and you literally can't get out of bed, I'll get that too. But if you can get back to church tonight I want you to come back because we're just beginning this message tonight. We're going to have a time because you understand the next thing is purpose. And we need to understand what our purpose is. You know what our purpose is? I'll leave you with this. It's others. It's not ourselves. It's living for others. You know the most miserable people on earth are people that live this way. Me, my, and that's our society today. Amen? Isn't that our society today? You can tell by road rage, okay? Because everyone thinks it's their highway How dare you do this and how dare you do that? And we're all Christians, well, and then we get behind the wheel. Eh? Our purpose is to live outwardly. Look, we're gonna have a time tonight, I'll guarantee you, God's gonna meet with us tonight, I truly believe it, as he's done this morning. What do we do this morning, Brother Harding? We understand that number one Doctrine is what God gives to us. Our manner of life is what we give to Him. Our purpose is others. And if we want to see God do something that He's never done before, then we need to get out of our comfort zone. You know what that means? That means to do something you've never done before. You understand? I think I've said this before, but it merits repetition. How does a baby begin to walk? It doesn't take a step. Because you could just stand there and do baby calisthenics all day. But a baby to walk throws themselves out of their comfort zone and off balance And catches them with that first foot. And they say, Hey, well just moved forward in that. Right? You've seen babies do this before? Okay. And then you see mom and dad following babies at airports when when they're walking and the babies going And mom and dad are like See that's what we Christians need to do because it moves us forward. And God wants us in these perilous times in these last days to continue. What am I talking about? I'm talking about getting into your Bible like you've never gotten into your Bible before I'm talking about getting out of your comfort zone and your manner of life, an old-fashioned altar where God's the best people do God's best work. Reminiscent of Old Testament altars, where the people of God came to the altar, some bowed. Some stood, but they just came close to the altar. You know why? Because God says this, you want me to do something? First and foremost, if my people, which are called by my name, what's the first thing he says? Humble themselves. That's what coming to an old fashioned alteration. Well I can't come and and and kneel, then just come and bow. Just stand and bow But I think we need to come to an old-fashioned altar in this perilous time, these last days, and just number one, thank God He has given us a free nation so far. Number two, ask God to divinely intervene for us. Because by man we have no hope. Amen? And then tell God, you're going to start doing something different with his book. And you're going to balance the time in the book with everything else you do to make sure that his book is preeminent. Here's the test. Well, here's one of them. How many times have you, or how far have you gotten into the Bible yet this year? How much have you read the Bible? And how many scriptures have you memorized this year? Scripture memorization, we should never get over the Bible, just like we should never get over our salvation. Amen? I mean I've seen people and I asked them how you doing? They said fine. And I feel like saying, please tell your face about it. I see some people I say, does your face hurt you? Because it's killing me. Because it just doesn't seem like some people have the joy. You know where joy comes from? And I know it's simple. Put putting him first, others second, and yourself last. Putting Jesus first. When we get to an old-fashioned altar this morning, and just thank God we live in America. Although we have problems, we live in America. Thank God number two that he answers prayer and that he is the reason why we even have our country And he's the reason why we can continue in our nation. Thank God for all those people that have paid that last good measure. And if they can die on a battlefield and run towards a machine gun fire, we can walk in humility to an old-fashioned altar and then ask God to do something miraculous. In our nation and begin in our lives, in the lives of our family, in our church, in our city. Let's start calling upon God. Let's stop living down here and let's start living up here where God wants us to. There's so many Christians, in fact, most Christians in America Live way down here. Below where God wants them to be. He wants wonderful things for you. The problem is you have not because you ask not When we get to an old-fashioned altar, start asking, just come and just won't you come and say, Lord, I just want to tell you, I love you. I love you, Lord. But let's come to an old-fashioned altar. I'm not going to ask the piano to play. I'm not going to ask anyone to sing. I'm going to ask you to stand and make your way to an old-fashioned altar and let's do business with God today to continue in these perilous times. Teenagers have died, so we could have church today. God sent his son to die on the cross that we could have the liberty of our souls Let's get to an old-fashioned altar. And even if you can't bow, just stand. Come and stand. Come as far as you can and stand. If there's places to bow and you can bow, fine. If not, just come and stand. But let's you let's humble ourselves. You say, Brother Harding, this is contrition of body. And will and biblical people got right with God By humbling. People acquired miraculous answers to prayer by humbling themselves. Praying, believing. I I want to see some miracles for this church I want to see some miracles for my friend Brother Leatherman. I want to see some miracles for each and every person that is here today, for your relatives We want to see miracles for our country. Let's thank God and help Lord to get us to where we need to be. So you can do what you want to do