Take them and turn to the Book of Romans, chapter six, and when you find your place, would you stand with me for the reading of God's Word? The Book of Romans, chapter six. Chapter 6, Chapter 7, Chapter 8 are some of the most important chapters in the book of Romans. It's all about our victory that we have and our sanctification that the Lord and the Holy Spirit is working on in your life and my life if you're born again. And in chapter number six, and beginning with verse number 19. The Apostle Paul said, Know ye not that to whom ye yield yourselves servants to obey, his servants ye are to whom ye obey, whether of sin unto death or obedience unto righteousness But God be thanked that ye were the servants of sin, but ye have obeyed from the heart that form of sound doctrine which was delivered you. And then look at verse number 22. But now being made free from sin and become servants to God, ye have your fruit unto holiness and the end, everlasting life It's obvious to me that the Apostle Paul is pointing out the fact that as a Christian, I'm a servant of the Lord Jesus Christ. That just simply means that you and I that are in the family of God give ourselves wholly and without reservation to Him as His bond slaves, as His servants That means that we are assigned the task and responsibility as a servant of the Lord, as a bond slave of the Lord, to carry out his cause and fulfill his purpose on the face of this earth And so I ask all of us this question this morning. If that's the assignment and that's the attack, what kind of a servant are we? What kind of a servant are we this morning? I want to preach on that. Let's bow our hearts together in a word of prayer. Our loving Father, we do thank you and praise you for the privilege of being in this service this morning. We thank you for the blessings of fellowship and the sweetness that draws us together. And we thank you, Lord, for thy word that's a lamb to our feet and a guide to our footsteps. Bless the word of God to our hearts today. Help us to see the fields that are white to harvest. Oh God, help us to reach the lost before it's eternally too late. And we'll thank you for what you do because we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you, may be seated. When we proclaim the fact that we are God's children, that we're part of the family of God, that we've been born again by the Spirit of the living God. It's more than just a casual acquaintance that the Lord is really interested in your life and my life. It's not a matter of just putting and tucking Jesus in in some place of our life. I believe when we ask the Lord to save us and we become members of the family of God, we have the responsibility to display deep affection for Him every day of our life. Not only does the Lord want deep affection from you and deep affection from me, but he wants our allegiance, our complete allegiance, our unreserved allegiance to him and the cause that he's called us to do. Can you imagine if every member of our churches, if they really got on fire for the Lord and took seriously the commands that God gives to us in the world, can you imagine the difference that it would make In this world, God wants our affection, He wants our allegiance, and I believe He wants our submission to every command that He's given to us in the Word of God As a matter of fact, the Lord Jesus Christ said himself, Ye are my friends, my friends, if you keep my commandments You and I are commanded to follow Him, to love Him, to do what He has told us to do. Jesus also said that if you're my disciples, you'll continue in my word. So the question is this morning, what kind of a servant are we? If we're called to be servants and we're to serve the Lord, then obviously we need to ask ourselves: what kind of a servant am I? Would you agree with me this morning that he's the master? Would you agree with me this morning that we are his possession That we've been bought with the price, the precious blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. And if I understand the Bible correctly, that means that we're not our own. We are bought with the price. Therefore we are to glorify God in everything that we do and say. So he's the master. We are his possession. And the Bible very clearly, unmistakably says, you're his bond servants. Is that the way we serve them? Is that the display and dedication of our life? What kind of a servant are we this morning True Christianity is just not adding Jesus in and conveniently tucking him in somewhere you think he fits He is our life. The Apostle Paul said, For me to live is Christ and to die is gain. There's so many today that just serve the Lord out of convenience. As long as there's nothing else interfering and doesn't take precedent over church and whatnot. I I'll I'll go to church. But if there's something more important Something more that I want, something that I desire. Then church becomes relegated to a position that it's not to have in our life. And serving the Lord certainly ought to be top door priority in every one of our lives. He's the master. And we ought to be devoted completely to him, carrying out his plan. He has exclusive ownership of your life and my life if we profess to know the Lord as our personal Savior. He wants complete submission in every command that he's ever given to us in his word. I liked what uh brother Allison said last night. It's not a matter of I feel goosebumps and therefore I know I'm saved. I know I'm saved because I keep his commandments. Oh, can I run that by you one more time? I don't think you quite got that I know it's 10 o'clock in the morning and we need to wake up and get alive, but we display our love for the Lord, not with a feeling Not with a goosebumps. We display our love for the Lord as we obey the commandments that He's given to us in His Word. And He owns us, therefore, we are to glorify Him. and obey him in everything that he's ever commanded us to do. Is that the way we serve the Lord? Check your life. I'm checking my life. Is that really the way that we serve the Lord? Or we just put him in when it's convenient or wherever we think he'll fit comfortably. The Lord doesn't want just to fit in. He is our life. And without him we can do nothing. It also means that we are personally accountable to him. Not only the fact that he owns us and we're to serve him and be submitted to him, but it means that we are personally accountable to him. I've often wondered if the Lord were to come today, and I hear many people saying, Oh, I wish the Lord would come now. Really? Are you ready for that scrutiny? Are you ready for that fine eye of the Savior that is going to examine and carefully look at your life and my life? Are we ready for that? Oh, even so come Lord Jesus. But following that is the day of accountability. The day of accountability on how we've served Him and followed Him and obeyed Him Are we really looking forward to that scrutiny and that careful examination that the Lord is going to put us through? We're accountable to Him. So I asked you this morning, what kind of a servant are you? I want to give you three things that I want you to think about A good servant accepts the responsibility. A good servant accepts their responsibility. Our responsibility is found in the commands of God. It's not necessarily what the church might say, what the preacher might say, it's what God has said in His Word that we are accountable for. And we are to serve the Lord accepting our responsibility without hesitation, without restriction. We're to serve the Lord completely and honorably in our individual lives. And what he wants us to do is found in the commands that he's issued to his people. For instance, the Bible says in Galatians chapter 5 and verse 16: walk in the spirit, and you will not fulfill the lust of the flesh. So I take it from that, that's a clear command, unmistakable command, walk in the spirit, and you're not going to fulfill what the flesh really wants I I don't know about you, but every day I have a battle with this flesh of mine. Every day I've got to crucify it. Every day I've got to put it to death. Every day I've got to deny it. It wants attention and about the moment I think I've made it, I've arrived, I've overcome, I'm not going to deal with that anymore, then it raises its ugly head all over again, and I've got to go through this same exercise of putting it to death. I'm convinced this morning God says here listen to me you are accountable you are responsible to the commands that I've given to you And a good servant is someone that accepts the responsibility. And here it is, walk in the spirit, and you'll not fulfill the lust of the flesh. That means continually we're to be walking in the Spirit. That means that every day of our life we're to be making progress through the power and ministry of the Holy Spirit of God. That means that you and I have the responsibility of going forward. We've got a lot of dead wood in the church today. Just sitting there twiddling their thumbs. Doing absolutely nothing for the Lord, but professing I'm saved by the grace of God, kept by the power of God, filled with the Holy Spirit on my way to heaven. Can't wait to get there. But wait a minute A true servant of the Lord accepts our responsibility. And to accept our responsibility as found in the commands of God, it's not an option. There ought to be no debate whatsoever. My wife and I had the privilege of raising five kids. Glad I'm not doing that anymore When we told them to do something, we meant for them to do it now. Not when you feel convenient and when you feel like you'd like to do it, go clean up your room. That meant now. Not tomorrow, not next week, not next year, means now. Take out the garbage. My solution to those that won't take out the garbage is dump it in their bedroom, close the door, lock the door, and let them live in there until they can't stand it anymore Sooner or later they'll get the idea, it means now. And I believe when the Lord gives us a command, he means now. Not when you get around to it. Not when it feels convenient to you. Not when you're comfortable with it. He means now. Get busy. A good servant accepts their responsibility. We're to live under the direction and power of the Spirit of God, and in so doing, will not, not fulfill the lust of the flesh I found out uh this about the flesh. It once fed. It once satisfied. And I've also found this out. It's never satisfied. It constantly wants attention, it wants coddled, it wants soothed, it wants fed, it wants everything it wants now. God said, walk in the Spirit, got the power and the aid of the Holy Spirit of God, and you'll not fulfill the lust of the fast. Did God mean what he said? Without me ye can do nothing? The Bible tells us in the book of Romans, chapter 8, and in verse number 13, for if ye live after the flesh, you're going to die. But if ye through the Spirit do mortify the deeds of the body, ye shall live. So we need the Holy Spirit to help us do anything that we do for the cause of Jesus Christ. How about this command? Therefore, my beloved brethren, be ye steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, forasmuch as ye know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. Command? Walk in the Spirit, command. Always be about the business and work of the Lord, abounding in there with thanksgiving, command. It's very clear to me. When he tells us that you and I are to be steadfast and unmovable, he means that we're to stay settled and firmly situated in doing what he's commanded us to do. It means that you and I are to be fixed. It means that we're to be determined to go forward with this under the power and the anointing of the Spirit of God, accomplishing the assignment that God has given to us. Command. A clear command that God has given to us. And then he says, unmovable. Don't allow the devil to shift your allegiance. He's always at that, always busy about that, constantly tempting us and trying to get us distracted and away from that course that God has outlined for us in His Word. You and I have that responsibility to obey the commands of the Lord, displaying our love and our devotion to Him, who gave His all that we might have life and that we might have it more abundantly. Unmovable. I'm not going to be dissuaded by some upset member of the church. I'm not going to be upset with the preacher when he tramps on my toes and makes me feel uncomfortable in the service. I'm unmovable, I'm fixed, I'm steadfast. I'm not going to throw in the towel and quit my Sunday school just because somebody offended me. I'm not going to do it. I I'm not I'm not I'm not going to throw out the towel and and give in to the devil's work and what he wants done just because I wasn't promoted when I thought I should have been promoted Recognized when I thought I should have been recognized. I'm going to be fixed and determined and settled on this manner of serving the Lord because a good servant accepts the responsibility that He's been assigned to carry out That means we never cease. I've said it before, and I think I've even said it in this pulpit. My kids are always trying to convince me I'm too old to do what I'm doing. I I don't know whether you guys have that problem or not. You don't have that problem. Just a young yipper snapper back here. Dad, you need to loosen your tie. Dad, you need to just throw up a little bit. Dad, you're getting too old to do this. I find no retirement in the work of God as I read my Bible I'm to stay at it, stick with it, never quitting, always abounding in the work of the Lord. I've often thought, how do I want to go out? The first thing I thought of, I'd like to preach, go back and sit down and die. If I'm gonna finish the race, that's the way I'd like to do it. Just preach it, sit down and die right then and there, carried off to heaven. Now I've already told my wife. And you've heard this one before. I want her to bury me in one of the aisles at Walmart so she'll come by and visit me every once in a while I told her the other day, now honey, this is the way I I'd like it. Uh I I want a whole week of services. You know, put me in the casket, close the lid, put me in the ground, but begin the revival right then and there I want preaching and shouting and praising the Lord and singing and having a good time because that's what I'm going to be doing in heaven when I get there. And so I want a whole week of that. Maybe even two weeks. I've I've changed my mind on it. Two weeks of that. That we just roll up our sleeves and I'll be shouting from the portals of glory and running down the streets of hallelujah, rejoicing in the goodness of the Lord. Always abounding, never ceasing, never quitting, never throwing in the towel, never becoming a dropout. I want to finish my course valiantly, faithfully, fervently, serving the Lord till the day I die. How about this command, Acts 1. 8? Ye shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses. Now we got the Holy Spirit the day we were saved. If I understand correctly, then the day the Holy Spirit moved in, we had power, and it results in witnessing. So from the day one of our salvation, we were designated and assigned to command to be a witness for the Savior. Am I right or wrong? You're going to be a witness. Everywhere you go. You're Jerusalem, your Judea, your Samaria. How are we doing on that? You see, a good servant is accountable A good servant is sold out. A good servant accepts the responsibility that has been assigned to him. The second thing that I would say to you this morning is a good servant avoids hidden danger. He avoids hidden danger Satan is always attempting to bring us down. He did that with Demas. Got his eyes off of the work of God and fixed on the world. The Bible says that we're not to love the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. And so Demas got his eyes off the things of the Lord, and he departed Paul, and I would imagine traveling with Paul was Really hot stuff. You never knew whether he was going to end up in prison, in jail someplace, beaten. That's the way it was with Paul. So demon thought it was too hot, too heavy. And he got his eyes on this world. That's the work of the devil. The thief cometh not but to steal. That's what he's up about. He wants to take from us and rob from us the very responsibility that God has given to us and the assignment that he's assigned to us. But a good servant is one that avoids those hidden dangers, those hidden agendas that the devil has, the hidden agenda that this world that is so wicked and filled with sin This world is out to do us in. The good servant avoids that. Stays away from it. 2 Timothy 4. 10, Demas, having forsaken me, having loved this present world, has departed unto Thessalonica. You know it always, always hurts when someone falls by the wayside. Or it's the preacher. Someone comes to you and they're marred and scarred by sin. And they drop out, leave the church. It hurts the preacher, grieves, places heavy burden upon his heart. It hurts the people of God. Someone's not going to be where they should be. It hurts. It hurts the work of God. Someone's to be doing and serving the Lord. They're not there, they cease, drop out, fall by the wayside. It hurts the work of God. You can look in the choir and think of people that used to sing there. They're not there anymore. You look across the church and so-and-so used to sit there, and so-and-so used to sit there, so-and-so used to sit over there. They've stopped. Falling by the wayside. That hurts the preacher. It hurts the people of God. It hurts the work of God. And the only one that gets excited about that and thrilled about that is the devil. He delights over that. Because his drive, his ambition, his whole work is to steal and rob and take from us. That which we ought to cherish in love and fulfill as a good servant of Jesus Christ. We avoid those hidden dangers as a good servant of the Lord Jesus Christ. Don't fix your eyes and fix your heart on the things of this world. It's anti-God. It's anti-Christ. It's anti-Bible. That's the only reason that we have abortion in this country. It's because we've taken our eyes off the Word of God and we've allowed this to flourish in our country. If our country would come back to the Word of God, abortion could not survive. And by the way, that's what this whole thing about going on in Washington, D. C. is about right now. It's about abortion. If if that Supreme Court is tipped to the right direction, and obviously it very well could be, abortion and Roe vs. Wade could be out the window And this whole battle, this whole thing that's going on in Washington, D. C. right now is all about abortion and the ending and turning away from Roe versus Wade. Don't ever forget that It's a battle for life. This whole world that we live in, we'd not have the problem with homosexuality. We just follow the Bible. My Bible says that it's an abomination to the Lord. I I don't know why a guy would ever want to kiss a guy. I can't hardly imagine Preacher Leatherman and Brother John back here, tracks kissing each other. Can you can you imagine that? I'm really uncomfortable right now. I I I don't want to. But why would a fellow I I love my wife's lips. I d and they're off limits to anybody else. But I don't know why anybody, any man, would ever want to stoop so low and to be involved in such sin. as this matter of homosexuality. The reason that we have such sexual impurity today, because we don't follow the Bible. And you know what's really alarming to me? It's getting absent from the pulpit. Absent from the pulpit You guys were preaching on it yesterday. We don't want to offend anybody, hurt anybody. We don't want to make anybody feel uncomfortable in church. Bologna on that! Out of love, we preach the unsearchable riches of Jesus Christ telling the truth, promoting the truth, standing for the truth, preaching the truth. We'd not have the problem of drunkenness and immorality that we have today if we just listened to what the Bible has to say. A good servant avoids the hidden dangers that abound around us The Bible says that we're not to despise the Word of God. To despise the Word of God or despise prophecy. And I think the Apostle Paul is talking about preaching there. But he says, don't despise prophecy, preaching. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. What he's saying is, don't look up upon preaching and the teaching of God's word as something that is unnecessary, unneeded, and unwanted in my life When you sit in a service like this, when Pastor Leatherman is preaching Sunday after Sunday and service after service, and you're sitting there letting it run off your back like water off a duck's back, you're despising the preaching of the Word of God. We're to take it in, believe it, embrace it, apply it, and follow it to our individual life. A good servant. Lord watches out for those hidden dangers and avoids them because he doesn't want to be caught in Satan's trap and do what demons did and forsake the good things of the Lord. Despise prophecy and make light of the preaching of the Word of God as not being necessary and unneeded in my life is a foolish position to take. This book, the Bible, is an infallible book It's meant to be believed and followed and embraced, upheld, and preached and proclaimed around the world. It's a book that is authoritative. When God speaks, that settles the situation. It's a book that is inerrant, it's a book that is sufficient, it's a book that is defective, it's the word of the living God, and that's why our ministry is driven to get a Bible in the hands of people around the world in their language. So that they can see what God has to say. They won't have to bow down and hug a tree and carve out a wooden image and bow down to it that has no voice to speak and no mind to think and no hand to handle They can bow down to the throne of God Almighty that is there to comfort and convince and convert and bring to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. It's the word of God that becomes a lamp to our feet and a guide to our footsteps. Don't despise it and make light of it. And see it as unnecessary and unwanted in a person's life. It's our truth. It's our source of victory. It's our source of pleasing him. Are you a good servant? A good servant accepts its responsibility. A good servant is one that is willing to avoid those hidden dangers. And then let me give you this, and I'll be finished. A good servant is one that anticipates heavenly reward. What do you want to hear at life's end? Well done, thou good and faithful servant. I've known some real troopers that have bit the dust and graduated to heaven Good servants, faithful servants, carried out the work of God in a valiant and fervent way. And they're hearing, well done, thou good and faithful servant. I'd hate to stand on heaven's doorstep and enter into the glories that he has for me. Being ashamed and irresponsible in what he's called me to do. We ought to anticipate. There's a day of reward coming Oh, you might not get all the pats on the back that you deserve in this lifetime. The sacrifices that preachers have made and Carried out the work of God might not have been fully appreciated by a lot of people. But our Savior appreciates it. And one day when he welcomes us home, I want to hear those words, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. I believe it was Dr. Smith last night that said Or maybe it was Brother Allison, I'm not sure, but it spoke to me. All that matters is if he's pleased. Doesn't matter whether anybody else is pleased. It just matters he's pleased. We get the handshakes and the pets and the back and all of those good things. But the most important thing is what he thinks. Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Of course, John warns us you better be careful that no one takes your crown. You better be careful about that. Wouldn't it be sad, preacher, to work a lifetime in serving the Lord and then throw that all in on the last stage of the journey? Wouldn't that be sad? Unfortunately, we've all known some men that have done that. I don't want to be one of them I want to run this course and finish this race. So that demands that I constantly keep up my guard. It demands that I need to stay straight. I've fought too many battles to turn around now. We all wear scores, scars that are there. I don't want to throw in the towel now. I don't want to veer off the course and cave into the compromises of our day. I want to keep at it. Straight, narrow, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. I want to stay in this battle. I want to make sure that I'm faithful so that one day, well done, thou good and faithful sir. What kind of a servant are you? What kind of a servant are you? Let's bow hearts together in prayer Father, we thank you today for thy precious word and what a blessing it is to have it What a delight it is to follow it. Allow it to change our lives and bring us into conformity to your will and the person of our Savior Jesus Christ. Our hearts are broken for those that don't have it. Help us to reach them. To tell them about Jesus and the love that he has for them. We'll thank you for it in Jesus' name Nee, Amen