Just real quickly turn to Acts chapter two and uh I'm not going to preach the full-blown message. I just want to give you a few things to jot down. I tell you, God has stirred my heart just in that presentation right there. And I appreciate so much everyone that worked. And you know, Past Pastor Grant and Kr Krista, they wouldn't have had to rush in here and go on that trip. You know, they could have just said, you know, listen, we we need a little time to get ready, but they dropped everything And uh they came on in here back when I first talked to them and they said, No, we want to get here, we want to go on that trip. They don't have their furniture here. Uh they don't I don't think they have the clothes but what they're wearing on 'em. Well, maybe a little more than that, but uh Uh I really appreciate that. And Dave and Bucky went over uh above and over uh to do that, Brother Jerry Driven and others that went we just thank God for it. I think Robin went so that Jacob wouldn't get kidnapped and so I know that was a concern of hers. Uh Acts chapter two, if you would turn there. What here's the question. We've been doing a question and answer little series the last month or so on Sunday nights. Didn't intend for it to go this way, but uh it seems like that's the way the Lord directed. I already have a question and I'm gonna try and answer it for next Sunday. The Lord laid on my heart this afternoon. But tonight I want to ask the question and try and answer it. What is a Christian home? And is it still possible in the year 2013 to have a Christian home? Look with me in Acts chapter 2, and uh I'm just going to read the last several verses of Acts chapter 2. Look what the Bible says Then they that gladly received his word were baptized. And the same day they were added unto them. I'm sorry, I got the wrong passage. Go to Acts chapter 16 Acts chapter sixteen. Let's try that one. It's all good, but um Verse thirty-one. Acts sixteen, verse thirty-one. Notice it says, and they said, and they said, Paul and Silas to the jailer, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved. What's the last three words say? and thy house. Look what happens. And they spake unto him the word of the Lord and to all that were in his house. And he took them the same hour of the night, and washed their stripes, and was baptized he and all his. In other words, all his family. Straightway. And when they had brought them into his house, he set meat before them and rejoiced, believing in God with all his house. The jailer got saved, but we overlook it. His whole family got saved. And he established, we have here establishment of a Christian home. Let's pray. Father, help me to be to the point tonight. Help me just be simple. Now we can leave here this evening. Our hearts are already stirred. Help us to leave with something from your word that will help us. and uh that we can build on what you're doing. We don't w we we we uh appreciate Lord the emotional part of your spirit work in our hearts but we want some substance also and so I pray that we'd be able to do that here. Fill me, I ac plead uh with your Holy Spirit. In Jesus' name, Amen. A fireman was standing beside a little boy whose house had just burned down. And the fireman trying to console the little boy made the statement. He said, Son, I'm so very sorry that you lost your home. And the little boy responded without hesitation, and he said, Sir, we didn't lose our home. Uh we just don't have a house to put it in right now. And a home, particularly a Christian home, is not a building. It's not wood and and mortar and block and brick and and all of that. Uh it is a family. The home began in the Garden of Eden. That is where God established the home. And the home began when God established the marriage of one man and one woman. I hate to say this, but in this day and age you have to say one man and one woman. That is the Bible definition of marriage. Marriage is a sacred institution. God ordained marriage. And I tell you again, you just hate to have to react this way, but man has no business messing with what God has established. And so God established marriage. It's a sacred institution. It's of God. To me, uh the marriage in the home is just as sacred as the church is In fact, it was established before the church. And so marriage is the basis of the home. And God has a plan for the home. Now here I'm I'm just rushing down through this, and I don't want to rush, but I want to give you something to help you. Let me give you what I believe are key factors in having a Christian home Number one, I encourage you to jot this down. To have a Christian home. What is a Christian home? A Christian home is where there is faith in Christ. Where there is faith in Christ. This man, this jailer got saved We read this here, and we see from this: his wife got saved. His children got saved. A Christian home begins with the salvation of the family members. That's where a Christian home begins. Dads need to be saved. Moms need to be saved. Children need to be saved. And if I'm going to have a Christian home, I need to be sure that daddy is saved, that mama is saved, and all the kids get saved. That is vitally important. Without salvation, you do not have a Christian home. You may have a religious home, you may have a moral home, but without salvation in Christ, there it is not a Christian home. Hey, God wants children to be saved. Years ago, we had a young girl in children's church prayed and trusted the Lord Jesus Christ as her personal savior. And uh of course we're ecstatic for that. Uh I'm just as thrilled when a little seven or eight-year-old gets saved as I do when a seventy or eighty-year-old gets saved. And this little girl trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, and we approached the parents about it, and the mother said this: Oh, she can't be saved. You have to be twelve years old before a person can be saved. That mother was wrong. Little children can and should be saved. And I believe by discrediting that little girl's profession of faith, that mother did great harm to that little girl's faith. We ought to welcome these little children coming to Christ. We need to encourage these little children to trust the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. So, how do you have a Christian home? Here's my first point: there must be faith in Christ for salvation. If you're here tonight and you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven, you're on your way to heaven, I'm pleading with you, make sure God has saved your soul from sin in hell. Number two, if I'm going to have a Christian home, number two, there must be the authority of God's word. There must be the authority of God's word. In the Christian home, we need to establish if God says something is so, then it's so. Amen? That's the Christian home. The Bible is the authority. The Bible says it's so that in our home, it's so. This uh uh Baptist distinctive is the sole authority of the scriptures. Can I suggest to you have a Christian home? The sole authority of the Christian home is the scriptures. This is the basis. Ah, I shouldn't have to say this. I probably don't with this crowd, but the government is not the authority in the home. I'm of the opinion that the government has no business in our homes Government's not the authority in our homes. Ah, don't misunderstand me, and I know we have folks involved in the public schools, but this public school or any other school is not the authority in the home Now uh my opinion is when the kids leave that school doors, that's where that school's authority ends. Uh, what is the authority in the home? Hey, can I say this? The church and the pastor is not the final authority in the home. I have some preachers that I know, and I knew fairly well. And they had the mentality that not only was the pastor the overseer in the church, but he was the overseer in the home. And that he had authority in that home, and he could tell the family what to do and what not to do within their own home. I see that nowhere in Scripture. What's the final authority in the home? I'll tell you what it is. It's God and His Word is the affinal authority in the home. So a Christian home is a home that submits to the authority of the Word of God Submits to the commands and instructions and principles and promises of God's Word. I found that a farther a far the farther a home gets from the authority of God's Word, the farther that home gets from God's blessings And we need to listen, we need to quit leaning on our own understanding and start taking God at His Word. And quit figuring things out and coming up and saying, no, no, this is the way the Bible says, this is the way it's lined out here. We're going to stick to the Word of God. We're going to do it the Bible way. And I tell you what, you do it the Bible way and you get the Bible's blessings. And so a Christian home is a home with the authority of God's Word. Uh can I challenge you a little bit in your home? Can I give you a little challenge in your home, in my home? Let's determine in our homes that we are going to read the Bible as individuals on a daily basis If every person in Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church would spend some time every day with a Bible open before God, I'm telling you, God could send revival to this church. I want to challenge everyone here this coming week, spend some time every day reading your Bible. Young and old Uh uh the young people that were at youth conferences past week, I tell you one of the best ways to keep that moving, what God has started in your heart is spend some time every day with an open Bible. Bow yourself before God. God speak to my heart. God lead me and direct me today. Show me what you want me to do from your word. I tell you what, God will bless you for that Read our Bibles individually. Then we take it another step. To have a Christian home, I believe we'll read our Bibles together as a family. We established that shortly after the the boys were born and they began to grow. And we gather together every evening and we would read our Bible. We'd get out, not just our individual personal devotions, but we get the Bible out, we pick a book of the Bible or a section. And we would read down through there. And all the years. And I believe that is a missing ingredient in the word of in in our churches today. My dad told me that when he was in I think in his early teens, they had gone off to a camp meeting back in the old Mennonite church, back outside Philadelphia. And they had a big camp camp meeting, uh tent meeting and they had uh he said there was sawdust on the door on the floor and the old benches and the preachers preached and spit fire, hell hellfire and brimstone He said they came home that night, and he says, his dad, my grandfather, Samuel Leatherman, said he came home, and he says, all right, from now on, in this family, we're going to read the Bible together every single day And we're going to pray. And Dad said by family Bible reading was established in the home way back yonder as a result of that revival meeting. Can I challenge you, dads, moms, whatever makes up your family? Get that family together and read through the Bible together. Just a few passages, maybe the book of Psalms, the Gospel of John. I'm telling you, God blesses his word And read that. Let me challenge you this. Make sure you do that daily. Read the Bible thoroughly, systematically, and get this book in your heart and in your home. And let God do a great work. Number one, I said this. What is a Christian home? It's a home where the members have faith in Christ for salvation. Number two, the authority of God's word. Number three, I put this down. A home where there's dependence upon prayer. I appreciate what Robin said about prayer up here. We do need to pray for our homes. We need to pray for our marriages. We need to pray for our children. We have pray uh mom and the kids ought to pray for daddy every day. Daddy and the kids ought to pray for mama every day. The children praying for their parents. Children praying for their parents. God, give my daddy wisdom. God bless and protect my parents. And of course, absolutely, parents praying for their children. I've felt this. God have mercy on a parent that does not pray for their children. That is a shame, shame, shame. That a parent would not pray for their children. Prayer, prayer, the greatest and yet most neglected resource That we have is a husband and wife praying together. I believe there is power when a husband and wife, or a parent and a child, or family members join their hearts together and pray. Mom, Your kids grow up and move out of the house. Will they ever remember you praying with them? Will they look back and say, I remember my mama praying with us? Hey, Dad, when the kids grow up, they move out and have their own family. Will they be able to look back and remember Daddy praying with me? Daddy getting a family together. Let's pray to God. Trust God. We need God to help us. Husband and wife, praying together. Tell ya, it needs to be scheduled, but it also should be spontaneous I don't think our prayers together as a family need to be some alright it's officially prayer time. Now I think there ought to be a time of prayer. There's nothing in the world wrong with just stopping and saying, hold it, gang, hold it. Let's just pray. We need God to help us here. Lord, direct us and lead us Number three, I put this down. Number four, put this down. Drop this. I put the centrality of the church If I'm going to have a Christian home, the church must be central in my home. Christianity is Christ. And the church is the body of Christ. And churchless Christianity is a deficient Christianity. Now, can a person be saved and not be a part of church? Absolutely. As far as I can tell, the thief on the cross never got baptized, was never part of a local church, but Jesus said to him, Today thou shalt be with me in paradise. Now wait a minute. You say, ah, there's a thief. He wasn't part of church and he went to heaven. Sure, absolutely. But he was also nailed to a cross. I'd say he had a bit of an excuse for not being baptized and being part of local church. And so church is so important. Now is what I want to go to Acts chapter 2. Everybody doing all right? All right, good. I don't want to quench the spirit that was started before, but I think uh uh I think this is important. Acts chapter two now look at verse forty-one. This is the introduction of the church. And then they that gladly received his word were baptized. And the same day they were added unto them about 3,000 souls. I mean they're being saved and they're getting up becoming a part of the church. And they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship and in breaking of bread and in prayer And fear came upon every soul, and many wonders and signs were done by the apostles, and all that believed were together and had all things in common, and they sold their possessions and goods, and parted them to all man as every man had need. Sound like our fundraising for the tea rally there almost. And they continuing daily with one accord in the temple and breaking bread from house to house, did eat their meat. With gladness and singleness of heart, praising God and having favor with all the people, and the Lord added to the church daily such as should be saved. I mean these people Loved their church. They were a part of it. They were fellowshipping together. They were faithful. They were being taught. They were growing. And God blessed them. The church is designed by God to help us, to help us grow in our faith. The local church is a necessary ingredient for spiritual development. And it hurts us. It hurts our families when we're not faithful and active in the church When we come to church and look out here and see families and we have the kids with us, we're sending a powerful message to our children of the importance of the church, the body of Christ. Sends a powerful message. I believe the church is designed by God to help our marriages. It's part of our spiritual development. And I believe with all my heart But I'm standing behind a pulpit, and believe me, I'm not anywhere near I need to be. I've got a long way to go to be all that God intends for me to be. But I'm telling you, I believe I am here tonight because of my daddy's faithfulness to the house of God I look back and I see him. He was at church. He had every excuse and reason in the world he can come up with to not to sit out of church, and he never did. And I look back and I see a daddy who was faithful to the house of God, and that had a powerful testimony in my heart and life. And the importance of the local church. Let me get let me just list the rest. Number five, I put this down: Bible convictions. What is a Christian home? A home that has Bible convictions. We look to the Word of God and we say, you know, there are some things that are wrong, and there's some things that are right, there's some things that we ought to be uh uh ought not to have anything to do with, and there's other things We ought to be very, very much involved in. There's some things that have no place in the home, and there's some things that must have place in the home. Bible convictions. Well, that's a scarce thing today. Hey, let's let the Bible determine what is on that television or not. Let's let the Bible determine what entertainment we have or not. Let's let the Bible let's have Bible convictions as to what is right and wrong. You say, oh, the Bible doesn't talk about what you watch on TV Ah, my Bible says in Psalms 103, I will set no wicked thing before mine eyes. Huh? The Bible talks about what we listen to. The Bible talks about places we go to and places we avoid. Bible convictions, Bible convictions. I believe, and Lord knows I've got a long way to go for myself, but I believe the home should be a haven from this old sinful world. That mom and dad and the kids can come into that home, and it's a little bubble of relief from the sinfulness of this world. Bible Convictions. Number seven or number six. Number next. Ernest Evangelism. Say, what in the world does soul winning have to do with the home? You don't generally associate soul winning with the home, but you know, the more I'm studying my Bible, the more I see soul winnings for everybody. And what a powerful thing it is for a mom and dad and the kids to be involved in getting the gospel out to others and be involved in winning souls. You know who I think of when I think of families and soul winning? I think of Brother Ken Lake. That guy had his whole family involved in soul winning. And they just did it as a family thing. And uh God's blessed him for that. Let me give you the last one. Number uh next is uh fruit of the Holy Spirit. Now here's the thing that gets us. We can have everybody saved. We can be at every service of the church. We can read that Bible. We can go soul-winning. We can uh have convictions, and we can do all that and still be in the flesh. And still be in the flesh. Turn with me to Galatians chapter 5 and I'll end. Galatians chapter 5. Boy, I come back to this passage so often. Galatians five. Look at this, verse nineteen Galatians 5. 19. Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these: adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness. That means just unbridled lust. Whatever desire my flesh has, it just fulfilled. Um, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variance. emulations, that means uh uh just intense envy, uh wrath, strife, seditions, heresy, envies, murders, drunkenness, reveling, and the such like Of which I tell you before, I have also told you in time past that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. He's talking about the flesh. And I tell you, it's possible to do all these other things right and yet still be in the flesh and have an angry spirit about it, and have a harshness about it. That destroys the presence of the Holy Spirit. Look at the rest. Look at verse 22. But the fruit of the Spirit It's love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance, self-control is what that is. Against such there isn't against such there is no law. Well, I tell you what, you get the Holy Spirit in there, and we die to the flesh, and we submit ourselves to God, and the Holy Spirit of God fills us in our homes And that sweet, sweet spirit of God's presence is there. And there's a kindness, and there's a gentleness, and there's a sweetness there. Hey, it's possible to have good strong Bible convictions and yet still be nice. Do you know that? And still be sweet and kind. And if anything should characterize a Christian home, it should be holiness and kindness. Gentleness. Look at verse 24. And they that are Christ have crucified the flesh With the affections and the lusts. And if we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit. Christian home is a home where the Spirit of God is present. And this fruit is obvious. We need to love, we need to give, we need to forgive, need to be kind. Police uh fireman said to the little boy, sorry you lost your home. Little boy says, Oh, we lose our home. We just don't have any place to put it right now. Isn't that sweet? Having a Christian home is not dependent on how big your house is or whether your bedrooms have windows in them or not. It has to do with my relationship with the Lord and His working in my life. Let's pray. Father in heaven, Lord, we kind of rushed through this, but I trust that you could use us. Lord, my heart just goes out in love for these young people. Lord, in five years from now, they're going to have their own homes probably. Or at least this beginning it. I pray that even now you'd put things in place in their hearts and lives, that they could, in the coming decades, have good, happy, godly Christian homes. Help those of us that are already in that situation to do our part. Help us, Lord, to make changes that we need to, that our homes are Christian homes in the Bible sense of the term. I wonder if our heads are bound and eyes are closed. I wonder if there's some tonight say, preacher, something in that list spoke to my heart. At least one of those things you touched on, God touched my heart about, and I need a little bit of work on the home, a little bit of tuning. That needs to take place there. And you'd say, Preacher, pray with me. That God will help me put into place those things that need to be put in place. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand, preacher, pray with me. God bless you If we just do that, it'll change things. And God can work. And let's just decide tonight we're going to do that. Bless our imitation, I ask, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads above, eyes are closed.