And uh what a challenging book James is. Fellow was looking for work and um he saw the zoo was hiring someone And so he applied for the job. I'm going to try and get this thing right. I left this joke back on my desk, but I gotta go by memory. It's a good one. Uh anyway, the guy got a job at the zoo and um it was an unusual position. They said what we need, they said our big gorilla died and we're not able to get one to replace him and he's such a draw to the zoo. We need someone to wear this gorilla suit and go out there and act like a gorilla so that people keep coming to the zoo. And he said, Well, I how what's that involved? They said it's very simple. You just eat and you sleep, walk around a little bit, and eat and sleep. That's all you do. He goes, Okay. So um he uh he uh Gets his suit on, he goes out, and he eats and he sleeps and people are just amazed. And he starts getting into it. And uh he thought, man, I'm pretty good gorilla. So he starts doing more than just eating and sleeping. He starts swinging in the trees. And man, the people start cheering, and he's jumping up and down and running around, and people are just so excited. And uh finally he's gone, he's swinging through this tree, and the branch breaks off, and he goes flying over into the lion exhibit. And he lands there and the lion comes marching over to him and he is terrified. And he starts screaming and hollering. He says, help me, help me! He thought he was going to die. He screamed. Finally the lion comes over and says, Would you shut up? You're going to give us both away. Now that actually has application to our message And that is this. Sometimes we put on a show and people think that we are something we're not. And Christians get pretty good at that. Let's notice in James chapter 1 and verse number 22, I was so worried about remembering that joke, I forget what I'm preaching on. James chapter 1 verse 22, but be ye doers of the word and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves. For if any be a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like unto a man beholding his natural face in a glass. For he beholdeth himself and goeth his way, and straightway forgetteth what manner of man he was. But whoso looketh into the perfect law of liberty and continueth therein, he being not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the word, this man shall be blessed in his deed. Now, I believe those few verses there that I just read are crucial in living a genuine Christian life. I believe this passage here, of course all the Bible is profitable, all the Bible is important, but I think what the Lord is touching on here in this passage is very important. for you and I to understand it's not enough just to read the Bible and know what it says, but it's important that we carry it out in our lives. And we don't want to be like the guy in the gorilla suit putting on a show. I don't know how you feel, but I really want to be a genuine Christian. I want to be a Christian. This is what I'm getting at, and I'll bring, this will tie into the message. I want to be a Christian from the inside out. You follow what I'm saying? I want to be a Christian from the inside out. Let's pray. And my message tonight is, and we're going to look at this passage probably another week or two, another message or two, but um The Bible's compared to a mirror here. When he references a glass, he's talking about a mirror. And um, where did I put my mirror? Here it is. Saying the Bible is like a mirror. Now here's the question I want to answer tonight. What in the world do you do with a mirror? What do you do with a mirror? Let's pray and we'll we'll look into that. Father in heaven, thank you for the word of God. Thank you for a good day. And Lord, it's a blessing to be with your people again this evening. I yield myself to you again this evening. My will. I present my body anew, and I ask you, Lord, with all my heart, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I pray, Lord, that we would be a church that you are pleased with. God, I pray we'd be individual Christians that are Christians from the inside out. And that you would be pleased with us and that when that day comes we stand before you, Lord, we desperately want to hear you say, well done. And I ask that you would help us tonight. Help us make right decisions. Prepare our hearts, I pray, for the Lord's supper in a little bit. So that you'd be glorified and we would grow in our faith. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I believe our package here, I don't know, am I I don't think I'm on here, Brother Dave. There we go And um but our passage here is uh challenging us to look into God's Word and do what it says. That's what we've been looking at here a little bit. And uh the Bible teaches us The Bible teaches us who God is. If you want to know tonight who is God, you've got to look in the Bible. If we want to know what God is like, We have to look into the Bible. The Bible tells us who God is and what he's like. The Bible tells us who we are and what we are like, what we truly are. Again, this passage here tells us that God's word is like a mirror. Whosoever he says here, he says, but if any man be a hearer of the word and not a doer, He's like unto a man beholding his natural face in a glass. That word glass there is what we refer to as a mirror. Back in the day that this was recorded in this time, they didn't have mirrors as we do They would look into a glass and it wasn't developed like we do with you paint the silver on the back and then you have a reflection. They didn't have any of that. They would look in just to regular glass and get their reflection Or maybe some polished brass or something or something like that. They could look in and get their reflection. So that word glass air makes reference to a mirror. Now here's my question. This is my message tonight. What do you do with a mirror? Well number one, a simple little outline, I'm going to try and be to the point here this evening. Number one, what do you do with the mirror? The first thing you do is what? You look into it. A mirror is designed for people to look into it. Look into the mirror. Mirrors are made to be looked in. Look at verse twenty-three with me. He says, any man be a hearer of the word and not a doer, he's liken the man beholding. his natural face in a glass. In verse 24 he says, uh he goes there. He says, for he beholdeth himself and goeth his way. Verse 25, for whoso looketh into the perfect law of liberty The idea here is looking. You look into a mirror. Mirror is not going to do me any good if I don't look in it. The first thing I do with a mirror is I step up to it or I lift it up and I look into it. Well, the Bible is compared to a mirror. And what does God want us to do with the Bible? What is the Bible given to us for? It is given to us to what? To look into it. We have got to open it up and get into it. Joshua chapter 1, verse 8. God told Joshua, This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night. God's instruction to Joshua was he is supposed to look into the Word of God on a daily basis. Open it up and look into it. Psalms chapter 1 and verse one and two Blessed is a man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful, but his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. He gets into the Bible. He looks at the Bible. God has given us his word for us to open it up and get into it and learn what it says, read what it says, observe what it tells us. Psalms one nineteen verse fifteen. I will meditate in thy precepts. Verse number ninety-seven of Psalms one nineteen Oh, how I love thy law, it is my meditation all the day. Psalms 119-99. Thy testimonies are my meditation. All through the Bible. God instructs his people to get into his word, to read it, to understand it, and see what it says. If you would keep your place here, turn with me a few pages back to 1 Timothy You're going to go towards the front of your Bible, really, a few pages. 1 Timothy chapter 4, and notice with me verse 13. 1 Timothy 4 and verse 13. Verse 12 he says, Let no man despise thy youth. Timothy was a young man, the young preacher boy. God had called him as a young man to preach and pastor at church. And he says, Let no man despise thy youth, but be an example of the believers in word, conversation, in charity, in spirit, in faith, in purity. Now look at verse thirteen. Until I come, give attendance to what Reading, to exhortation, to cl to uh doctrine. He's telling Timothy, a young man, he's saying, Listen, you need to get into the Word of God. You need to give attention to reading. You've got to look into the Word of God. By the way That verse right there, a number of years ago, as reading in my devotions, God spoke to my heart. And that's when we started, it's been many years ago now, we started having the Bible reading in the morning service Now Grant steps up and he'll read scripture after we have our handshake. And uh God spoke to my heart, we ought to have a time when we read the scriptures in uh in our service. And so the mirror is designed to look into. The Bible is given to us to look into it. Let me say this Every single Christian ought to read their Bible every single day. You say, Brother Lemon, you just hound that. I know it. And when every single Christian is reading their Bible every single day, I may back off a little bit, but I doubt it. But every single deacon ought to read their Bible every day. Amen? Old people said, Amen. Trustees ought to read their Bible every day Got Christian trustee. Sunday school teachers. Christian Sunday school teachers ought to read their Bible every day. Am I right or wrong? Choir members, they ought to read their Bible every day. Every single one. Children's church workers. Bus workers, nursery workers, the pastor ought to read his Bible every single day. Heard we were talking about RB Olet this afternoon who just preached our sword conference for us. Or be all that I heard him say years ago that he was preaching somewhere for a preacher. They got talking about their method of Bible study and how they do their devotions. And the preacher said this. The preacher said, I'm just so busy, I don't have time to read my Bible every day, so I just do my sermon studies. I make that my personal devotions. Hey, that ain't right. We need a time when even as a pastor, not looking for sermons, not studying a message, but just setting down opening the Word of God like a mirror and looking into it for what it has to show me. So I want to challenge us tonight, every one of us, I want to challenge us if we are not spending time every day looking into the Word of God. I want to challenge us. Make tonight the night I decide I start doing that. I schedule it into my daily routine I'm going to spend some time every day reading God's Word, looking into the mirror of God's Word And so, uh, that's important. Mirrors are made to be looked into. And the Bible says the Bible is like a mirror. So if a mirror is to be looked into, I need to look into the Word of God. I remember my dad told me sometime after I got saved He said when he was young, he called his dad Pop. And Pop Leatherman, my grandpa, and uh the family had uh dad had two brothers and two sisters. And his mom and dad. And uh faithful to church, another denomination, but I believe they're saved. My grandparents I believe they were saved, I'm sure of it. And um they would go faithfully to church, they believed the Bible, they feared God, they wanted to do right. They went to a revival meeting, Dad said, a big tent meeting. There was a Mennonite church they were having. And they threw a sawdust down on the on the floor, just the old sawdust tent meeting. And he said, I don't remember anything about the preaching. I don't remember anything other than we went to that tent meeting. He said, but I do remember this. We got home that night. He said Pop called the whole family around the living room Set everybody down. He said, from now on, in this house, every day, we're going to read the Bible together as a family. And he said, that's the way it was. And he said, every single day, our family, we looked into the perfect law of liberty. We looked into the Word of God. We read the Bible. Now that is the right thing to do. We ought to read the Bible. Whether, hey, uh, teenagers ought to read the Bible every single day. Amen? Parents of teenagers ought to read their Bible every single day. Hey mom, dad, don't you get all over your kids about reading their Bible if you ain't reading yours. Amen. Be an example. Be an example. And so we need to read the Bible. The Bible is given to us to be read. If we don't get anything more out of this, if we just go out of here with everybody reading the Bible on a daily basis, we can see revival. Now wait a minute. A mirror, what do you do with a mirror? First thing you do, you look into it. Actually, that's pretty good. And um But that's not all you do. If all you do is look in the mirror, then walk away, you're missing the point. Number two, I put this down. A mirror is to be looked in, but number two, I need to consider what I see when I look into that mirror. Look with me again at verse 24. And I've just been reading this passage over and over. Come back to James. And chapter 1, and look with me again at verse 24. He uses some words here that are significant. He says, For he, what's that word, beholdeth. himself. That word beholdeth is an interesting word. It means this. It means to make a careful observation of It has this idea to give very to give attention and consideration to something. Read through the Gospels. Occasionally you'll hear that Jesus make a statement like this. Behold! I say unto you, behold, I say unto you. Now what's the Lord doing when he says, behold, what's he trying to do? Get everybody's attention. He's saying you give your careful attention here. You focus your attention on this. And he says, he beholdeth himself. The idea is to make careful observation. Give your attention. I like this one definition. To fix my mind upon it. In other words, when I open the Bible, it's like getting a mirror, and I look into it, and then I behold what's being said. I make careful observation. I fix my mind on what it's telling me. Yeah. Then look in verse number 25, the first part of verse 25. But whoso looketh into the perfect law of liberty, that word looketh, get this. The very first definition, it means something like this, to stoop over and look down into It's like you're walking down the road and there's a big hole there. Maybe there's noises or some something coming out of it, odor or whatever. You don't wonder what in the world is down in that hole. And you walk over and you look it into it. Huh. I'm not going to tell you what's in there. It means to inspect very thoroughly. So God says, listen, my word's like a mirror. Well, what do you do with a mirror? Well you look into it, you open up and you look into it. And all through the Bible we're told to read this, open this book and get our nose down in it. But then we need to behold, we need to look very carefully, to stoop over, inspect it, what exactly Is God's word saying to me? What exactly is the Bible telling me? And I need to give close attention to it. What is the purpose of a mirror? Well, I look into it, but the mirror's purpose is to reflect back to me what my appearance really is. Right? The mirror doesn't tell me what how I think I looked. The mirror tells me how I really looked. I get up in the morning and I think, oh, I feel pretty good. I I think I look fine. And Kathy says, Have you looked in the mirror lately? Why? Just look in the mirror. Oh I look fine. Look in the mirror. I look in the mirror and lo and behold my hair is all out of place The mirror doesn't show me what I think I look like. The mirror shows me what I really look like How many people ever walk around and and um uh you do and you stop in the restroom and stop and you look in the mirror and lo and behold you've got something smeared on your face. You didn't know it was there. You thought everything you look in the mirror and good heavens I've got nacho cheese on my cheek Anybody any nervous? Come on now. And uh thought everything was good. You look in the mirror, good night, my buttons open on my shirt, good heavens. And uh wasn't what I thought I was, that mirror tells me what I really am. And by the way, the mirror doesn't uh tell me what other people think I look like Bible tells the mirror tells me what I actually look like, how I actually appear. Now, a mirror, now bear with me here, this is an important part. A mirror tells me what I look like outwardly. Now God's word is like a mirror. It doesn't tell me what I look like outwardly. The Bible tells me what I really am inwardly. The Bible is a mirror for my soul. The Bible is a mirror for my condition. You know what the Bible does? The Bible shows me how God sees me. Not just how I look outwardly, but my heart and soul. I remember months before I got saved, and in January of 1979, New Year's Eve, is really when it all started, at least in from my awareness. I decided something had to change in my life. I could not keep living the way I was living. Without there being some sort of disaster. I'm just telling you. That January of 1979, I said, listen, I do not want to be the man I'm becoming. That is not what I want to be And I began seeking and searching somehow to get this life of mine changed. And I remember one night laying in bed there outside of Philly, and I prayed, God, you've got to help me. God, you've got to help me. I cannot be what I'm becoming. I don't want to be this type of person. And I began reading and God pressed on my heart. It wasn't an audible voice, but it was as real as an audible voice Something inside my heart and soul said, get the Bible out and start reading the Bible. You know why God prompted me to read the Bible? Because He wanted to show me what I really was. I needed to see what my real need and condition was. I knew something was out of whack. But God was saying, you get that mirror out. And I'm gonna you're gonna look into that perfect law of liberty. That mirror I'm going to show you what your real need is. You know what happened? I stuck I uh uh dug through my dresser drawers, and I found this little Bible that a Sunday school teacher had given to me in that Mennonite church when I was a kid. I hadn't been to church for years. And I got that thing out. And I'm telling you, I started reading that late at night. And it was like God wrote it that day addressing what was going on in my life You know what I didn't realize at the time. You know what that was? I was opening up a mirror of my soul. And God was showing me what I really was And I'll be honest with you, what I saw was not pleasant. The more I read that thing, February, March, April went by, and I was reading that thing almost every night. Late at night, I'd come home so messed up. I get that mirror out, the Bible, and the more I read, the more sorry I saw myself. The more I realized what a wicked, ungodly sinner was. By the time May came around, I just thought I was the most wicked, ungodly person that walked this planet. My heart was so deceitful and desperately wicked Nothing, all my righteousnesses were nothing but filthy rags. I had no righteousness of my own. I was a sinner. I was so short of God's glory. You know what that was? That was a mirror. And God was showing me my true condition as a wretched sinner. That was what was causing all my problems. And thank God. Then he showed me in this mirror. I saw the Lord Jesus. Now he could forgive me for all that sin. He could give me new life, eternal life. And thank God he did just that when I trusted him. You follow what I'm saying? We don't just open the Word of God, we look into it, but we consider what's there, and then we begin to see what we really are. The Word of God is a mirror of our soul. God shows us from His perspective what we really are, not what we think we are. Not what others, oh, you're fine. I had people I'd say uh some of my buddies, man, this is messed up. And they say, ah, just have a good time No, no, no, no, no. Something ain't right. I've had many times these years, all these years preaching, I've had many people come up to me and they'll say something like this, preacher, you were preaching at me today. Pray Chair, you were you were you nailed me today. Preacher, I've had people say this, how did you know? How did you know? I say, how did I know what? How'd you know in your message what was going on in my life? My answer is, I didn't know. You know what's happening? When a preacher preaches the word of God, you know what he's doing? He's holding a mirror up to people's soul. And God is showing people what they really are, what their real needs are. We need to consider, not just look into the Word of God, but we need to consider. That's the preacher's job, is to hold up the mirror of God's word. My job is not to make God's people feel good Some preachers have that idea, well, I just need to improve everybody's self-esteem. We don't need improved self-esteem. We need a clear perspective on who and what we really are And we get that from the Word of God. The preacher's responsibility is to hold up the mirror of God's Word, and then our responsibility as individual believers is to respond. To what that mirror shows us, to give consideration to it. Notice verse 23 with me, if you would. Look there, verse 23. He says, if any man be a hearer of the word and not a doer He says, I'll show you what he's like. He's like unto a man beholding his natural face in a glass. Now that phrase natural face means, has this idea, the face you were born with. So what he's talking about is our physical appearance. Now some folks look like they still have the face they were born with. Do you ever see anybody with a baby face? Right? Nobody has ever said I have a baby face. Unless they say I have the ugliest baby I've ever seen in my life. But what he's saying here is the natural mirror, the mirror, the physical mirror, that shows me what my physical appearance is. But God's word reveals to me my spiritual condition, my heart's condition. Now, this is what it's important to understand. God always begins with the heart of man when he's going to work in somebody's life It all begins with the heart. With the heart man believeth unto righteousness. Nobody gets saved from the outside in. Right? We get saved from the heart. We're born anew. We're born again from within. We're born spiritually And as we grow, now this is important to understand, as we grow as a Christian, we do not grow from the outside in. We grow from the inside out. The outward changes in Christian growth should always be the result of inward development of the heart and soul of the believer. You follow what I'm saying? Now, you say, preacher, are you saying God doesn't care how we look outwardly? No, God does care. The Bible talks a fair bit about our outward appearance. The Bible talks about how we dress and whatnot. The Bible talks about modesty. By the way, Christians dress modestly. Right or wrong? Would you agree with me? We live in an immodest world. Good heavens. You go to Walmart, it's like, ugh You know? And I'm not telling just in summertime, summertime's bad. Wintertime, it's just all the time. It just we should be modest. We should dress modestly. But simply dressing modestly outward isn't going to do me a whole lot of good. You know why a Christian dresses modest? Because a Christian has a modest heart. They're modest within. I um I hope you appreciate this. I try and dress like a man. How many people are glad for that? Now you say, preacher, why you just dress like a man to put on a show? No, you know why? Because I want to be a man of God in my heart Follow what I'm saying? The outward clothes I wear is a result of what I am in my nature, in who and what I am. My wife likes to dress like a lady. I'm glad Kathy dresses like a lady Amen? Now why does she do that? Well, she's just putting on a show. No, no, no. You know why? Because in her heart and soul, God stirred her heart and soul to be a woman of God. She wants to be a lady because her heart is lady, is a lady. You see what I'm saying? I'm not suggesting the outward isn't important. The outward is important. God gives very clear instructions But it has to be from our heart. God changes the heart. Then, as He changes the heart, the other aspects of my life, the external aspects of my life, begin to change. And I could go through and give examples of what God did for me. But he begins with our heart. God is concerned about our inward condition and that affects the outward. So the word of God is a mirror, not just outwardly. That's what the physical mirror. The physical mirror, I can look in the physical mirror and I can see whether I'm dressed modestly or not. I can look in a physical mirror and uh and uh I can tell whether I'm dressed sensuously or provocatively or whether I'm dressed modestly. That physical mirror will show me what I am outwardly. That physical mirror can tell me whether I'm dressed manly or ladylike or manlike. It can tell me outwardly. But God's word can tell me whether I'm modest in my heart or not. And that's where God begins. There's some preachers, all they do is harp on and pound on the external, the external, the external, the external. And you know there's a place for that, I guess. But God begins in the heart. God changes our heart, and that's through the Word of God. I look into the Word of God. What do you do with the mirror? You look in it, then you consider what you see. And I look in the mirror and I say, wow. God says this, God says that, and I give very careful attention to that. It is very important that we give careful attention to what God reveals to us in his word. Don't be a forgetful hearer. But I look in the word of God and I look and say, wow, God says that We've had so many people over the years come and get saved. They weren't exposed to the things of God. Come and get saved. I'm thinking about one guy in particular. Come and get saved. And um boy he had a long this was years when he first came. He had a long ponytail, remember you know who I'm talking about? I mean just a good guy. He got saved and baptized, had baptized him, boy, his hair was floating all over that Baptist street And uh just beautiful hair. And um, anyway, uh, and I didn't say anything, we're just praying. I'd say, you know, God's concerned about every area of my life, but I was wanting God to change his heart You know, one day he came to me, he says, I was reading in Corinthians there, it's a shame for a man to have long hair. He says, what does that mean? So, well, it kind of means it's shame for a man to have long hair. He said, You think I ought to get my hair cut? I said, well, it's the Bible says shame for it. And uh I just left it at that. Come in next Sunday, that ponytail was gone. Now what if I'd have joked what if he'd have walked in and I just harped all over him about that ponytail. You get that thing caught. What do you think? What do you think would have happened? He'd have walked away, we'd never been able to help that guy. But you know what? God's perfect law of liberty, he looked into the Word of God. He didn't just look at it and walk away from it. He goes, wait a minute, that's talking about something that deals with me. And then he responded, God stirred his heart. You see what I'm saying? Now I'm not picking on any one thing. There's a thousand things in life. That that's exactly what the Word of God for me is rock and roll music. Nobody dad didn't beat me over the head. Yeah, I gotta get that garbage music out. I did, but God just prayed for me and gave me and encouraged me. And I was reading the Bible. The more I read the Bible, I realized this music ain't right Everybody okay? I'm running 'em off. And uh Maybe one of the ushers ought to go back and see if they need help there or something. Grant will get 'em, praise the Lord. What was I talking about? And God began stirring my heart. And the more I listened to that music, the more I looked in the perfect law of liberty, the mirror of God's Word, and I said, you know, love not the world, neither the things in the world. This is awfully worldly music. And God began change my heart. Also I said, you know, I don't need that. So one, we look into the Word of God. Number two, we consider what we see. Let me give you a third one real quick. I respond to what I see. When I look into the law of the mirror of God's Word, and I consider what it says, and I realize that it's addressing some areas of my life Then I make those changes that need to be made. I don't just, oh yeah, okay, that's talking about me. Yeah, that's my situation. Oh well, whatever, and walk off. That I uh uh what I need to do is I need to respond to it. I get up in the morning and um I look in the mirror, I've got more hair on my face than I've got on my head. I say, you know, I better shave before I go out. I look in the mirror, I look, good. Heavens? Alright, I better shave. So I respond to what that mirror is showing me. I look in it, I consider, hmm, shave, I go and I shave. Um uh uh maybe uh I like what Dr. Creed says. He says, Brother Leatherman, you comb your hair with a washcloth Uh I like that. Or maybe you get up in the morning, you look in the mirror, and lo and behold, there's a big old pimple there in the side of your nose I say, good heavens. I look in the mirror. Yikes! Big old pimple there inside my nose. Well, I need to do something about that. I won't go into the details how you deal with that. It's kind of fun, but look in the mirror and good heavens I've got broccoli in my tube. Ah! How to get that thing out of there. Um clothing is out of place. You know, good grief. I've got my sweatshirt inside out. Look in the mirrors. I gotta fix that. So what do you do with a mirror? First of all, you look in it. Number two, you consider what it's showing you, what it's telling you. Number three, you respond. You do what needs to be done to make that right. And that's the way it is with God's Word We look into it or preacher preaches it or something and boy God shows us something that needs it's out of whack or whatever and needs to be strengthened or Correct it or whatever and say, all right, I'm not just going to walk away with that. I'm not going to be a forgetful year, walk away and forget. I'm going to respond to it. I'm going to act upon what it's showing me. The whole purpose of a mirror is to help me make things right. The whole purpose of a mirror is to help me correct whatever's out of whack. And the whole purpose of God's Word is to help us make things right in our lives. We just walk away from it. That's we're missing the point. Look at verse 24 with me. For he beholdeth himself, look at this. and goeth his way. He beholdeth, that word behold means consider carefully, look very closely at, give attention to. And he goeth his way and straightway forgetteth what manner of man he was. And that's sad. Verse 25. But whoso look in the perfect law of liberty and continueth therein, that word continueth means to abide, to carry out. I make it part of my life. This man shall be blessed in his deed. So here's the message. What do I do with a mirror? I do with a mirror the same thing I do with the Bible. First of all, I look into it. If you're not reading your Bible every day, my challenge to you tonight is determine I'm going to read my Bible every single day. You say, I don't know where to start. See me, I'll give you a good Bible reading plan, Book of Mark, Gospel of Mark, Gospel of John, Psalms is good. There's a lot of good places to start in the Bible Read it. And then my challenge is this. When you read the Word of God, look carefully what God's trying to tell you. I like what the psalmist prayed. He said, Open now mine eyes that I may behold wondrous things out of thy law. He's saying, Lord, show me what I need. Teach me what I need to know. And then when I see it and God shows it to me, then I need to get up and act on it and go and do what I need to do. God's told us that those same principles apply to a church. That's why Christians ought to bring their Bibles to church. That's why the preacher needs to preach the Bible in church. Do you see this thing down in Houston where they're requiring the pastors to submit their sermons to the government to have their authority or approval or whatever? I'd say, Houston, we've got a problem. My first thought was when I read that article, I first saw saw that, I thought, well, I'd just hand them my Bible. What are you preaching in that church? Here you go, you can have it, the Bible. Preachers' responsibility is to hold up the mirror. Our responsibility is individuals. is to look into it and respond to it and make those decisions. And so that's my challenge. What is God teaching and speaking to your heart about from his word? Are you reading? Are you looking in it? Are you considering what he says? And are we responding to what he says or do we just walk off and not make the changes that need to be made? And that's the challenge. And he says, when we make those changes, when we respond to what he says, that man will be blessed in his deed. Oh that's God's blessing. God will use them. He'll peace a mind and see the Lord working in his life. And so that's how. Now God has given the church several, showed us in his mirror. So we're supposed to preach the gospel to every creature. That's what he tells us. We look in the perfect law of liberty, preach the gospel to every creature. Huh. Okay. I guess I need to what? Go preach the gospel to every creature. And the other thing the Bible instructs us Tells us on a regular basis, the church is to stop and remember the price Jesus paid for our sins. We call it the Lord's Supper. And on a regular basis, we are to stop. The Bible clearly teaches us in the Gospels and in Corinthians. That we are to assemble together and to remember the body and blood of our Lord Jesus Christ. And because God's word shows us that that's what we're to do as a church, that's why we do that. And tonight we have the Lord's Supper. And we're going to stop. And he gives us instructions clearly on how to do that. The Lord's Supper is given for God's people, the local church, folks who have been saved and baptized. And he says that we're to examine ourselves and judge ourselves and stop and say, Lord, search my heart before I memorialize the shed blood of the Lord Jesus and the broken body. I need to stop and consider, do I have unconfessed, unrepentant sin in my life? I don't want to come presumptuously and take remember and memorialize the awful price Christ paid for my sin. I want to come humbly And repentantly and say, Lord, I'm the sinner, you were innocent. And confess and forsake that sin and come humbly and repentantly to the Lord. That's what the mirror of God's word shows us we are to do. And then we respond to that. So let's pray. We're going to have our invitation. And then uh and then we'll go right into the Lord's Supper. And what I want us to do during the invitation time, and maybe you want to come to an altar. And just humble ourselves before the Lord and say, Lord, I want you to search my heart. Show me what needs to be made right. If there's sin that needs to be forsaken, let's take care of that before we come to the Lord's Supper. Father, bless now, I ask As we come to the Lord's table here and make it a real special time as we search our hearts and humble ourselves before you, bless this invitation. You've given us your word, you've given us clear instructions, you speak to our hearts. And we want to respond. Less I pray in Jesus' name. A stand again