To the portion of scripture before this uh story that the Lord gives about the Father and the two sons, you find the Pharisees are confronting the Lord Jesus Christ again They continually questioned and criticized every little thing Jesus did. They were just like gnats around him all the time. uh critiquing, criticizing, questioning everything. Now why did they do that? Why were the Pharisees so critical of the Lord Jesus Christ? I think there's Several issues. Two of them might be one. They were jealous of his popularity. There was more people following Lord Jesus than there was following them. Jesus had a greater influence on the on the on humanity than they did. And this this just rubbed them the wrong way. In fact, Pilate even noticed The fact that the whole reason the Pharisees were rejecting Jesus, the whole reason they were criticizing and condemning the Lord Jesus Christ, is because it was for envy, we're told in Matthew 27. Pilate says that. He saw through it. And they were just jealous of the Lord Jesus Christ. But I think there's a deeper reason they so derided him And that is given to us in verse number 23 down through verse 27. Notice it says, and when he was coming to the temple. The chief priests and the elders of the people came to him. Now these are the big shots, the big guns. They came to uh unto him as he was teaching and said, Now look at their question very carefully. By what? What's the next word? Authority. By what authority doest thou these things? Who gave thee this authority? They had a problem with Jesus' what? Authority. We didn't give you permission to do this. We didn't give you authority to do this. And he goes on, and Jesus answered and said unto them, I also will ask you one thing, which if ye tell me, I likewise will tell you by what authority I do these things. The baptism of John, whence was it? From heaven or of men? They reason with themselves, saying, if we shall say from heaven, he will say to us, Why did you not believe him? But if we say of men, we fear the people, for all hold John is a prophet. So they they weren't really concerned about the truth. They were just concerned about holding on to their authority. And he answered Jesus and said, We cannot tell. And he said unto them, Neither tell I uh neither tell I you by what authority I do these things. Then he goes into our passage, but what think ye? So they had serious problems with authority. I want to suggest to you that the root of all of our pride, the root of all of our sin, is us having a problem with God's authority. We don't want God to tell us what to do. We have a problem with God's authority. Satan had a problem with God's authority. Now, if you would, keep your place here. We're coming back to this, but go with me, if you would, to Isaiah chapter 14. In Isaiah chapter 14, we have God's record of Satan's rebellion and his fall. His rebellion against God and his fall from the position he had. Isaiah chapter 14 And notice verse number 12. Give you a chance to find it there, Isaiah 14 and verse 12. I want you to, if you if you're in the habit of marking your Bible, and I think it's a good practice. There's a couple of things here that might be helpful to underscore in your Bible. Look at verse 12, Isaiah 14. How art thou fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning? How art thou cut down to the ground, which didst weaken the nations? Now look at this. For thou hast said in thy heart This was Satan's fall. This was his problem. I will ascend unto heaven. I will exalt my throne above the stars of God. I will sit also upon the mount of the congregation in the sides of the north. I will ascend above the heights of the clouds. Now look at this last I will. I will be like The Most High. Yet thou shalt be brought down to hell to the sides of the pit. He says, I will be like the Most High. Now, don't misunderstand that statement. Satan did not want to be like God in holiness. He didn't say, I want to be holy like God is holy. That's not what he was saying. He didn't want to be like God in kindness and goodness and purity and compassion. That's not what he wanted to be like God. When he says I will be like the most high, he wanted to have the authority that God had. Satan wanted to be able to be the God of his own existence and not be under the God of gods. And that was the root of sin and pride. Now, uh what I underscored in my Bible, and this is just aside, but I think it's very helpful, uh I underscored the word I will, that little phrase, I will, I will, I will, I will, I will. Five times Satan says I will. He is in rebellion against the authority of God. I will not have God rule over me. Doesn't say he wants to eliminate God. Doesn't say he wants to be uh wants God to cease to exist. He says, I just want to be like him. I just want to have that same authority. I just want to be able to run my life. And not be in subjection to God. In Genesis, and we won't take time to turn there, in Genesis chapter 3, verses 1 through 6. We find Satan shows up and he gets Adam and Eve to do the exact same thing. God says, you can eat of any fruit, this tree of the garden, you can eat of any fruit off the trees of the garden here. The tree of the knowledge of good and evil, you can't eat that. Satan shows up, yay, half God said you can't eat any of these? I said, oh no. And Satan talked them into rebelling against God's authority and deciding and getting Adam and Eve. To exercise authority they did not have. They basically said this: God is not going to choose what we can and cannot eat God is not going to tell me what I can and cannot do. I will decide what fruit I will and will not eat. That is a problem with what? Authority. Authority. The root of our pride and our sin is wanting to establish our authority Can I suggest to you, there's not a problem in our country, the United States of America, that submitting to God's authority would not solve It's not a problem in any church, there's not a problem in any home, there's not a problem in any life that simply submitting to the authority of God would not solve. In fact, that's what revival is When a church gets to the point where they say, we will submit to the authority of God, we're going to dethrone ourselves off of the kingdom of my life, and I'm going to put God where he ought to be, then revival comes. So the problem with these Pharisees and their their bitterness towards the Lord Jesus Christ, there were various factors here, envy and whatnot, but I believe the root problem was What authority do you have, Jesus, to do these things? So then we come to our passage. And he says, in response to their challenging his authority, he says, Well, what think ye? A certain man had two sons. And he comes down through this list, and this whole story is addressed To the Pharisees. Look with me. Look at verse thirty one and we're back in Matthew now, chapter twenty one And verse thirty-one he says, With the twain did the will of the Father, and they said unto him the first, Jesus saith unto them, Who's the them he's talking to? It's the Pharisees, the scribes, the chief scribes, in the previous passage we looked at. And he's talking to them, and he says, Verily I say unto you, you guys challenging my authority, publicans and the harlots go into the kingdom of God before you For John came unto you in the way of righteousness. So this parable here, this story of this f this certain man and his two sons. Is directed at the Pharisees and they're challenging his authority. And so the subject here is this, and I'm building to get to this. The subject is twofold. Number one, God's authority over man. And two, who gets into heaven? Who gets into heaven? Let me just throw this out there. It is God that decides how we get to heaven, not us. God is the one that says what salvation is. We don't get to come up with our own plan of salvation. God's the one that chooses that. Because He has the authority. He's God. We are not. It's interesting. You get out and you go to ten different churches. You might get ten different ways to be saved. You ask, we uh have a little survey we do periodically, we'll go what we call Great Commission Day, and we'll go through neighborhood, we'll take a little survey. I tell you, sometimes you get the most unusual answers to questions uh you can imagine And so the subject of the parable is twofold. One, God's authority, and two, who gets into heaven. So here's my outline. I kind of broke it down. Let me give you my thoughts now on the message. Number one, I want us to notice a serious consideration. Number one, a serious consideration. Now look at verse number 28, and that's this is where I get that. Jesus says, but what think ye? But what think ye? Jesus saying this. I want you to think for a little bit Jesus was a master at getting people to stop and think about things. Every time somebody approached the Lord Jesus, anytime somebody interacted with the Lord Jesus through the Gospels, They ended up being challenged in their thinking. They ended up having to consider some things that perhaps they had not given consideration to before. Jesus was a master at getting the people to just stop and think and come to a conclusion about themselves, about God, about life. And it's very important for you and I, listen, it is very important for you and I that we stop and think about our relationship with God. We stop and think about the condition of our heart and soul. It is tragic How little people give any thought to some of the most important issues in life It's tragic how little thought people give to their relationship with their Creator. Just stop and think, all right, what is my standing before the God that created me? What is my relationship with Him? Let me ask you this: Do you even have a relationship with your creator? Do you even know? Do you even think about it? That you were created by God. And I have some responsibility to that God. I have some accountability to my creator. That is the underlying basis of this lie of evolution. We do not want to be accountable to a creator. We do not want to be accountable to a God. So the atheist and man begins with the premise there is no God, and now we'll figure out a way how we got here. Do you ever give thought? What think ye? It's tragic how few, how little people give any thought to the condition of their soul. We get out on a regular basis and knock on doors. I was out this week and just go in neighborhood or a little area and I'll knock on some doors, introduce myself, try to invite folks out to church And um we ask folks sometimes, I go through and we ask them, uh, you know, do you uh uh uh this is the pattern I always say. Uh we invite them to church and whatnot, and we'll talk a little bit, and I always I always say something like this, you know, going to church is important. It really is. But more important than that is knowing that when I die, that my sins are all forgiven, I go to heaven and not to hell. And I'll ask folks, I'll make that statement, then I'll ask this question, do you ever give that any thought? You'd be surprised how many times folks say something like this to me. Nah, I never think about that at all. I never give any thought. Nah, no, I don't think about that. Now it's not everybody, it's probably not the majority of the people, but it's a disturbing number of people that say, no, I never think about Where I'm going to go when I die. I never think about my eternal destiny. I never think about heaven. I never think about hell. I just don't think about it. The Lord says, what think ye? You need to stop and think some things through. It's tragic how few people really stop and think about what kind of person should I be. We just do whatever comes along, just whatever tickles our fancy at the time, we just do it, and we never stop and think, all right, what kind of person should I be What kind of as a Christian, how should I live my life? What should my values be? What should my priorities be? What should my uh life be like? And we never even think about that, we just go and do whatever Do we ever stop and think about the consequences of our actions? Do we ever stop and think, all right, if I make this decision and I do this, What will be the consequences? How will this affect my life? How will this affect those who are dear to me? How will this affect What would the consequence? We don't even think we just oh yeah, okay. And then later we come back and there's devastation and ra havoc. We never even thought. I tell you, we need to give serious consideration. It would do all of us a heap of good to stop and think about Where is my destiny? What is my relationship with God? How are my actions? What are the consequences going to be of my actions? What am I investing my life in? We spend a tremendous amount of time planning our money. Man, we'll think about it, all right, here's this, here's the bills I have, this is the income I have, all right, I gotta work this out and figure this out and all right I want to invest money there. I gotta pay this bill off first and I gotta do this and we're gonna need this on the house and I'm gonna need tires on the car and We spend all this time thinking about our money and how we're going to use it and where we're going to put it and what we're going to end up with, and we never give a thought for our souls. Where is my soul going to end up? What am I investing in my spiritual well-being? We'll work on our house Man, we'll just do everything and spend time and effort and thought and planning into our house and what it needs and what it doesn't need And we have a beautiful home, and we have all kinds of investment of time and effort and energy into it, and we've put nothing into our spiritual condition. What think ye? What think ye? He's trying to get us to think. Our cars and our hobbies I met a fella, and he's a good man. He saved man knows the Lord. So I'm not criticizing what he says, but he has has these cars that are just immaculate, beautiful cars. Trophies. And a good man, a saved man has a good testimony But I looked at that and I thought, man, there's a lot of time. There's a lot of thought. There's a lot of effort that's going into these vehicles, and they're beautiful. And I stop and think, I wonder how much time and thought and effort we put into our souls that are going to last forever and the vehicles last a few decades. You follow what I'm saying? What think ye? What think ye? There needs to be some serious consideration Some time ago, my wife was able to lead a very elderly lady to the Lord. Very elderly lady. In fact, she was a hundred years old. Kathy led her to trust Christ as Savior. That amazing thing. And in the conversation that it came up about, you know, have you has this ever been a consideration all these years? Have you ever considered this? Have you ever thought about where you're going to spend eternity? And this was her statement. I just would put it out of my mind. When I would think about death and standing before God and where I'd spend eternity, I just put it out of my mind. I didn't want to think about it Huh? I mean, how close to eternal destiny? Never think about it. And God, in his grace, he's able to trust Christ. Now here's my question. How many folks cross over, death comes, a heart attack or whatever, and cross over into eternity, and they just put it out of their mind, put it out of their mind, and they die in that state and are lost for all eternity. How tragic is that? Jesus says, what think ye? What think ye? What think ye? It's very, very important for all of us to stop and say, wait a minute, where am I going to spend eternity at? What is my relationship with the God that created me? Do I give him any thought at all? Whether you think about God or not, I'm telling you, God thinks about you. Whether you're focused on your creator, the God that made everything, and the God that's going to judge us, whether you give any thought to him or oh, I'm telling you, he thinks about you. And so my first statement in the message this morning is this a serious consideration, that phrase when Jesus said, What think ye? That caught my attention. My second thought is this. First of all, we have a serious consideration, and then second of all, we have the son's contradiction. The Lord goes on with his story here. He says, A certain man had two sons. Alright? And uh two sides, how many folks here have children? How many folks here have children? How many folks you found that your children, you have more than one, and you found that your children are very different And we found out they were very different right out of the womb. It's the same parent, same home, same food, same everything, and they're as different as night and day I mean, your personality is everything. So here we have a father, he has two sons, and these boys are as different as night and day Not only are do they contradict each other in their characteristics, but they contradict their own words. They contradict themselves. Look at this again. And he said, and he came to the person and said, son, go work today in my vineyard. There it is, as we said, simple instructions, nothing complicated. He knew exactly what he was asking of him And he answered and said, I will not. Alright? But afterward he repented and went. Okay. Good. And he came to the second and said, likewise, he says to him, Son, go work today in my vineyard. And he answered and said, I go, sir, and went not. These two sons, as I said, are as different and night a day. The first thing I want us to think about this here is the Father's authority. Remember, this whole thing is in response to the scribes and Pharisees challenging Jesus' authority. And so this father comes to his sons. Hey, a father has authority over his sons. It's not the other way around. He has every right to instruct his boys what to do. In fact, he has a responsibility. To exercise authority over his children. And so the father has authority here. And of course, in this parable, in this story here, Jesus is illustrating a truth. And the father would represent who, do you think? God. And when he's addressing these scribes and Pharisees, what authority you have? He says, What do we tell you about? Well, stop and think for a minute. I'll tell you about this guy. He had two kids, and he told the kid, the boys, what to do. He has authority to do that. He has a responsibility to do that. And God has authority over you and I. And he has every right to tell us how to live our lives and what to do. You say, oh, well what if God does Well, what if he wants me to do something that's not good? I'm here to tell you God knows what's better for you and I than we know what's good for us. How many people believe for one minute that a two-year uh a two-year-old toddler knows better what's good for him, healthy for him, than a grown uh intelligent f adult? Of course the father knows best. I'm here to tell you, God knows best. And God has authority, and He has the authority to tell us what to do and what not to do and how to do things. And it is best for us to trust them. I put this down. God is a loving God. God is a kind God. He is a good God. But he is first and foremost God. And so this father has authority to tell the boys what to do. So first thing I notice is the father's authority. Son, go work today in my vineyard. Now we have the son's answers. The interesting thing is they both responded to their father's instructions. They both had a response. It's complete opposites, but they both responded. The first son, I described him this way, a rebellious to repentant son. Rebellious to repentant, son. Verse 29 again. He answered and said, I will not. Now I did a little study and digging and looking up some stuff on that phrase, I will not. And um it is that statement, I will not, is a defiant statement This he's not saying, this is not what the son is saying. Dad, you know, I'd really rather not. He's not saying, Dad, could I be excused from this This is a blanket rebellion, defiant statement against his father. I will not You could reword it. Dad says, go go work in my vineyard today. No. It's basically what he's saying. It is blunt. It is absolute refusal to submit to his father's authority. I will not. Now, if the story ended there, that'd be a mess But I like the next statement. I will not, I underscored that next phrase heavily in my Bible, but what? Afterward. Huh. But afterward he repented and went. Something happened in between, I will not, and he went. But afterwards, something transpired. Something changed his attitude. Somehow, somewhere, something caused his rebellion to dissipate. And we don't know. We're not told what it was. We're not told but the afterword. We don't know what the Uh what was that transpired? We don't know what the thought processes were going through his mind, but somehow he got to the point, no! Apparently got around thinking, huh. Maybe I ought to do that. You know, I think it was wrong. And I'm gonna go ahead and do what dad told me to do. He was rebellious, but he repented from that rebellion and said, okay, yes, I will. And he submitted to his father's authority. Something happened. I wish we could find out, but we're not told. You know, a lot of things can take place in a person's life that melts that hard, rebellious heart. Could be any number of things. I've seen people at gravesides of loved ones that were hardened against God and not interested in God or anything He had for them. They didn't want to submit to God's will. They were not going to do what God wanted them to do any way, shape, or form. But suddenly they're confronted with the reality of death and that I will not starts turning to, yeah, I'll go. I'll submit. Um, it could be any number of things. Cancer comes in the body. I've seen people that Absolutely no interest in God, wanted nothing to do with God or the Bible, or didn't want to think about heaven and hell. Suddenly the doctor says we found inoperable cancer. Huh. Maybe I need to stop and think about my rebellion against God. Huh? Uh it might be a spouse leaves. And suddenly everything I've lived for and invested in is taken from me. Huh. Maybe I better rethink about whether I need God or not. Something happened. Something transpired in this boy's thinking. Something caused him to change his attitude about submitting to his father's instructions or not. And I've seen it over the years, and many of you have seen that very same thing. Somebody's heart is hard, somebody's rebellion is established, they don't want God, I'm not going to do what God says But life happens and God works. That whole attitude changes and They end up in church or they end up trusting Christ or they end up submitting to the Lord. I have a friend of mine, a good friend of mine, some of you have met him years ago. God called him to preach. In high school, he was graduating, his senior year of high school. He had been to camp and God dealt with him and God had called him to be a preacher. And he wouldn't have worded it this way. I know him well, and we've talked for years, we were roommates in Bible college, and he would have never worded this way, but this is basically what he said when God told him As a young Christian boy, I want you to be a preacher, he basically said, I will not. No. And so that graduated from high school and that summer he was going to go to college in the fall and Uh he was very he's a very gifted artist and he was going to take artistry and he had his plans what he was going to do and he was wasn't gonna he was gonna live for God he just wasn't gonna do what God told him to do That summer he was driving a uh fee uh uh truck, big truck on the harvest, wheat harvest and corn harvest out in the Midwest. And he would go from the fields where the giant cumbines were and he'd haul it back to the granary by the train tracks. And that's what he did. His job was to drive back and forth. The loads of green. They were taking break one day and I've told this story before. They're taking break one day in a little cinder block break room and um they're eating their lunch in there. It's hot out They're inside there and little did they know, and I don't know the details or the physics behind all this, but somehow there was some sort of gas leak Underneath that building, and that room apparently was filled with some sort of odorless, tasteless, sightless gas. One of the men reached to his pocket, pulled out a cigarette, flicked his bit. My good friend to this day, he's been here. He's been in this pulpit. He scars up his arms, his face Forty years later, 35 years later, spent months in the hospital, Mayo Clinic, up in Minnesota. You know after all that was all said and done? You know what he said? I think I'll go preach. I think I'll go preach. And God's using them in a tremendous way. He's one of the men of the highest integrity in my life. I will not Oh yeah, God's pretty good at changing our will nots into yes sirs. Now I'm not saying if you won't do what God says, he's gonna burn you up. But I am saying this: God can change our hard, hard hearts. And we can either cooperate with God or we can resist Him. I got thinking as I was reading this, he says, I will not! But afterward he repented and went. I got thinking about the prodigal son. Remember the prodigal son? Remember that? Dad, I want my inheritance. And the father, for whatever reason, gave him what he wanted. And rather than investing it and being a partner with his father in the business and working together with the family and trying to make everybody better off because of uh what he's received and trying to invest it in a way that would improve. Other people's lives along with his and be a blessing and a help, he decided to take what he was given and squander it on himself I will not. But afterward, he's where? He's in a hog pen, eating the husk. He's eating the pig food. That's he's down to nothing. No friends, no money, no nothing. He says. And here's the interesting thing. The Bible says he came to himself. You know what that means? He stopped and thought about the situation he was in. He stopped and thought about where his life is going. Where does this end up at? And he says, my father's servants have food and housing, and they've got it better than I do, and I'm his kid. And he repented and went back to his father. Afterward, he went. And so we have these boys. Father says, son, why don't you go out today and work in the vineyard? First son says, I will not. Something happens. Huh. Might need to rethink that. All right, I'll go. You know what? We go out soul winning. I talk to people. Will you trust Christ as Savior? No! All right. I'm telling you, God's pretty good at bringing that around and say, you know, maybe I ought to think about where I'm going to spend eternity. I need to think about hell and the reality of it. I said no, but you know what, I think I'd better get saved. I don't know, I maybe talked to somebody on the internet or somewhere, somebody out there, you've been saying no to the gospel, no to the gospel, no to the no, I will not trust Christ. But I'm telling you, the afterword is coming around. And it might be time to say, you know what, I will trust Christ as my Savior. I will submit my life to Christ. I will accept this gift of eternal life. Something happened to change this man's thinking, this young boy's thinking. And I'm telling you, God is very, very here I've often said this, God will not save someone against their will, but he sure is good at making them willing Amen? I mean God can back people into a corner. God can knock the s the props out from underneath us until we have nowhere to look but up And I don't know what happened to this boy, but he sure changed his song. So first of all, the sons answers, the rebellious to repentance, son, I will not, but afterward he went, but now we've got this other fella Look what it says here. And he came to the second, verse 30, and said likewise. And he answered, all right, here's this guy's response. I go, sir. And what? He didn't go. He didn't go. It's interesting that phrase. Again, I looked that up and tried to get a feel for you know, the spirit behind what he was saying. It's interesting he uses the word sir. Um he's a uh he's uh he's He has respect for his fathers on his lips, but there's no respect for his father in his life You can count on me, Dad. It's the idea behind it. If no one else goes, Pops, I'm gonna go No, you ain't. The whole idea was I'm going to go, but he never did go. He never did go. I tell you, the most dangerous condition in the world. is to convince myself something I'm going to do someday. But it never happens. You know what I found out? Someday never shows up. We got a friend of ours. I joke I've used this time and it's still ongoing. Almost every time we talk, he's down eastern part of the state. Almost every time we talk, hey man, or we'll be together, we'll go, we're on a board together, we'll have a meeting together And uh we'll say, Man, we gotta get together someday. Yes. Yeah, someday we're gonna have lunch together. That's been for almost twenty years now. Yes, sir. We're gonna get together and have lunch. And it never, ever, ever happens. And here you have a fella, Dad, I'll go, I'll go, but he never went. Um I tell you who worries me. I uh I'm not worried about the fella or the gal that says, all right, I need to be saved, but I'm not going to get saved. That person doesn't worry me as much as the one that says, oh yeah, someday I'm going to get it right. Oh, yeah, that's right. Yeah, someday I will. The road to hell is paved. With good intentions. Someday, someday, someday The Bible says today's the day of salvation. And you might have been saying no to God, no to God, no to God for decades. And today God says, all right, listen, you can turn that around. You can trust Christ today. But if you're sitting here today and you're saying, oh, yes, sir, I will, I will, I will someday. You know how many people, you know how many people are burning in hell right now that someday we're going to get saved He's two sons. One says, no, but afterward he gets thinking about it and says, eh, I better make that right. I better do this. The other one says, yes, sir. Yeah, I know. I fell I've told this story a lot of times. There's a fellow here in this church twenty years ago probably. He came and I taught Sunday school. He was here in Sunday school between Sunday school and church. He'd been coming a couple, three weeks, him and his wife Between Sunday school and church, he pulled me aside back here. He pulled me aside. He said, Pastor Leatherman, he says, I have it up here, but I don't have it down here. I said, what do you mean? He says, I know how to be saved. I know I need to be saved, but I've never really been saved. I said, well, tell you what, let's settle that right now. We go back to my office. We've got 15 minutes between Sunday school and church. Let me sit down and let's get that settled. He goes, oh no, no, no, no. Not just yet. Not just yet. I think he passed away a number of years ago. The only last thing I remember hearing him say is Not just yet. Not just yet. Oh yeah, yeah, you're right. Yes, I go, sir. But he never really went. Never really went. So there's a serious consideration. I need to stop and what is my condition? What is my where am I going to spend eternity? I need to stop and think this through. And God says, all right, here's how you'd be saved. You accept Jesus Christ as Savior. No, I ain't doing that. Huh. Maybe I should. Maybe that, yeah, you know what? I will accept Christ as my Savior. The other guy says, yes, sir, I know it. I know you need to be saved. I know you need to be saved. And he goes on with his life. And never really makes that decision. So you have the serious consideration, the son's contradiction And then we have, last of all, a very sober conclusion. Look with me at verse 31. And whether of them twain did the will of his father? Which of these two guys? One said, Yes, sir, I will. The other one said, No, I won't. The one that said, no, I won't, went out and did it. And the one that said, Yes, I will, never did. Which of these two did the Father? The answer, of course, as we said, is the first. Now look what Jesus says. Jesus saith unto them, Verily I say unto you That publicans and the harlots go into the kingdom of God before you. Now he's addressing these scribes and Pharisees, these very religious people, these people that had been, in effect, saying to God, Yes, sir, yes sir, God, yes sir, God. But they never really submitted to God's authority. They never really did what God said. They never really put their faith and trust in the Messiah God had said And then you had the group of folks who were publicans and harlots. Publicans were the lowest of society. They were hated, they were thieves, they were tramps, they were dishonest, they were corrupt, they were dirty. The harlots. And Jesus made this statement. He said, This crowd Who has said with their lives no to God, but afterward they're hearing of salvation, they're hearing the opportunity to be forgiven, they're hearing of the opportunity to go to heaven. And they're saying, Yes, we will take it, we will go and trust Christ. And these self righteous, proud Religious people who knew the truth and with their lips expressed faith in God, never trusting Christ. Never trust in Christ. For John came unto you in verse 32 in the way of righteousness, and you believed him not. But the publicans and the harlots believed him. And ye, when you had seen it, repented not afterward that ye might believe him. Now he brings something up here. He brings up the difference. What was it that made thus these these sinful people What was it that they did that they ended up in heaven and these self-righteous Pharisees they ended up in hell? What was the difference? There's a word in there. Believed. Believed. These sinners here, they knew they were sinners. The publicans heartless. They knew they were under the judgment of God. And even though with their life they had said no to God, they saw see Jesus They saw the opportunity saved. They said, all right, we will trust Christ. We will believe on Jesus Christ. And Jesus says they end up in heaven. And the others who would not believe, would not trust Christ, would not accept Him as their Savior. Though they were very religious, they ended up in hell. The determining factor in salvation is believing. John chapter 3, verse 18-36. We won't take time to turn there. But he says, He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life, and he that believeth not. Shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him. The difference between going to heaven or hell is whether I have believed on the Lord Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. I may have said no my whole life, but if I won't make a decision that I'm going to trust Jesus Christ my Savior and accept Him as my Savior, I can be forgiven and go to heaven. I thought about Moses. Moses started out as an abandoned little baby. Moses killed a guy, cold blooded murder But you know what ended up Moses ended up? Moses ended up being a great, great man of God. You know why? Because he finally said yes to God, he submitted the Lord, and let the Lord have his way. Saul, we know him as Paul. Saul started out as self-righteous, hateful, murdering Christians, throwing innocent people in prison, persecuting the church savagely. I mean we're talking ISIS level of persecution. No to the gospel, no to the gospel, no to Jesus Christ. But afterward God confronted him and he ends up being a great, great, great Christian. Now, here's my here's what I end with. Two things. Number one If you're here this morning, you're under the sound of my voice, and you've been saying no to the gospel, you know you need to be saved, and you've been saying no to it, no to it, no to it, no to it. I would venture to guess God's been working in your life And God's been confronting you, and you're at a point now where you say, you know what, I've been saying no. Today I'm going to say yes. Today I'm going to accept it. I'm going to do what God is calling me to do, accept Jesus Christ as my Savior. That'd be the smartest thing in the world a person ever did. Right or wrong? Smartest thing a person ever did, except Christ as Savior. Here's the second application. I'm talking to folks here, you've been saved, you've accepted Christ. Maybe you have a mom or dad, a brother or sister, you've got a son, a daughter or a daughter that's not saved. And every time you try and talk to them about Christ, they say no No. No. Dad, I'm tired of hearing it. No, I will not Son, I'm tired of hearing this Jesus stuff. I'm not going to church. I'm not going to trust Christ. Stop it. I'm here to tell you, if that's what you're dealing with, I'm here to tell you, God is able to turn that heart. And that son or that father or that mother or that sister or that brother or that coworker, I'm telling you, God is able to take the hardest, rebellious heart and break that heart, and afterward. They can come and trust Christ as Savior. How many folks here are testimony? How many folks here you say, preacher, before I got saved, I was so hard against it, I didn't want nothing to do with it, but God broke my heart and turned me around. How many witness? My hands raised I'm telling you, God can do it. So don't you quit witnessing. Be sweet. Be wise. Be smart. Be tactful, but be persistent. And sharing the gospel, sharing the gospel, living that testimony, living that witness. My dad would come in Sunday mornings, it was just him and I, and he'd, Dan, Dan, Danny, we need to go to church. Come to church with me. No! Next Sunday. Hey, Daddy, get up. Come to church with me. No, I will not. After a while, he just kind of backed off and just started praying, tech praying, I should say. Lo and behold, did I ever tell you May 7, 1979? But let me tell you this. The last my dad knew is his son would say, and no, I will not. He showed up, came home Friday afternoon. That week of May, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, about the 11th of May, 1979. He got home from, he was out on the road all week. He came home. Friday night and I was home. Friday night? Then he's home. So hey dad. He says, hey. I said, guess what, Dad? What? I accepted Jesus as my Savior. I wish I had a picture of my daddy's face. Afterward. Afterward. Don't give up witnessing. Don't quit praying. Don't quit living for God. God can change the hardest heart. Tell you this old altar is a powerful place to come and say, God save my daddy, God save my son, God save my daughter, God save my mother. He keeps saying, no, no, no. God is able. God is able. The ones I'm worried about are the self-righteous ones walking around, oh yeah, oh yeah, I'm good, I'm good, I'm good. Those are the ones in danger, but the ones say, no. God can change that hard. Amen. Father in heaven, I pray you'd take these thoughts. I felt like I stumbled over them a little bit, Lord. I know your Holy Spirit is able to break the hardest heart. God, I know your Holy Spirit is able to take the coldest, coldest heart, and you can warm that heart, you can melt it, you can break the hard heart. God, we ask you to help us. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many this morning would say, Preacher, I'm saved? I know I'm saved. I've trusted Christ as Savior. But you would say, preacher, I have someone that's dear to me, someone I'm very concerned about that needs Christ. They desperately need Christ. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I'll not give up hope and believing that they'll be saved. And I'll not give up on my witnessing, and God will help me just to stay persistent in living for God and being a testimony to my loved one. Is there any like that, preacher? I'm just trusting God to turn that heart and that afterward before it's too late. I'll see them come to praise. God bless you. Many hands around. I wonder if there's some, say, preacher, I have someone dear to me that they're saved, perhaps. They claim to be saved and most likely are, but they're not living for God You say, my heart's burden for them. I'd like to see them submit as a Christian to the Lord's authority and come back and live for God like they should. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will turn that heart. How about any like that? I have a somebody dear that's saved probably, but they're not living for God. God bless you. Many hands around. Our hearts are heavy on a lot of these things. And we need to look to the Lord. Lord is able. Lord is able. Is there some this morning say, preacher, I'm not saved And I need to be saved. I need to settle this. I don't know for sure when I die I'm going to heaven. I want to know that. I want that settled in my heart and life. I don't want to die and go to hell. I'm not going to risk it anymore. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me I need to trust Christ as Savior. Pray that God will help me settle that in my heart. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. And I know in my heart that God has saved me and my sins forgiven go to heaven. Any at all like that? How about it? Any at all? Lift it up high. Lift it up high. Now, Father in heaven, I ask you to bless our invitation. I ask you to help us. to trust you and follow your instructions and recognize your authority and rejoice in your love for us in Jesus' name. Let's stand together.