And um so I want to look particular at one of only two offices that the Bible has for the local church And that is what is a deacon. And so if you'll find Philippians chapter 1, I'm not going to read that passage just yet. I want to have prayer, make a few uh statements, set the stage, and then we're going to look uh primarily at three portions of scripture. this evening and I think it'll be helpful. But the question we're wanting to answer is this. What in the world is a deacon? What is a deacon? And so let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for the Word of God. I thank you for the local church. Lord, I thank you for this local church and how you've blessed us these many years. And God, you've been so good And uh and uh I'm grateful for folks that are faithful to church in spite of bad weather and make the effort to come out. I ask that it would be uh I ask that your presence would be here and it'd be more than just me speaking, Lord, but it'd be your Holy Spirit teaching us. And that we would grow and be a good, strong church for your glory. And so blessed now. Fill me with your spirit, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. What is a deacon? As a Baptist church, our final authority is what? The Bible is our final authority. That's one of our distinctives as a Baptist church And uh I appreciate that. And uh I feel strongly that this book is our final authority. The Bible teaches us for a church to be a biblical church It is to have two offices, and all and uh it is to have two offices. The first office is that of the pastor. Now, if you study your scripture, you find there are a number of names given, uh words used to describe the pastor. One is pastor. Uh somebody help me out here. What are some other names for pastor in scripture? Bishop. The Under Shepherd uh is a term we use. Uh what else? Uh minister uh that's used as the term elder on occasion is a reference to the pastor. And so I wrote down pastor, bishop, minister, and elder. These are often uh when you read through now you've got to look at the context sometimes, but sometimes But often these are words used to describe or address the office of the pastor. I think the term bishop, though it can be used as a title, is more of a descriptive term of what the responsibilities of the pastor is. The term bishop simply means overseer, one who has been given a responsibility to oversee maybe a plot of land or or uh some resources or whatever, and God has given the pastor the responsibility to oversee the operation of the church and uh the church. So one office uh the Bible clearly teaches for the local church, a biblical local church is pastor. A church needs a pastor Church doesn't have a pastor, there's something wrong, there's something seriously lacking there. The second office is that of deacons. And uh that's what we're going to look at tonight. What is a deacon and and how does all this all plan out? But as I was preparing this message, and it's been obvious uh over the years God's organization for the local church is amazingly simple. It is not complicated at all. You don't need a big spreadsheet to figure out how a church organization is. There's pastors, there's deacons, and uh we'll see the congregation and all pastor or deacon or part of the congregation. It's really not very complicated. I'll say this, deacons sometimes get the short end of the stick You know what I'm talking about? Man, people like to make jokes about deacons. I don't know any personally that like to make jokes about deacons, but I've heard there are pastors that enjoy taking shots at deacons But uh no, I like to tease people. And deacons are very e the deacons, especially ours, are very teasable. And um so it's their fault that I pick on them But sometimes they get the short end of the stick and they're the brunt of jokes. Sometimes deacons are despised by pastors. And I can say this, pastors I know in my experience over the years that absolutely do not like deacons Have nothing good to say about it, uh about the a deacon or the office of deacon. They refuse to have deacons. I know some preachers that I think are scared of them They're afraid to have a deacon. It's a threat to them. And that ought not to be. That's not the Bible way. A pastor ought not to resist or be afraid of or despise a deacon or the office of a deacon, he should embrace it. It's a biblical office that God has established in His Word. Now, on the other hand, there have been deacons who have overstepped their bounds that have taken upon themselves authority that the Bible does not give them. And in some cases gave the pastor reason to be concerned. Reason to uh resist uh that type of thing. So uh but if we're gonna if we're gonna be biblical, our church is gonna be biblical, we have the office of pastor and we have the office of deacons And a good, godly, biblical deacon is a great, great blessing to the church When we do it by when we do it the Bible way, God blesses that. I kind of looked at it this way. Now I asked my wife this afternoon, I was going over it, I said, does this sound weird? She goes, No, it doesn't sound weird. So when I say this You understand this is not weird. But a deacon completes, in a very real sense, a deacon completes the church and the pastor. The deacon in many ways Uh fills in the pastor's leadership fills in where the pastor is unable to. And this is what I asked her. I said, does this sound weird? A deacon is almost kind of to the pastor the role that a wife has to the husband in a sense. In other words, what does the Bible refer to the wife as in Genesis when he created uh he said he needed to make a woman that was a what? Help me. Now we use that term as a title, help me, but it's actually someone help that can help him that is capable. Someone's neat, someone that's fit to help that husband out. He completes her. She completes him. And that's very much the way I see a deacon. God has given the pastor responsibility to oversee the church and uh within a church as that church grows. There's situations and needs that have to be met, and the pastor is unable to do all of that himself, and so therefore God has raised up the deacons to be a help meet in a sense for the pastor To fulfill in those areas where the pastor is unable to or would distract from his responsibility. So a good strong church requires good, strong, godly, biblical beacons. So let's do our little Bible study here. Number one, here's my first thought tonight, the mention of deacons in Scripture. That's where we go to Philippians chapter 1 and look with me at verse number 1. You see here, Paul and Timotheus, the servants of Jesus Christ, now they're addressing the church here. Look how they address it. To all the saints in Christ Jesus which are at Philippi. So who's the first constituent he's addressing here? The saints. Who would that be in the church? Yeah, it would be the people in the church and and just assuming the church all the members are saved there, uh it's the congregation, the people that make up the church. So he addresses the people that we know the church is not a building. The church is people. So he's addressing the saints there, the membership of the church, people that make up the church. But then he goes on He sends unto the saints which are at Philippi with the bishops, aha, the overseers. Who would that be? Be the pastors. Now he uses plural and there's a there's a uh uh place in the church as the church is growing and as the needs arise. Uh Maybe there'll be plurality of pastors. Maybe there'd have to be one or two. Pastor, assistant, pastor. Some cases, you know, larger churches, there's four, five, six pastors. different responsibilities delegated by the by the pastor. And so he addresses, you have the saints that make up the church You had the bishops in this case there, the bet the pastor and pastors of the church, then what's the last one? And deacons. It's very simple. So here you have addressed the three constituents of the church there at Philippi. You have the saints, the bishops, and the deacons. Now I want to be quick to point out the bishops, the pastor, and the deacons are not separated from the saints. They are part of the saints. They are part of the body of Christ. Sometimes you'll hear preachers talk about the laity. And they'll talk about the clergy and the layman. Anybody familiar with those terms? To be honest with you, I don't view them as very biblical terms. There is no distinction as far as our standing before God is concerned between the pastor, the deacon, and the members of the church. The pastor and deacon are just as are members of the church as as anybody else is. But they're given specific responsibilities within that church by God And so we have them mentioned here in Philippians chapter 1. Come over if you would. Now these next two passages I want you to keep marked in your Bible because we're going to jump back and forth. Acts chapter 6. Acts chapter 6, over there quickly. And this is more of a teaching type message tonight, more giving information, but it's important for us to understand this. Acts 6, beginning in verse number 1. Are you there? You got it? Alright, notice what the Bible says. And in those days, when the number of the disciples was multiplied, what's happening in the church here? It's growing. And uh, I mean rapidly multiplying itself. That's uh significant growth. Uh there arose a murmuring of the Grecians against the Hebrews. So here you got the Gentiles. And the Jews are fussing in the church, much like they did uh for many years outside the church. So it's it's an issue going on here. Um, against the Hebrews because their widows were neglected in the daily ministration. Alright, so you got Greeks and Jews have been saved. They're all part of the church Church is growing like wildfire. And uh there's a little there's a little uh what's the word they use there, murmuring going on. That word murmuring means secret debate or displeasure. They're talking among themselves. It's not out in the open yet. Uh this is just smoldering under under the uh um just smoldering under the level, under the surface. And uh there's a little discontent and there's a little issue. We're being neglected, and then and uh there's widows, they're gentile, that's why they're not doing it, and it's just a little murmuring going on there And uh it's I don't think it's not blown up full b full blown yet, but it's there. Now, are they neglecting them on purpose? I would unsay. I don't think so. I don't see any reason why they would be, but it's happening for whatever reason. I like to believe that the neglect is a result of the rapid growth of the church And uh the church is growing, it's they're just falling through the cracks, so to speak. And so there's an issue. Now look at verse 2. Then the twelve, who would that be? And be the apostles. The twelve called the multitude of the disciples unto them. So they call it church meeting And they say unto them, and said, It is not reason that we should leave the Word of God and serve tables. Alright, pastors, and this is a unique situation. By the way, if you notice the first few ver words of verse 1, and in those days, it's talking about a specific period of time. This is a transition period. The church is getting organized. The church is growing. And so it's a unique situation. So the apostles are acting as pastors. Everybody with me? It's good stuff, isn't it? This is great. Alright, so look what it says. It is not reason we should leave the Word of God and serve tables. Wherefore, brethren, look at this, look ye out among you seven men of honest report Full of the Holy Ghost and of wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business. But we will give ourselves continually to prayer and to the ministry of the Word. And the saying pleased the whole multitude, the church there. And they chose Stephen, a man full of faith, and of the Holy Ghost, and Philip, and Procurius, and Nicanor, and Timon, and Mar uh Parmenus and Nicholas, a proselyte of Antioch. So they choose their seven guys. Alright? The church chose out these seven guys. Now look what they do here whom they set before the apostles. Alright? They said, here we nominate these guys. They set them before the apostles. And when they, the apostles, prayed and they laid hands on them And the word of God increased, and the number of the disciples multiplied in Jerusalem greatly. A great company of the priests were obedient to the faith. So God blessed this, and they went forward. The title deacon is not used here in this reference. There's no reference to deacons other than verse number two, the last, the second last word, we will not serve tables. That word serve there. It's the same word translated deacons in other places. So they're saying we will not, so that we don't have serve, we don't deacon tables. Is what they're saying. So I'm convinced that this portion of Scripture, and m overwhelming majority of Bible students uh agree, they uh they agree with me, um, that uh this is a reference to beacons. It's the introduction to the responsibility of deacons. Now keep your place here. Come over to 1 Timothy chapter 3. There's three places that the office of deacon is addressed. 1 Timothy chapter 3 And notice I'm going to start reading in verse 8. First first seven verses are dealing with the pastor. Now verse 8 deals with the deacons. Likewise Must the deacons be grave, not double-tongued, not given to much wine, not greedy of filthy lucre, holding the mystery of the faith in a pure conscience And let these also first be proved, let them use the office of the deacon being found blameless, even so must their wives be grave, not slanders, sl s Slober uh sober, uh faithful in all things. Let the deacons be the husband of one wife, ruling their children in their own house as well For they that have used the office of a deacon, well purchased to themselves, good degree, and great boldness in the faith, which is in Christ Jesus. So there's our three references in the New Testament to the office of a deacon Now, number two, my second thought tonight is: what is the meaning of the word deacon? If we can understand what the word, the title means, we're going to have a whole lot better understanding of what their responsibility is The word deacon, the Greek word that we get the English word deacon from, is used 29 times in the New Testament. At its basic definition, it simply means a servant. However, it's translated into English, the idea behind the word that we get our word deacon from is one who and ministers to another person That's the definition of the word. So that tells us a little bit about what the responsibility of a deacon in One who holds the office of a deacon, if the word means to be a servant, to minister to others, that gives us a good idea of what the responsibilities of that position is, that office is It's interesting in Romans 15, 8, Jesus is referred to as a deacon. Now it doesn't use the word deacon, but it uses the word minister there, exact same word. Now, it's not referring to Jesus holding an office of deacon, it's referring to Jesus serving, ministering to others. But it's the same word. In Romans chapter 13, verse 4, get this. The government authorities are referred to as deacons. Ministers is the word used there. Again, they're not holding an office of a deacon in a New Testament, but that description of the responsibilities. Here's a novel idea. The government's supposed to serve the people, not vice versa. Isn't that interesting? But that's another subject. In Ephesians chapter 3, verse 7, Paul refers to himself as a deacon. He refers to him as a servant. Same word, referred to as deacon. So um uh the idea behind the meaning of the word deacon is somebody That is serving others, ministering to others, giving other time, efforts, their abilities to others. That's the meaning of the word. Uh here's a little interesting. In fact I went back after I had the message done, I went back and just kind of looked up some other words and and did a little more research on it and I found out One of the little side definitions of the word deacon has this idea to kick up dust. I thought, what in the world? I'm going to serve others, I'm going to minister others and kick up dust. Now, if you're kicking up dust, what's that mean you're doing? Alright, you're stirring the pot or something like that. I got I got a I think there's a little different take on that. I think it means somebody that that's running. They're in a hurry Uh did you ever say, uh boy, you better kick up some dust getting here? Did you ever hear that? It's because I just made it up. But um uh Uh but if the uh the idea is this, I think this is the idea I got in the definition, somebody that serves others and boy they're quick to do it Uh they they're just right there. They're they're not they're it's not some oh brother I've got I'm a deacon, I've gotta go do this. And uh it's not that idea, it's like, oh there's a neat thing And uh they go there. Can I say, and I'm not trying to butter anybody up, I I'm not afraid of these guys, but um I tell ya, it's a blessing to me to have the guys we have serving beacons. They're around here doing all kinds of stuff Climbing poles putting lights up, the building crowing underneath the mission house and putting plumbing in and um uh what does Tom do? He s does something around here, I don't know what No, I'm kidding, he fixed the baptistry works on that plow. And I'm telling you, it is a great and I was studying this, I thought that's what these guys are They're just right there. They'll kick up dust and get there and do that. And that is what the idea is behind the deacon. There's very others various other uses through the Word of God. Has the idea of serving others, ministering to others. But here's something I noticed. The term deacon, however it's translated, is never used to describe a position of authority. It's never used to describe a position where somebody has authority over others. It is always used as a description of serving and ministering in some way. And so that is where I think a lot of particularly denominational churches have gotten away from the scripture pattern and they've made a board of deacons and given tremendous authority in the church to that board of deacons, and that is not scriptural. Nowhere in scripture do you find the deacons have an authority in the church. I candidated at a church one time And uh it was the deacon board and there it was up in Pennsylvania. I didn't candidate, they asked me. Maybe I did go up and preach there one time But uh it was years ago and they asked me about coming in and uh they had a board of deacons and the deacons, they said your responsibility is you fill the pulpit We'll bring in the special speakers. We'll do all this. We'll make these decisions and that decisions. We'll decide what ministries are on or church. All you would do is stand behind the pulpit and preach. I said, I don't see that in scripture, my friends. The pastor is the overseer. It's kind of hard to oversee something if you don't have any say in what's going on there. And so the interesting thing is, and get your schofi get your Schofield, your um, your uh not Schofield Bible, your strong's concordinates out, and look up the term deacon and look through there And you'll find it's never used in an authority tight position in a uh one that rules over others. And so the the mention of deacon is three times in the scriptures. Number two, the meaning of the word deacon. Number three, the making of a deacon. How does a person become a deacon? I'll tell you this right away. It's never somebody stands up in a revival service and says, Praise God, He's called me to be a deacon. That is not the way it happens. Come back to Acts chapter 6 with me Here we have the introduction to the office of deacon into the church. And notice how this comes about. And I believe we have here a pattern for establishing deacons. Look at verse 2 Then the twelve called the multitude of the disciples unto them and said, It is not reason that we should uh leave the word of God and serve tables. Wherefore, brethren, look ye out among you seven men Look at verse 4. We will give ourselves continually to prayer and to the ministry of the word. So in verse 2 and in verse 4 it tells us that the deacons were being selected for the purpose of assisting the pastors. I said, we've got the responsibilities of the Word of God. We've got the spiritual, the ministries that are we're responsible for. If we took time and went and took care of these widows and served all these tables, it would take us away from the primary responsibility of the Word of God in prayer. And so this the making of a deacon comes about that there was a need in the church that needed to be met, but in such a way that it would not take the pastor away from his primary responsibilities. Everybody with me? You follow that? But there's a secondary reason here, and that is to keep unity in the church. There was this murmuring, this undercurrent going on, and that needed to be addressed, that needed to be corrected And so I see one of the responsibilities of the uh deacon in a church is to take care of things so the pastor doesn't need to. He can stay focused on what he's doing, but also to keep unity within that church. If something comes up, we've got to do whatever we need to do. And keep that working, keep that functioning. So we see that in verse 2 and 4. Look at verse 3. How are they getting into this position? Therefore, brethren, look ye out among you So they called the congregation together, and what's the congregation doing here? Okay, they're not voting yet. What are they doing? They're saying, look ye out among you. They're nominating people. And they give them the qualifications. We'll look at that in a little bit. But they say, alright, you look, you guys, you congregation, you pick out who you feel fit these qualifications and get us seven guys. And so the congregation does that. They choose out, uh they look out among them seven men, and they bring them and present them. Now, look again at verse number five. And the saying pleased the whole multitude, and they chose They brought these guys. Now what did they do with them? When the congregation chose these seven guys, did they instantly have this office No, there's another stage here. Look with me. And by the way, apparently these seven guys, their spiritual maturity was evident to the church They were able to look and say, yeah, that guy's filled with the spirit, that guy's some wisdom, that guy's honest report, and their spiritual maturity, they had a testimony of that, so they could discern that. Now look at the next stage. Look at the last part of look at verse 6. When they had set before whom, they picked these seven guys out, verse 5. Whom they set before the apostles. So what are they doing? They said, Alright, we got these seven guys. They named them off, and they brought them to the apostles. What did the apostles do? The apostles prayed and laid their hands on them. Now this may be my take, but uh but I think I'm correct on this. I think what's taken place here, the congregation chose out the seven They brought him to the pastors, quote unquote, and uh the pastors gave their approval. All right, yep, that guy, sure enough, he meets the qualifications. Yes, that's correct. Yep, yeah, right, right, right. Okay, these guys are good And they set them up there. And I see, my understanding of scriptures the way we've done it 20 plus years now. My understanding is the church chooses out, and then the pastor has what I call veto power. He can look, because he might know something about somebody that's not common knowledge to the church that would disqualify that man from that office. And rather than violating the qualification or embarrassing the man, the pastor can just quietly just set that aside and say, you know, he's not been maybe uh one of our requirements here is be a member for a year And so often we'll get a nomination for somebody that's not been a member for the year. I don't have to draw attention to that, I don't do that. I can just kind of veto that. You follow what I'm saying There may be situations there that might not be. So I see here in verse number six, it has to pass the approval of the pastors. Then notice verse number seven, once they got that, then the word of God increased. Boy, God blessed that. They had good men in position, and they were going forward for the Lord, and God blessed in a great and mighty way And so somebody says, Preacher, you know we nominate someone, and their name doesn't show up on the ballot at our meeting. Why is that? Well, there's a number of reasons One is they may have not meet the qualifications that we're going to notice here in a minute. And so therefore that would remove that. And for instance, one of those would be that our church requires our Constitution to be a member for a year And so sometimes, as I said, somebody gets nominated, they've been a member for a year, we just set them aside. Sometimes we send out uh a letter and tell them you've been nominated, and uh they get it, and they choose not to serve For various reasons. I've had over the years, I had, I'm thinking of a couple occasions where a guy was nominated. Um I felt, you know, that uh as far as I knew, everything was good, and he came and said, I'm not qualified to serve And I said, Well, I don't see any reason why you're not. He says, Well, I know I'm not. And so it was a personal reason, and I respected that. I said, Okay, and he steps aside and he doesn't hold that position So there's any number of reasons why they may get nominated and never actually make it to the ballot there. But the point I want to make is this. Deacons are not called of God like the pastor is. Somebody calls up, God's called me to preach That's a God-called position. God's called me to be an evangelist. That's a God-called position. God's called me to be a missionary. That's a God-called Deacons do not determine for themselves whether they should be a deacon or not. The church makes that decision. Whether they are uh to hold that position or not. Being a deacon is not something that w a person is to seek. They don't start a campaign. Vote for me for Deacon. You don't see that anywhere. They're not campaigning for that office. They're not pursuing it. It is, I put it this way, to become a deacon, you become a a person becomes a deacon by invitation of the church and approval of the pastor. is the way I see it. And so that's the making of a deacon. Choose out among yourselves and meet these qualifications. They uh set before the apostles, they get the approval there, and boy, God blesses that thing in a great way. Let me put the- let me make this statement. It is a great, great privilege to serve God It is a privilege in any capacity. It is a privilege to serve God. And I think we lose that in some of our ministries. We view it as, I've got a right to do this. It is, I do not have the right to be pastor. God gives me a tremendous privilege. to be a pastor or hold a position, be a Sunday school teacher, be a bus worker, or whatever it might be. It's a privilege. And that is the way I see it presented in scripture here. Number one, uh the mention, the meaning, the making. Number four, the mandate for deacons. What is the requirements? Uh well it's obvious the church uh New Test God requ expects a New Testament church to have good deacons. Look at verse number six. Now, uh in chapter, look at Acts chapter six, verse three. Wherefore, brethren, look ye out among you seven men. You know, I looked at that seven, I was there, seven men, seven men. Is that a pattern? Is that a requirement? I'll be honest with you, I don't know what the significance of having seven men is. Can I tell you what I believe I believe his church was just the size, they determined that to accomplish this job take about seven men to do it. I know some pastors they say, boy, the Bible's ways you have to have seven deacons I don't see that as a requirement. I just think it's what they did in that circumstance, in that situation. And so now you come down here, you get to the requirements that established. Look at verse 3 Seven men of honest report. What's it mean to be of honest report? Simply means they have a good testimony. Just men that have a good testimony. Full of the Holy Ghost. That means they're spiritual men. They're yielded to God. And uh the Spirit of God fills them and is using them. A men of wisdom. This is an interesting term for wisdom. There's various uh meanings to the word wisdom as it's used through the Word of God. This I this word here simply means uh it's a general term That simply means they're intelligent. It means they have some common sense about them. To put it the way my mom used to say when I was little, they're not a dumb bunny. I don't know where she came up with that term, a dumb bunny, but uh in other words they have a little bit of common sense about them. They're not uh uh you know, there's a little bit uh intelligence there to them because of the responsibilities are going to be held. Come over if you would to First Timothy chapter three. Here we have a more specific requirements for deacon. Um The church is becoming more organized, it's becoming more established. In the book of Acts, it's still being in its developmental stage. And so it's not quite as detailed. Then by the time you get to First Timothy, Paul is writing, there's churches all across the land. They're much more organized. They're much more solid and stable than what they are in the book of Acts. They've been planted. Now he gives a little more specific requirements. He does for the pastor in the first several verses as I mentioned, and now he does here for the deacons Now let's just quickly go down through here. He says in verse number 8, he says, they are to be grave. Now that doesn't mean they're supposed to be a sour pus. Alright? It simply means they take their responsibility seriously. I think God's people ought to be happy. I think God's people ought to be enjoyable. There ought to be a little lightness to the heart. and attitude. But when it comes to that responsibility, take it very seriously. You uh I don't know if you picked it up. I like the horse around a little bit Anybody notice that over the years, I like the horse around. But I'll tell you one thing, when it comes to preaching this book, I take that very seriously When it comes to keeping this church, having high standards and sticking to the Word of God, I take that very seriously. And that's what it's saying about the deacons. They're not a sour push grouchy grumble. It's uh they're happy and praise the Lord, rejoice the Lord, but brother, that responsibility is very So that's what that is. Verse number nine means they have a working knowledge of the Word of God and a love for the Word of God Verse number ten, they've been proven over a period of time. Says, uh, let these first be proved. Let them use the office of deacon, being found blameless. In other words, they have a track record That they're faithful to the church. They are uh they're uh maturing in their faith. They uh there's something to them, there's substance to them. Look at verse eleven Uh even so must their wives be grave, not slanders, uh sober, faithful in all things. Their wives are to be uh mature and godly and faithful wives Verse 12, and let the deacons be the husband of one wife, ruling their children in their own house well. They're to have one wife in a Christian home. It doesn't say perfect home, but a Christian home. Notice in verse number 13, for they have they that have used the office of a deacon will purchase to themselves a good degree and great boldness in the faith in Christ Jesus. Notice it says they have used, that word used there means to work hard. So it means they're a hard worker. They're not afraid to do and step in and get their hands dirty and do what needs to done. Not afraid to get down there with those widows and get that food and make sure it gets to them. Put it in the context of Acts chapter 6. The last part of verse 13, they're soul winners. They obtain great boldness in the faith which is in Christ Jesus. Boy, they're not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. They're not afraid to get out there and share the Word of God with people. And so the mandate for it, and then last of all, quickly, I tried to rush through this, but the merit of a deacon. Look again at verse 13 here. For they that have used the office of a deacon well, in other words, they've served well, they've given their heart and soul to that, they've worked hard at it, purchase to themselves a good degree. Now that's an interesting word. That's the only time that phrase is used in all the Bible. And it's used in context of a deacon who has given himself to that ministry, and it means this: to be held in high respect. And great dignity. Now, it is God. If you study it here, the context is God holds them in high respect. And great dignity. One that's used that office well, one that's worked well at that and given himself to it. God considers the ministry of serving His church and his people, God considers that a highly dignified office. You know what the world says? You know what the world respects? You know what the world considers high and lofty is when people are serving me. Uh boy the world loves it when some uh when they have an entourage Right? Everybody waiting on hand and foot. Boy, I've got my entourage here. They're doing this with the my the new I I'm so up on these cool words. The new one is my peeps Anybody ever hear that? I've got people. Anybody ever hear that? Come on, you heard it. I've got people. What's that mean? I got folks do stuff for me. I got people. They'll take this, they'll do that, they'll do that. That's what the world exalts. You're impressed how cool I am, aren't you? And um uh that's what the world exalts. You know what God exalts God exalts serving others, not being served. You know what I noticed years ago? When God wants to speak highly of one of his people, you know what he refers to them as? My servant. There's one man in the Bible who Jesus is compared to. Did you hear what I said? Who Jesus, one man who Jesus is compared to. You know who that is? It's the book of Hebrews, Moses. He said, just like Moses was faithful in his thing, Jesus was faithful as a son. You know what term God uses? Moses is one of the most highly exalted men by God in all the Bible. You know what God refers to Moses as over and over and over? My servant Moses. David was a great man of God. He was a man after God's own heart. You know how God refers to David many times? My servant David. Boy, the world likes to give titles to man, exalted titles. I was reading about North Korea and that knucklehead running that country. And he's called the most supreme eternal president. I thought, oh brother, sounds like Calvin and Hobbes, you know. And they give these ridiculous titles. That's not what God does. Well, God wants to honor and dignify and show respect to a man He calls them my servant. My servant. And I'm telling you to serve the church, whether it's in an office of a deacon or whether it's running the vacuum cleaner or driving a bus. or fixing a commode, or singing in a choir, or running copies on the copy machine, whatever capacity, serving Christ is a great, great privilege. And God exalts that. That's a great degree. Someone who gives themself to serve. And so the office of deacon, I thank God as pastor For the deacons of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. I'm glad God gives to the church the office of deacon. It's an important office I think it's necessary for a church to be everything God wants it to be. And so as we go into uh our nominations, we take these now and go in I hope you'll get take this seriously. Don't just brush it off, say, ah, it's just going to be who whatever. No, no, no. Pray about it. Put it on there. God may use that one that you nominate. God may use them in a great way to help this church go forward So let's pray, Father in Heaven.