If you have your Bible tonight, let's turn to a very familiar passage. Philippians chapter number three, if you will. Philippians chapter number three. And uh once you found your place out of respect for the word and reverence, if you'll join me in standing, I'm going to read a passage of scripture that probably most of us could quote tonight But I want to read this, and the Lord has laid something on my heart, and I hope it'll be a help tonight. Look at verse number seven, starting there in chapter three of Philippians, if you will. Paul's writing and he says this But what things were gained to me, those I counted for loss for Christ. Yea, doubtless, and I count all things but loss. for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus, my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do count them but dung that I may win Christ, and be found in him, not having mine own righteousness. which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith. that I may know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being made conformable unto his death, if by any means I might attain unto the resurrection of the dead. Not as though I had already attained, either were already perfect But I follow after, if that I may apprehend that for which also I am apprehended of Christ Jesus Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended, but this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forth unto those things which are before, I press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. Let's pray, shall we? Father, once again, what a joy it is to be here. at Mountain Lake Baptist Church. And Lord certainly thank you for these dear folks that have braved the weather tonight to come out because they love you They want a fellowship with you. Lord, they want to be uh drawn into your presence one more time. And Holy Spirit, I thank you, God, that You're in the midst of us. I thank you that you work in our hearts and lives. I pray that you put a hedge around the building tonight. I pray, Holy Spirit, you'd fill this place with your presence and power I ask that you would take a charge of my life as I yield it to you. Help me to be just that which you have for these folks tonight And maybe something said, just a little bit of encouragement, maybe a little bit of help in the day in which we live, we pray. And we'll thank you and praise you for all that you'll do In Jesus' name we do ask it. Amen. Thank you. You may be seated. Paul's writing here to the church at Philippi, and Philippi was a Roman colony. that was located in the area of Macedonia. Paul founded this church on his second missionary journey, and certainly we know that Lydia, the seller of purple, was his first convert there. And then, of course, the Philippian jailer, along with his family, also were the second uh converts there and members of the church Uh in that city there were very few Jews simply because there was no synagogue. And so because of that, uh the m uh the uh number of Jews was minimal And so he uh came here to literally preach to the Gentiles and to try to uh establish a church, which he did. The general state of this church was that they were very poor. They were going through a time of persecution. Uh they were uh suffering some things within the church, experiencing some uh disunity and all the rest. And Paul here writes this passage of scripture, this letter to this church to try to encourage them and to help them to maintain the successful walk as a Christian. Let me just say something. I believe with my heart, each and every Christian that's ever been saved truly wants to live for the Lord Jesus Christ. I mean, when you realize what Jesus has done for us, the things that He has given, all of that, I believe that would motivate us to really want to live for the Lord Jesus Christ. Do you agree with that? At least it ought to Then the problem is, is that this old flesh is still here. Boy, don't you wish that when you got saved the old flesh would die along with the old nature and and uh be able to have a little bit of of uh that uh new nature more and more but the fact is we want to be successful for the Lord. Paul here is giving this church uh a a formula if I could use that term, a formula to be a successful Christian. He gives about four or five things within the passage that I believe is something that each and every one of us needs to have and to take a look at and to evaluate, put into our lives, and to help us to become successful. I I want to, as I mentioned this morning Our desire ought to be to hear from the very lips of the Lord Jesus Christ, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. And that is really what we would classify truly as being a success in our Christian walk. So what did Paul give them here to help bring this church together, to help motivate them, to move them with a one focus in serving and to be successful? Well first of all, He encourages them to evaluate what truly matters, the things in their life. Notice it says in verse number 4 through 8, he says uh in in uh the uh the verses for he says though I might have had confidence in the flesh if any other man thinketh that he hath wherewith he might trust the flesh I more circumcised the eighth day of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, and Hebrew of the Hebrews, as touching the law. a Pharisee concerning zeal, persecuting the church, touching the righteousness which uh is uh uh in the law, blameless. He says, all of these things in my past, and now He's got to look at those things and evaluate what really matters in his life. You know, a lot of times we let things come in, we let things uh kind of distract us in our Christian walk. Maybe it's uh The job, maybe it's wanting to have a a good, successful family. Certainly we ought to have that. And sometimes those things come into our lives and we spend all of our time involved in those things and not taking the time to evaluate how I need to put those things with the Lord's help to allow that to be a success for him. We need to evaluate what things affect my life and the things that I allow to come into my life. Paul here said very much so that He wanted to evaluate his back and to realize that those things, all of those things that he really put stock in before he met the Lord On the road to Damascus, he puts those on the back burner. He evaluates those things as dung. Notice what it says. In verse number eight it says, Yea, doubtless I cone all things but lost for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord. for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do count them but dumb, that I may win Christ. He says they're not worth it. Those things really are not worth it. And sometimes we put priorities on things. I'll tell you what, I don't have my phone with my wife. I'm glad we have cell phones today Boy, I'll tell you, I don't know what we would do. My wife and I were talking the other day. I can remember when we first started going to Germany and we didn't have GPS. We didn't have these phones and I don't know how we got anywhere. You know, we they they didn't speak English, we didn't speak German. We we just drove and tried to figure out where we're going Boy, I love my cell phone. Every time now I plug in that address and it takes me right where I want to go. But I'll tell you what, yeah, all that rest of that junk on a cell phone I wish we could get rid of We spend so much time as people, and I'm guilty of it, I I get involved looking at emails, looking at text messages, looking at uh trying to uh find airfares and all the rest and spending time. But I have to evaluate. I only have twenty-four hours in a day I only have so many minutes that I can do something in awake hours. And I think what we need to do is take the time to evaluate where we're placing our priorities on. What takes the precedence in our life? My responsibility, first of all, is to the Lord Jesus Christ. Above all else My responsibility is to him to spend time with him. Then my family comes next, amen. I have to have a a good relationship in my family. And then thirdly the ministry. So we have to evaluate these things. And Paul encourages this church to do it. Paul uh abandoned his pride. In verse number eight he says, I count all things but lost. Boy, I ha I look at us and he was uh the the uh tribe of Benjamin, he was a Hebrew of the Hebrews, he was a a Pharisee of the Pharisees, he was uh persecuting the church. I mean he had all of these great uh qualifications, but he counts those as nothing compared to what he wants to do for the Lord Jesus Christ. We need to evaluate what the priorities are in our life He also, I believe, because of that, aspired to some desire of perfection. Look at verse number 12. He says, Not as though I had already attained, either were already perfect. Here's the humbleness. But I follow after, that I may apprehend that which for which also I am apprehended of Christ Jesus. He wanted to apprehend, lay hold. He not only evaluated what he needed to get out of his life, He evaluated what he needed to put into his life, the priorities that he needed to have. And he said, This one thing, this one thing, I need to follow after. I want to apprehend those things that God has for me. And that's what we ought to do. Lord, what would thou have me to do? What do you have for me in my life? What's the purpose, the plan, the desire That's what we need to have. So he encourages the church here to first of all evaluate what they need. And then secondly, then he encourages them to eliminate the things that hinder spiritual progress. Look at verse 13. He says, Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended, but this one thing I do. Forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forth unto those things which are before, I press toward the mark. He says, I'm going to eliminate, I'm going to get rid of those things, forgetting those things that are behind past blessings, past successes. As he we we talk about the uh the uh uh conversion of Lydia and the conversion of uh the Philippian jailer Uh I mean those were great successes in Paul's life, but he says I'm going to forget those things. I'm not going to base my future on what I've done in the past. You know, too many Christians today I think We base our future and what we're going to do on what we've done in the past. What I've done in the past, I can't change. It's over. It's done. I can't go on my my my past successes, my past victories. I have to each take each day as a new day And say, this day I've got to live for the Lord. So I have to eliminate those things that will hinder my walk. And sometimes we get to the fact that, hey, you know what? I've read through the Bible. I don't need to read it anymore. And what we need to do is realize I still need to uh read the Word of God. I still need to hear from God every day. Maybe we we've had uh great prayer successes and and all the rest, but we need to eliminate those things that will hinder us and realize we need to move on for the Lord Jesus Christ. Paul abandoned, I think, delay. He did not hesitate. He says, I count not myself to have apprehended. He refuses to be stuck in spiritual complacency. I'm not going to stay here. You know, I think sometimes if we're not careful as Christians We get to a certain level, and then we're just happy there. I know I'm going to heaven. I know my sins are forgiven. I know that I have a relationship with the Lord. And so we think we've arrived. I want you to understand, as long as we're alive, we will never be fully mature in our spiritual life. It is a constant walk to do it. That's why he said, my desire is to apprehend that for which I have been apprehended, but he says, I have not yet got there I have not yet gotten to that place where I've apprehended it. I'm going to press on. I'm going to keep on, no matter what, even in prison Here at the place where I can't go out and and preach in the streets or anything else, but he says I'm going to keep on doing what I can do. Can you imagine those poor old Roman soldiers that were to get assigned to guarding Paul. I mean they were chained to him in that prison cell and I I I believe Paul would preach to them. I believe Paul would witness to them. I believe that in fact he the Bible even says that he won some of those people to the Lord. And uh I can almost see hear him in the in the guardhouse and said, Oh man, I got duty with Paul again today. You know, what a horrible thought. But he was keeping going and doing it. He eliminated, he could have said, you know Here I am in prison. I can't get out amongst the people. I'm here, Obama, in this prison with these two guards. He said, I think I'll just quit. No, he kept on going. My wife and I had the privilege of being in Rome some years ago and we went to the Mammothine prison where uh they have it actually preserved there and they they say this is the cell that Paul was actually held in And so we were able to go down into that cell and stand there. And it was just an awesome feeling to think about. This is where Paul was. Now, Paul was a fairly short man, history tells us that. And as I stood in that cell, I looked around the wall, and I saw water marks on the wall. And uh over in the corner was one uh stone that had been set there, and I I got the thinking as my mind went. The the city of Rome was built on a dry roo lake bed. And so all of the sewer system they had to dig below that. And so every time it would rain, those floods would come. And in that cell, there was a hole in the floor that had a grate over it, a metal grate And I can imagine that as those floods came, that that uh water would come up into that cell And fill that cell with all the water and all the muck and and all the junk. In fact, in that prison, when they would conquer, Romans would take a another land, a so uh uh city or another army, they would take the generals and put them in that prison and let them starve to death And then they would take and throw them down into the sewers and just let their bodies decay. So you can imagine what it would have smelled like and all of that coming up into the sun. And I can imagine poor old Paul standing over there in that corner on that block as that water would come up and possibly come up to his neck And just stand there and have to s trace stay there for however long until that water would recede. And all of that, all of that, he could have said, I quit He could have said, this isn't worth it. I want to get out of here. I want to go back. But he eliminated anything that would hinder him. From serving the Lord, from going on. And sometimes that's what we knew. He kept thinking, I have not yet apprehended. I have not yet grasped behold fully of all that God has for me And I'm not going to quit. I'm going to press on, gonna press on, gonna press on. You know, sometimes we get discouraged in our Christian walk Sometimes things don't go the way that we wish they would. And it can hinder us. What we need to do is eliminate those things and not let the devil, not let the devil win the battle Paul advanced his determination. Notice it says here, this one thing I do. This one thing I do. Paul had his priorities right. He was single-minded. He set aside everything else to pursue God's purpose, God's plan for his life Spiritual progress in our life requires a determined focus, just like him, to eliminate those things, to keep our eyes focused. This morning I read the scripture Looking onto Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith. I need to keep my eyes on the Lord Jesus Christ. He didn't quit. He didn't falter. He didn't step aside. He kept going. And that ought to motivate me to keep my eyes on him, eliminate anything out of our lives that would hinder our Christian walk. as Paul did, and he kept on going and serving the Lord with all of his strength. And then the Bible said, I believe with all my heart. Paul here also says maintain a proper expectation. Look at verse 14. It says, and I press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. That Paul was anticipating beyond this life something great. He was looking for the prize. He pressed toward that mark. for that, with hope, with expecting to see great things and heavenly rewards. Oh, what a joy it is to know that this life is not all there is There's something beyond this, and it's better than anything we can even imagine. God has something for us. When I get discouraged, and I get discouraged, I'm human just like you. There's things that come into my life. There's problems. We got home from our trip out west here and and uh we had the we always every time we go away we turn the heat down and or you know keep it so that we're not burning electricity and everything. We get home And I go out and get the mail, bring it in, no electric bill, no gas bill. $960 for a month. I said, huh? I said, we turn down the heat. We don't use a lot of it. 900 and some dollars. So I got on the phone and I called the gas company in. And they said, uh, well, go out and check your meter. So they put this new thing on our meter that's supposed to send a signal, I guess, so they don't have to get out and read it. And uh they did it, but they didn't calibrate it And so the mere reading on the bill, we hadn't even reached that number yet. And so, boy, for two weeks we were going on and on and on and finally They came back and said, yep, it's our mistake. They re redid it, and so it was good to see it. But I want you to understand, yes, I got discouraged when I saw that. I could have got defeated But the fact is, I'm glad I've got a God. We sat down and prayed about it, and the Lord worked it out. And Paul did the same thing. He anticipated that there's a something on the other side Paul leaned higher than anything else. He said, for the high calling of God. You know, the work of the Lord, the service of God, being involved, that's a high calling. That's the highest calling that there is and uh serving God. When we have our sight set on the high calling of God, it's uh uh it lifts our vision above these earthly problems and earthly pursuits We need to maintain a proper expectation. He's saying to the church, don't worry about what you're going through. Yes, you've got persecution. Yes, you've got a little stirring in the church. Yes, you've got to get together and keep your eyes set upon the goal. uh what there is. I'm glad for Mountain Lake Baptist Church here. I guess it's independent Baptist Church. I better get it right. Your preacher will fire me I'm glad for this church. This place, this area needs Mountain Lake. It is a church that is valuable beyond measure. And there's souls out here that still need to be saved, still need to be brought in and matured in the call of God. Set your sights on that. Set your sights on what God can do through this church to reach. You know, I had this vision when I first went to Hagerstown. And I said, you know, I read the book of Joshua, and the book of Joshua in the first chapter it says, uh, wherever the foot of thy foot has uh p uh sole of your footage gone I have given to you and uh I I can't remember the whole thing but it's talking about that uh you know you you g you can have a vision of reaching the whole world And so I said to my church, I said, you know what my vision for Hagerstown is? I'd love to be able to go down to the gas station when I get gas and have Christian music playing over the thing. I would love to be able to walk down the street. And not have a a a uh a vi uh w what do you call those vape a vape shop or a smoke shop or a uh uh I like I love to see the alcohol uh uh booth uh stores closed. And I'd love to be able to walk into to Walmart and hear the gospel being preached over the thing I said, you know what? What a vision that is. Well listen, I I think that ought to be the vision of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Wouldn't it be neat to go to the Walmart down here in in town and Go up there and have uh the Christian music playing and and uh everybody saying, Hey brother, hey sister, how you doing today? Listen What can happen? Keep your eyes set upon it. Paul said, I'm not finished yet. There's a goal. I've got a high calling. I've got a prize that I've got my eyes set on. And I'm going to keep on keeping on until God takes me home. Well we need to have that. And then Paul realized that he needed to appropriate God's grace. Notice what it says in that verse 14. He says, I press forward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. Paul pressed on, but as he pressed on, he realized and relied upon the grace of God. He did not rely on his own self-efforts His own talents, his own abilities, but on the grace that only God can give. And listen, if we're going to be successful in our Christian walk, we've got to rely upon the grace of God, what God can do through us In Ephesians chapter three and verse twenty, it says, Now unto him that is able to do exceeding abundantly above all that we th ask or think, according to the power that worketh in us. Oh, what God can do through one. And you know, I believe it was either Charles Spurgeon or D. L. Moody Those great old preachers, but they said this, it still remains to be seen what God can do through one totally yielded and dedicated person. Boy, wouldn't that be wonderful if that was you or me? See what God can do when we yield our life to Him, to do it all. And then lastly, if we're going to have a successful walk, we need to maintain a high estimation of the prize that's set before us. Paul said, here I press towards the mark for the prize. of the high calling of God. Paul's appraisal of that prize, he said, of the high calling. It was above, it surpassed any human value that worth that could be placed upon it. Paul placed supreme value upon knowing and fulfilling God's purpose for his life, that prize that was set before him. Would you take your Bibles and turn over to the book of Matthew? Matthew chapter thirteen Look at verse number 44. Jesus is speaking. Says, and again the kingdom of heaven is like unto a treasure, hidden the field. The which when a man hath found it, he hideth, and for joy thereof goeth and selleth all that he hath, and buyeth that field. Again the kingdom of heaven is like unto a merchant man seeking I want you to understand that's how we have to value what God has for us It's the most morph important thing is is uh what God has, that prize that was set for him. That's what Paul looked at He saw what God had placed before him. He realized that there was something better than what he had here. Paul assessed the cost that it would take. In verse number eight. He says, yea, doubtless, I count all things but loss. He says, I'm not even worrying about it. Whatever I have, whatever I give, whatever I have, I'm going to let it go for the Lord. Verse number fourteen, the last part of it again, for that prize of the high calling of God. Paul gladly suffered all loss for the sake of the gospel. He doesn't complain, he doesn't gripe about it, what he had to give up or what he uh lost. He gladly gives it over for the cause of it all. Sometimes we get to the place where we we maintain and we hold on to the things of this world, and yet what we need to do is realize the call of God, the value that God wants us to serve Him, is more important than anything else There's a cost, and there always is a cost in serving the Lord Jesus Christ and walking with him. We can't get people, of course, today to be faithful uh a lot of times to the services. We can't get people to go soul winning anymore. Everybody, everything kind of steps in. Why? Because we've lost sight of the prize that's set before us. In this day of ease, in this day of plenty that we have, many do not want to pay the cost. That's involved in serving the Lord Jesus Christ. Romans chapter 8 and verse 18, Paul's here writing. He says, For I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. I want to understand, no matter what we're going through in this life, there's something better on the other side. Something better. We can't even compare it. Paul here in the last of it, he affirmed the fact of a crown. Paul was assured of the prize, the crown that the Lord himself would give to him. We are all called to run a race To finish the course and to receive that reward. Not to quit, not to stumble, and not to fall. Look over at 1 Corinthians chapter 9, if you will. Paul again writing to the church at Corinth, he says this in verse number twenty-four. Know ye not that they which run in a race run all, but one receiveth the prize? So run! That ye may obtain. And every man that striveth for the mastery is temperant in all things. Now they do it to obtain a corruptible crown But we an incorruptible. Paul said that there's a race to be run, and to run, we must run to win Boy, I'll tell you I haven't watched much of the Olympics. Uh I'm not into those things, but but I follow well how many gold medals and things we've gotten, just to be interested But I'll tell you what, those people that are involved in those Olympics didn't one day just wake up and say, You know, think I'm gonna go to the Olympics and run There was a lot of training involved. There was years of sacrifice. There was the years that they had to tell this old body to get out of bed and go run or go skate or whatever it was when it would have been much easier to stay in bed. Listen, we are running the most important race We're running the race that really matters for the wealth uh for the worth of of uh Oakland, Maryland, and for uh this world. And that is the to to serve the Lord Jesus Christ, to see souls come to know him as Savior, to do those things that God has asked us to do. And why is it, why is it that so many of of Christians today Just want to sit back, relax, and not get involved in the race to really realize there's a prize We ought to have that before us to run, to cause us to go. We ought to run. And it says that run and run all, and then so run that ye may obtain, Paul said there. Paul ran his race successfully, and he encourages this church to stay faithful, to get involved, to be a success in their own life. And to run the same way that he ran. Paul's message to the church at Philippi, I think, is still reverent and relevant for today. We need to evaluate our priorities. What are our priorities? Him, her Ministry. That's the family. That's my priority. And we need to do it. Then eliminate. Anything in my life that hinders that. That keeps me from running the race successfully. Whatever it is. I love to fish, but I'm not going to let fishing take away from what God wants me to do. We need to get those things eliminated. And then expect God's best as we run. Expect God's help along the way. Yes, there may be struggles. Yes, there may be trials. Yes, there may be some difficulties. But I need to run my race with God's help and God's grace. And then I need to estimate constantly the eternal values. of what I am achieving for the Lord Jesus Christ. That prize that's set before us. Paul said, I have not yet apprehended that for which I am apprehended. Evan, can I use you a minute? Uh brother, can I use you a minute? And I need one more good-looking fella. Okay, James, I'll take you anyway. Just stand facing that way, if you will, all of you. Nope, you over on this side, face that way. Yeah. You must have been in the Navy. Just stand right behind me. Paul said I'm apprehended to win something. But he said, I have not yet apprehended it. I have not got it. Here's God. Well, you talk about the wrong kind of typecasting, right? No, I'm only kidding, James. He's a good fellow. But he's representing God. He's representing Paul. He's representing the prize, the purpose, the plan for his life. Paul said, I have not yet apprehended that for which I have been apprehended. The word apprehended means arrested. It means God got a hold of Paul. He arrested him. He apprehended him for a purpose. God created Paul. He knew his everything about Paul. And he knew what Paul could achieve. But he needed to apprehend Paul, and he did so on the road to Damascus that day. Caught him. Then there was a goal that sat before him. Paul said, I have not yet apprehended that But he says, I'm striving. I'm going to keep on as best as I can to apprehend that for which I have been apprehended. There is a goal. By the way, if you're saved today, God's apprehended you. And he has something out there that he wants you to apprehend, grab a hold of To seize on a purpose, a plan, the goal for your life. Now have just as Paul said, can you say to yourself, I've apprehended it? Or are you striving to apprehend it? I'm going to keep on. I'm going to keep on. I'm going to get a hold of it. I'm going to do everything I can to I want to achieve that purpose, that plan that God has, that I can apprehend that high prize, that wonderful prize for the high calling of God. in Christ Jesus. Thank you, fellas. That's the successful Christian. It doesn't mean we've already achieved. It doesn't mean we've already gotten there. But it means I'm doing all I can to stay working, laboring, reaching forth, wanting to apprehend that, to hear, well done, thou good and faithful servant. So how are you as a Christian? Is your life successful tonight? Have you followed what Paul said? Evaluate. What's in your life? What do you button your values upon? What's the goals in your life? And then eliminate those things that are hindering it. What does God want? What's hindering me from a serving and doing what God wants me to do? I need to get rid of those things. Then I want to estimate the wonderful cost beyond measure. That'll keep my motivation moving towards God. Let's all be successful Christians. Not for us, not for our pats on the back, but that as we stand before him I said this morning, I may have said it the other day, last week I'm not sure. My dad was a stern man. And when he disciplined us, my brother and I, one of the things that was the hardest thing we had to do was to look at my dad in the eye. He said, son, look at me in the eye. As he would chasten us, as he would discipline us. Oh, that was hard. Disappointing on his face. When I stand in heaven, I want to be able to look at Jesus. I don't want to hold my head in shame. I want to be able to see my Savior. I want to be able to do that. What's that going to take? It's going to take for me to do everything I can to be a successful Christian running the race that's been set before me. Striving to apprehend that for which I have been apprehended. God bless us. Pray, Father I thank you tonight for Jesus. I thank you for certainly the Word of God. I thank you for the life of Paul. I thank you for his testimony, his consistency. I thank you, God, for his devotion and desire and determination to stay by the stuff, even in times when being beaten and shipwrecked and stoned and all the rest, Lord, there's so many things went on in his life that could have stopped him And that he had a vision. He had that prize that was set before him. And he was running the race. Lord help us. Help each and every one of us. to be found faithful. Help each and every one of us tonight to determine we're going to evaluate our Christian life. We're going to eliminate things that are distracting us, causing us to not run the race that you've set there. And that, Lord, we'll be motivated by keeping the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus before us, that we may apprehend that for which we have been apprehended. With heads bowed and eyes closed tonight, let me just ask a couple of questions. How successful are you in your Christian life? Are you running the race? Are you apprehending that? Striving to do that? I wonder how many would say tonight, you know, preacher, I'm a Christian. I know I'm saved. I know that heaven's my home. But you the Holy Spirit just spoke to me tonight in some area of my life. Maybe I need to evaluate an area. Maybe I need to eliminate an area. Maybe I need to put a higher estimation upon that high prize that's set before me. But whatever it is, I want to be what God wants. I want to be a successful Christian. Rachel, I wondered, would you just pray for me? Here's my hand. God bless you. God bless you. Many hands tonight. Thank you for that I wonder if there's one here tonight, say preacher, I'm not sure I'm saved. I I always ask this question. I wonder if there's one here tonight, say preacher, I'm not sure. If I die right now, I'm going to heaven. I don't know for sure that I've ever been apprehended by the Lord Jesus. But I wondered, would you just pray for me that I could get this thing settled? Anyone like that tonight? You just slip your hand up and let you let me pray for you. Anyone like that? Father, you've seen hands, you've seen hearts, you've moved Holy Spirit upon people. Lord, I know that Lord, we're just human. Lord, but Paul was a human, and yet he had a great desire. The Bible says that Paul said, I die daily. He died to himself. He died to his desires. He died to what he wanted to be and said, Lord, I want to be used. I want to apprehend. that for which I've been apprehended. And Lord, I pray tonight that this church, that these good folks that are members of it Lord, that that have just raised a hand and said that the Holy Spirit has spoken to them. That Lord we might be able to band together as a body of believers and Lord reach out to run a race successful. in apprehending those things. Bless each and every one. Meet every need, Lord, tonight as the altars are open, the invitations extended, as the music begins to play Lord to help us to stand to our feet and then Lord to move as you'd have us to move and we thank you for it. Let's stand to our feet. The instruments are playing