To do this I uh I enjoy uh studying things out like uh this. Um I have uh one thing uh Uh Mormonism is actually uh or and actually the proper name for uh for Mormons is actually the uh Church of Latter er the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Yeah. Um is actually they're LDS, Latter day Saints is what they'll call you. So have you ever watched a TV uh commercial where they're trying to give you a free Bible? You're like, I want a free Bible, that looks nice. It's most likely by the uh LDS, which is Latter day Saints, or the Mormon Church. Um I I had a f I have a few friends that are uh Mormon, I've uh very good friends from high school. Um always real nice and uh we got along great and uh And it was really weird having uh biblical discussions with him because he would mostly agree with things that I had to say. And so you're like, man. Well how can I tell you you're wrong if you're always agreeing with me? It's a lot tougher to do. So uh I'm gonna do a little bit of point and counterpoint and then I'm gonna go into uh hopefully uh we can get done in a timely manner if I get halfway done and we're times out, I'll uh I'll extend it to next week and uh if or whatever week pastor would have me do it. Um but if you turn to Galatians 1, Galatians chapter number 1, that would be great. Galatians chapter number one Why is Mormonism so wrong? Why is Mormonism so wrong? Um I actually uh I'd I I'd done a study on this before, so I pulled up my old notes and I was going over it and uh it was two it was one and a half pages long and I thought well this is this is pretty good so I just started reading over it some more and I thought well maybe I'll add a little bit here and I turned out with seven pages. of a notes. But uh let's read Galatians chapter one and verses uh verses eight and nine. But though we or an angel from heaven Preach any other gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed. As we have said before So I So say I now again, if any man preach any other gospel unto you, that ye then ye have, then that ye have. Let me read just sever saying, but though we or an angel from heaven preach any other gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed. Why is Mormonism why is Mormonism wrong? The most basic uh understanding, the most basic uh reason is because it preaches a different gospel. And the Bible is very clear. If there's any other way of salvation, it's preached. If there's any other gospel preached, that person should be accursed because that that apparently that's a great sin. Because it's not correct. Now what is the gospel? What is the gospel as we know it? Well in 1 Corinthians 15, 1 through 4 it says, Moreover, brethren, I have declared unto you the gospel which I preach unto you, which ye have also received, and wherein ye stand By which also ye are saved if you keep in memory what I preach unto you, unless ye believe in vain. For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received. How Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures, and that he was buried and rose again the third day according to the scriptures. We believe that Christ died, was buried, and rose again for our sins. And but belief on him saves us. But this is uh from Uh Doctrines of Salvation, uh booked by Joseph Smith, Joseph Fielding Smith, who is the uh founder of Mormonism. This is what he has to say. No salvation without accepting Joseph Smith. If Joseph Smith was verily a prophet, and if and if he told the truth, then this knowledge is of the most vital importance to the world. No man can reject that testimony without incurring those dreadful consequences, for he cannot enter the kingdom of heaven. This is from Doctrines of Salvation. This is a Mormon book. Now look at the difference between the two. And I and I apologize, like I said, I I really added a lot of notes that I really wasn't planning on it, and so I apologize for not having a PowerPoint. But by the gospel says Listen, Jesus Christ is what gets you to heaven. Belief in Jesus Christ. Joseph Smith literally says belief in Joseph Smith as a prophet gets you to heaven. That you can't get enter the kingdom of God without it. Now let's contrast that a little bit with 1 Corinthians 4 through 10, or 3, 4 through 10. First Corinthians three. I actually want you to turn that turn to first Corinthians. He says, No salvation can uh without accepting Joseph Smith. Now you think, well, you know, the the if if and and again I try to look at both sides of the equation. Uh you know, people say, well, if he was a prophet, then you'd have to believe in him uh to get to heaven. Well let's look what Paul would say about that. For while one saith, I am of Paul, and another, and this is in 1 Corinthians 3, 4, for while one saith, I am of Paul, and another, I am Apollos, are ye not carnal? Who then is Paul and who is Apollos? But ministers by whom ye have believed, even as the Lord gave to every man. I have planted, Apollos watered, but God gave the increase So then, neither is he that planteth anything, neither is he that watereth, but God giveth the increase. Look at how Paul described himself when it came to the work of the gospel. He didn't say you had to believe in Paul. In fact, this is this is him saying the exact opposite. You don't believe in me, you believe in God. You're not you're not you're not of Apollo, you're of God. You're of Jesus Christ. But Joseph Smith, and again, we I hope we have time this time to get into the history of Joseph Smith and who he is. He says, oh no, you have to believe in me. I'm not a huge fan of people who talk in the third person, but show something. The only person and and again I will get that I I guess we'll I'll touch on that in a minute. But Joseph Smith says, you must believe in me. You must be of me to get in heaven. And Paul says, you must be of God. If pride truly is a sin, then Joseph Smith would be committing a sin while writing his scripture. Now, let's start with the tenets of the Mormon faith. The tenets of the Mormon faith They believe there are four sacred works. Four sacred works. As Christians, we believe that there's one sacred work. That would be the Bible. Now, of course, that's separating the many books. Well, they believe that there are four sacred works. I just wrote a book in my office. I should have written down the title, I don't want to plagiarize. So some of these words are not my words. I will give that. The Mor like this one. The Mormon articles of faith have read. And now this is a different person. We believe the Bible to be the Word of God insofar as it is translated correctly. Articles of Faith of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Article 8. The Book of Mormon claims that a correct translation of the Bible is impossible since the Catholic Church has taken away from the Word of God. Here's the thing. The reason that Mormon and this is why it's very difficult to argue with a Mormon, not because they're right, but because they refuse to look at the same evidence. Listen, I will be able to, over the next uh thirty or so minutes, prove to you uh probably five different ways you can tear apart the uh tear apart the argument of a Mormon. You can just rip apart their belief with the go with the Bible. But they believe that the Bible, while the Word of God, has been corrupted. Do you know why it's so important that you believe the Bible is the Word of God? Listen, I know a lot of people used to be iffy on, you know, maybe the Bible is the Word of God, maybe there's some of it missing. Maybe this, maybe that. But the fact is, if you don't believe that the Bible is the Word of God, and if you don't believe that it is the perfectly translated, perfectly inspired, perfectly preserved Word of God, if you don't believe that, then you're in danger. Because then anyone can come to you and trust me they will and say, yes, it says this, but it actually means this Yes, it says this, but that was a mistranslation. They love the idea of a mistranslation because that means they can keep uh most of the Bible and that means they can garner most of the Christians on their side, except they say, well, there's a few points that are just incorrect here Believe in the Bible. If you're going to use Scripture to tear apart a Mormon, you ri uh and tear apart is kind of a cruel thing to say. You're going to use Scripture to tear down a Mormon's beliefs. You need to first understand that they believe the Bible is mistranslated. Now, in uh Psalm 12, 6 through 7, here's one of their mistranslations, obviously. Because Psalm twelve, six through seven says, The words of the Lord are pure words, as silver tried in a furnace of earth, purified seven times. Thou shalt keep them, O Lord, thou shalt preserve them from this generation forever. God did not write the Bible and then let all of it get tainted. God didn't write the Bible and then let all of it go unpure God has preserved it, and you can watch through history, God's preserved word throughout history. You can watch as uh as uh different versions of the Bible have come up, and ending with the King James, which was the perfect translation. You can watch as we've always had the Bible, always had the scriptures since they've been written, just as it says. Now, was it freely available to everyone? No. But it's always been there. The Mormon church believes, however, Joseph Smith taught them, however, that it was tainted long ago, so he can't really trust everything that's in there. May I say this? If that's true, then what a lazy God. If God let his word disappear off face of the the earth, if God let it get ruined, then God must not care that much about his word. But if but if uh if we read even the uh Even the um the memory verse for this month, we know that God preserves his word. That God's word is going to last forever. So if you're going if you're going to talk to one more, you're going to use the Bible, you need to get them on a basis of saying the the Bible is the perfect word of God. And then you have quite a few jumping off points. You see the the Bible is one of their sacred works. Another sacred work is the Book of Mormon. The Book of Mormon is also considered inspired by them. They consider it inspired. Says, We also believe the Book of Mormon to be the Word of God. Articles of Faith, Section 8. The Book of Mormon is supposedly an account of the original inhabitants of America to whom Jesus Christ appeared after his resurrection. I would like because we call them Mormons is actually a lot because the Book of Mormon because it's the first thing published um by them. Like I said, they like they the proper name is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We call them Mormons because the Mormon was the like I said, the first book that was published by them. And there's some really weird stories on it. They believe that people that uh there were Jews on uh there were actually two sets of Jews and I'm not gonna get too much into it because it's really useless information. on what they believe, but I'll just give you a quick overview. They believe there were two sets of people's groups uh after the Tower of Babel that uh that uh two uh people groups came over and lived in America And they built these large cities and then they believed that Jews were over here and then they believed that um Jesus Christ came over and lived with them for a while It's really quite uh strange. They just they have all these fairy tales. And by the way, no one could prove any different because they didn't have any archaeological evidence. And the guy kind of made it up. And you know, it was 1820, so the West had hardly been explored So really, you know, it's hand had a pretty good idea. I mean while Joseph Smith was alive, his lie worked pretty good. But uh let's uh look at a little bit of the Book of Mormon and archaeology. You see, archaeology proves the Bible almost every time. And if it doesn't prove the Bible, you have to wait a little while and then eventually it will catch up to the Bible. Because that's how it works. Cities, Jericho, the city of Jericho, we the uh scholars for years and years and years thought that does not exist. It's never existed. There is no wall that fell down, nothing like that. And then they go in back a few years ago and we're like, oh, well okay. So it does exist. But We are wrong, but we're not in it and and that's how it works. But let's look at uh let's look at how the book of Mormon and archaeology uh size up to one another. No Book of Mormon cities have ever been located. No Book of Mormon names have ever been found in New World inscriptions. No genuine inscriptions have been found in Hebrew in America. No genuine inscriptions have found in America in Egyptian or anything similar to Egyptian which could correspond to Joseph Smith's Reformed Egyptian. We'll get to the Reformed Egyptian in a bit. No ancient copies of the Book of Morning scriptures have ever been found. No ancient inscriptions of any kind in America which indicate that the ancient inhabitants had Hebrew or Christian beliefs have been found. No mention of Book of Mormon, persons, nations, or places have ever been found. No artifact of any kind which demonstrates the Book of Mormon is true has ever been found Rather than finding supportive evidence, Mormon scholars have been forced to retreat from traditional interpretations of the Book of Mormon. And this comes from Halhewee, Archaeology, in the Book of Mormon. I if you guys I I listen, I'm not I'm not advocating nor am I unadvocating, I don't know the word for that. But uh CS L is there's a better chance that Narnia is real than the than America's Book of Mormon. Uh I i they're the same thing. It they're just made up. No evidence is ever in found. Now when you look at the Bible and it thinks Everything's very historical. The Bible is not just a history book, but it is a wonderful history book. You learn a lot. They're actually real peoples, but there is nothing ever been found to back up the Book of Mormon's uh cases Now, here's the thing, like I said, they say the Bible, man, the Bible has been corrupted. We can't always rely on that. And then you look and they say, well, but luckily the Book of Mormon is perfect. Except the Book of Mormon, according Joseph Smith, Jr. , is the most correct of any book on earth Joseph Smith Jr. History of the Church for 461. However, this most correct book has, from the 1830 edition to the modern edition, has undergone some 3,000 changes. Three thousand changes. Now and then if you and again we're not we're not there yet. It's gonna take a while. If you look at what they actually believe Things have things have completely changed. Um I'm not on this yet, but if you look at uh polygamy, because a lot of people confuse that Mormon em Mormons are all polygamous, which is highly untrue. Most Mormons are not polygamous at all. But they get that idea from the fact that Joseph Smith had some four uh some twelve or eighteen twelve to eighteen wives as young as fourteen years old. Who already married other men and he just wanted them. Which was originally in his book, but they were like, this is a bad idea, let's take this out. Um the next book that is uh the next book is Doctrines and Covenants Doctrine and Covenants. This is a record of 138 revelations revealing of some Mormonism's distinctive doctrines, such as baptism for the dead and celestial marriage. And then the Pearl of Great Price. The Pearl of Greg Price contains the Book of Moses, which is roughly equivalent to the first uh six chapters of Genesis Basically he it's the retelling of the beginning of the world because apparently the Bible had it wrong. Um and the book of Abraham, a translation of the Egyptian papyrus That later proved to be fraudulent. It also contains an extract of Joseph Smith's translation of the Bible, extracts of the history of Joseph Smith, which is his autobiography, and the articles of faith. So these are their four books they believe in. The Bible, which they believe is, you know, eh, it's a little corrupted. And uh, and uh the Mormon, uh the Book of Mormon, which is perfect. Even through all its changes, and doctrines of covenants, and the pearl of great price. They also, the bo the Mormon Church also has a living prophet at all times to add or subtract from anything or to clarify. They have a living prophet right now. They've had one since Joseph Smith. It's really handy because if someone wants to argue something, or if something is uh inconvenient to believe, Then they'll just get rid of it. Uh for instance, um I and here's something that if you might want uh that is interesting, it's an interesting little anecdote. Uh you guys know BYU the um the college, Brigham Young University. Uh if you don't know Brigham Young was Joseph Smith's successor, it is a Mormon based school. Fully. BYU actually has a pretty good football team. Words Conference is a very it's a it's a stand-up football team. You know what? It did not have a standard a stand-up football team in the nineteen seventies when they did not allow black players to play football or black players to go to their school. In fact it wasn't very good. And when the president of the college, I'm sorry, when the prophet, the living prophet, saw, wow, we're not doing very good, he had a revelation that said that black people could then go to BYU. And now they're doing great. And that's the honest truth. It's very convenient for them. Let's talk about the Mormon doctrine of God. They believe that there is a Father, a Son, and a Holy Ghost, but do not in any way believe in the Trinity. They believe in the opposite. They also believe in many gods. And that God was once a man. The Mormon doctrine of God, and this I'm again I'm reading from uh this book, and I apologize. I uh the m uh I'm not going to sing out too long, but the name slips in mind. The Mormon doctrine of God is contradictory to what the Bible teaches. The Mormons believe in many gods and teach that God himself was once a man. Moreover, Mormons ha uh Mormon males had the possibility of attaining godhood, which is nice, you know. Uh Joseph Smith made this clear in the King Follette Discourse. Now, you can read, I like reading what other people had to say about Mormonism, but I really like reading what Mormons had to say about Mormonism This is actually from Joseph Smith's King Follette Discourse. I'm going to inquire after God, for I want you all to know him and to be familiar with him. I will go back to the beginning before the world was to show you what kind of a being God is. God was once as we are now, and is an exalted man, and sits enthroned in yonder heavens I say, if you were to see him today, you would see him like a man for a man in a form like yourselves, in all persons image, image, that's an interesting word, and the very form of man. I'm going to tell you how God came to be God. We've imagined and supposed that God was God from all eternity. I refute that idea and take away the veil so that you may see. It is the first principle of the Gospel to know for certainty the character of God and for to know that we may converse with Him as one man with another And that he was once a man like us. Yea, that God Himself, the Father is uh the Father of us all, dwelt on an earth the same as Jesus Christ. Here then in eternal life, to know only the wise and true God, and you have got to learn By the way, you'll never hear our Bible saying you've got to learn this. But it it sounds a little and you have got to learn that's just bad English. But um and you have got to learn how to be God yourselves And to be kings and priests to God and the same as all gods have done before you. Joseph Smith, Jr. , King Flood Discourse, page eight through ten. That's one a really small book. It's not two pages. Um but uh it says PP eight eight through ten. Bay is paragraph eight through ten. So uh He believes that God was once a man like you and I. And that's why we can talk to God. And not only that was God a man like you and I. That he was in fact that there are many gods, and there are many gods before us and after us, and that we can all become gods just like God Oh, and here's another one. This one's from Doctrine and Covenants, uh 130-22. In the beginning the head of the gods called the council of the gods. And they came together and concocted a plan to create and populate the world and the people in it. Joseph Smith, Journal Discourse, 625. The Father has a body of flesh and bones as tangible as a man's. Joseph Smith, Doctrines and Covenants 130. 22. This con this contradicts directly from Scripture. First Corinthians 8. 4 says, as concerning therefore the eating of oath, Oh yeah, we go. That's right. As concerning therefore the eating of those things that are offered in sacrifice an idol, we know that an idol is nothing in the world, and that there is none other God but one Apparently that was a really big corruption right there, because that's pretty uh uh Isaiah forty-three ten. Ye are my witnesses, saith the Lord, and my servant who I have chosen, that ye may know and believe me, and understand that I am He. Before me there was no God formed, neither there shall be, neither shall there be after me We believe there is one God. Mormons do not. They b they it's it's it's a grab for power. It's a gra it's a belief that they can become the highest. It is a it's a argument for their pride. They want to be the most high. They want to be like the Most High, which seems to sound like another verse from Isaiah. Listen, something and I and I'll get to this in a second. Something that you learn about Mormons if you're around them very long or if you study how they um interact, Mormons target uh Rich people, successful people, uh family oriented people, good people, they target those kind of people Now in a couple weeks we'll do a Jehovah's Witnesses who actually target um uh more of the I guess it's it's cool to say, but they actually target the more Incompetent? But Mormons don't. Mormons target the the higher than that, the the better people, the stronger people, the good people. You're you're you know, I mean listen, I mean and And I know most of you probably voted for him, but Mitt Romney kinda like exuberates this I am a Mormon and I wear Arms length underwear all the time. Which is true, but it's a completely different doctrine. We'll get maybe we won't get into that. But uh it's it's true, they have to wear underwear and they can't take it off except to bla base. And it it's it's not like underwear like everything, it's full body length. underwear and I don't know how you go to a beach or something as a Mormon or it just must look ridiculous. I I don't know. That's why they're all up in Salt Lake 'cause they're like, we have our own beaches, Salt Lake. And uh I really don't know. I've never been. But uh here's what I'll say is uh It's this they try they really attract the higher society, the smarter crowd. And that's because people who are successful Often struggle with pride more than anyone else. And the fact that you can become not that you can serve God, you can become God is a pretty big selling point to them. Humility is knowing your place on the earth. Knowing how much higher God is than you. Knowing how how really just less of a human being. How much that you're that you're worth that you really weren't worth Christ's blood, but he gave it anyways. But I will say that but if you're But if you're able to become God just like our great God Jehovah, then you're pretty uh pretty fancy. You're pretty important. Jesus Christ. The Mormon Church teaches that Jesus Christ was a pre-existent spirit like the rest of us. I'll get to that in a second. Even though we are literally brothers and even though we are all literally brothers and sisters of Jesus, he is set apart from the rest of us by being the firstborn of God's spirit children. And now, verily I say unto you, I was in the beginning with the Father, and am the firstborn. And all of those who are begotten through me are partakers of the glory of the same, and we are the church of the firstborn. You were also in the beginning with the Father. According to Mormons, Jesus is not the only begotten Son. He's just the first begotten son. Therefore, he's more important. Tell me. I don't w remember. I don't remember being in the beginning of time. I don't I don't remember I don't know I I I I don't I don't remember being just like Christ. I don't remember being born a son of God. I remember being born a son of the world, a son of uh the devil, and being adopted into God's family. People may believe that Jesus Christ is just like you. He's not God. There's no Trinity. He's just the Son of He's just the son of uh of uh of God and he in uh ace he's just a son of God, the first one, so he's more special. But they believe that all of us as humans we are we've all existed for eternity and we're all going to exist for eternity. They don't believe in they don't believe in hell. They believe all of us will eventually get to the kingdom or something like that. And that we were all we were all uh born and that we were never really created, we just came into our bodies. Um in uh In the progress of man, which is another one of uh Joseph uh spoke uh Smith's books, man is a spirit clothed with a tabernacle The intelligent part of which never was never created or made, but existed eternally. Man was also in the beginning with God. Speaking of man, John Winstow said, He existed before he came to earth. He was with God in the beginning. Man's destiny is divine. Man is an eternal being, he is also everlasting to everlasting. Listen, I understand that it's e that it I listen, most Mormons are very are they usually quite nice to me. The ones I've met are very nice to me. And they say they believe in uh Jesus Christ, and they believe in salvation, and so on and so forth. But the fact is they preach blasphemy. They preach that man is God. That we existed before we were created. They say they believe in the uh in the King James Bible. And yet That corruption must have ran really deep to change the entire Bible. Man has always been here just like God. Here's their uh on uh salvation, and this will end the uh the tenants of their faith, uh I think I'm gonna actually be able to get this done in the next fifteen minutes, so hold tight. Salvation Articles in two and three of the book of the Mormon Articles of Faith spell out their doctrine of salvation. We believe that men shall be punished for their own sins and not for Adam's transgression. Transgression. Number three, we believe that through the atonement of Christ, all mankind may be saved by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the gospel. Here's the thing that you need to learn about Mormons. Most of them will say that you are saved by grace. They say, well, we believe you're saved by grace. And you're like, hey, great, we believe that we're saved by grace too. And then so you're thinking, well now we believe the same thing. So then what happens is because you think you believe the same thing, you actually listen to what they have to say and you'll say, well you know what? That kind of makes sense. You know, that's actually a nice story. Maybe you are right. And that's how they trap you. But here's the thing: they don't believe in salvation by grace. They believe in salvation by grace. And works. In fact, they believe that that grace is what allows you to do those works. So in their minds, yes, they believe in salvation by grace. They believe in the salvation, or they believe in the grace of you to keep all their works. I'll read that again. We believe that through the atonement of Christ, so God gives you the power, all mankind may be saved. See, well that's good. By the obedience to the laws and ordinances of the gospel. Now like I said earlier, our gospel is a little different than their gospel. Because our gospel says you just have to believe. And apparently they have a whole list of laws and rules with theirs. James Talmud wrote in his uh work, Articles of F Faith, explains what this means. The ex to the extent of the atonement is universal, applying alike to all the descendants of Adam. Even the unbeliever, the heathen, and the child who dies before reaching the years of discretion are all redeemed by the Saver's Savior's self-sacrifice. uh from the individual consequences of the fall. Of the saved, not with all the exalted, to see the higher glories. No one can be admitted to any any order of glory. In short, no soul can be saved until justice has been satisfied for the violated law. In the kingdom of God there are numerous levels of uh graduation uh gradations for provided those who are worthy of them. Basically, what that means is that everyone is saved by this grace, but you need to pay for your sins before you can move up in the order of the kingdom of God. And then I like uh and I'm gonna want to and I want to read this to you. I want to tell you and tell the great men of the earth that the Latter-day Saints are to to be are to be their Redeemer, believer in sorry, believe in God. Believe in Jesus and believe in Joseph his prophet. That sounds a lot like Islam Raising the prophet to the uh level of God. But we'll get but you know, let's just uh move on from that. They believe in Joseph his prophet and Brigham his successor. And I add, if you will believe in your hearts and confess with your mouths Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph was a prophet, and that Brigham is his successor You shall be saved in the kingdom of God. Let's compare that, because it directly plagiarizes from the Bible. But let's compare that to Romans 10, 9, and 10. That thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and shalt believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Now, I forgot to mention this with the Bible, but let me say something real quick. The Book of Mormon was written a long time after the King James Bible. And yet it direct directs uh it quotes directly from it in certain passages. Now just to give you a little bit of a thought process The Bible, when it's quoting from the Bible, you know, with the translations, it's not directly word for word. And the reason it's not is because that's how it's translated. But apparently for some reason it's word for word. And we'll get in that. That's a completely different thing. But the fact is They believe salvation is by Joseph Smith, is by Brigham, is by Brigham Young. It's also by God in Jesus. So you know what? By that logic, and you say, well, they're just adding a little bit to it. By that logic, let's believe in Jesus' blood. And in all the Hindu gods, and in Muhammad, and in everybody else, just in case. No, our salvation is by Christ's blood alone Not by the prophet. Well, let's compare that with John 14:6. Jesus said unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. Oh sorry, I I I didn't read this part. No Man or Woman, and this is from a journal of discourses by Brigham Young. No man or woman in this sense dispensation will ever enter the celestial kingdom of God without the consent of Joseph Smith Every man and woman must have the certificate of Joseph Smith, Junior as a passport to their entrance into the mansions where God and Christ are. I cannot go there without his consent. He reigns there as supreme A being in his sphere, capacity calling as God does in heaven. You can't get to heaven, according to Mormons, without Joseph Smith's permission Even if Jesus says, oh, this guy should go to heaven, Joseph Smith's like, well, I don't know. In fact, Jesus Smith or Joseph Smith would do that. Because Joseph Smith says he's not calling on my name. Jesus obviously takes a couple steps back from Joseph Smith. Remember the polygamist and pedophile. But I haven't gotten into all of his wonderful things that he's done yet. And like I said, compare that with John 14, 6, where it says, Jesus saith unto them, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. Let me run you through, I'll be done in seven minutes. Let me run you through uh who Joseph Smith was in the beginning of the uh church, and I'll be done. He was born in 1805 to the son of a mystic and a counterfeiter and a treasure hunter and a superstitious that was his death and a superstitious woman who had extreme views on religion. He never joined or attended any church because he didn't know which one was right, so he didn't attend any of them. Like his father before him, he was a con man selling seeing stones as a way of finding buried treasured people. Uh much uh uh and we'll get into how he translated the Book of Mormon in just a second. Um by the end of his wife life he had multiple lives. Uh 12 to 18, uh I can't remember which one it is. Um and it also also varies according to who you talk to. Uh but we know that they ranged from ages nineteen or fourteen to nineteen. Um except for his main wife, and most of them were stolen from other men who were in his church. Much of what he's wrote has since been deemed not prophecy post mortem by the church, mostly by Brigham Young, his successor who said this is not gonna work, so we need to change what he said. Um after being h uh he his death happened, after being he was held in jail for vandalizing an anti Mormon paper. And uh then 200 townspeople stormed the jail and killed him. Um he shot several of the men Uh somehow he obtained a gun in the jail cell. He shot several of the men, they were attacking him, which I'm not necessarily against if people are attacking you, but for some reason it's still deemed a martyr. By the way, for those of you who don't know, if you're a martyr, you don't fight back. But the uh the Mormon Church believes that he fought back and he was a martyr. And it's all about definitions after that. But um Let's talk about the Book of Mormon, the Finding Translation. This is uh partially from this is a story that I just wanted to find something that I could read that made sense to you without rewriting the whole thing. So this is from religionfacts. com. I read this story in about three other places. It was just much longer. Um, and some of these words actually I'd I'd put in here from the articles, but not from the articles from Personal knowledge. But in eighteen twenty, Joseph Smith claimed to be praying in the woods when he was visited by two celestial personages, telling them they were fed up with Christianity and they And it was back then and they wanted uh and they wanted to use Joseph Smith to start a new dispensation. So, after they told them that in 1820, that these angels came to them and said, hey, we want you to start a new church. He decided, okay. And then he went back to treasure hunting and uh being a con man for a while. And um and then he later decided his claim saying I didn't do that, but found but it turns out Then in uh 1823, he was visited a second time by the prophet Moroni, or was it Nephi, he switched the stories multiple times throughout his life, to tell him um about some golden plates where the word of God had been written For hundreds, if not thousands of years, um he was told they were in Palmyra, New York. No one's ever seen these golden plates, but according to legend, he found them. Apparently four years later, because he didn't translate them until 1927. In nineteen twenty-seven he was finally able to remove the plates from the original site, at which uh point he undertook the translation of the plates. Sometimes seated behind a curtain, sometimes with his head buried in a hat, always using his special seeing stones that he by the way he sold for a long time before that. I don't know how That works like this. He dictated the uh English translation to various scribes, among them his wife Emma, a man named Martin Harris, who is very rich, and Oliver Cowdery. Sometimes the tablets were not even present at the time they were being translated. Now, here's something very important. He stuck them in a hat where no one could see them, and he put the stones in there, and he would tell them what it said, oyster behind a curtain, and he read Or any translated them with these magical translating seeing stones The Book of Lehi became a 116-page English manuscript, but the manuscript met a major obstacle in Martin Harris's wife, Lucy. Martin Harris, a very rich man, the man who was going to publish the Book of Mormon, believed. His wife Lucy did not So what she did, he gave her the manuscript, and she said, Okay, I'll go turn this to the press. And then what happened? She lost it or hid it. We don't know which. We know that she was very skeptical, and she said, well if he still has the plates, he can just do a retranslation Now, theoretically, they would come out word for word, correctly? But that would mean logic. Because God apparently got angry with Joseph Smith and said, Well, I'm not going to let you translate that plate again. I'm going to make you translate another plate, which was. The uh Book of Nephi, which is the same basic story, except we use different words. And so Martin Harris was like, well that makes sense to me They uh published it um and then uh the tablet Smith translated, tells the story of an appearance of Christ in America after his death and resurrection in Jerusalem. According to Smith, the plays were written in Reformed Egyptian. It's a r language. It's called Reformed Egyptian Egyptian. To prove it, they even copied down some of the lines from the plates and took them to a top archaeologist, and he said that they were a perfect translation. Except they really weren't. In fact He said that uh they looked like they were just random characters out of Greek and Egyptian dictionaries I have two minutes. History of the church. March twenty-sixth, eighteen thirty, Book of Mormon pup was published. April sixth, eighteen thirty, the first church organization. Smith is called is called to be the first prophet. Cowdery, who is one of the all other people who wrote it down, was uh him and Smith were also called to be the first church elders, and uh Cowdery also became the first church missionary. Sent to the West. One thing, uh, one of the four first missionaries sent out to the West. By the way, I'm not a fan of Mormons, as you can tell. However, in their first church meeting, they sent out four missionaries. And this is fake. Um in October, Sidney Ruh Rydgen, a Baptist manager minister. Takes his hundred hundred member congregation to join the uh LDS in Kirtland, Ohio. The next year, Smith had sixty-five revelations. The Mormons ended up uh moving to um no uh Novell, Illinois. Um later on, Joseph Smith dies in the prison saw saying Brigham Young becomes takes over and moves their uh promised land out west. Because they had several promised lands and they moved it out west where they wouldn't be persecuted because they were actually um kinda persecuted, uh in the West, partially because they were taking people's lives, partially because they were polygamous, partially because they were really weird that but you know, people And and again, we shouldn't attack people who are strange religions. That's not what the Bible teaches. Um so that's wrong, but they did have to move out west for that reason. So they moved to Salt Lake City. If you don't know, Salt Lake City is a grid based city. It's completely gridded. It's n you can find out where you are at any time, any place. 'Cause it's from zero to like ten thousand or something ridiculous. It's like zero all the way up and zero all so streets and avenues and at zero zero, zero street and zero av is the Mormon Church of Salt Lake City. Or is the Mormon temple, just so you guys know. And then lastly, just a little thing, they massacred about 120 people, the Mormons did. uh who are moving out to uh California. They're going from Arkansas to California and uh they were w traveling through the area and uh they just decided to massacre about a hundred and twenty people who are innocent. And that's all. All right. That was a good quick rundown of what Mormonism is. Appreciate that Pastor Grant. I hope we wanna make it clear and I think we did it that uh You know, we don't hate Mormon people. I've worked with them. I've known some. They're very respectful, very hardworking, many times very honest people, but their doctrine is horrendous. It is as about as in my mind as unscriptural a doctrine that takes the name of Christianity as you could find. Um their very concept of God as Pastor Grant pointed out, the very concept of who and what God is is is flawed. And so um you know when you talk to them about being saved, you talk to them about Jesus, as he said Their definition is completely different than the definition of ours. And so it's important to understand that. I I jotted a few thoughts down here and uh to bring it together. He f something at the end here he pointed out. They were severely persecuted. Uh Joseph Smith was murdered, really. By a mob. And what happened was because of the and I'm not saying the folks that did that were Christian, they would have claimed to be, but an unscriptural response To Mormonism actually lent jit legitimacy to them. By murdering them and persecuting them, it made them appear martyrs, made them appear uh as the victims and actually exalted them, if those Christians would have responded in a scriptural manner and confronted them with the Word of God in a loving, compassionate, spirit filled way, I don't think you would see Mormonism the the level of success it has. So Satan actually used an unscriptural response by Christians to advance Mormonism, I believe. Um Uh but when you're witnessing to them, let me say this, when they come by the door or you're working with someone or you're sometimes you're in the nursing home and they'll come by and visit. They'll they're very active in the nursing homes or they'll offer to help. Something around. A couple of things. Don't ever doubt the power of the gospel Alright? They can be saved and so share with them the gospel of Jesus Christ. You say, well they'll can they'll they don't believe it, they don't believe the Bible and that this that. That doesn't matter. The gospel is the power of God under salvation. And so give them the gospel. You never know what the Holy Spirit will do. You never know how God might open their heart. So don't be afraid to share the gospel with them. And they'll come back and they'll have an answer. Don't let that deter you. Don't allow their unbelief to hinder you from sharing the truth with them. Don't ever, ever be unkind. Alright, don't call them names. Don't tell them to get out of here. Don't tell them all of that. I don't believe we should ever be unkind. The Bible says, be ye kind. But we should be very, very firm. I don't agree with them. And we don't have time for all this. But John tells us that we ought not to invite them into our homes. When they come by the house, don't say, Well, come on in, let's sit down, have a cup of coffee. Don't do that. Don't invite them into your house. Don't wish them godspeed, the Bible says. In fact, when they come to the door, I I tell them, I said, let me step out here. I said, my Bible forbids me from inviting you into our house to fellowship together. I just tell him that. And uh that usually gets a reaction. But um and then share the gospel with them. Tell them that Jesus loves them and died and suffered hell for them and rose again so that they can be saved from their false doctrine So that they can believe the truth of the Word of God. So very good, very good. He had very limited time. There's so much that you can talk about. It's just it's bizarre. We put an ad in the paper years ago, some of y'all remember, a very large article. We went through the different cults and what their teaching was on salvation. And the whole the whole article was which church saves And we put in there what the Seventh day Adventists say, what the Mormons say, what the Jehovah's Witness, what the Catholic. We just went down through all these cults that say they ha you have to be saved through their church. And our our our solution was there's not a church in the world that saves, Jesus saves. Well that next week, one Sunday afternoon, two Mormons came by. And Doreen and Shirley were here cleaning. They said, we'd like to talk to the pastor. They said, okay. They didn't know who they were. They called me up. Said, Pastor, there's two fine young fellows like to talk to you here. I said that's interesting. So I went over spent about three hours with them back in the fellowship hall. They were already in when I got here. So um But uh they said, what is your what's your problem? Why do you hate Mormons? I said, we don't hate Mormons. I said, your doctrine's wrong. And they said, well show us where we're wrong in our doctrine. I said, good grief, where do we start? And so we talked about God as we are now. God once was. As God is now, you and I can be. And that is blasphemy at its very core. That's the same thing Satan told Eve. Hey, you shall be as gods. John Carpenter, one of the leaders in the Mormon church, sat stood in our lobby back there after church one day. He was coming here for a while and sat back there and and uh he says, What do you have what's your problem with Mormons? I said, your concept of God? And I said that He goes, hey, he hit me in the chest. He goes, Pastor Lutherman, you can be a God. He said that to me right back there. I said, that's the exact same thing the devil said to Eve. He goes, no, he didn't. I said, yes he did. He said, no, he didn't. I said, yes, he did. So thank you, Pastor Grant. Good, good lesson. So when they come by, smile, be nice, give them a gospel tract. Try to share the gospel with them and do all you can. Alright? Let's pray. Here's our prayer tonight as we end this. Let's pray and ask God to help us to be bold in our witness. to be strong in our understanding of the Word of God. And um and if you want more information and research this out a little more, I'd be saying be careful about getting too caught up in it. But if you want to research it out a little more, we have some exomaterial. I think that book is Kingdom of the Cults. Is that the one Walter Martin? Yeah, that's that's the classic. Yeah. So if you'd like to do a little more research on it, we have some resources there that are very helpful. I'd be real careful about just going on the internet and looking because there is They dominate the internet. And so you have to watch out what the source is. Alright, let's pray together. Father in heaven, I thank you for this good lesson. Lord, we just live in an old fallen world. So much religion. I pray you'd help us as a church to stay true to the Word of God. That we'd hold firmly on this old sword, and that uh you'd give us wisdom in dealing with these other beliefs, these false teachings, give us boldness and confidence, give us compassion in our hearts. And I pray you'd use us, maybe you could use us, just to snatch some souls from the fire and see them come to truth. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, and we're not going to give a full-blown imitation, but how many tonight say, preacher, I really in my heart, I want to study God's word a little stronger? And be a little more confident in what I what the Bible teaches so I can help people that are in these false doctrines. Is there any like that, preacher? That's my desire to really know God's word stronger, so I can clearly share. God bless you, a lot of hands around. And maybe in the coming months we can put something in place and be able to help that. Father, bless us now, we ask. In Jesus' name. Amen.