I desire to hasten, but I do not want to shortchange the thought tonight. Esther chapter 4, you're familiar with what's going on here. A hateful man named Haman has obtained a decree of destruction against all Israelites Every single Jewish person in the entire known world is going to die. It's distressing news. Mordecai, Mordecai, Esther's cousin, he is who we first are introduced to. Esther chapter 4, verse number 1. If you're there, would you say amen Very good. When Mordecai perceived all that was done, what I just mentioned about this decree of destruction Mordecai rent his clothes and put on sackcloth with ashes, and went out into the midst of the city and cried with a loud and bitter cry. Now you realize This man is not someone that can just come and go from the king's palace. Esther can't just come and go. She's the queen, but she can't just go anywhere she wants. anytime she wants. They don't have cable television to have 24-7 news cycle. And so Esther hears about her relative and his distress And she hears he's in sackcloth and he's fasting, and so she sends some food, sends some clothes, and wants to encourage him. She's not sure exactly what's going on. Look at verse number four So Esther's maids and her chamberlains came and told it her, told her what was going on a little bit here. Then was the queen exceedingly grieved. And she sent ramen to clothe Mordecai and take away his sackcloth from him, but he received it not. Then called Esther for Hatech, one of the king's chamberlains. whom he had appointed to attend upon her, and gave him a commandment to Mordecai to know what it was and why it was. She wants some more details. Esther has to communicate through an intermediary, through a messenger, and this chamberlain named Hasek, verse number six, so Hatech went forth. To Mordecai unto the street of the city, which is before the king's gate, and Mordecai told him of all that had happened unto him. Verse number eight also he Mordecai gave him Hatek the copy of the writing of the decree that was given at Shushan to destroy them, to show it unto Esther, and to declare it unto her. And to charge her that she should go in unto the king to make supplication unto him, and to make requests before him for her people. And Hatat came and told Esther the wor words of Mordecai. And then Esther responds, see this communication. It's pretty nice these days. We just have texts, right? You just call someone. I was talking to a pastor. I don't know how the world operated. Well we didn't have cell phones all the time. It was probably a lot more peaceful, low stress. But but think about how the stress thing you know how it is when you send a text that you want an answer to immediately and you're like right on the fence about Should I just call them? I send the text, they haven't responded in 15 seconds. I've got to call them right now. But think about the distress and the anxiety of having to communicate through this man who's Slipping in and out of the king's palace. And Esther sends a response. She's read the decree. She knows what's going on. Verse number 11. All the king's servants, this is basically Esther speaking, and the people of the king's provinces do know that whosoever, whether man or woman, shall come unto the king into the inner court, who is not called There is one law of his to put him to death, except such to whom the king shall hold out the golden scepter that he may live. But I have not been called to come in unto the king these thirty days. See, her relative Mordecai Pleaded with her, go to the king, tell him what's going on. You see, you realize she is an undercover Jew. Nobody knows. And she says, this. Can you put yourself in Esther's position here? She says I can't go. The law says if you go in uninvited and unannounced, your life is forfeit. Think about I want you to think about this. I realize this is maybe a gruesome picture, but I want you to think about this Between the lines here, Esther is saying they are still cleaning the blood out of the marble of the king's throne room Of the last fool that went in there unannounced and uninvited. What are you asking me to do? Verse number 13, Mordecai says this. Then Mordecai commanded to answer Esther, Think not with thyself, thou shalt escape in the king's house more than all the Jews. For if thou altogether holdest thy peace at this time, then shall their enlargement and deliverance arise to the Jews from another place, but thou and thy father's house shall be destroyed And who knoweth whether thou art come to the kingdom for such a time as this? And then somehow, and the last verse we'll read. Esther responds one last time in verse number 16. She says, This, Go, gather together all the Jews that are present in Shushan, and fast ye for me. And neither eat nor drink three days, a night or a day. I also and my maidens will fast likewise, and so will I go in unto the king, which is not according to the law. And if I perish, I perish. Now my question is What changed Esther's mind? Do you realize? I'll let you see in just a moment. Do you realize people don't usually change their mind unless it's to their advantage. We've got a election cycle coming up with a mat. It's interesting how many politicians, and this is I could care less to talk about politics It's interesting how many politicians four years ago or six whatever believed one thing, but now the opposite means more votes. It's to their advantage, right? And men, don't just nudge your wives. They're not the only ones that can change their minds. Men, we can do it too, right? But get this, we very rarely change our mind when it's to our disadvantage So I want to ask the question, what changed your mind? And further, I want to ask you, what's going to change your mind? What's going to change your mind tonight? Every head bowed and every head closed. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this evening. Lord, we ask you to bless this last service. May everything that's done be done to your honor and glory. We ask all these things. Your sons and we pray. Amen. You may be seated. What changed Esther's mind? I remember, well, still to this day to some degree, but the Letheman can bear testament to this. He probably had a firsthand view for three weeks in New Zealand. But the McCurry boys are about as food driven as Labrador retrievers. Alright? Never seen a dog just trying to like, you know, just that that's us We will run through a screen door for dinner, all right? That's my my two younger brothers, Caleb and Ethan, and our game was how many calories could I fit in my mouth at one time? How we stayed anywhere near Trim, one of these days is going to catch up with us in a bad way. You remember when grandma would bring out the slices of pie for Thanksgiving dinner? Pastor said, you know, told you to skip dinner if you need to come to church tonight. I hope you didn't do that because I'm talking about food right now. But bring out those slices of the pie, she'd ask, which one would you like? Give me the biggest one. That's what I want. And then I see another one that's a little bit bigger. Or maybe she brought out a plate that has two pieces of pie. I can try both of them at the same time Let's do that instead. I'll change my mind. Why? Because it's to my advantage. But we're like that, aren't we? We'll change our mind when it's to our advantage. So, my question is, what changed Esther's mind? I want to give you a few simple things that I believe if we'd allow them to ruminate, allow them to di digest, if we meditate on them just a little bit, could be the difference between you changing your mind or not. What you think about this? We've been in how many of you were here, I I didn't turn around, how many of you were here have been here just about every service, been here every service. Praise God. Phenomenal. Thank you so much. Put your hands down. Sunday school, Sunday morning, Sunday night, Monday, Tuesday. Can I tell you, coming to an altar is not a mark of whether or not you have made a decision or not? People can fall asleep come to an altar. People can make decisions in their pew. Whether or not you have done anything based on what the Holy Spirit has told you, not because of me preaching, I'm nothing special, but I guarantee you, when God's book is open, the Holy Spirit's talking to people. Doesn't matter who's here. Could it be a preacher or a preaching of a three-minute message? God can still speak to you. And if you think he can't, you don't have the right attitude about preaching. So the book has been opened five, six times. My question is, have we changed our mind about anything? Either the answer is yes, and praise God, wonderful. Or the answer is no. And that might mean a couple of things. But I can tell you it certainly doesn't mean that you've derived it that you have arrived as a Christian. Because there's nothing that looks like perfection on this side of glory. So I'd encourage you as we dive into this, I want to ask you what's going to change your mind. The first thing that I see that changed her mind was she realized her people were condemned She saw it with her own eyes. Look at verse number eight. Also he, this is more Kai, gave him Hatak, the chamberlain, the messenger man, the copy of the writing of the decree that was given at Shushan to destroy them, to show it unto Esther, and to declare it unto her and to charge her that she should go in unto the king to make supplication. Friend, can I tell you, for you and for me If you can't realize that people are condemned, that's the first thing she saw. People are condemned. She realized this. Slapped her in the face. It's like us hearing you talk about South Dakota. You realize brother Matt and the people that went with you, you realize there are some people that are going to hell there, and they need the gl the grace of God You can't escape it. She wasn't able to escape it. It was written down, she saw it. Can I tell you one of the reasons we might not be able to realize that people are condemned the way we should? It's because we have no relationship with this book right here. Because this book tells you that people are condemned. People are on their way to hell. You say, yeah, that's Micah, that's old hat. The day it becomes old hat is a church the the day this church starts to die. The day, the light inside you that's supposed to be blare, the light that shines the furthest, shines the brightest at home. Do you just have I was trying my um the trailer got a toe dolly out there tow the car And uh I was had to uh my father in law was helping me. We're putting a new what do you call it pigtail or whatever that thing is on there for the trailer lights and all that. The one of the wires had gotten frayed and all that. And so we were f doing that, had the connectors, we were crimping them and things and Then the last thing you do is you heat them up so they shrink down. Heat shrink them. And my wife handed me a lighter. And that lighter was just about out of juice. And it was a really windy day. Click, flame, ch, click, flame, ch, click, nothing. We had to go get a box like 500 matches and like strike seven of them at once and get this this silly thing to go Can I tell you, I see a lot of Christians that look like a liar without any juice left. They can spark for just a second. Because revival services happen. Claire just long enough to shake the preacher's hand on the way out the door and to tell him, can I tell you, I would much rather you grab gospel tracts on your way out than tell me it was a good message. I don't need you to tell me it's a good message. That's between God that's God and you. I'll tell you what, it means a lot more to me when I hear later on I call Brother Leatherman and we we reminisce about how many tracks you guys put out, 20,000 this month. That means much more to me. She realized her people were condemned. How were they condemned? Why were they condemned? They were condemned, number one, simply because of who they were. They were a part of a race of people that was going to be killed, the Jews. Did you know that there's a race of people on earth right now that are condemned to an eternity in hell? It's called the human race. And every single one of them, red and yellow, black and white, they are precious in his sight, but without, how shall they hear without a preacher? And that doesn't mean a man of a cloth or someone that's been ordained. That means a Christian that'll take that blessed old book and share with them. How will they know They were condemned because of who they were. They were condemned because they had a hateful adversary. For the Jews, it was Haman. For us, Lucifer, Beelzebub, Satan, the devil, the evil one, whatever moniker you want to put on him But could I bring this right down into this room right here? The devil loves, he absolutely adores taking Catholics to hell. He likes taking agnostics to hell too. Atheists, for sure. Jehovah's Witnesses and Mormons, he'll take them all. But I'm convinced he gets a special gleam in his eye and a shiver up his spine when he gets to take people that have sat in independent Baptist churches to hell too. You say that can happen? Did you know going to church on Wednesday night has no bearing on whether or not you're going to heaven or not? Did you know your fact that the fact that your mama was a saint and your daddy was a deacon has no bearing on whether or not you're going to spend eternity in hell? Can I ask your friend? Did you know that your pride will take you to hell? The fact that everyone thinks you're saved doesn't mean you're saved. You're not going to get to heaven and they're going to take a poll of all the people you went to church with and find out, do you really think he was saved? It's whether or not your name's in the Lamb's Book of Life. You say, can people get saved on Wednesday night? I sure hope they can, because I would guess that there might be some folks here tonight that aren't saved. Yes, friend, they can. Because of who they were, they were condemned. Because they had a hateful adversary, because they were helpless. There was nothing they could do. They were nothing compared to the might of the army of the people that were going to kill them. You see, Haman had bribed the king's treasury. This was going to go off without a hitch. It was a perfect crime. It was a legal crime. And Haman was going to get away scot-free. They were helpless. Friend, did you know that you are helpless before an Almighty God? I was knocking on a door, uh I was for a missions conference some some time ago and um I was at a church in northern Illinois. Went out soul winning with the folks, knocked on a door, and it was like the second door that knocked on. First one wasn't home, knocked on the second door, is a dear sweet lady, got to talk to her. She told me she was she was about 70, 72 years old Got to talk to her and went, she gave me all the time in the world. It took 20 minutes going through the gospel, explained it all. Got to the end. I said, ma'am, God forbid something were to happen to you. Do you know for sure where you go? She said, I'm not really sure. Good. Alright. Now we can figure, if you're not sure, maybe we can figure out how to get sure. Ma'am, would you like to know for sure? I've explained it to you. Everyone's a sinner There's a penalty for sin. Jesus died to pay the penalty. All you have to do is accept it. But the gift of God is eternal life. Man, would you like to get saved today? She said, no. Now you've got to realize I'm an evangelist. I'm supposed to be good at this soul-winning thing. No. Any Christian should be able to take the Bible and show someone how to use how to get to heaven. I said, I honestly I was taken aback. I kind of stepped back for a second. Said, ma'am, I I thought you misunderstood the question. Said, would you like to accept Christ? I said, ma'am, why why don't you think you you'd like to do that? She said, I understand everything you said. But I'm a good person. I just don't think God would send me to hell. Friend, I tried every which way. I took it to Ephesians 2, 8, and 9. I explained what I mentioned last night, that salvation isn't on layaway that you have to pay off with good works I did everything I could. Not so I can get a notch in the gospel belt and I can tell you somebody got saved. Because I wanted her to go to heaven. And you know what she said? I'm a good person and I don't think God would send me to hell. Can I tell you there's a lot of good people in hell right now? And just like the rich man, they would say, Would you please get saved so you don't come down here? What changed Esther's mind? Her people were condemned, but that's not all. Her people were condemned. But then look at verse number 13. Then Mordecai commanded to answer Esther. Think not with thyself that thou shalt escape in the king's house more than all the Jews. For if thou altogether holdest thy peace at this time Then shall their enlargement and deliverance arise to the Jews from another place, but thou and thy father's house shall be destroyed, and who knoweth whether thou art come to the kingdom for such a time as this. You know, friend Not only are people condemned, but sometimes our position of comfort needs to be challenged. This isn't about the fact that we live in America. We are comfortable. We are very comfortable here. I realize that. You don't have to go too many places and figure out that where we live, we are very well off. Just in Kenya with my wife and one of the pastor's daughters, a national pastor. My wife, honestly, she got a little irritated that I at kind of herself and at uh uh just the American psyche about how we we just take everything for granted And the national pastor's daughter said this, don't say you're spoiled in America. Just say you're blessed And that's the truth. We are very blessed. We take those things for granted, though, don't we? It gets really easy to lounge back, like Esther maybe was and just let someone pop grapes in our mouth. That would be nice, right? Maybe someone with a big old leaf to fan us. But Esther wasn't in the king's palace to enjoy the amenities, friend. She was there because God had put her there for such a time as this. Her purpose was different than what she thought. Her position of comfort was challenged. You know, in the time of Jesus, if there was a vast timeline in front of you The time of Jesus, if we put over here, let's say zero, year zero or one AD or thereabouts, however the calendar works, but about the time Jesus walked the earth There were between 100 and 300 million people on Earth at the time. 100 to 300 million people. Wrap your mind around those numbers. Come over here past the year 500. Year one thousand, first millennia, fifteen hundred, all the way over here, right about what pastor is 1850, 1,850 years later, world population hits 1 billion people. Can you imagine that graph in your mind as the numbers start to climb? Can you see that? Go a little further, another hundred years to nineteen fifty. World population is at two point five billion people Can you see like the the hockey stick beginning? Like it it it swoops up remarkably quickly. One billion to two point five billion in a hundred years, and it took a whole almost two cent two millennium to get to the first billion. Two point five billion people. If you had to guess how many people there were That were gospel preachers, ones we would call missionaries, believed in grace by faith. They bel didn't believe in works, didn't believe in baptism over regeneration. If you could guess how many missionaries there were in the year 1950. How many do you think there were? About if you guessed around 100,000, you'd be correct Approximately 100,000 people in 1950 that were gospel preachers and their families. Fast forward to almost where we live, 2019. As of this is when these s statistics are valid as of 2019, world population hit seven point eight billion people. In the span of seventy years, world population over tripled. Can you imagine that? If world population tripled, and there were 100,000 missionaries in 1950, I know it's been a long time since we did ratios and fractions and all that stuff. But how many missionaries would we want to have just to keep pace? We'd want about 300,000, right? Triple the missionaries if there's triple the people. So pray tell why are there less than thirty thousand missionaries around the world today? World population triples and there's one third the missionaries Did God stop calling his people in 1950? Or did we stop listening? You know what Esther said in verse number 11? Would you look there for just a moment? She said they're right in the middle of the verse. Well, let's read it. All the king's servants and the people of the king's provinces do know that whosoever, whether man or woman, shall come unto the king into the inner court who is not called There is one law of his to put him to death, except such to whom the king shall hold out the golden scepter that he may live. But I have not been called I wonder if she was listening to the call from the wrong king. I wonder if it's King Money that's calling us. I wonder if it's King family or King Friends. I wonder how comfortable we've gotten. People were condemned, position was challenged. We'll end with this. Her purpose became clear. She figured out why she was where she was. There was a day Well the Leatherman, you probably preach some of these camps and things. When you could ask a teenager, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen, what are you going to do with your life? And they might they would give you some kind of answer that maybe even sounded vaguely spiritual, like they prayed about it or something. I'm gonna go follow you know dad's business, I'm gonna go do that, I'm gonna go do this or that, I'm gonna go to Bible college for a couple years, whatever it may be Now now you realize now here I will tell them how how old I am so I can connect with them a little bit better. I still I still sound a pastor told me said hey Don't tell people how old you are. Let them think you're forty. It'll be it'll be better for your ministry. But I'm thirty-one years old. That already is positively ancient to you guys. I get that. To these folks out there, they're like, I wish I was 31 again. To you guys, you're like, that's double my age. That's so so far away But I'm only I'm only only double some of your ages. You know, there was a day when you could ask a teenager and they'd say, yeah, I think I know what I'm going to do. These days Well the matter if you ask a teenager what they're gonna do, you know what you get most of the time? You get one long syllable. Oh that's funny. You know what happens when you ask the average church member what's your purpose for Christ? Uh I would hazard a guess if I were to ask Brother Matt, what's your purpose? Actually, you told me the other day, without me asking you. It's almost like it means something to you, Brother Matt. But the leather men, I haven't had to I didn't have to pre you preach but once or twice. I kind of figured out what your purpose was. We have a good crowd tonight. You think in their safety in numbers. But what if we took the time to ask each and every one of you, how long would you have to think to come up with something that sounded like you actually had prayed about it once or twice? Am I telling you that everyone in here is called to missions? Is that what I'm trying to tell you with these th No. If your mission field is to run a bus route to pick up the little ones for Christ Then don't go anywhere and do that right here in Oakland, Maryland. And don't move until God moves you. If your job is to work in nursery, if your job is to help knock out Some walls and build some offices and make the nursery bigger. Praise God for needing a bigger nursery. If that's your purpose in life, keep doing that But I wonder, are you just along for the ride or do you have a purpose? There's a missionary, one of those elder statesmen of the mission work, back in the day. Back when steamboats were on the oceans, he was standing out on the front of a ship. Looking off into the foggy distance as through the clouds, through the fog, an island chain came into view in the South Pacific. You know those maps back in the day, you know, for like knights and princesses and stuff? Off the edge of the map it would say, here there be monsters, you know, or here there be dragons. That island, those islands, that's kind of what it was. There were cannibals on that island. The captain of the boat walked up beside that missionary. He had a small team that was with him, but he's what he's standing there catching the first he realized this man had been on boats, not just this boat, but multiple boats. They didn't have planes and all the type of stuff He'd been on for literal months to get to this place because God had called him here. The captain walks up beside him, says this Sir I would feel like now you know this captain, he he'd been trying to convince this missionary of this for a long time. He'd been trying to get him to go back home. He said this, one last plea with this missionary. Sir, the captain said, I would feel like an accessory to murder. If I drop the boats and let you out and drop you on the You realize those sailors they weren't getting within a hundred yards. The missionaries and their team, they were going to have to jump out of the boat, into the surf, take their supplies, because those sailors had no desire to get within spears' reach of that island. Sir, the captain one last try. He said, I will pay your return voyage, all of it, for you and your team, out of my personal money. If you would but go back to the Western world, go back to where you belong, those people are going to kill you. You're going to die. That missionary took his eyes off of the place that he would end up dying. Not at the point of a spear, but later on in life, after evangelizing for years. Took his eyes off and looked at that captain and said two things. The first one was this. The captain said he was going to die. He turned and said, This. Sir, we died before we came here. And then with his eyes back on those islands, he said this, I'd rather have my blood dripping from their heathen hands. Than their blood dripping from mine at the judgment seat. Puts it into perspective, doesn't it? An eternal perspective, doesn't it? Sounds like that guy had his purpose figured out. Could I end with this? I'm asking what's going to change your mind. Maybe you're here today and you don't know Christ is your Savior. Maybe that's what you need to change your mind about. Maybe you've been trusting self. Maybe you've been trusting in good works. Maybe you've been trusting in something your mom told you about that you can't remember ever happening. And you know that if you die today, I'm not trying to make anyone doubt their salvation, but if the Holy Spirit's talking to you, it might be a good thing to listen. Christian friend. It wouldn't surprise me whatsoever. But Leatherman, there was a day when Men would quit jobs as electrician, good jobs. Take God's call me to go do this thing And they they they would go to their pastor or council, say Pastor, what do you think about this? You think it's a good thing I should do? I'm not just gonna up and you know quit all my jobs tomorrow, but They'd leave Fortune Hunting Companies. Because God had called the Capital K King had called them. God doesn't just call teenagers. Did you know that? And he didn't stop talking in 1950 either. I stay in a lot of hotels when I'm not in the RV. They have these little signs on the inside of the door that you can put on the outside of the door says do not disturb How many services have you come to, Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, with that little sign on the door of your heart? So the Holy Spirit would leave you alone for another service. What's going to change your mind, friend? Every head bowed and every eye closed. Now please, please don't tune out. We'll be done in just a moment. I'd like to ask this question. If you're here today and you know for sure if you would have died today, you know where you would go And you're not ashamed of that fact, you know 100% sure you're on your way to heaven. Would you uplift your hand for just a moment? Praise to God. Thank you so much. You can put your hands down. It could be wonderful crowd tonight. I might have missed your hand. Saw so many hands go up, but maybe just maybe You put your hand up but hesitantly. Or maybe you just didn't put your hand up at all because you knew I'm not actually sure. Friend, I won't call you down, I won't call you out, I won't make an example of you, I won't make you stand up, I won't embarrass you, I promise. I just want to pray for you. If you're here and you don't know for sure, just so I can pray for you, if you don't know, would you lift your hand for just a moment so I can pray for you? Is there one that would say I don't know? Would you lift your hand? Friend, this is our quite possibly forward to return, our last time together. I'd feel remiss if I didn't ask that question again. What I ask you. I don't want to pull a decision at anyone. We're not going to play 47 verses of just as I am. I just want to know if you don't know. If you're here and you're not saved, would you lift your hand for just a moment so I can pray for you? Is there one that would say, I don't know? Christian friend, I encourage you. Holy Spirit's far more adept. He's far more able to speak to you than I ever will be. I could talk till midnight. I still wouldn't land exactly where the Holy Spirit's got you right now. Would you please, at his bidding, would you please change your mind? In just a moment, I'm going to pray. Please, friend, listen to what God has for you tonight. Father, we thank you for this evening. Thank you for your goodness to us. Lord, I ask that you would do a work in each of our lives. May every Christian here be willing. If it's the far side of the world, sure, but God, I firmly believe there are many that are not faithful right here in our zip code, a place that's a foreign country to the rest of the world. May we begin to do our part. May we change our mind. We ask all these things in your son's name. Would you stand with me right now?