Surely as the Lord liveth, thou hast been upright, and thy going out, and thy coming in with me in the host is good in my sight, for I have not found evil in thee since the day of thy coming unto me, unto this day Nevertheless, the Lords favor thee not. Wherefore, now return and go in peace, that thou displease not the lords of the Philistines. And David said unto Achish, But what have I done? And what hast thou found in thy servant so long as I have been with thee unto this day, that I might that I may not go and fight against the enemies of my Lord the King? And Achis answered and said unto David, I know that thou art good in my sight as an angel of God. Notwithstanding, the princes of the Philistines have said, He shall not go up with us to the battle. Wherefore now rise up early in the morning with thy master's servants that are come with thee, and as soon as ye be up early in the morning and have light, depart. So David and his man rose up early to depart in the morning and to return to the land of the Philistines, and the Philistines went up to Jezreel. I've taken a little phrase, uh I've renamed the message and what I had in the Bulletin Sunday. But there in verse number eight where David says, What have I done? And so let's look at this. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless Our study now of this portion of your word, I pray you'd speak to our hearts, help us to learn principles here that apply to our lives and that uh we can be stronger in our faith, a little closer to you in our spiritual walk, and better, more effective in our witness out in this whole world. And so I ask tonight, Lord, dearly I ask that you fill me with your Holy Spirit And I yield my will, Lord, and present my body and pray that you would be the preacher, God, that you would speak through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. When God directed Samuel to anoint David to be the next king of Israel, God was declaring that David was going to be king. That was a declaration. David was going to be king when he was anointed. The Philistines would not be able to stop David from being king. King Saul was not going to be able to stop David from being king. In fact, there wasn't an army in the world that was going to be able to keep David from being king when God decreed, when God promised that David would be king. Now what I'm trying to get across here is this when God says that something is going to happen There's nothing this world can do to keep it from happening. Amen? There's not a devil in the there was there's not a devil in hell. That could have kept David from being king when God said, You will be king. In fact, everybody recognized that true about David, except it seems like David Saul acknowledged it, Jonathan acknowledged it. When God declares something to be When God declares that something is going to happen, that something will be, or got something is not going to happen, you mark it down There's nothing in this world that can stop it from happening. Or if God says it's not going to happen, there's nothing in this world that can make it happen. Can you think of anything that God said is going to happen that this whole world can't keep from happening? Think I want you all to think with me tonight. Talk out loud. What's something God has declared is going to happen that this whole world can't stop happening? Second coming of Jesus Christ, that was the first thing that came to my mind. Just as God anointed David to be future king of Israel, That was as sure of happening as anything. It was going to happen. Nothing's going to stop it. When Jesus said, I will come again, we can mark it down. Jesus is going to come back someday And people say, oh, it's 2,000 years. You've been saying, you Bible believers have been saying Jesus come back all these years. You mark it down, it's going to happen. There's not a devil in hell who can keep Jesus from coming back again The Bible says that Jesus will judge all men. For believers at the judgment seat of Christ, for unbelievers at the great white throne judgment. Listen, there's nothing, a person, there's nothing in this world can stop that judgment from taking place, either one of those. God will judge, and uh He is the judge God says, God declared, God decreed, that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be what? Say a person sincerely calls on the Lord Jesus Christ, trusting him as their personal Savior, there's not a devil in the hell can keep that person from being saved. And we could just go down the list And so here we have uh David has, and I've been repeating this, but I think we're guilty of it sometimes. David has lost sight Of this very significant promise that God had made to him through his anointing at the hand of the prophet Samuel, that he's going to be king someday. And of course we know the situation that's led up to what we read here this evening. David uh you know approached Saul twice, could have killed him both times. He let Saul go. He said, I'm not going to raise my hand against God's anointed, I'm just asking you. To back off is basically what he's saying. I've done nothing wrong and uh stop pursuing me. Both times Saul gave his word. Alright, I'm not going to hurt you. Uh you're going to someday be king. Both times Saul went back on his word. So David got leaning on his own understanding, got reasoning in his own mind, and he came up to this conclusion. That I will be safer over in the Philistine land with the Philistines, the enemies of God's people, than I am in God's will. How many people agree with me? That's kind of foolish reasoning. How many people would say, Preacher, I've done a little bit of that myself also, though? Yeah, we're guilty of that. We get thinking in our head, we disregard what God has clearly said And uh we find ourselves in these types of situations. So he fled to the Philistines for safety. Um by the way He's not in any more danger of being killed with the Philistines than he was with King Saul. He's going to be king Whether it's the Philistines trying to kill 'em, or uh a giant trying to kill 'em, or King Saul trying to kill him, or the Philistines trying to kill 'em They're not going to kill him, he's going to be king. So he's not in any danger of his life by going out of the will of God here and um and leaning on his own understanding and fleeing to the world for safety and disregarding God's promise. He's not in any his life is not in danger. Because God, as we say over and over, God's anointed him to be king. That is going to happen So David's life with Akish in Gath with the Philistines is not in danger. However, his testimony is surely damaged. And not only that, we're going to see in our next study probably when we get to chapter 30, his family and his associates are in grave danger. Now here's the thing. You and I go out of the will of God. We decide to get out of the will of God and act contrary to the Word of God. Oh, we may recover from that, but I tell you, inevitably there's damage done to people around us. Our influence, the people around us. We go out of the will of God. I could give you story, and you would probably have some of your own. I could give you story after story after story. Somebody went out of the will of God, maybe as a young person And made some stupid decisions, made some stupid actions. Years later, come back and get things right with God, but boy, the damage is done. Anybody know what I'm talking about? The damage is done. And so David is out of the will of God. He's fled to the Philistines, the world. He's leaned on his own understanding. Rather than trusting God, he's trusting the Philistines And uh he's in uh he's in a hard spot here. He's in a bad spot. Uh write this statement down. I like this statement. I've been thinking about this all day. It's just a simple little statement, but I think there's significance to it I put it this down. When I step out of the will of God, I step into a world of trouble. I like that. When I step out of the will of God, I step into a world of trouble. When David decided, I'm going to go to the Philistines' camp for safety. Brother, he was stepping out of the will of God, and he was stepping into a world of trouble. And so I thought that would be a good thing to write down. When I step out of the will of God I step into a world of trouble. We're going to start seeing this here in a little bit. So far, David's been managing his life out of the will of God fairly well. He's gotten away with what he's wanting to do But all that comes crashing down. And again, maybe some of us could testify this. I can I uh I I've seen it happen. Somebody gets out of God's will. Somebody gets out and they're living in sin. They're living contrary to the word of God. Oh, for a while. Boy, they can keep that thing going just fine But sooner or later things start to fall apart. How many people remember the story of the prodigal son? Remember that story? He did all right as long as the money was there, right? And he's in that far land. He's living it up, rocking and rolling and carrying on, and just having a time. And for a period of time everything was going his way. But brother, there's payday someday When that money ran out, brother, things fell apart. And uh that's true, not just for him, that's true for any Christian who gets out of the will of God. Boy, oh well, I'm not living for God, I don't have any problems. No, not yet. I heard old preacher say years ago, he said, God doesn't always pay his bills on Friday. First I thought, what's he talking about? And I found out, I learned what he was talking about. God doesn't always deal with it right away. Sometimes it's down the road aways. So David's gotten out of the will of God. He's gotten himself in a bit of a predicament here. Uh and uh he's with Akish and um he's living out of he got himself out of the city there. He's out on the outskirts of the little r rural town. in western Maryland somewhere, I don't know, he's out there, and uh he's just wiping out all these little cities, these little towns around there, and the king of the Philistines doesn't even know it And uh finally they come to a war. War breaks out between the Philistines and Israel. They've been skirmishing all this time. Now it's full-blown war. They're gathered together. Philistines are going to war. And David's kind of stuck. And so uh Akish brings David along with him to go to war against his own people, against Israel. Oh boy, what's David going to do? And uh so he's there, he hangs at the back. Remember we last week, the re-reward, I like that word, the re-reward, the back of the back And he's kind of laying low and kind of uh probably trying to figure out what in the world he's going to do. Well the Philistines find out David's with in the camp with them, and then they say, oh no, no, this guy ain't coming with us He'll turn on us. Whenever we get into battle, he'll turn on us and he'll win Saul's favor back and he'll be a hero in Israel. And you know, I think they were probably right I I got a sneaking suspicion. We get to heaven, I'm going to check with David about this. But uh I think that's probably what he had in mind. That's how many people agree with me? That sounds like something David would do Now here we are, Akish uh is got him here, and uh Akish is uh he's saying what in the world he's trying to deal with his Philistines lords. Now look uh look at verse number six. Here's my first point I noticed that this is what it looks like to me anyway, that Akish is enamored with David Akish is enamored with David. Now that word enamored, I use that on purpose. It means this: to be charmed by, uh, to be captivated by. Oh, here's David And Atheist, you know, he's he's king hero of the Philistines, and this great war hero of Israel that killed Goliath with a sling and slew ten thousand. Now in Agish's mind he's defected over to us and he wants to be one of mine and he wants to be one of us. And I'm thinking this has absolutely gone to Akish's head, and he is absolutely enamored with the fact that this great war hero of Israel wants to be one of us. And be a part of us. The word enamored, I got looking up some other definitions. I like this one: a foolish or unreasonable fondness for something or someone. Now, Akish, I don't think he's the brightest star in the sky. I don't think he's the sharpest knife in the drawer. Um I don't think I I don't think uh Ye what's what's another one you could say? Uh he I don't think his elevator I I I don't think he's happy meal is com missing a few French fries I mean he is so wrapped up, he is so enamored with David. Look at look at what he says here. I got look at this Verse 6, he says, Achis called David and said, Surely as the Lord liveth, thou hast been upright, and thy going out and thy coming in with me in the host is good in my sight. For I have found uh I have not found evil in thee since the day of thy coming unto this day. Man a lie, this guy's slobbering all over David I mean he is just absolutely enamored with him. A famous war hero. Entire Israeli army couldn't catch and kill David for all these years. He's out running from Saul. And now he comes over and wants to be one of Akish's allies, wants to be part of Akish's team. And it goes to his head. Three things I notice here under this idea that he's enamored uh by uh Akish. Um uh Akish is imagining David to be something he's not. He thinks David is all out for him, just good in my sight. Uh he is uh I think he's wanting David to view him the way he views David. He's so caught up and so infatuated with David and he's trying to impress David. He's saying all this flattery and all these wonderful things about him, trying to get David to just think high of him. I I think that's what's taking place. And here's something else I noticed David's got him totally bamboozled. And people know what that word means, bamboozled. He has got him fooled. David isn't doing any of these things. He's not good in aches sight. When Achis back is turned, he's out slaughtering his own people, wiping out the cities And uh David has absolutely fooled him. Um we're pretty good at fooling people sometimes, aren't we? Nobody's gonna admit it. I'm telling you, we are. We can put on a show. I've seen folks, I've had it, I'm in, you know, in the ministry all these years I've had some folks, you meet them and talk to them, they'll come in, sit in the office, and you'll walk out thinking, man, I just talked with an archangel. This is one of the holiest, most godly Christians I've ever met in my life. Then two days later I'm down getting gas and they're walking into the liquor store buying liquor. It's like, what in the world? And David has absolutely fooled Akish into thinking that he's just something wonderful and oh he's something he's And David, I can just see David just smirking behind uh behind his back. You know, isn't that exactly what the devil does? Let's reverse it here a little bit. The devil gets us convinced that this whole world is something it isn't. The devil just gets us convinced, oh, we get enamored with something and oh But it's just a it is just a foolish and unreasonable fondness for something that isn't even what we think it is. And so David has him completely bamboozled. Look here what Akish does. Let's break this down. In verse number six, I notice first he appeals to David's God. Now this caught my attention. And Achish called David and said unto him, Now question, what is Achish? He's a what? Philistine. Who are the Philistines worshippers of the true and living God? No, they're pagan, wicked, perverse, violent people. They're everything that God is not. But look what he says here. Akish called David and said unto him, look at this. Surely as the what's the next word? Lord liveth. Look at that word Lord. Look carefully at that word Lord. All capitals. How many people ever notice that? In the Old Testament, sometimes you come across and the word Lord is in all capitals. Anybody ever notice that? There's a reason for that. There's significance to that. Whenever you see the word Lord in all capitals, it always is referring to Jehovah. That's the word it's translated from. Jehovah. And they did that. That's why they did the capital, so you know that. That is the personal name of the only true and living God. Now, how many people agree with me? It's kind of strange that that phrase, as the Lord, Jehovah liveth. How many people agree with me? It's kind of strange coming off the lips of a pagan Philistine. I can't find anywhere in the Bible else, there might be, I can find, where anybody other pagan is referring to the as the Lord liveth. The Lord. What happened? Has Achish been converted to the true and living God? No. No. Strange statement coming out of the mouth of a Philistine. I think he's just trying to impress David. I think he's so enamored with David, he's just saying this. I tell you, we better be careful. Listen, we better be careful when the world starts talking about our God. I've been leery, I tell you, I don't like it when Hollywood starts making movies about Jesus. You better watch out for that Talking to a fellow recently, just got saved not long ago. He said, I used to always watch that Jesus show uh that come out with uh the crucifixion. And he said, before I thought that was so great, and he said, I got saved, started studying my Bible He says, I realize there's a bunch of that that isn't even Christian at all. We better be careful when the Philistines are referring to the Lord Jehovah. We need to be careful when the world is talking about Jesus and talking about our God. They don't know our God. They don't know the true and living God. And everything, just every not everything that has the name Christian on it is Christian. And not everything that talks about, not every book written about Jesus is biblical in its basis. And so I have to be very, very careful. So he uh appeals to David's God. He uses this phrase that I think he's uh trying to uh Impress David, flatter David. But then notice number two, I put this down, he applauds David's behavior. He says, Here, surely as the Lord liveth, thou hast been upright That word upright there means straightforward, honorable, honest, on the level. Ever say this about that somebody? Man, that guy's on the level Man, that guy's uh they used to say this. What used to be a good thing, that guy is square. He's straight. That used to be a good thing. Now apparently if you're square, you're weirdo But um, but uh he's saying, David, you have been straightforward to me. You and then he says, You've been good in my sight. That phrase there means this: been a benefit to me, you've been a blessing to me. Let me ask you a question. Was David being square and upright with Aish? Nah, he's lying through his teeth. He just was completely fooled. He says, Hey David, where have you been today? Oh, just gone here and there over along the border of Israel. Oh, he's attacking his own people. Reality, he's slaughtering Achis's own people. Oh, you've been honest with me. No, he's lying through his teeth, actually. David being complete opposite of everything that Akish believed him to be. But then in verse, the last part of verse 6 and verse 7, Akish adheres to the Philistines' decision. Look what it says here, last part of verse 6. Nevertheless, I underline that in my Bible. He says, all these wonderful things. Oh, he's all enamored with David. He's completely fooled. Nevertheless, the lords the lords, the Philistine lords, favor thee not. Therefore, now return and go in peace, that thou displease not the lords of the Philistines. The Philistines are going to be loyal to Philistines. You mark it down. Philistines are going to be loyal to the Philistines. And the world is going to be loyal to the world. And Christians can try and befriend the world. We can try and impress the world. We can try and be like the world. But I'm telling you, the world is always going to be loyal to the world. They might tolerate us a little bit, and they might uh put up with us a little bit and they might even praise us a little bit But when the push comes to shove, when the rubber hits the road, the world is going to be loyal to the world. I was talking to preachers today And a church makes a terrible mistake when it compromises with the world, because the world will never compromise with the church. The only people giving up ground when the ch when the when the child of God compromises with the world, the only one giving up ground is the child of God. The world never gives an inch. The never w world never gives up ground. Akish can say all these wonderful things about David. He can be all enamored with David, but when it end when it when it comes, push comes to shove, he's going to be loyal over here to the Philistines. So we have to be very, very careful about making compromises with the world. I'm telling you, churches all across our land, around the world. Are making a huge mistake. Bible preaching churches are making a huge mistake by trying to befriend the world and to look like the world and sound like the world and act like the world because we're not going to impress the world by trying to be like the world. And so Achish is loyal to the Philistines. Take your Bible with me if you would, real quickly, and come back to the New Testament, way in the back of the New Testament, to the book of James. And James chapter number four, if you would turn there. James four Way back. Now keep your place there in 1 Samuel because I've got a couple other things I want to look at real quick. James chapter 4. Come down if you would. To verse number four. Now listen to the language that God uses, James uses under the inspiration of God. Listen to the language that he uses here. It's strong. He's talking to believers. He says, ye adulterers and adulterers. How many people agree with me? That's unpleasant language right there. The adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that the what? Friendship of the world is what? Enmity with God. And that's a strong statement. Whosoever therefore will be a friend of the world is the enemy of God. I don't know about you, I don't want to be the enemy of God. You're going to lose that one every single time And I'm telling you, Christianity, it's everywhere. It is flooding our quote-unquote Bible preaching churches Running to the world, trying to be friends with the world, trying to hold hands with the world. Listen, we should never be unkind, we should never be rude, we should never be hateful, we should never be proud or arrogant, but we should never be friends with the world. Because that's enmity with God. He says he adulterers and adulteresses, spiritual adultery. Come over, if you would, to 1 John, just a few pages. there towards the back. First John. And look with me again at verse number chapter number two, verse number fifteen. The Bible makes some strong statements about our association with the world. Now we're to go into all the world, preach the gospel, we're to be in the world, we are not to be of the world. We're not to adopt the world's values, the world's practices, the world's principles. We're to be faithful and true to the Word of God. Now look what it says: love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man loved the world, the love of the Father is not in him. Now he doesn't say the Father doesn't love him, but he says that love is not there. It's not being displayed. It's not being exercised. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, the pride of life, is not of the Father, but of the world. What's he saying? The world's going to be faithful to the world The only one being unfaithful in this whole relationship with the church and the world is the church The world's going to be loyal to the world. So Akish coming back here to our text, Akish is enamored with David, but one In the end, he's loyal to the Philistines. And that's the way the world will be. Number two, my second thought is this in verse number eight. David is evasive with Achish. Now this got interesting to me Look at verse number 8. 7, he said, Nevertheless, Lord's favor thee not, return in peace. Then verse 8, David said unto Akish, now listen to this, what have I done? And what hast thou found in thy servant as long as I have been with thee unto this day, that I may not go fight against the enemies of my Lord the King? I'm telling you, I read this, and I looked at my commentaries, and they all had different ideas, but to me, this is uh I can hear this is just David uh faking offense Oh, what have I? He knows exactly what he's done. He's been slaughtering their people the whole time. Oh, I can't believe you said this about me. Oh, this hurts me so bad. I put it this way, his sham offense, he's acting like he's offended, that he can't go on the on the to battle with them. He puts us on this appearance that he's insulted That they would uh not trust him. He's been lying through his teeth to him the whole time. He plays the victim here You can almost hear him saying this, oh poor me, what have I done? I'm not uh uh Did you ever uh catch your kids? You go in and uh they're in the kitchen And they got the ice cream mounts all over anywhere and said, Hey, uh, you've been eating ice cream. What? No, I did. I can't believe you're accusing me So David puts the sham offense on, but then he says something very interesting. And I read this and read this and never noticed it until I got work on this message, and I saw it And I think David has a sly wording here. Look at verse number eight. I don't know if you'll be as find this as fascinating as I do. But the end of verse number 8, he says, So long I have been with thee unto this day. Then he says, Look at this part. Look at the part there where it says, that I may not go and fight. Now look at this statement. Against the enemies of my Lord the King He goes, why aren't you letting me go? I can't believe you're saying this. Why aren't you letting me go and fight against the enemies of my Lord the King? Who does Achish think he's talking about when he says, My Lord the King? He thinks he's talking about him. You know who I think David is talking about? I think he's talking about King Saul. I think he's using a sly little statement here, and Akish misses it completely. And David's saying, What, you're not going to let me go and fight? Who are the enemies of his Lord the King? It's Aegish. It's the Philistines. And that clues me in that David was intending to use this opportunity to turn on the Philistines and do great damage and fight against the enemies of the Lord his king. I think he's being very tricky in his words. I think he's being very slick. He's making a statement here. Akish doesn't see it, but I'm wondering if those 600 men that are with David, when David makes that statement, I wonder if their eyes don't go, hmm? Hmm. Fight against the enemies of my Lord the King. That's King Saul. Um I don't know. David had only I I got looking up that phrase, my Lord the King. How many times David used that? And he uses it two other times, up to this point. He used that phrase, my Lord the King, two other times, but only in reference to King Saul. I can give you the reference. 1 Samuel 24 and verse 8, and 1 Samuel 26 and verse 19. He referred to King Saul as my Lord the King. My Lord the King. I think he's using a little sly wording here, maybe communicate to his men what this really was. David's motive for fleeing to the Philistines was wrong. He stepped out of the will of God. He leaned on his own understanding. He got in his head, he was safer with the Philistines than he was in the will of God. His motive was wrong, but I'm convinced his loyalty to Israel was strong. David was not defecting to the Israelites to the Philistines not one minute. He was loyal to Saul. He was loyal to Israel. Now he's gone about it a wrong way, I believe There's no doubt in my mind, David would have turned on the Philistines before he would have fought against God's people. You know, we can make mistakes sometimes. Anybody here ever make a mistake? I thought I did once, but I was wrong. We can make mistakes sometimes in our walk with the Lord, but I tell you, we ought never to abandon our loyalty to the Lord. David made a mistake. He should have stayed in Israel. He should have trusted God. He should have leaned hard on God's promise That he would someday be king. He should have done that. He didn't. He made a mistake, went over to the Philistines to find safety. However, to his credit, he remained loyal to Israel. He remained loyal to Israel. Sometimes you and I can mess up, but brother, we ought to stay loyal to our Lord Jesus Christ. And then last of all, Akish is emphatic with David. Verse 9, 10, and 11. He stands by the Philistines' decision. David makes his little argument here, his phony offense and uh oh he's hurt But Akish stands his ground. Akish doesn't give an inch. You need to go back. You cannot come with us. I said a few moments ago, we can compromise with the world all we want. The world is not going to compromise with us. I was reading, came across, excuse me, a little article about Babe Ruth. It says this, his back had the power of a cannon. He had a record of 714 home runs, remained unbroken until Hank Aaron came along. He was the idol of baseball fans around the nation. But as time and age took its toll on him, his popularity began to wane. The Yankees traded him to the Braves. In one of his last games in Cincinnati, Babe Ruth began to falter. He struck out, made several misplays, allowed the Reds to score five runs in one inning. As Babe was walking off the field towards the dugout, his chin was down, he was dejected, and from the stands there arose an enormous storm. of boos and catcalls. Some fans were shaking their fists at him. Says that but then about that time a little boy jumped over the railing, out onto the field, with tears streaming down his cheeks, he ran out to Babe Ruth, unashamedly, flung his arms around Babe Ruth's legs, and held on tightly. Baby scooped him up, hugged him, and set him down again, patting him gently on the head. He took his hand, and the two of them walked off the field together. Everybody in the world had turned against them, but that little boy was loyal to his hero. And I got thinking about the world we live in today. This whole world's turned against Jesus Christ. Churches and Christians on every hand compromising standards and conviction what's right and wrong. But you and I need to remain loyal to the Lord Jesus Christ. We need to remain loyal, regardless of how much this world boos him. We need to remain loyal. And I tell you, that stood out with me with David. He's loyal to Israel and to his God. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I pray you'd help us to be loyal. Help us, Lord, to take you at your word and trust you And Lord, and regardless of where we're at in our spiritual life, that we just are committed to the Lord Jesus Christ, and we will not deny you. We will not forsake you. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if there's some this evening would say, Preacher, maybe online or here in the service, you'd say, preacher. You know, I've made some mistakes in my Christian life. I've got to get things straightened out. I've got to get things back where they ought to be. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. There are some things in my Christian life that really need attention. God bless you Maybe there's some say, preacher, my heart's desire is to be faithful to my Lord, to be loyal to my Lord. I don't want to deny him, I don't want to forsake him. With God's help, I want to be loyal in this day and age, in this hour, in this world, be loyal to my Lord. Is there any like that? My hands raised. I want to be loyal to Lord Jesus. I tell you, that loyalty is going to be tested. That loyalty is going to be tried. It is. But God will bless us and God will help us. Father in heaven, please bless now in invitation. Help us to respond, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.