But we'll see what I mean here in just a minute. All right. Let's go to 2 Corinthians chapter 5. And We've been preaching about faith promise giving, prayer, and a lot of things this week. Uh this year I did about 32 weeks of meetings. I do revivals, do mission conferences and I go overseas, that's all I do. Basically, we have started these churches, eight church in the Mooresby area. This weekend we had 4,787 in those eight churches. And it started with one in 1995. All done by national pastors. We have uh three Christian schools, two Bible colleges or institutes, and I'm just the old man in the background. And uh what I want to do today or tonight is is let you know that none of this happens. Uh the belchers, there's no ministry for you, or the Dice's, or brother Mike. I can't say his last name. And uh there's no ministry for you unless you answer the call. God has to call you. And the faith-promised giving, a mission's giving in the book of Acts and the Corinthians, Ephesians, Philippians, when Paul writes and talks about this stuff. Them people were praying and they were called by God to go into the ministry. They were praying and called by God to be supported out of those churches. And tonight I want I want to encourage you as we finish up the conference, I just want to encourage you to stay with it. And I'm going to give you a reason tonight, show you why Paul, why he stayed, if I can say it right, what kept Paul Going in missions. Wasn't about the money. It wasn't about his PR campaign. He's practically stoned or ran out of everywhere he went. I just want to encourage you, you have to be called to do this. Before we move forward in the message tonight, I had a young lady come up to me today, and she said, Preacher, I was called into missions a year ago. And uh song with the pastor a little bit today. If you have been called into full-time Christian service and pastoring or assistant pastoring, Or missions, called to work in a ministry of this church, feeling that the Lord has led you in that, could you stand up with me? Come on, missionaries. Oh, they may not understand the question. Okay, you've been called or you're in it. All right. And how many's ever had these people standing up? It took you a while to get there when you heard the call. You didn't say, here am I, I'll get in front of the line. It's like, oh my goodness, what just happened? Am I right? Now we're going to pray for you. We're going to pray that God will call other people into the ministry. And I want you to understand it's very important. At B IMI, we run about 90% people start and finish Most mission boards are below 70 to 65 percent. In the last three years, the attrition of missionaries since COVID is running about 50 percent, where they things were shut down, they come home. And now we need to get back out there. So I'm going to pray that God will touch these people's hearts that's up, all the hearts that are up and or down, that we will stay with it no matter what comes in front of us. And then when we quit. It's when God calls us home. He said the third quarter, the fourth quarter, I'm in overtime sudden death. Amen. But I'm going to stay in it until God calls me home. Let's pray for tonight's service. Father, we just pray For these people standing, you've called them, you've touched their hearts. Lord, and from the youngest to the oldest in here, put a hedge of protection about them. Give them the heart to stay with you no matter what shipwreck, no matter what giant, no matter what ocean, no matter what sky they have to cross or go through any dangers and things like that, that God they will remain faithful. They pray for ones in here tonight that may be thinking, there's no age limit on this. And you're touching their hearts to enter into a ministry of this church Enter in to the missions ministry. No matter what it is, Lord, I just pray you touch our hearts tonight, put a hedge of protection around this building, put a hedge of uh conviction. And put a spirit in our hearts to say, Here am I, Lord, send me. We pray these things in your name. Amen. Now let's get in our Bibles tonight very quickly. What kept Paul going in the ministry? And what I want to do is Right on the meal that we had today before I start. Who man, who who cooked those ramps? I'm ramped up, man. Uh uh he did. And uh oh that was good stuff, you know. My breath will stink for a week, but uh good eating, you know, and and man I like them uh that Filipino sticky chicken And I like those guam whatever those things was, those uh uh that had the shrimp in 'em and all the other stuff. Just like eating a bowl of fat deep fried, it is so good. Amen. And uh all the stuff was good and just want to say thank you, preacher, for having all the good cooks here in Oakland and and we will come back. So I start my diet tomorrow, but I want to thank you for all the food this week. The house is staying over there. And I've really enjoyed myself. Sad thing is the preacher still has a cat. We'll see what we can do about that the next time we come, all right? And so uh cats are okay If you like cats, all right. As we move forward, 2 Corinthians chapter 5 and verse 18. Now think about this And think about the word reconciliation and who God's given that ministry to. Verse 18 says this, and I'll be all over the Bible tonight, but most of us is going to stay uh in in this chapter. Let me start at verse 17. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a saint with me? A new creature. Old things are passed away, and behold, all things have become what? And all things are of God, and who have reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ, and have given us the ministry of, say it. Ooh. He's given you that ministry. He's given it to us. That's that us you're studying, and you got that going on chapter. It all ties together. Now watch this. Very very carefully here. And you're going, oh no. He's going to point out that we all got to be in the ministry. Well, let the Holy Spirit work. To wit in verse 19. To know Alright, that God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto himself, not imputing their trespasses unto them, and hath committed unto us the word of reconciliation. Now then we are what ambassadors for Christ. As though God did beseech you by us, we pray you in Christ's stead ye be reconciled to Him. Well If I read it right there in the English and if I knew Greek it would say the same thing, God has given us a ministry of reconciliation. Now that's a big word for us to have to Get the gospel throughout the whole world. Amen. Now it's for us to teach the people and show people with our life, with our testimony. It says in verse 19, committed to us The word of reconciliation. God's word is committed to missions. It's committed to church planning I want you to see that. And we are ambassadors. Now, uh we the what they call us in Australia when we're not from Australia. They they call us not ambassadors, but they give us a name until we become a citizen there. And how this works, what Paul is saying is, being the pastor ambassador for Christ, you are a representative of the reconciliation. You're now the family of God. So we are thou then ambassadors. We represent the Lord. You and context Paul is saying here to another nation. to another world. We're called by God. He's reconciled us. He saved us. I got saved August 15th, 1969. How Webb was preaching the message, the Russians are coming and the Russians were coming. I got saved to the camp, scared to death. Amen. Now, uh, how many of you folks remember when you was about a half scare and you want to get saved, you didn't want to go to hell. Okay. And uh got baptized. All right. Got going to church. Got discipled. Heard God's word. Here does old Baptist preachers preach. All right. Then they got onto the thing, will you give your life to Christ? Something disconnected right there. It's okay to get to heaven. But what's this reconciliation thing? He's actually given us a ministry to do? Oh yeah. Well, who's the number one reconciliator in the New Testament? That's a big word, reconciliator. I think it was Paul. Not Christ. Christ was in charge of everything. He can't play you know I mean he is it, I know it, but Paul. So I did a study on Paul. And we're going to look at him tonight. Look about five things that kept him going. Amen. How many of you folks like me when you get older, it's hard to keep going Go out there and mow that yard, you know, you know, and you pray it doesn't rain for six weeks, so you don't have to mow it, you know. When you're younger you want to mow it five or six times a week. Plus and with your wife, you want to mow about a dozen times a week. Just get out of the house. Keep the hassle out of the castle. And as we get older, we mature a little bit, and understand we're running out of time I cannot be an ambassador for Christ naturally as long as these two boys can be from this point forward. Tonight I'm 70. All right. You older ones like me, your window of opportunity has shrunk with time. It's not no sh it's not a problem. It's just where we're at. And twenty years ago my window was this big. Thirty years ago it was this big. You know, I I see the belts are dirty, they got a big window. I mean their kids are still in diapers, but you get to dice it's about right here, and you get to you, it's about right here, you get to me, oh my goodness. The opportunity to be an ambassador is shrinking. And that's part of God's will. He lets us age. He lets us grow. He lets us mature. But we want to read God's word to encourage us How to keep a ministry here that we have that's really important to this church, and that is a ministry of missions, not only the bus ministry and different things like that. So let's take a look at these things tonight, and I just want to encourage you with it, and keep in mind, it says in 1 Thessalonians 2, 4, but as we were allowed of God to be put in trust Trust with the gospel, even so we speak not as pleasing men, but God. Oh my. He's entrusted us with this being an ambassador, giving the gospel We must take the message of missions of our King to the ends of the earth. If you'll you know you can don't need to turn there, but the Bible tells me in Acts chapter one It makes this statement. I'll read it for you in verse 8 here real quick. Or verse 7. Listen to this. Jesus says, it is not for you to know the times or the seasons. Which the Father put in his own power. Don't we oh it's getting bad. Oh the world's falling apart. Oh I mean God's gonna come quickly Oh what's going to happen next? What's tomorrow? Oh what's tomorrow? What's the next day? You know, uh oh oh oh How many's ever worried about like that And Christ says, stop that. If you're a Christian, you're one of my ambassadors, look at the next verse. It says, but ye shall receive power after the Holy Ghost has come upon you. And you shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem and all Judea and in Samaria and to the uttermost part of the earth. You take that word witnesses and dissect it in the Hebrew, Latin, and Greek You are my ambassadors. I have given you a ministry. And the ministry is reconciliation. Now you can you can I'll tell you you can have all the you know a lot of missionaries are very imaginative today. They they want to start hog, dog, and frog farms in foreign countries. And call that missions. They want to dig wells and and they want to chop down trees and start woodworking things and you know, want to do uh uh independent Baptist missionary hair hair salons in foreign countries, you know, and and get this it's crazy out there right now. You know. Hey Bible tells me in the Macedonian call, God called them to preach the gospel. That's it. All that other stuff comes later. And I just want to encourage you, when you learn to trust God, don't worry about our times is, worry about the thing. Are you going to do that ambassadorship? Are you going to be that servant that God wants you to be? So let's look at the first thing in chapter five, verse twenty. Five things about Paul, one about the devil. Number one Paul realized he had the sure call of God in his life. It says in chapter 5, there in 2 Corinthians, and it says in verse 20, Now, then we are ambassadors for Christ. Didn't say we might be. We may be. We could be. No, you are. If you're saved to know Christ, your personal Savior, you can be shy, you can be bold, you can stutter. You may not know the King's English. I don't either. But my point is this, God's not only saved us Not only sanctified us, he gives us a surrender so we can serve him and be an ambassador for him. You know, it's appointed by Christ We are appointed by him to be a representative for him. Paul was sure of that. I mean, it says in Romans 12, 1, that present your body as a living sacrifice. How many know when you get saved, God wants you to clean your life up We're sure of that. And I'm telling you. First Corinthians 1. 1 said Paul called to be an apostle through the apostle through the will of God. Paul knew he was called to do this. It was a sure call. 1 Corinthians 4. 1 says, seeing, he has this ministry. He had this ministry for Paul. But Paul says, man, I can't do nothing now. Since I was knocked down on that road, and since I got to that disciple's house, and when I got done with my discipleship and leadership, man, I know I was sure to be called. Then he called me to what group of people? What say it again? Gentiles. Got any Jews in here? That's us. You are a Gentile, amen. Aren't you glad Paul was sure that God called him to reach out to the Gentiles and he did? He was an ambassador and you're sitting in this church as a state, can I say a physical illustration from Paul's day clear down to today? He's part of the reason why we're here. Aren't you glad he was sure of that Well, preacher, I think God might be calling me in the ministry. But I gotta wait till my mom dies, gotta wait till my sister dies, gotta wait till I get that inheritance. You know, I gotta wait till uh Pops gives me that you know, he kicks the bucket and that's when Jesus said, let the dead bury the dead. He wasn't being cold-blooded. The disciples weren't going to do what God called them to do to be a witness for him until they got the inheritance. Then we'll step out by faith with a 401k behind us. It's hard. It's funny, but it's true. It's hard to get k faith today. Now I'm telling you, the belters are just going through it. You've been scratched up by it. You're a little bit older, but you start on deputation and you're pouring Job's turkey. Am I right? I mean you ain't got enough money to put diapers on those kids. And God's called you. He can't show that. He's on his knees praying before God But when you start going down that lane, when you're sure that God's called you, He will take care of every jot and tittle. He'll take care of every headache, every root canal, every sickness. He's if he's called you, he's going to take care of you. It's not going to be easy. It's not going to be kumbaya. Sitting around a campfire, handing out tracks, nobody gets safe. Are you kidding me? Don't let people fool you The only reason people stay in the ministry is because of the sure call of God. I used numbers earlier. Ten years ago, when we get ten missionary families to come dedicate their life to God, it's down to one and a half to two now. In our Bible colleges 30 years ago, preacher, every time there was a missions conference, there'd be five to ten families of the college you went to, and the college I went to, it takes about six months To get five families in over 200 missions meetings, they enter the call to the ministry and missions. Preacher said something here. Do you have any missionaries out of this church? It's God's called out of here. Not on the foreign field. I want you to catch this. Only one in eight independent Baptist churches today have a missionary sent out of their church. Twenty-five years ago it was it was like one out of every two. Folks, we've lost our focus, the sure call of God. You know what really redirects most of our young people? That right there. And that's not a small island, that's called money. Dinero. Kina. You know, I'm just telling you, the sure call will keep you being an ambassador where God wants you. Paul knew he was sure of that. Amen. Number two, I want you to see this. The second part here. Look at verse 17 of chapter five. And I want you to catch this. What motivated Paul was salvation's change. The first thing was The sure call. He knew God had a call in his life. When he got saved, it changed him. Look what it says in chapter 5, verse 17. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature Man, Paul said, Man, old things were passed away. Behold, all things are become new, and all things are of God that have reconciled us. He is leading us down this path, and you cannot deny this. This changed Paul's life Paul was one that hated the Lord, Saul, before he got saved. And what kept Paul going was, you know, he was a new creature. And after Acts chapter 9, Paul could not do anything else but follow the Lord. I want you to catch this God will change your life. And he gets a hold of, not only saves you and cleans you up, when he calls you, you cannot stop it. His name was David Vaux He's a missionary to Vietnam. And I had the pleasure of running into him. I was out soul winning one day, and David stands four foot ten. And he does not have a shy bone in his body. He was newly saved about a year, had never been discipled. He heard about me and he came to my town. He moved into an apartment with seven other guys from Vietnam and They had worked all the jobs they could around the cans area and he started coming to church with me. And I started discipling him Boy, I could see God working on his heart, and I could see him changing lesson after lesson. And then as I was getting ready to leave all straight to come back in 2012, he said, Preacher These broken English, God call me. It'll be pasta. Saigon. I go, you're crazy. You can't even speak English. We don't speak English there. Good point. I got one problem. The woman I'm going to marry, she's a Hindu. And she'll not have anything to do with me. I'm going to go back and witness to her. My parents are Hindus. I'm going to go back witness to them. Pray that I can get him saved or they will kick me out. And I prayed. He was gone a month and came back. His girlfriend kicked him out. His mom kicked him out. And his dad kicked him out. And he came back to Australia, heartbroken. But he said, that's changed, preacher. She dropping me, family kicking me out. That doesn't bother me. I got a love for him more than I have a love for them. You see, I'm changed And I'm sure that God wants me to do it. You know he's been pastoring a Saigon little church, about 20 people, started from scratch off the street He send me pictures every month. Our churches in Australia and New Guinea support him. He's got four churches that support him. He said, I don't want any more. I love staying poor where my people are, where I work with. I'm I'm not bragging on me. I'm bragging on salvation changed that guy. And he had that short call like Paul. And I'm telling you, God has blessed that young man. God bless Paul. I want us to stay with it because God's got a reason. Not only to call us, not only to change us, but thirdly that's this. He puts a compassion in us. Number three, what kept Paul going in the middle of this, in these shipwrecks and stonings and all this? Look at chapter 5, verse 14 and 15. Look what it says here. For the love of Christ constraineth us. Good night. I'm in love with my wife. Well see a picture of you, see me afterward. And uh and the more I'm getting older, the love's deeper. It's slower, but it's deeper, you know. And I can just tell, how's your day going? Okay, what do you want? I've already sent the money, you know. And she said, I just want to call you and let you know I love you. We talk to each other every day, we FaceTime, you know, and and uh and uh we just kinda sit there and the dog will bark on the other end of the line and And we'll just get be talking and even we're just sharing each other, all right. And uh I've got a couple of gifts uh for her that I'm taking home. to her and just letting her know that I love her because uh that's where my compassion is. Amen. Now she has a mother And her mother saved. But I'm not married to her mother. I didn't get her any gifts. I didn't even take her, I didn't even take her a blueberry pop tart I like my mother-in-law, but I ain't married to her. I have a compassion for my mother-in-law because we take care of her, but not like I do my wife. Do y'all understand this? Listen carefully. When the Lord saves you, and the Lord cleans your life up, he comes knocking at your heart's door. And you're sure of it. And salvation's changed you. He's going to put a compassion in you that holds you, holds you right where he wants you. You know, the Lord loves us. He loves for us. He loves through us. He loves in us. He constrains us. He holds us to what he calls us. And we become that new creature. The old has passed away. We put on the new. And he puts that in us because he wants us to do something. Because he loves us. He loves this lost world. And he really wants to do something for us. If you love the Lord and He wants you to witness to somebody, you should witness to him. Amen. And uh I wrote a name down here that uh that I had a bus family. The names was appointance. And I used to save stuff, uh go to yard sales while I was doing my bus ministry and go buy and say I want to give this to some bus, you know, and they people knew me. I wouldn't pay they take that bet, you know, take that stove You know, no one bought that washer. It only works half the time. They'd give it to me, you know. And my b bus helper Joe Reed and I, we had two garages full of furniture for bus people in northwest Indiana, Chicago area And man, uh people ride our bus and they get something wrong in their family. Joe would say, I'll I'll I'll I'll get my truck and I'll take it to them, you know. Well the point is they got burnout. On a Friday night and we went button by the house or standing there in the yard and they had to move down the street. She had five kids, no husband And uh and I said, listen, God's blessed us. I'll be by we preacher, we don't have a couch, we don't have any beds. So Joe and I, we went and got on a couch We got her a stove, we got a refrigerator, we got her three beds for the kids, we got them blankets, we spent about fifty dollars apiece for food, and we put that at their house, and she said, I will be there tomorrow at church with all my kids. That's the plan, you know. That's why I'm doing it. No washy washy, no tiki-ticky, ain't gonna work. I'm doing this because you're gonna ride my bus tomorrow with all your kids. She said, We'll be there, you know. Well the next morning we showed up and I got there and I knocked on her door. She opened that door, she flung it open. I'm never gonna ride your bus. I'm buying what what what You did this and you did this and everything you give me is good, but that refrigerator doesn't work and our food's spoiled, and you just give me a piece of junk. That's a get out of the way. Let me see I went back in that kitchen. I looked at that and opened the door, closed it, and reached around to the side and looked at it. You plugged it in, if you plug it in, it'll work. I wasn't mad. Oh, steaming mad. Because I give her that refrigerator and I give her that food and I give her that couch. And I'm doing this for me, my and I, so she'd ride the bus tomorrow, because it's all about who? Me. You live like that? How many's ever had buyers remorse? How many's ever had ministry remorse? Huh? And I'm telling you, I'm hitting a bone here. I'm hitting a nerve. Who do you do it for? And man, I got on that bus and Joe saw what Here I had was standing up on the back of my neck. You know, it'll be a cold day in August in northwest Indiana before I ever knock on that door again. Ever The bus was sitting there and preacher looked at me. I think it was Larry Williams was driving the bus. Are you sure, preacher? I'm sure about that time. Side of the bus. Window. Preacher, preacher There was her five-year-old son. Mom don't want me to come, but I want to come. They all come on the bus but her. I sat there on that bus. That bus drove off down 11th Street, Michigan City, Indiana. I'm still steaming because I was doing it for me Listen, the missionaries you support, you're doing it for him, you're doing it for him, you're doing it for him You're doing it for those other 82. You're doing it for them. And keep it on the mind. God touches your heart. This is something new to some of you. It may be old to some of you, but there are so many people out there God wants to reach. Because he's given us the ministry of reconciliation and the local church is a part of that food chain, that missionary is part of that food chain. That as you get down to your ministry like I am now Thirty-seven eight years later in in Papua New Guinea and Port Moresby area, we had eight churches that I helped start over the last twenty-five years. They got their own national pastors. They had four thousand eight hundred and seventy-five in them yesterday You're all about I'm not about numbers, I'm about people. Not one of those churches, not one of those pastors, not one of those ministries existed But I got a call, I was sure of it, God touched my heart, and I have the honor to tell you, no matter what you face God's going to bless the thing if you keep it right. Amen. Now I want to tell you that's a hard thought right here what I'm preaching on. I want you to understand that Paul, what motivated him to do this, he had a strong compassion. So when things don't go right Don't lose that compassion. Number four, and I'm going to hurry. What kept Paul g going was the seats claim. The seats claim. You talking about the bus? No, no, no. The seats claim. Y'all got a seat. How many folks are saved and you raise your hand as a testimony? You are going to have a seat clean someday. Paul always used an illustration of running races, amen. And so the Bhima seat or the elevated seat Yeah, uh here's what they did at the Olympics. Let's say they're running laps, okay? So if Matt I'd have Matt run around the church, you know, and here's the finish line, I'd be sitting on an elevated seat like this, and I would be the judge Here comes all the guys racing, and the first guy only the first guy across would get first place. He didn't get a participation trophy like we get out today. First guy through got it, all right And so the Bible is very clear here, and Paul is telling us he's got a claim because he's ran the race. He's come in first in his race. And he's going to be judged by God Almighty. Not that he's saved or not, but he's done what God put in his heart to do. You say, preacher, this is amazing. Every one of us as a Christian have this coming It's not a bad thing, it's a good thing. I want you to catch what he talks about here. Look at 2 Corinthians chapter 5, talking about the seats claimed. Look at verse 10. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ And every one may receive the things done in his body according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad. Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men persuade men But we are made manifest unto God, and I trust also are made manifest in your consciousness. Therefore, if any man be in Christ in verse seventeen He's a new creature, verse 18, and all things are of God, you know, who hath reconciled us and hath given us the ministry of recon. We've got to run a race of reconciliation. I'm telling you folks, he promises he's going to bless us with this. And I'm telling you, we got a home. It says in John chapter 14, not made with hands. But made by God. He would not tell us it would not sow. He's got a mansion for us in heaven. We've got a dwelling place there. And folks, I'm telling you, I want that in my life. Don't you? All God's people said, I didn't know that. Yeah, you got a mansion. And then when that the God I don't know when it's going to take place, uh but I know this. I I'm going to be raptured out of here. Amen And I know this, I'm not going to go to hell. Amen. And I know I'm not perfect. And God's had me do some things. When I walk up in that line, I don't know if it's going to be in line, or it's going to be immediately delong. Here's your crowns. Here's your race. There's your house. Man, you even got air conditioning. Amen. Streets made of gold. We'll take care of that. Perfect weather. It's going to be fantastic. How many realize you got a home in heaven How many realize how you serve God helps that a little bit? Does God always fulfill his promises? I just want to encourage you, salvation changes us. God's call moves us. The compassion keeps us because we got a seat that we can claim. That is our seat. Amen. Went to a Pittsburgh baseball game five years ago with my kids and grandkids. Pittsburgh Pirates playing the Cubs. Neither one of them could beat each other. You and I could have made the team. And uh I had CLL 59 And so we're going through the crowd there and and I got my ticket and going to claim my state and and I walked over there and there's a guy about the size of Biggie here, Matt there. He's in, and there I see LL 54, LL 55. He looked at me and I had a Chicago Cubs thing in it, and he had a Pittsburgh Pirate thing in it, and I said, I'd like to have my seat. Now stand up. You stand up. And he's about that size. I said, just go ahead and keep my seat. I'll go over here Music starts then seven and eight stretch and Now we're gonna pick out the seat that can win a thousand dollars and what the numbers we yeah we'll put up on the board. LL Five. I'm sitting down here. I'm looking to the left. He's looking to the right. If it's mine, it's mine. He stood up again. You can keep it. It was like LL13. Man, I was so close. Now would I would have would I'd go to the office and claim my seat ticket if I'd have won the thing? You betcha a thousand dollars. How many would do that now? Nobody just two of us. It's not unspiritual to be sitting in the seat and somebody give you a thousand bucks. It's great, isn't it? The seat. No one can take it. It's yours. It's already claimed. And what the reward you get for sitting that seat depends on what you do that God puts in your heart to do when it comes to missions and ministry. All God's people said, man, I hadn't seen that before. I'm a Des Moines, Iowa preacher. It's on Christmas Eve. 1993. You don't do missions on Christmas Eve. There's no money. There's nothing there. But I got a meeting booked and on my wife going out to my wife's old place and Got the kids with me and we're driving down the road and I was in a renter Chevy uh uh convertible, uh not convertible, but station wagon And we're driving along and uh what it is that I was didn't have much money but the guy said I'll loan you the car and uh you don't have to pay me until you're done with missions and I'll you know I'll I'll charge you two hundred dollars a month and you do all the stuff And I owed that guy $1,000. And on that way there that night, I think, I pray this church will give us a couple hundred dollars towards that. We kept driving. My wife said, why don't we just have hearts that give? No matter what God gives us tonight, let's just give it to that other new missionary family that we knew this was their first meeting. I said, okay, whatever God gives us, I'm going to give it to them. I was expecting a hundred, two hundred dollar love offering. The meeting was done, preacher, and it was snowing outside and Everybody's going home and and and uh uh the preacher gave us the check, you know, and little did I know there was a multimillionaire mission uh farmer in that little old church and and he wrote a a thousand dollar check. The both missionary families. And uh my wife saw that check and she said, You know you said you was gonna give whatever you got tonight to that other family, what you're gonna do. You know, I was thinking a hundred like the grandkids, right? I'm thinking two. I promise God all of it So I signed that check and I gave it. He that boy was out of Larry Brown's church. His wife was in my youth group years before. I gave a thousand dollars away on Christmas Eve. Whoa. Got home and did my Christmas thing in Iowa. Got home and opened up the mail. About the 28th of December, and the guy I was renting the car off of that I owed him $2,400, he said, hey, Merry Christmas, you don't owe me a penny. That's not why I did it. I'm telling you, he'll back that curtain up so you can see through the blessings from time to time to encourage you. And don't you ever forget that. And that compassion and that seek claim and that sure call. You know that salvation changed you. Folks, he's doing it for a reason. But here's the last one. This is key. And I kind of changed what I'm doing here. He had that seats claim and he had that sure consolation. But lastly, I wrote this down and and uh Paul, what kept Paul going in the ministry was this. The consistent attack of the devil. The devil is constant. He never stops. He hates everything you do as a church when it comes to missions, when it comes to ministry. And you know, I want you to understand to be an ambassador, it says this in 2 Corinthians 5 and 9. It says, we are confident, I say, willing rather to be absent from the body. to be present with the Lord, wherefore we labor that whether present or absent we may be accepted of Him, for we all must appear before the judgment seat of Christ. The sure consolation, but doing what God wants us to do, we get that mansion in glory, we get those rewards and crowns, and everything's good, but that devil consistently hates us in what we do So here's how to stay with it. You'll find it in 2 Peter, and I'm going to read it to you here. 1 Peter chapter 5. Verse 8 says this, now be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour. Whom resist steadfast in the faith, knowing that the same afflictions are accomplished in your brethren that are in the world, but the God of all grace. The God of all grace, who hath given called us. There's that us again, preacher, not only to eternal life. Like Christ Jesus after we have suffered a while, make you perfect, establish, strengthen, and settle you. That settle you means stay with it. Your labor's accepted. Don't let the devil trick you. Don't let him stop you. So when you start out on this journey, salvation's changed you. God touches your heart and you know you're surely called to do this. You have a strong compassion. Man, you got that seats claim and you got the sure consolation. You get the house, you get the crowns, things are going to come at you, but you can never outgive God. The last I'm sure of this the devil was constant He shucks the spheres first at missionary family, not immigration, not the border crossing Brother, he's going to attack you and Guom through your kids and through your wife and through you. You get to the Philippines, you know, pray for the we get our visas. That is nothing When you get in the middle of the ministry, there's going to be the devil's coming after them too, right there. Coming after your wife. New York City, Papua New Guinea, there's no language There's no location. If you're going to go into missions, you better understand. Buckle up, saddle up. He is going to come because you are invading his territory. And this church is part of invading those territories They are going to these places as your deputized missionary. He's going to get the spears out. Those arrows are going to come out. It doesn't only happen in some book. You know, Christian, thrown in the dungeon of despair, it's an everyday thing. But you realize the devil's constant and he never quits. But God greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world and the Prince of Persia. God, you are part of his family. He's got you set there for a reason, so you have enough backbone, listen to him, missionary preach to you now. Stay with it Don't quit. Because he's trying to make you quit. Building's too small. Weather's too hot. Guom's too small. People ain't gonna like you. You had a beard, you know You're about ten times size of local Filipino, all right. You know people ain't gonna like you 'cause you're a midwestern in New York City. You haven't even got the language yet. I mean, uh uh at Guam, man but good night he's six foot three or four, he's like a giant walking over there amongst those little people. It's going to stick out. Some people's not going to like it when he's more successful when God's hand is on him. The Catholics are going to turn on you. The Muslims are going to turn on you. They're going to come after you. But that is nothing. Keep your eye off them and keep your eye on the devil. Be sober. Be vigilant. He's your adversary. And he's going to roar at you to scare you to quit. You just stay right in there. Amen. I was in PNG one week. And uh we hadn't even got our container yet. And we're sitting there in a rainstorm across the street about from here To your bus barn. There was a factory that had boots and hard hats and clothes in it. And rascals, about twenty-five to thirty thieves, a gang, went in there and they shot the guard dogs. Put guns on the guys guarding the place and locked them in a 20-foot steel container that was unloaded in this storage facility, factory And walking right by my house, fifty of them at a time, carrying boots and hard hats and clothes. I mean thousands of dollars walking right by me. So I wasn't real smart yet, preacher, about the ways there, and I got them offensive line and I said you boys stop that. I'm calling the police Thieves, God's going to get you. And my deacons, I was having a deacons meeting at my house. Three of the deacons are behind me. Yeah, preacher, get after them. Yeah, tell them, tell them. My wife says, be careful, be careful, don't bark too loud. You know. Now you boys, I'm calling the police and I went over the fence and I said, you need to put that back. Now God's going to judge you. Oh, Pastor, get out of the way. The guy put a pistol on me And uh I showed up real quick, preacher. And uh and the boy had to be about his size He had that pistol in the dark and he said, Oh Pasta, go back over the fence. Stay there. You're not calling anybody. Oh yes I am, you know. And he cocked the pistol. I said, just wait a minute. Deacon behind me, old preacher, God's on you. He's standing behind me behind a tree. God will take care of this preacher. You know if you die you're gonna go to heaven. Whoa, whoa, whoa. Slow down. Slow down Slow down. Amen. And uh my wife says, honey, what do you want us to do? She's upstairs. Honey, what do you want us to do? Do not call anyone yet I said, now son, you need to put that gun away. God's called me here. He said, I don't care about you. I don't care about what your call is, a phone, what? I could care less. You're not going to stop us. Yeah, the deacon said, Preacher, what do you want us to do? Do the right thing. Call the police And you know what he did? That little pipsweak? I thought he was big as him, but when I saw him the next day, smaller than this little drip of water here. And and and uh he pulled the trigger. He pulled the trigger. It made this sound. Yesterday we're shooting some rounds off. You know, I love that sound. Click click. That's why I like that pump. You know, those shells are going in there, things about to happen. That gun went click. He pulled that thing back again and he shot it a second time. Click. I said, Why are you? And I went after him. He went running down the street. It was a homemade sold-off gun He used a windshield wiper spring to hit that shell, shotgun shell to go off to kill me. It didn't go off. Was that God? Was that God? Was that God And Paul was stoned, he was run out, left for dead, but that man stayed with it. Who was charging up those people against him? The devil and the devil's crowd. You know, the next day they caught that boy. The police did because we turned it in. They brought him to me. And he was a lot skinnier than these boys. He was a street kid His name was Pittscoy, P-I-T-S-C-H-O-Y. No family. Lived with some in-laws, but he was part of this bunch of gangsters. He didn't weigh 110 pounds. The police in front of me, because I said we're not gonna arrest him, I'm gonna talk with him, go see his family. They said, you don't understand our ways, and with that, the policeman had that uh concrete block in the back of the police uh you know, the paddy wagon and he bought the boy out and laid him down and broke his ankle, just kicked it right through, so he couldn't run. He said, preacher, he's yours. You don't want him in jail? That's up to you. You're gonna fix his leg. And the cop drove off. Good night. We don't have that in our culture, do we? But God called me there My wife brought him a sandwich and some chips and some couple cokes and he'd ran all night before they caught him. We had to hydrate him. I took him to the hospital. We reset the leg and I paid for a leg that a guy 12 hours before pulled a gun on me He wasn't that bad. I said, I'll have you put in jail if you but you've got to come to church for ten weeks and then we'll talk. He came right for ten weeks, preacher. He sat right there. It's amazing what kids will do to stay out of jail. In that country. Because there's no future there. Week eight, that's when we got saved. Amazing. Discipled Amazing. A year after that, on a Sunday night after church service, I would stay up all night and guard our property, and four men would stay up with me. Pittscoe became my number one guard. He had to serve my night because he knew every cook in the area. When they would come to the fence to rob us, he would stop them and say, I work for the pastor now, not you. Amazing. Now he's been in that church now over 20 years. He's married and one of the deacons in that church now. And when I go to New Guinea, I go out to eat. Now you listen to what I'm about to say here. I didn't see that when I entered God's call to missions. God knew that was all going to come. My job was to be a minister of reconciliation to the central province of Papua New Guinea. In the National Capital District, there was not one church. We have eight there today. There was not a Christian school. Now we have two and a Bible college. There's other missionaries there. It's not me, it's God. So Can I encourage you tonight, like Paul, just stay with it? Missionaries, I challenge you, 25 years from now, 15 years from now. 35 years from now you can have the same thing. Just stay with it. It's amazing how this works. Why would you preach this at a church like this? Because these missionaries can't go anywhere. It all starts right in here. I want you to encourage you with that. So listen, obey, respond, and do God's will when it comes to missions. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Who can say, Brother DeLong? I know that I'm saved. I am sure of it. And salvation's changed me. Could you raise your hand as a testimony? Hands all over. Thank you. Number two, Brother DeLong. You know, that salvation changed me, but I I I'm going to ask God. I will ask God to call me Whether it's foreign field missions, whether it's USA missions, whether it's ministry in this church or being at the ministry in my family, I'm going to answer what God, I'm going to ask God to call me to be the head of my home. Be part of the ministries of this church. Be part of the outreach of this church. Be part of missions. I'm going to ask God to touch my heart. Could you raise your hand as a testimony? That's a harder question. Thank you. Many, many hands Who would say, preacher, I'm asking God for a stronger compassion. I'm asking God for a stronger heart. I want to have a mindset that wants to give more to the Lord. Would you pray for me in my faith promise giving in my service in this church in 2023? 2024 that I I can do that. Can you raise your hand? Hands are going up all over. Who tonight says, hey, I'm gonna claim my seat? God's called me. I know he's going to reward me. He's going to evaluate me. He's going to look at what I've done. And I'm going to say yes tonight. I'm going to say yes and start my journey. Knowing that that devil is going to constantly try to stop me. Who can say, I want to dedicate myself tonight? That I like Paul will keep on going, keep on growing, wanting to be a minister. Who can raise your hand tonight and say that? Thank you, preacher.