Second Timothy this morning, please, the book of Second Timothy. We're going to be in the fourth chapter of the book of Second Timothy this morning. When I first started in evangelism, I was never a young evangelist. I didn't start till I was thirty. But I was an ex inexperienced evangelist, so uh twenty-eight years ago now I began traveling or I was twenty uh 28 years ago I started traveling in evangelism. I began to notice things when I would preach in a revival meeting. And I went to some older evangelists because one thing really bothered me One thing was really affecting me as I would go to church is something I was seeing that bothered me. And so I went to some older evangelists. I'm talking guys that have been preaching meetings for 30 and 40 years and I would say, listen, here's a topic that you need to preach on when you go to a church. Whether you pick one night or whether you do a Sunday school, every b every every meeting you should discuss, you should preach on this topic Well, Pastor Latherman, an amazing thing happened. All those evangelists came to the conclusion that I was not the Holy Ghost. And so they never listened to me, and none of them preach messages on this topic. Over the years though, as I've been traveling longer and longer and preaching in over a thousand churches now, I now feel that it's okay for me. I've got enough experience to preach on this topic that I've noticed so many times as we've traveled. You know, as I get ready to preach this message, I will tell you, as I give you the title, I'm going to preach a message entitled, listen carefully to the whole title, what every Christian Needs to know about their pastor. Now, you'll notice that the title is not what Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church needs to know about Pastor Leatherman It is not what this church is doing wrong about Pastor Leatherman. It's not what this church is doing right about Pastor Leatherman. And if you want to know something, and I'm not going to put him on the spot any more than I have to, but the most uncomfortable person through this entire message is going to be Pastor Leatherman, because I'm not preaching about him, but when we illustrate things, you're going to think about him. There are going to be times while I'm preaching this morning in this Sunday school hour that you're gonna look at me and you're gonna give me this look right here. I promise you, several of you'll you'll look at me like this. And then I'm gonna explain what I'm talking about and you're gonna go I've seen it hundreds of times because uh we have determined that we're going to preach this every single revival uh that we go to when we go to a church for the first time or second unless we've already preached it there before because I believe every church needs to know some things about their pastor. I believe a lot of Christians disrespect and dishonor their pastor without even meaning to I believe there are a lot of Christians that just don't understand what the ministry of a pastor is. And the trouble is your pastor or no pastor really can stand up in his church and say, listen everybody, let me tell you what y'all need to do for me So I'm not going to preach what you should do for him or to him or with him. I'm going to tell you what every Christian needs to know about their pastor. If you're going to preach a message like this and you're an evangelist, I've never pastored a church. I can't tell you what I would do if I were going to be a pastor. As an evangelist, I get to ask that every week. Brother Harper, what would you do if you had this problem and this pastor go on on this long long problem and I'm sitting there feeling so sorry for him and my answer is always the same. What would you do if you had this problem? I'd leave on Friday. That's what I do every single week. I'm gone. You handle that problem. If I ever pastored a church I'd have two members. But my wife would be visiting other churches on Wednesday night. It would be that bad. I would not be a good pastor. But I think we all need to understand some things about the pastor. I do not Preach this to you so that you'll feel sorry for your pastor. He wouldn't want that and I wouldn't want that. But if he's not in the top twenty-five on your prayer list, maybe when we get done, he will be Look at 2 Timothy chapter 4. Paul is writing to his beloved son in the faith, who is now pastoring in Ephesus. Remember, Paul spent three years in Ephesus and then left and then sent Timothy after ordained him an elder to go back and pastor the church. Second Timothy chapter four beginning in verse one I charge thee therefore before God and the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall judge the quick and the dead at his appearing and his kingdom. Preach the word Be in sin in season and out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long suffering and doctrine, for the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine, but after their own lust shall they heat to themselves teachers having itching ears. And they shall turn away their ears from the truth and shall be turned unto fables. But watch thou in all things, endure afflictions, do the work of an evangelist, make foolproof of thy ministry, for I am now ready to be offered. And the time of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good fight, I finished my course, I have kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord the righteous judge shall give me at that day, and not to me only, but all them also that love his appearing. Do thy diligence to come shortly unto me, for demas hath forsaken me Having loved this present world and has departed under Thessalonic. Christians to Galatia, Titus under Dalmatia, only Luke is with me. Take Mark and bring him with thee, for he is profitable for the ministry in Tychus have I sent to Ephesus the cloak that I left at Troaz, when thou go with Carpus, when thou comest, bring with thee, and the books, but especially the parchments. What every Christian needs to know about their pastor. Every church is stronger if they have the right view of the pastor from the Word of God. Let's have a word of prayer before we begin. Lord in Heavenly Father, we thank you for this morning. Lord, we thank you for our time together. Lord, we ask that you bless This message, have your will and way as we begin this revival meeting, Father, do what only you can do throughout the week in Jesus' name Amen. I want you to notice. Point one. The sovereign that calls him. The sovereign that calls him. Notice how Paul begins. I charge thee, therefore, before God. Timothy, you have to understand, Timothy wasn't called by the Apostle Paul to be a pastor. He was called by Almighty God to be a pastor. So this is the sovereign that calls him. Do you know independent Baptist pastors do not become independent Baptist pastors because of the fame and the fortune and the notoriety They do not do so so they they can drive fancy luxury cars. You ever seen those news stories? You ever if you ever watch the nightly news? I'm gonna pick on my wife because she likes to record it and watch the nightly news. And I tell her all the time, if you want someone to lie to you for twenty-two minutes, I'll do it for you. You don't have to watch those guys on TV do it. But at the end of the 22 minutes of lies and half-truths, they always have this human interest story. You ever seen this one because it's a very popular one They'll show a a camera from way up in the air and it gets closer and closer and you see driving up a windy mountain road is a brand new beautiful luxury Mercedes-Benz They'll bring the camera in and get closer and closer and then come from a different angle and you'll see in the front seat is a young man and in the passenger seat is a very old woman who is blindfolded. And as he keeps driving, he finally gets to the top of the hill and the camera packs away backs away again and you see this beautiful 17-room mansion. The young man parks, gets out of the car, runs around, opens up the door, and helps the little old lady out of the car. As he helps her out of the car and he says, Grandma, I'm every everything that I am, I am because you raised me when I had nothing else You took care of me and you've always loved me. You always uh you always had the best in mind for me and you always had confidence that I would amount to something. And now that I've made this movie or written this book or signed this contract Now I want to pay you back. And he takes the blindfold off and says, Grandma, there's your new house. She breaks down in tears. You get a lump in your throat as you're watching it You've seen that about sports figures and authors and actors and producers. Have you ever seen that whole situation happen? The drive up the road, the pan-away, the close-up This man gets out wearing a nice suit, runs around the car, helps his sainted grandmother out of the car, and says, Grandma, you believed in me when no one else believed in me, and I just left a Faith Baptist Church in Little Rock, Arkansas, and I moved to Grace Baptist Church in Chattanooga, Tennessee, and I got such a multi-million dollar signing bonus that I bought you a house You've never seen that. We do everything we can to talk our children out of going into the ministry. Your son comes home from school one day and says, Mom, Dad, we had career day And I want to be a lawyer when I grow up. You'll buy him books on law, you'll get him videos on law, you'll take him to visit a uh a law office, you'll tell him all those things. You'll even tell him things like this. Now, son, you can't be a lawyer if you get a C in geometry. Yes, you can. But anyway, it has nothing to do with that. We'll do that, won't we? But your son comes back from teen camp and says, Mom, Dad, I think the Lord's called me to preach. You're going to say, Are you sure? I don't want to push him. I don't want him to be mama called. By the way, no man's going to stand in the pulpit and preach the word of God and go through what pastors evangelists It's amazing that it's okay to be a mama-called lawyer and a mama-called doctor, but you wouldn't want him to be a mama-called preacher. Now the only reason to be a pastor, the only reason to pastor a New Testament church is because God calls you to do so. I remember I was in Canada, I'll tell you this quickly, and it was in the month of August. There was a young man I was preaching at a teen camp and he was getting ready to come to the United States and go to a Bible college. He had worked very diligently and had saved up all the money for the first two years His mom came to me and said, Brother Harper, can you help me with something? I said, I'd be glad to. She said, Levi respects you. Would you talk to him about something for me? I said, certainly if I can. She said, Well, I don't want him to go to college here in a couple of weeks I said, why? She said, well, because I I want him to do an apprenticeship for my brother, who is a roofer. And she said, that way if this preaching thing falls through, he'll have something to fall back on I said, no ma'am, I won't try to talk your son out of going to Bible college. And I will point out the fact that I'm very dismayed that you're willing to try not willing to trust God to take care of your son in the ministry, but you're willing to trust God to take care of him on a rooftop. The only reason to be a pastor is not for the fame and the fortune and the notoriety and the authority and all that. It's just because God called them. There's the sovereign that calls him. Number two, there's the scripture that charged him. Look at verse 2. Preach the word. Read it with me carefully, please. Preach the word. The instant in season and out of season. Compliment, brag on, and exhort with all long suffering and doctrine. That is not what it says at all. No, Christian, we've gotten to the place now we want to come to church on Sunday morning and have our pastor pat us on the head. And tell us how wonderful that we are, so that we can go out and make it through the next week. Boy, I need encouraging when I come to church. Yes, we do need encouragement when we come to church. We also need to be convicted when we come to church. Pastors are commanded to reprove and rebuke. I've read my Bible through a few times, and you know what? There's not a single verse in here that says Richard Harper's awesome. There's just not one. There's not one in here with your name in it either that says you're doing a great job. As a matter of fact, if you're going to preach this book from cover to cover, you're going to have to reprove and rebuke. That's not what we want. That's why these other Churches are out there, those ones that don't even have names on them. I drove past one that was called Hope Life Ministries. Alright, I know I'm for hope. And I know I believe in life. In ministry? Well that's okay. Listen, I'd rather have a church that actually says what it is. We don't go to ministries, we go to church. Simple truth is they try to name things in such a nondescript way, you're driving by and says, oh look, there's the ocean. And so you walk in, because that's what it's called, the ocean or the creek or the riverbank or whatever, and you walk in thinking that you're going to the beach. And as you walk in, you start looking around and realize there's pews and a little plexid glass pulpit. And you say, wait a minute They tricked me! This isn't the beach. This is a church service. Listen, just call your church what it is. But if you're going to have a Bible preaching pastor, he's going to stand up and have to reprove you and rebuke you. I'm going to point something out. It's easy to reprove and rebuke someone else's kid, isn't it? You ever been at Walmart and you've ran or you've run in and you've gone all the way to the back. You're in the sporting uh sp you're in the the auto automotive part uh section and you're buying a a fuel filter, an air filter, right? You buy one and you turn around to walk out. Before you can start walking to the front of the store, you start hearing this screaming child I mean this kid is throwing an absolute fit. His his screams echo through the rafters of the Walmart. You walk all the way to the front, he's still there. He's laying in the floor, this little three-year-old boy, kicking and screaming, and his face is red and and all that kind of stuff. And you look at him and you say, Now you'll be honest with me, you look at him laying in the floor throwing his fit, and the first thing you think is That boy needs a trip behind the woodshed. Then you look and standing over top of him is his beloved grandfather. His beloved grandfather sees the same screams that you see, sees the same fit that you see, and he looks at you when you look at him with that look of disgust, and he says, Oh, he didn't get his nap Listen, that that kid is a brat whether he sleeps all day or not. I'm just here to tell you. But isn't it easier to say something or to think something like that or to discipline somebody else's kid than it is your own Now you think about that, it's easy for me. I'm going to come in, I'm going to peel the varnish off the pews for an entire week, and then Friday, I'm going to Saturday morning, I'm going to load up and go on to the next church But you think when your pastor stands in this pulpit and preaches on repentance and chastisement and judgment and scourging and begins to reprove and rebuke you You think about that, because that message that he preached on Sunday night that stepped on your toes, on Monday, he might be sitting beside you at a hospital room praying for your husband When he stands up and preaches a message that reproves and rebukes you instead of getting mad, maybe you ought to just thank God that you have a pastor that preaches the word of God. Notice, number one, there's the sovereign that calls him. Number two, the scriptures that charge him. Number three, there's the season that confronts him. Watch what it says. For the time will come. Well they will not endorse sound doctrine, but after their own lust shall they keep to themselves teachers having itching ears. They want to come to church. Now by the way, I'm going to say a couple things. Don't get mad at me till you hear the whole thing, all right? Well, I just want to go where the love of God is preached I just want to go and hear a gospel message. Follow me carefully now. If you're sitting in this auditorium and you've trusted Christ as your personal Savior and you're a born-again Christian, you already know the gospel message and you already know that God loves you I'm not saying that we don't need reminded about that. Understand that. I'm saying that is not the only thing in the Word of God. The whole book needs to be preached. I don't like those judgmental messages that he preaches against sin all the time. I'm going to go someplace where I can go for about 30 minutes. See the strobe lights, watch the smoke machine, and have some guy stand up in skinny jeans and an untouched shirt and tell me how wonderful I am. You just desire a teacher having itching ears. By the way, not only have you walked away from the reproving and the rebuking, you've walked away from the exhorting and the long-suffering in doctrine. You know who I'm talking about, please. Everybody in this room, not a single exception, knows someone who's gone through this passage of scripture. And this is not prophetic from the Apostle Paul, but it sure is some prophecy You go to visit your aunt, your niece, or your nephew, or your cousin. You're driving through and you're gonna stop in and say hi. Now they used to come to this church or used to go to a church just like this church. But now They go to one of those churches that has the nondescript name and the plexiglass pulpit. And so you go with them and you sit down and you're uncomfortable the entire church service But that's where your niece or your nephew or your cousin goes. And so as you or your children, by the way, or your best friend from 20 years ago. You walk out of the church and you say the same thing. Every single one of us says the same thing. I didn't like that church a whole lot, but at least they preached the gospel. Understand, Christian, they've desired for themselves teachers having itching ears. No one needs to tell me I'm a sinner. No one needs to tell me that I need to get right. No one needs to stand up and preach on judgment and repentance and chastising to me. I don't need any reproving and rebuking. I just need to know that God loves me Number one, there's the sovereign that calls him. Number two, the scriptures that charge him. Number three, the season that confronts him. Number four, the skeptic that contradicts him. There you are, you left a Bible believing Bible preaching church when a pastor approved and rebuked and gave you doctrine, and now for two or three years You've been going to a nondescript church, going one service a week, uh, and then uh they don't even have Sunday night or Wednesday night, so you get forty-five minutes at most of a ch uh of a sermon on one Sunday once a week, and it's always on the same exact topic. You don't get any doctrine. You don't get solid in the Word of God. You're swayed with every wind of doctrine that comes through your life And there you are sitting there one Saturday afternoon. There's a knock at your door, and the person standing at the door says, Listen, I'd like to give you your own personal copy of the watchtower or of the Book of Mormon. And you haven't had doctrine in two years, so you start to listen. Did you know it's true to this very day? The highest, the most fertile recruiting ground for Jehovah's Witnesses and Mormons is former independent Baptists Who didn't want to be preached it and want to be reproved and rebort-buked, just wanted their ears tickled for just a little bit, and so they've gotten away from doctrine And now when you go to visit your cousin or your niece or your nephew or your childhood friend that used to go to that nondescript church, now you make sure you get there on Monday Because their hearts have been turned from the truth and have been turned into fables. Isn't that how it happens? Isn't that exactly how it happens? Because there's the skeptic that contradicts him. Number one, there's the sovereign that calls him. Number two, the scriptures that charge him to reprove and rebuke. Number three, there's the season that confronts him, uh the the season that confronts him because it's the time with their their design teachers having itching ears. There's the skeptic that contradicts him. Their hearts are turned from the truth And turned into fables. There are people that have attended this church right here who followed that exact path, just like Paul warned Timothy about 2,000 years ago almost. Notice there's the surface. I'm sorry. There's the spotlight that constrains him. Notice the next verse. But watch out in all things. Endure afflictions. Do the work of an evangelist. Then it says this make full proof of thy ministry. Now what is Paul telling Timothy here? Timothy, here's what I want you to do. I want you to do a really, really good job as a pastor so people will know. It will prove to them that I put the right guy in there. No. Timothy, I want you to do a good job so you feel real good about yourself and prove yourself to your No. Timothy, I want you to do a good job so you'll prove yourself to God. No, no. He sees all things. To whom is Timothy to prove himself? Realize a pastor of a church, no matter how long he's been in that church, is just one misplaced statement from losing a family. Just one. I could take you to churches right now. A pastor goes to a town, plants a church, it begins to grow, the Lord begins to bless, he leads a husband and a wife to Christ. Over the years he watches their kids be born. He sees their kids get saved in Sunday school or junior church. He watches them walk through the waters of baptism, watches as they grow up Then finally one day stands up in front of a pulpit and performs their marriage ceremony. And that family's been with him for twenty-five or thirty years. And he says one thing from the pulpit they don't like, the whole family walks out the back door. You would not like to live your life under the spotlight that a pastor has to live his life under. Everywhere he goes, someone is watching him. You have a job at UPS and you lose your job, a few people that are co-workers in your family knows about it. A pastor loses his job, an entire community will talk about it. Would you like to have everything that you do and every place that you go uh watched and talked about among the community Your pastor can't even honk his horn. See that's one of those what? You can't even honk his horn. If I'm driving down the road, in in North Carolina, we have a road called Highway fifty two. You've driven on it going probably to the sword conferences. It's uh the some of the most terrible drivers in all the world. All of the terrible drivers in the world that aren't in Ohio are on Highway 52. It is terrible. Ohio is the worst. I almost ran over an Ohio deer the other day. You know how I know it was an Ohio deer? It was in the left lane of Interstate 77 doing 55 miles an hour. That's how I knew it was an Ohio deer. But you're driving uh if I pastor and we have a church that runs almost eight hundred in a town that has five thousand people, so everybody knows somebody that comes to our church. If he's driving on fifty two and someone comes from the left lane, cuts over in front of him to get off and exit. And he if that happens to me, you know what I do? I lay on the horn and I shake my fist at them because I am completely convinced that five hours later that man is going to be sitting there in his house and go I shouldn't have cut that guy off. I know it's not going to happen, but some some part of me wants it to happen. If my pastor lays on his horn and hulks the horn and shakes his fist at him, and then six months later Someone knocks on this man's door and hands him a flyer with the pastor's picture on it. He's gonna go, Oh, I know that guy. He's got a temper. Your pastor can't even honk his horn. What I'm saying is you wouldn't want to live your life under the spotlight that your pastor has to live his life under. You make a mistake at your job, no one criticizes your family. Pastor makes a mistake at his job, his whole family gets criticized. He's constantly got to make full proof of his ministry. As good as he has been to you, as many times as he's been beside of you when you went through hardship and heartache. He's just one phrase in one message that steps on your toes from seeing you walk out the door never to come back. Brother Harper, you try to make me feel sorry for my pastor. Nope, nope. Wouldn't want to do that. He wouldn't want me to do that. Any pastor that I would preach this message for wouldn't want me to do that. By the way, just to let you know I don't preach this message because a pastor ever asks me to. If a pastor asks me to preach it, I say, No, sir, I'm not going to do it. He just wants me to fix problems in his church. What I want you to do is start to realize what your pastor, what a what the the pastor of your church goes through every day. There's the the spotlight that consumes uh constrains him. There's the service that completes him. Now I'm really gonna get in trouble. I mean I am gonna just go off the Notice what it says. I have fought a good fight, I finished my course, I've kept the faith. In Acts chapter six, it's actually even more specific than that. The disciples said, We will give ourselves continually to prayer and the ministry of the word. Do you know a pastor's two responsibilities, two above everything else that he does, is to pray and preach. In other words, everything else he does is added to those responsibilities. By the way, most Christians sitting in most pews think that a pastor develops a message in about a minute and a half on Sunday morning, right before he walks out the door. Pastors spent hours and hours every single week studying. The ministry of the word and of prayer takes the whole forty hours a week that most of us work, most of most work full-time. But there are some things that aren't his responsibility. Now please understand, I'm not saying that your pastor is not going to help in other areas, that he's not going to work in other areas. He's going to work the whole time he's here. What I am saying is this, anything that takes him away from those two primary responsibilities has to be weighed in how much time it takes away. But there's nothing in the Word of God that tells a pastor he needs to help with the plumbing or the building of your beautiful building over there. We rejoiced when we saw the pictures of the big fellowship over here. It was just under construction last time we were here He's not the contractor. He's the one to submit minister the word and pray. By the way, there's something else it doesn't say that he's supposed to do. It doesn't say he's supposed to visit the hospitals. Uh-oh. But especially doesn't say he's supposed to drive to Morgantown to visit your cousin's next door neighbors, best friends, former co-workers, stepson. But that's what we expect, isn't it? When the pastor comes to visit us in the hospital, we expect the pastor to be there. You know whose job it is to visit the hospital? All of ours. True religion and undefiled is to visit the widows and the fatherless in their affliction. It's all of our responsibility to be there Remember one time I was driving through Alban in New York and uh I heard about a a a fellow that went to a church up closer to Saratoga Springs and he was in the hospital and I was literally driving within one mile of the Albany Medical Center. And I just swung in and said hi to him. You know, for the next ten years, every time that man saw me, he said, Oh, Brother Harper, I remember that time that you came to the hospital to visit me You know what his pastor has already been there twice? I was uh in a church at Grace Baptist Church in Newport, Tennessee, several years ago. They were doing res uh uh prayer requests, and this is a previous pastor that was there. He called on somebody over here and they said, Pray for Mrs. Jones, she's in the hospital. This is Wednesday night. He says, Where? And he tells him what room she's in. He gets it. That all happens in the public service. So Thursday morning he goes to the hospital Walks in to see to visit her. Her family is there. Everybody just stares at him. Every question he asks is a yeah, no kind of answer. Finally he says, Is there a problem here they don't know about? She said, I've been here since Monday. And you're just now getting here. He said, Well I'm sorry. Did you call me to tell me you were coming in here? She said, No. He said, Did somebody text me? I missed a text? No. He said I didn't see it on your Facebook page, and we didn't post anything about it. He said this, how was I supposed to know you're in the hospital? She said, It's your job to know. No, no. It's his job to be the ministry of the word and a prayer. Notice there's the service that completes him, number five, number whatever number it is, I've kind of lost track. There's the solitude that consumes him. Do thy diligence to come shortly unto me. Oh, Brother Harper, Paul knows he's going to die, wants to see Timothy. Yep, that's true. That's not why he says Timothy needs to hurry. Demas hath forsaken me, having loved this present world, Fretan is to Galatia, Titus to Dalmatia, only Luke is with me. What Paul is saying here? This man that has turned the world upside down for God, whether the devil has got them like Demas or the Lord has sent them away like Cretans and Titus. He says, I'm here all alone. Oh, he's not alone, brother, Brother Harper. No, no, Luke is with him. Luke is his best friend. Let me tell you something. Luke's his doctor, not his best friend. It is a good thing to have a doctor that is your friend. That's a wonderful thing Could you imagine though having a doctor at your doctor, not a doctor, your doctor as your best friend? You're going to play around the golf and you walk into the the the the clubhouse to get something to eat and you order your food and you look at him and you say, hey Pass the salt, and he looks at you and goes, You know with your hypertension you're not supposed to eat. That would be miserable, right? He said only Luke is with me. It is impossible for a regular church member to understand the solitude of a pastor. He can't have a best friend. Oh Can't. You call him up and say, Preacher, listen, we we've got three uh three of us are gonna play golf. We sure would like to have you be the fourth and the make a fourth sum. And he says, Oh, I can't. I'm playing golf with Brother McGillicuddy that day Preacher, my father's retiring and we're having a big retirement party for him on Friday night. Would you please come and be a part of it? It would mean the world to him if you come. He said, Oh, I can. I'm going over to the McGillakuddy's house on Friday night Whether you ever wanted to admit it or not, even if it made you feel guilty, what you would think is this: I sure wish he loved our family like he loved those McGillakutties. You can't even have a best friend. There's solitude in the pasture at no there's not, Frother Harper. He stands up in front of people all the time. Yep. Only Luke is with me. Please come. Please come and visit me, Timothy. Quick The solitude that consumes him. They're the sources that comfort him. I got a phone call one time from an assistant pastor. They were celebrating the pastor's tenth anniversary as the pastor. He says, What should we get for the pastor I said, Well that's simple. You get him a new suit, you get him a Bible, and you get him a set of commentaries. He said, Why so quick? Why do you why are you so specific? Because that's what Paul says. Bring the cloak. Bring the books and bring the parchments. I want a new suit, I want a new Bible, and a new set of commentaries. That's what he basically said. By the way, if you really study it in the Greek, if you really become a Greek scholar, you'll know But it also says in there, Cracker Barrel gift card. It's right there, it's part of it. Doesn't hurt. Whenever I find a tie on clearance, typically we just buy two of them. Get one for me and one for my pastor. We've shown up at church wearing the same tie several times. The truth is, there are some sources that comfort him. Send him a card every now and then Every pastor I know needs a new tie, do they not? With your pastor's exception this morning, eventually, sometime during a week, a pastor is going to wear a tie that's about this wide, that's got egg stains on it and everything like that in almost every church By the way, if you have a tie that's this wide with egg stains on it, hold on to it for five more years. It'll be back in style Just every now and then let him know that you're thinking about him. Lastly, please, and we're done. There's the Savior that compliments him. Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord the righteous judge should give me at that day. Not to me only, but all them also that love is appearing. You know your pastor doesn't do it. For the fame or the notoriety. He doesn't do it for a paycheck. He's not a hireling. He doesn't do it for the cards that he might occasionally get on that pastoral appreciation month. Doesn't do it. For all the compliments at the back door. We say some crazy things in a church service, don't we? You ever seen you ever walk up ever seen one lady walk up to another lady And so walking into Sunday morning, I'm just going to look at you, all right? Because you're not a lady. So that way no one thinks I'm talking about him. You see one lady walk up and go, are you not feeling well? Why didn't you just tell her? Oh, you look sick this morning. That's not what you meant to say. We have a pastor friend, he and his wife tried for six years to have children. They went to specialists and everything like that. Every time she'd hold a baby in the church. Some little old sweet well-meaning woman would say to her, Oh, you need you one of those. She'd go home and cry herself to sleep. The little boy Samuel's four and out press. You shake your pastor's hand and you can say, Pastor, that was a good message. That's a compliment. But when you walk up to him and say, Now Pastor Now that was a good message. One way's a compliment, one way you're saying you finally got one right He doesn't do it for the compliments. He doesn't do it for the cloaks or the books or the parchments. He does it so that one day he'll say, well done. It doesn't do uh even though he's the only person in the Word of God that gives an account for anybody else. Pastor stands before the Lord as one that must give an account He does it so that the Savior will one day look at him and say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. I don't tell you this so you'll feel sorry for your pastor. I don't tell you this so that there's a run on ties and books and parchments and cracker barrel gift cards. I tell you this so you'll pray for him. I firmly believe that most of the people that, even uh well-meaning people that disrespect their pastor, do so because they just don't understand all the way through. Some of you have known this stuff all your life. You grew up hearing stuff like this. You grew up with your parents telling you about it. Some of it you've forgotten. Maybe you need a reminder. Maybe the pastor is in your top 25 on your prayer list. Move him into the top ten. The most selfish prayer that you can pray is say, Lord, please bless my pastor this week. Because you reap the benefits when God blesses him. Just pray for him. What revivals would take place if churches started loving their pastor the way they're supposed to love their pastor? Have a word of prayer. Lord Haven and Father, we thank you for this morning. Thank you for our time together. Bless the morning service to follow. In Jesus' name. Amen.