Joshua chapter number one, and keep your place here. We're going to jump back and forth a little bit between these two. I want to read verse 8 and 9. Joshua chapter 1, verse 8 and 9. I'm just curious Is there anybody here this morning has this passage memorized, these verses? Anyone ever memorized? Well, I want to recommend it highly. Joshua chapter 1, verse 8 and 9. Notice what it says It says, this book of the law, what's it talking about when it says this book of the law? The Bible. God's Word This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein Now look at this promise. Let me ask you a question. Can God lie? No, he would never lie. He would not lie. He cannot lie. So when God promises something, can we count on it? Yes, absolutely. Look at this promise here. This is phenomenal. This book of law should not that part of my part out of thy mouth, thou shalt meditate there in day and night. Look what he says. For then thou shalt make thy way what Prosperous and thou shalt have good success. How many people would like to be prosperous in your life? I would. Anybody here like to have good success? Anybody here say, yeah, boy, you know, I'd like to totally fail in my life. That's what I want to do in my life. Yeah, a couple of losers over there Look at verse 9. Haven't I commanded thee? Be strong and of good courage. Be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed, for the Lord thy God is with thee. Whithersoever thou goest. Meditate This book of the law shall not depart a mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night. Meditate day and night. In the book of the law. Come over to Psalms chapter one. Anybody have Psalms 1 memorized? Anybody here? Oh, good chunk there. Good. This is a great chapter. Psalms chapter 1. And I just want to look at verse 1 and 2. Actually, I want to look at verse 1, 2, and 3. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the council of the ungodly. Be careful who you listen to. Amen or not? There's a lot of n a lot of a lot of knuckleheads out there trying to tell you how to ruin your life. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly. They're living an ungodly life, don't listen to them. Nor standeth in the way of sinners. Be careful who you hang around with. Stand away as sinners. And then, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful, be careful your attitude. Then look at verse two. Look what he says. But his delight, this man that's blessed, he doesn't listen to the wrong counsel, he doesn't hang around with the wrong crowd, and he watched, he doesn't have a bad attitude, but His delight is in the law of the Lord. What do we mean by the law of the Lord? The Bible His delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. Now look at this promise. He shall be like a tree Planted by the rivers of water that bringeth forth his fruit and in his season his leaf also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall what Prosper. I want to talk to you this morning just for a few moments on one of the most one of the most important aspects, one of the most important parts of the Christian life. How many folks are saved and you know it? Say amen. I'm talking to saved people today. Now if you're here this morning and you don't you've never trusted Christ as Savior, if you're here this morning, you never uh accepted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, that's the most important thing you have Needs to be done in your life. And do not leave here today without trusting Christ as Savior. Every church, there's three types of people in every church. Every church has some unsaved people in it, for the most part. Has some unsaved people in it. Jesus talked a lot about uh wheat and cares. Wheat and tares. Wheat's the grain. Wheat's the good. Wheat's the saved people. Then he said that there the devil will mix in with the wheat some tares. Now a tear is a weed It looks like wheat. It waves in the wind like wheat. Everything about it looks like it's wheat, but it ain't wheat. And I tell you, it's a real danger sometimes. We grow up in a Christian home, go to a Christian school, and we can get awfully good at looking the look and talking the talk, yet never be born again in our heart and soul. When I was out uh I lived in Colorado for a while and we'd travel up, I'd preach up in Wyoming a bunch, and every now and then out there in the s eastern part of Wyoming, you'd come across some little hill and there'd be this this old western town. At least it looked like it. And it looked like something from the old west. And we get down there and look at that. One time we pulled off the interstate, went down, went to check this out. And hear what it was. It wasn't a town at all It was just a street they had there and it was just a facade. It was the fronts of buildings, but on the back side, it was just two by fours holding them up. It was an old movie set And they made it look like, it's uh from the surface, from the front, it looked like an old western town, but it was just a pile of wood, is all it was. Well new buildings, nobody lived there. And I'm afraid sometimes if we're not careful, we get awfully good at putting on that front, that facade We look like we're something, we look like we know the Lord, when in reality in our heart and soul we know we're not saved. And so in churches and in youth groups a lot of times they'll be they'll be unsaved in there, go through the motion, say all this, but never truly born again. You can be in the church, but not be in Christ. You have to be careful about that. So if there's doubts or questions here, I want to urge you to uh uh get that settled. Please don't go another day without trusting Christ. I'll tell you Best thing I best decision I ever made in my life was May 7, 1979, 19-year-old boy, day after my 19th birthday. I trusted Jesus as my Savior. I thank God for that day. I highly recommend it. So in a church there's sometimes you have um unsaved people in the youth group in a church, they they're in there. Uh then you have folks that are saved and that's all they are They just get saved, they trust Christ, but they never grow. They never they never go from there. And their sins are forgiven, they're on their way to heaven, but uh There's no real spiritual service there. There's no real uh uh testimony of the Lord. They're just simply saved. And I'm afraid a lot of times that's a big percentage folks are going to say. Then within a youth group and within a church, you have folks that they're saved, but man, they sell out for Jesus Christ. And they're committed. They're what we call disciples. A disciple is someone that follows the Lord Jesus Christ. So what I want to talk to you this morning about Just briefly, and it's not going to be the most dynamic message, but I it will be very, very helpful if you get it. In fact, if you have your little uh bulletins there, I want to encourage you to find that note section And I want to encourage you to jot some things down that I think will help you. I want to ask this question, try and answer this question. What is daily devotions? And are they very important? What does it mean to have daily devotions, and is it very important at all? My answer to my question is, daily devotions is one of the most important parts of the Christian life. Now I'm talking to young people this morning that are serious about living for the Lord. Who I'm talking to, this message is directed to that young man, that young lady, who means business for God. And they want their life to count. And that when it's all said and done, and we stand before Jesus Christ at the judgment seat of Christ, I can hear Jesus say to me, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. And if that's your desire, somewhere down inside your heart and soul, you say, I want God to use me. I want my life to make a difference for the gospel. Then I'm telling you, you need to get a hold of this matter of having daily devotions. One of the most important aspects of Christian life. God gives us all different um all different uh um uh things to help us be the people he intends for us to be. One of them is if you have a Christian home, thank God for a Christian home. Mom and Daddy. Uh if you got a good Bible preaching, old-fashioned hellfire and brimstone Bible preaching church, you ought to thank God for it. God gave you that so you can grow and be the Christian God wants you to be And then God gives us the Bible that we can spend every day reading that Bible and uh walking with the Lord. So uh what are daily devotions and are they very important? Let's pray together. I'll share a few thoughts with you real quickly. Father in heaven, I thank you for the youth conference and uh what was done last night, the great preaching, decisions made. Lord, my heart is stirred I ask now that you would help us to start off this new day, that you would meet with us, Lord, maybe something said here would help maybe just one or two young people, a young man, a young lady, just fall in love with the Word of God. and determine and and discipline themselves to spend some time every day with you, Lord, that they can grow and be strong in the Lord. I ask this in Jesus. Lord, before I close, I want you, Lord, please fill me with your Holy Spirit. And I yield my will, I present my body anew, and I pray with all my heart you speak through me and challenge us now this morning. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. As I said, I was saved at age 19. I grew up on the north side of Philadelphia. And uh come from a broken home. When I was ten years old, my daddy got saved, and the parents' marriage was falling apart. My daddy began seeking the Lord. He wanted uh he wanted God to help save his marriage He was a good man, he was a religious man, but he was lost. When he began to pray for the marriage, pray for our home, God revealed to my daddy through the Word of God that he needed to be saved And my daddy trusted Christ this Savior and began praying for me. As my dad and I lived together most of that time and grew up, he's a truck driver, he's out on the road. I messed up bad I messed up bad in my teen years. It's amazing what a mess a young person can make out of their life in just a few short years. And daddy was praying for me, and he would witness to me, and he was such a tremendous testimony. My daddy, by the time I was 19 years old, I did not want to be the man I was becoming I did not want to be the person that I was becoming. I began praying to God, God help me, God help me. God directed me to the Word of God. I began reading the Bible. I realized I needed Jesus as my Savior. And May 7, 1979, I knelt beside my bed. My bedroom was up in the attic of the house. And I called on the Lord Jesus Christ, and God saved me and changed my life. And my daddy, when I got saved, my daddy pulled me aside, and he says, let me show let me teach you a few things about living for the Lord. One of them was he taught me to tithe, give 10% to the Lord. The other thing he taught me was this: to take some time every day and spend it with the Lord. An open Bible and prayer every day. Age 19, day after my 19th birthday, Daddy showed me that, a few days after I got saved, he showed me that. And I'm telling you, all these years, one of the greatest, one of the greatest experiences in my life is that daily time with the Lord. And get alone with God. And so I want to challenge you this morning to establish a time where you can spend with the Lord every single day. Maybe some of you already do it. Maybe some are doing it and it's on and off again, hit and miss. And I'm praying that maybe God would stir your heart and from now to the day God calls you home, you spend some time every day alone with the Lord. Letting Him speak to your heart from the Bible, and then you pouring your heart out to God. And I'll tell you, it'll help you. It'll help you. uh that next week uh um I w uh uh something in my heart and I wanted to go to church. Nobody called me all day Saturday. Uh Dennis you need to go to church tomorrow. You're saved now Nobody did any of that to me. Down inside my heart, the Holy Spirit of God, I wanted to go to church. I hadn't been in church in years. And I wanted to go to church. I got there. There was two fellows, Arden Musselman and Terry Wilcox Now I'm nineteen years old. I'm fresh out of drugs and drinking and all that garbage. I'm fresh out. This is 1979. I've got hair down over my shoulders. It's true I did have hair at one point in my life. All the you girls would have loved my hair. Oh, it was silky and shiny and I had long hair down over my shoulders. I had a I had a polyester shirt that I wore. I got dressed up water uh dress uh uh just uh shiny black polyester and polyester bell bottoms. This is I was going to church. It was I was awesome, I'm telling ya. I mean it was it was John Travolta. You you and not only that, but I walked in the church, I had uh anybody here ever wear platform shoes? Anyone remember uh this is you guys are so young you don't remember platform shoes were amazing. I mean that high. walking in there. I come walking in the church, my hair, you know, and it's all dressed up like Saturday night, you know, fever, and I'm walking in there. And um there's two guys in that church, Arden Musselman and Terry Wilcox They saw me come in there and they said, this guy is different than everybody else. And those guys came over me and latched onto me and they said, what's your name? Introduced themselves And they befriended me and they took me under wing, and I thank God for those two men. I don't know whatever happened to them, I don't know where they're at. But they took me under wing and they loved me, they taught me What it means to be a Christian, how to memorize verses, uh, just all these different aspects of the Christian life. And one thing they taught me was this The importance of every day spending time with the Lord. Every day with an open Bible and prayer. And I'm telling you, that has been the great blessing of my life for 43 years now. Um one of the most important aspects of our spiritual growth is our pr is our personal and daily devotions. I'm here to tell you the devil makes it never takes a day off. The devil is at it. One thing I admire about the devil is he never quits. He doesn't take vacation, he doesn't take a day off I like to take a day off from work every when I can occasionally and uh but the devil never takes a day off And we have got to spend time every day with God. Do you know this whole world never takes a day off? This world's trying to influence you and me. This world wants me to adapt its values. This world wants me to conform to its priorities. This world wants me to conform to its principles it lives by. Pleasures that get in this world's pressure is there constantly from the moment you get up in the morning till the mo minute you go to bed at night This world is after you, the devil is after you, and on top of that we have within us an old sinful nature. How many people know what I'm talking about when I say that old sinful nature? There's something in us that wants to do wrong. There's something in our very nature that we see something on the television and we know it's not right. And there's something down inside us that says, oh yes, look at that There's something in us that when a friend tells us to steal a Snickers bar oh ouch. But uh and then w and then say that temptation We have all this going against us. We have all this going against us. We have got to get alone with God to help us stand against the devil, the world, and this old sinful flesh. It's vitally important. It's vitally important. Personal and daily devotion. I have people come in my office, and I'm sure you other fellows preachers do and working with young people, I have people come off and say, oh preacher, I got all these problems Sometimes it's marriage situation. Oh, we're just it's terrible. One of the first questions I ask somebody who was going through all kinds of problems and messing up or they said one of the first questions I ask them is this, let me ask you this. Do you spend time every day with the Lord, reading your Bible, praying? And without exception, every single one of them whose life is messed up, without exception, they say this to me, you know, preacher, it's not what it ought to be. Not reading that Bible like I should. You know I found Christians that are victorious and walking with God and and uh excited and victory over sin. I ask them, hey, how's your how's your daily devotions going? And every one of them will say this, Oh, Lord's blessing. I'm eating it up, boy. I spend that time every day and God speaks to my heart and God helps me. The difference between victory and defeat in your Christian life is what is what you're going to do with this book right here. That old Bible. And I'm telling you, whether you're a new Christian, whether you got saved last week or you got saved when you were five. You need to get in that book on a daily basis and spend time with God reading and praying over the Bible. It's the difference between success and failure in your Christian life. It's impossible to be a growing victorious Christian without daily devotions. And I thank God for the preaching last night. That was powerful. My heart was stirred. I went home and I I read before I go to bed and I bowed my head and I said, Thank you, Lord, for what you did tonight in this service. And now today's a new day, and I'm praying that God will help just one or two young people establish a lifelong habit of spending some time every day reading your Bible and praying. And by the way, uh not just young people need that, o adults need that. Preachers need that. No preacher one time says, Well, I don't read my Bible. I don't have daily devotions. I just study the Bible for sermons and that's where I got it. That guy's a knucklehead. Preachers need to spend time with the Bible in God's Word. Youth pastors, youth workers. We all need it. Let me give you a few points here, just real quick. And uh I'll get at. Number one, here's the first suggestion I write down write down. My daily devotions must be directly focused on the Word of God Directly focused on the Word of God. Everybody doing alright? Everybody good? How many people got some sleep last night? Alright, every uh let me let's do this. Everybody, look at the person beside you, right now, look at the person beside you and repeat after me. Say I'm glad I don't look like you. Praise the Lord for that Daily devotions must be focused on the Word of God. Hey, we give out little we give out little devotionals. So our our teens have a devotional book they get at the beginning of the year. We give out to our children a little devotional book we we order. Um I forget what's called Glow or something like that Uh we give out to uh uh the adults. We have Baptist bread, little devotional, has a little story in there, a little poem, uh an illustration, read a verse. How many people know what I'm talking about? There's a little booklet you read, and there's a little story about somebody and Little verse there, and they're fine, they're wonderful, but don't ever let a little booklet like that replace the reading of the Word of God. Don't read about what people say about God's word. Read God's word. Read the Bible. And when you have daily devotions, just zero in. Look what he says here in Psalms. He says His delight is in the Baptist bread. No. His delight is in keen, uh, what's it called? The devotional His delight is in PTM. No, it says his delight is in what? The law of the Lord. Now, is there anything wrong with these little devotionals? No, they're a great supplement. But they must not be a substitute for the Word of God. And so every young person, these young ladies here, these guys over here, in the back, up front here, every one of you, you ought to have your own Bible. By the way, you ought to write your name in your Bible so when you leave it at church, we know who to give it to. And we know who's not reading their Bible when they leave it at church. You ought to have your own Bible and you ought to read directly into the Bible yourself every day. God told Joshua, this book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth. And so you need to read the Bible to read the Bible. Thank God for these little devotional eights. Let me give you some suggestions on reading the Bible. Number one, be practical Say, oh, bless God, God stirred my heart at Western Maryland Youth Conference, and I'm going to read 75 chapters every day. That'll last about one day That's not very practical. Get a system. Pick it out what you can read in a practical manner. Maybe it's just a chapter or two. But just a little bit. But be practical about it. A doable plan that helps you. Sometimes I hear preachers get up, bless God, and I'm all for it. I'm not criticizing this in remotely I get up at four o'clock every morning, I read my Bible till five, and then I pray till nine, and praise God, I'm all for that. If you can do that, do that. But maybe if you're just starting out, how about read a chapter Get started with. And as you grow and you add to that, God leaves you. Praise the Lord, do it. But uh but be practical. Number two, I put this down. Be systematic What do you mean by that? I mean don't just be Helder Skelder in your Bible reading. You know, sometimes just like, well, uh what do I read today? All right, I'll just read this. You heard about the guy He says, Oh, I need to know God's will. I'm gonna read it. So he went like this, and he just took his Bible and he went, poop, all right, and he read that. And the verse said this. And Judas went out and hanged himself. I don't know. So he said, uh, that didn't work, I'll try again. He said that. And he opened it up. Mmm And it said, the verse said, Go thou and do likewise. What in the world? Anyway, so I'll try it one more time. It did this. He went, shh. He looked down. The verse said, What thou doest do quickly. Uh listen, that's not a good idea to read your Bible that way. What you need to do is get a system. Can I offer some suggestions? One thing I do, I've done this for decades. is I read one chapter of Proverbs that matches that day's date. This morning I read Proverbs chapter 1. It's October 1. Tomorrow I'll read Proverbs chapter 2 because tomorrow will be October 2. On Monday, I'll read Proverbs chapter 3 because that will be October chapter But October the third. How many people you follow me? Have you got it? That's a way to start I'm telling you, one of the best things a young person can do is learn the book of Proverbs. It is directed to young men Solomon writing to his son, he says uh about fifteen times, My son, my son, my son, my son, my son, my son. Now there's principles there for ladies, but it's a good my wife when she was a teenager, your age, she decided she was going to learn the book of Proverbs. She got a strongest concordinate. She got her King James Bible. She looked up every word in the book of Proverbs through her through teen years, wrote out the meanings. I'm telling you, that's one way to start. Read a chapter from the book of Proverbs. Another way is read through the book of Psalms. Read a chapter or a page or two. Sometimes it's better to go by Sometimes it's better to go by a number of pages rather than the number of chapters. Do you ever notice some chapters are like three verses long, other chapters 175 verses long, you know? So sometimes go by pages, but get a system. Talk to your youth pastor. Talk to your pastor. There's a good system you can read there. At some point, every Christian ought to read their Bible, the whole Bible, through. At some point, maybe not start off, maybe start the book of Mark, maybe the Gospel of John. It's a good place to start. Read a chapter, read a page or so. But something, get God's word in your head and heart every single day. Some point. And do it systematically. Do it systematically. Do it practically. Something that you can actually do. And then do it thorough. And like I said, at some point read through that whole Bible. I wonder, don't answer, but I'd be curious how many people have ever read the book of Habakkuk. This morning I read uh Nahum in my devotions. You say Nahum? I don't even know that sounds like a disease. What in the world is that? It's a book in the Bible. It's powerful. Read Micah. It's required of thee. Do justly and love mercy and and uh what was the other one? Uh walk humbly with thy God. I read that this morning. And so, uh, when you have your daily devotions, uh focus directly on the Word of God. How many people here have a Bible? You own a Bible? Raise your hand. How many people do not have a Bible and you're in your possession? You do not have a Bible at your house, anywhere at all, you don't own a Bible. I was going to say, we'll give you one But you need to read the Bible. Number two, put this down. First of all, focus on the Word of God practically, systematically, thoroughly. Number two, your daily devotions must be daily and scheduled Look what he says there in uh where are you at? In Joshua or in Proverbs? Where are you at? Go to Joshua. Flip over there. Look what he says. This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein. Day and night. Psalms he says, his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. God's instructions in the Word of God is that we are to meditate in the Word of God day and night. Now I think the best time to have your daily devotions in the morning. First thing when you get up First thing I do, crawl to bed, very first thing I do is I read Proverbs for that morning. Then I get up and drink coffee and I become conscious. Uh do a few things, clean up a little bit, then I'll sit down and I'll read my main part of devotions. And uh but day and night, day and night, day and night, day and night Years ago, God stirred my heart. I was studying this. God stirred my heart, you know? He says day and night Can I throw a little suggestion out there for you? You get up in the morning, read some of the Bible. Make that the bulkier devotions. But before you go to bed at night, Have that Bible right there and just stop before you turn the light off and just read a little bit more before you go to sleep at night. He says, day and night, day and night. And the promise of prosperity and success is to those who meditate day and night. And I've claimed that promise. I've told God, I don't know how many times, God, you promised that if I meditate in your word day and night, you give me good success. And you would prosper. Now, prosper doesn't mean be rich, material, but it does mean prosper spiritually. And I'm here to tell you, God is good. And God keeps his word and you want the blessings of God on your life and you want to end up with a good spouse, a good husband, a good wife, you end up with a ministry or way to serve God and God uses you to reach people. One thing you have got to get in place is spending time every day in the Word of God, because that's the only way He promises that He will send good success and prosperity. So read that. Schedule that every day. Put it down. Schedule it in there. Let me give you another one here, real quick. I'm not going to be able to give them all. Number three, I wrote this down. Daily devotions must be deliberate and digested. You gotta think about this a little bit. Look what he says there. This book of law shall not depart thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein. He says the same thing in Psalm chapter 2: Meditate, meditate What does it mean to meditate? It's not this, home, you know, sit in a low disposition, home. That's not meditation. That's weird. Meditation, the word meditation simply means this, to mutter something. What's it mean when somebody mutters something They're just oh no mom make me do this, uh yeah. You're just saying it over and over, uh my sister's stupid and uh she's doing this and my So the word meditate means to mutter or utter something over and over and over in your mind. And this is the idea. I read a little bit of the Bible. Man, I there's man that teaches me something about God. And I think about that through the day. I just think about, huh, yeah, that's true. Oh yeah, hmm how about that And I just think about it, think about, think about. And you'd be amazed. You get in go out throughout the day, you're in school or whatever, out in the ball field or something. Boy, that verse comes back to mind, helps you. It's amazing. Uh the word meditate is has the idea I worked on a farm when I was twelve years old. I got a job working on a farm. We m we milked 42 head of cow every morning, every night. Had to milk the cows And um and uh I know I learned something about cows when I worked there. They would go out and we'd milk them, then we'd send them out in the pasture for the day. And they'd be out there and uh one of the first things they would do when they got out there is they'd walk around and they'd just crop off all this grass that's out in the meadow and they're just cropping it off and swallowing it, cropping it off and man just gorging themselves. I thought, Good night, these aren't cows, they're pigs. And uh they're just eating all this stuff, eating this up. Then, after a little while, I'd look out and they'd be out laying underneath a big oak tree They'd be down by the by the stream that went through the meadow there. They'd be sitting there. And if you look carefully at them, they'd be sitting there going like this. Anybody ever see them just chewing on that? I thought, what are they chewing on? They got bubblegum? What uh what this And I learned something about cows. Did you know that cows have more than one stomach? They get a whole slew of them. And they eat that crop, that that grass off, that foo that grass off, and they swallow it down into stomach number one. And it sets there a little bit, then later on they relax, they're sit down, and they they regurgitate, they and it comes back up And they chew it again. They sit there and they chew that and they get all the nourishment out and they just kind of chew it. They vomit it. Uh uh this is really gross. Um D'ye ever do that? You eat like chili or something before you go to bed and then at night you wake up and never mind. Um But what he's saying is what God wants you and I to do is spend a little bit of time in the morning, read that Bible, get in my heart. And then throughout the day, bring that back to mind. Bring that back to mind. You know what? I've noticed it makes a difference. in my life if I spend time in the morning with God and if I don't. I'm telling you, I've been doing this a little while. I can stand Back there on Sunday mornings, when folks are coming to church, I'll stand back by those doors there and I greet everybody when they come in. I try to greet everybody They're walking across that parking lot. I'm telling you, I can tell. Sometimes I can tell who spent time with the Bible this past week and who didn't I can tell who's been watching news and stuff like that. They come in all mad. Oh ready to kill everybody. I hate liberals. You know, make America great again. You know. And I'm praise the Lord, I'm all for it. But then you watch, there's someone walking in and they got a smile on their face. There's peace in their heart. Is the joy of the Lord there? Praise the Lord. They got a song in their heart. They're happy. I say, that guy's been spending time with the Lord. That guy's been listening to the world. I'm all for being up on the news. Don't misunderstand. But I tell you, this world's not my home. I'm just passing through. And I want to hear from heaven. I want to hear from heaven. A whole lot of other things your pastor can give you ideas on how to have those daily devotions, but I hope you'll determine this morning, if you'll just spend time every day reading that Bible. Praying to the Lord. When I uh I traveled, when I was in Bible college, I traveled two summers as an evangelist, youth evangelist. We did youth rallies all over the country. And I just started dating my wife about a year before my second year I traveled, and we kind of knew that we were going to get married. We knew where the Lord was leading. And we were allowed one letter That a week when I was traveling, that's all they were allowed. They didn't want us distracted with 25 letters from our girlfriend every day. So we're allowed one letter. Oh, I couldn't wait to get that letter. We'd show up at the new church. I'd say, you got any uh any mail here for me by chance? And they said, oh yeah, there's a letter here, and they bring it out. First thing I did was Perfume. She would put perfume all over that thing. This is my wife, Kathy, now. She'd put perfume. I said, oh. So I'd get alone, I'd tear that thing open very carefully. Shh Pull it out. I flip that open. Dear Dennis. I miss you. And she'd say stuff like, You are so intelligent. You're so good looking. I miss seeing your handsome face. That's why I married her. She's very insightful. Very insight. And she would tell me all what's going on, tell me that she loves me, ask me how I'm doing You know what this book is? That's a love letter, not from a girlfriend, but it's the love letter from the God that created you. God wants to speak to you. He wants to tell you every day how much he loves you. He wants to tell you every day what he thinks about you and what he expects and how to avoid these things. One last illustration, I'll own with this. I was youth pastor in Indianapolis for four years, back in the eighties And um one night there was a fellow in the church, very dignified man. He was probably my age or a little older at that time. I was 27. He would have been mid to late 60s Very dignified man. He dressed sharp as a tack. Drove a nice car. Wealthy man. Very successful businessman. And I mean he conducted conducted himself just sharp. Everything about him was sharp. He had silver hair, dressed to the T, nice car. He always came by himself. He comes Sunday morning, Sunday night. Never talk to people much, just sat back around where this brother is here One Sunday night the preacher preached, I don't remember what he preached on, but he gave the invitation, folks came. And this man Came out of that aisle and he made a beeline to the altar right over here at the church then, but it was on the right side over here. And my responsibility as youth pastor, I was to be down front and help direct the counseling And he was a fellow, he's a man in church, and so he was praying, I didn't think, and I heard this sobbing. I looked over and this dignified man was at the altar, and I mean sobbing. So I went over and I knelt down beside him. I said, brother, I said, can I pray with you? He couldn't hardly answer. I prayed. I said, what's going on? Is there something I can help? And he collected himself and he said, when I was a teenage boy, 15 years old, God called me to preach. I know it. God called me to preach. And he said I said no. And he said, I gave my life to make money and be a successful businessman, and I made money, and I've been a successful businessman. And then he said this, but my life has been a failure. I've missed God's call on my life. I've wasted my life. You know, I feel bad for people that all they have is money. All they have. This man missed out. I'll tell you, if you establish That habit of every day spending time with God. You'll let Him. God will lead you and direct you. And you don't have to miss God's will for your life. And God can and will use you in great, great ways. But you've got to learn to walk with God. And part of that is spending time every day in the Bible. Will you do that? Will you decide today if you mean business, if your spiritual life means anything to you Well, you make a commitment that I'm going to establish a daily habit of spending time in my Bible. My daddy died two and a half years ago, March of 2020. The day he died, the day well I should say the day they took him to the hospital, he never came out. The day he took him, last day he was conscious, I should say. That morning I have his Bible. He read his Bible that morning, and he wrote in a little journal what verses he read. Last thing my daddy read before he went to heaven was the Bible. I want to challenge you to give your life to the Word of God. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless us and help us now. Lord, if just this one thing we could take away, I believe it'd be life-changing. Could save a young man, a young lady from a lifetime of heartache. We just learned to walk with you, heads bowed, eyes closed, and that's all I'm going to do. But I wonder how many would say, Preacher Leatherman I'm not reading that Bible like I should, maybe not at all. But you say if God will help me by God's grace, I want to establish that habit. And start reading my Bible every day. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I need to do that. God bless you, men and ladies. I want to get that down. Start reading that Bible like I should. That could be the thing That changes your life. Father bless the young people, I pray in Jesus' name, Amen