Um I want you to turn to two passages to begin with that are not my text, okay? And I I'm just gonna kind of get the verses in your mind. One is Isaiah 42, if you had turned there quickly Isaiah chapter forty two And uh in Isaiah 42, we have um a prophecy that Jesus quotes, at least verse 1 through 3. in as recorded in the Gospel of Matthew. And you'll see that it uh you'll many of you will recognize most of these words. He said in verse 1, Behold my servant whom I have Hold, mine elect in whom my soul delighteth, I put my spirit upon him, and he shall bring forth judgment to the Gentiles A prophecy that is fulfilled upon the person of Jesus Christ when he said, He shall not cry, nor lift up his, nor lift up, nor cause his voice to be heard in the street A bruised reed shall he not break, and the smoking flax shall he not quench. He shall bring forth judgment unto truth. Now there's a lot I'd like to say about that, but that would be a sermon unto itself. I want you to look in verse 4, one that escaped me for, well, too long. Pay attention to the familiar part and just went right over verse 4 for too long. Look in verse 4. Here's what it also says about the coming Messiah. He was about 800 years away when Isaiah made this prophecy. He said, he shall not fail, nor be discouraged. Till he have set judgment in the earth, and the isles shall wait for his law. Now what really got my attention was he shall not fail. I'd never thought of this in relation to Jesus. He shall not fail, nor be discouraged. And so I did a little word research, you know, and I found that the word their fail has to do with he shall not faint, he shall not lose heart. He shall not give up. He shall not fail. The purpose for which he comes is not going to fail. The work that his father gives him to do, he's not going to faint and not get it done. Is everybody with me here? Yeah, I mean that's good stuff right there. You could just stop right here and throw a fit. But now look in verse number four. He shall not fail nor be discouraged. I've never thought of Jesus in terms of discouragement Now when we think of discouraged, um okay, I'll speak for myself. When I most often think of discouraged, um I think of Numbers chapter 21, when the people, as they passed through the wilderness journey, were much discouraged because of the way. They were much discouraged because of the way. And there it has to do with sort of the same as Fael. They were losing heart. They had no heart to keep following Moses. In fact When they got that discouraged, they said, We want to get us a captain, impeach Moses, get us somebody else, and take us back to the land of Egypt. And that would have been to faint, to give up, to fail But this discouraged doesn't mean that. This discouraged means he shall not fail nor be discouraged. And the word that we have for discouraged here, this word has to do with he's not going to come apart. He is not going to come to pieces or come apart. Now, you say, okay, thank you. What's the big deal? Well, I'm going to show you a little bit. Alright, so now keep that in mind, and I'll I'll call it to your attention. We're not going to turn back to Isaiah, but go to Mark chapter 3, and this isn't my text either, but I just want to show you something here in Mark chapter 3 Because this has everything in fact this is Mark's account of the account we're going to read in Matthew in just a moment. Alright? But there's something I got to point out here, and I prefer to use the other Matthew's account to preach from. In verse 20 of Mark 3 said, And a multitude cometh together again, so that they could not so much as eat bread. So remember last night we were talking about the uh great multitudes? Remember those of you that are here last night, great multitudes And I mentioned how that as you read through the Gospels, it is as though the multitudes are coming to Jesus like the waves come to shore. It's like they just keep coming and keep coming and keep coming. And so here the multitudes, it is stated, uh they came in such a manner that they, Jesus and his disciples, could not so much as eat bread. There wasn't any other the demand was so heavy they could not so much as take time to eat. And verse 21, and when his friends heard of it, they went out to lay hold on him. on Jesus, for they said he is beside himself. Now, if you did your own study, and I invite anyone to do this, when it says he is beside himself, That's the very thing that Isaiah said would not happen. He will not come apart. He will not come to pieces. He will never be beside himself. Now come on, we all know what beside their for somebody what it is to be beside them, I soul. They just they were beside themselves And it means if you study the words out and everything like I have, then you'll see that it just simply means what you think. They've lost it. They've gone berserk That and that's what it means. And so his friends heard of it and they went out to get a hold of him. Why? Because they heard and said he is beside himself. He's lost it. He's come apart. He's fallen apart and because of the multitudes and the constant demand. Now here's what I want to show you there. And if I I'm not going to take time to do it, but if you go on and read the rest of this chapter You'll see clearly that this is simply Mark's account of where we're going to read in Matthew in just a moment, which is our text. Go back to verse 21. See the word friends? The word friends. Now, um uh Pastor uh Letterman and I have known one another for a time. Uh but that's the most time we've ever easily got this fiend together and have fellowship and I told my wife on the phone last night, I said uh I've always appreciated Brother Leatherman the few times I've met him or Uh when I was here for the sword meeting, we didn't get to spend much time, but I like him. Come on, a Christian gentleman, a servant of God, a man of God, that's evident. Amen? And so I would have counted him as a friend. But now the time we spent together and the fellowship we've had and and uh the including some laughs and some serious talks as well I would say I'm I have no hesitation to say Pastor Dennis Leatherman is a friend of mine. And that means we share a lot of things in common, and we really do, a lot of things in common and we have fellowship together, there's communion there together, you know, and I would call him a uh a friend. I would not hesitate if I had a need to call upon him. I believe that he is the kind of friend that would do what he could. So we're friends. But that's not what he's talking about here. The friend here, and I'm not big into Greek and everything, but I am big into searching out words to make sure we get the fullest of meanings uh possible, at least with my limited abilities in the language, and language is, then I want to get the most I possibly can. And the term friends here And the definition of it, and especially in this context, demands a kinship to one. So these would have been Jesus' kinfolk Those that are like blood relatives. See? And that's what he's talking about there. And what what does this say? Well he had some relatives, some kinfolk. Some that cared for him that um went out to lay hold on him because they heard of all the pressure that was upon him. And they said, uh, he's he's lost it. He's gone over the deep end. He has maybe having a breakdown, that type of thing. And uh I I could prove it, but I'm just gonna prove it out of Matthew twelve, and that's actually our text. Can you believe we're already there? So Matthew chapter twelve. And I want you to look down in verse 46, and how about we stand and honor the Word of God and read it together? Matthew chapter 12. Again, this is Matthew's account of what Mark was doing. If by reason of physical need you need to remain seated, it is not a problem. But look in verse 46. While he yet talked to the people Behold, his mother and his brethren stood without desiring to speak with him. And by the way, Mark 3, his mother and his brethren are identified as the ones that came as well. So just make that clear. While he had talked to the people, behold his mother and his brethren stood without, desiring to speak with him. Then one said unto him, Now Jesus is doing what? Talking to the people. Then one said unto him, Behold, thy mother and thy brethren stand without, desiring to speak with thee. But he answered and said unto him, that told him, Who is my mother? And who are my brethren? And he stretched forth his hand toward his disciples and said, Behold, my mother and my brethren. For whosoever shall do the will of my Father which is in heaven, the same is my brother and sister and mother. Thank you, Father, for those who have deemed it good and right to turn aside, many after a hard day's work, to come and give attention to the Word. And I do thank you for the opportunity that has been mine to assemble with Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church since Sunday morning, and it's been a delight to my own soul. And we are thankful for how you have met with us, but we acknowledge we need the working of your Holy Spirit anew and afres. What has been done in the past will not suffice for the needs that are present now and how you would speak to us through your words. So we acknowledge our utter dependence upon you. Your son Jesus said, Without me, ye can do nothing. And we acknowledge that that is true. So we call upon you and ask you to bless. Bless our time, bless our the kind of attention we give, bless how we heed to what we hear from your word, and I pray that your will indeed may be accomplished in the service tonight. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Thank you. God bless you. May be seated. I'm going to uh make a a uh proposition here tonight. That if you and I took the Gospels and took the words of Jesus regarding the family, some of the words of Jesus regarding the family. And we took them out here to the general public, let's say to those that would be basically unlearned, not that familiar with the scripture. And uh and unbelieving and I use that because that's how Paul said w it's possible that could happen uh when they come into the assembly in 1 Corinthians 14 that the unlearned and the unbelieving came in So I thought, well, if that's what Paul said about the outside world that is not in the assembly, that there are many that are unlearned and unbelieving, then I think that's a safe thing to say And we went to them and we said to them, Let me read you the words of Jesus about the family. And then we read them this account. Or we read them. Turn back to Matthew 10. I mean, it's right handy there. Don't lose Matthew 12 because we're coming back there. But Matthew 10. Look in verse number 34. And I'm not going to turn to all the possibilities. I'm just going to, for the for the sake of expediting the matter, show you verse 34 and down, where he says, Jesus said, Think not that I am come to send peace on earth. That'd mess up a lot of people's mind right there, wouldn't it? Just ruin the Christmas season for a lot of people, wouldn't it? Well, that went over good too. I've had a lot of things go over good. But anyway, look at verse thirty four. Think not that I am come to send peace on earth. I came not to send peace, but a sword For I am come to set a man at variance against his father, and the daughter against her mother, the daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law, and a man's foes. shall be of their uh of his own household. And he that loveth father or mother more than me is not worthy of me, and he that loveth son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me And so Jesus said, if you're going to follow me, you love me more than father, mother, son, daughter. And if you don't, you're not worthy of me. Now what do you think the unlearned and unbeliever would think about that? Or if we went to Luke, which we won't, and where Luke records it, where Jesus said, Except a man hate his father And his mother and his brother and his sister and his children said that Jesus said that Now somebody said, that's something that bothers me. What do you mean? Hate your father and your mother and your brother and your sister. Uh he certain uh certainly didn't put much value upon the family. Now let's not get ridiculous. Come on, somebody help me out here Because the family is in existence because of him. My Bible says that God made everything that he made by his Son, Jesus Christ. By him were all things created. Without him was not anything made that was made And so we understand that before there ever was a kingdom or a nation, and before there ever was a church, there was the family, and it was instituted, ordained by God. And of course we understand that there is a great deal of struct instruction in the Bible about uh the family and how a biblical or a godly family is to be played out So the bottom line I'm trying to say is that the Bible places incredibly great value upon the family. And so no nation is going to be what it could be if there are not strong families, and no congregation, no church can be what it is supposed to be without strong families, and that's just a reality and that's a fact So then somebody says, well, what is the answer to this? I mean, there are some people that are aghast when uh they read where uh Jesus was on the cross and and uh No, I'm sorry. He was at his first miracle in the marriage of Cana, and his mother came to him and said, They have no wine for the marriage. They have no wine And remember Jesus' answer? Yes, thank you, Mother. I will take care of that immediately. Well, that's not what he said. He said, woman, and right there is offensive to some people I love to call my wife woman just to watch the reaction of some other women. But I married a woman. I've had people call her a guy. Hi guys, I didn't marry a guy, I'll guarantee you that for sure I married a woman. But anyway, nonetheless, let's go back there. Jesus said, Woman, what have I to do with thee? Mine hour is not yet come. And there are people that say, how could he possibly talk to his mother that way? And some would conclude, unlearned and unbelieving, conclude, that he doesn't place much value on the family Which is absurd because he goes right on to say, when he is at the cross of Calvary, he says to John, John, behold thy mother. And said to his mother, Behold thy son. And so did he care about her? Well, absolutely he cared about her Well somebody said, what is the answer to that anyway? Hate your father and mother if you don't love me more than father and mother, brother, sister, you're not worthy of me. Woman, what have I to do with thee? Mine hour is not yet come Then we read over here where Jesus said, who is my mother and who are my brethren? I mean, does he place no value on the family? Well, let me just put it to you this way That if if we understand the passage that is before us, then we understand the other passages that might raise the question in our mind. Because the answer here, and is the answer that Jesus gives, not one I've concocted, it's the answer Jesus gives And uh if we understand the meaning here and the answer here, then we understand that also as the answer to the other passages that may cause people to have a question mark. How could he say that And by the way, I have to say to you that oftentimes when you read about the word hate, uh when Jesus said hate your father, mother, brother, sister It it absolutely does not mean this detestability to grit your teeth, destroys and hate that individual. That's not what it's talking about at all. It's like when the Bible says that Jacob loved Uh Rachel and hated Leah. Do you remember that? That's what the Bible says. He loved Rachel and hated Leah So so I said, poor guy, got tricked by old Laban and and wound up married to Leah, and he hated the woman. Well, it just means he didn't love her. Like he loved Rachel. That's why he says, no, I thought it meant he really hated her. Well, uh, he had six children by her. So he didn't hate her too bad That went over good too, but it's the truth, you know. I I I'm I'm just saying it doesn't mean that I despise I hate you, you miserable woman. You know, that wasn't what it was about. But his love for Rachel was such that it would have been called hating her. And when it says love father, mother, brother, or uh yeah, love me more than father, mother, brother, sister, or hate the father, mother, brother, sister, same context, same idea is in mind. Our devotion to Jesus ought to be that way Right, now let's look at our account here and understand that in Matthew chapter 12, more than that, if this space in Jesus' public life and his ministry There are three things that were taking place, as recorded in Matthew chapter 12, and you'll find it in Mark and Luke as well. There were three things that were taking place that made his kinfolk, his friends. Turns out it's Mary and her sons that came. Yes, Mary had children after Jesus was born. But nonetheless, uh, what was it that was taking place? Well, in Jesus' public ministry it was a time of high demand. And as I mentioned and as it's stated in the Gospel of Mark, uh there was such stress upon them and demand upon them they could not so much as eat bread at times. And so they couldn't there was no normalcy about their schedule because the uh presence of the multitudes and bringing the sick and the afflicted and the diseased and the And the demon possessed and bringing all of these people so that Jesus might heal them and deal with them. Bringing them, it it just came and it was a time of high demand. And he gave and he gave and he gave and he gave and he gave. And he did. And somebody said, Yes, we need God made manifest in the flesh, it wouldn't affect him the same way. Are you reckoning? That's not what the Bible says You know, at one time when that woman came and touched the hem of his garment, and he said, Who is it to touch me? Because virtue has gone out of me And so we have to understand that Jesus, who came, God made manifest in the flesh, had ever been a man. And he was a man. He is the man. There's one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. And so Jesus came and humbled himself. and became in the form of a servant. And when Jesus came, he knew what it was to take that trip where he must go needs go through Samaria and stay at Jacob's well and sit there because he was weary. That's what the Bible says And then it states that he was a thirst and he wanted food. Uh uh he wanted drink rather For his thirst. So we have to understand that while he was every bit God, he had the well, tempted in all points, like as we are. And yet without sin, the Bible says. And so here is Jesus under demand. Now, I don't claim to know anything like what Jesus knew. But I can tell you this, and so can this pastor and others that are in this room and not just preachers, but people that are serious about serving and being a blessing. and ministering to people and trying to be a help to them. You can give and give and give until after a while you just got to take a little break and step back and catch your breath because you can become drained. You can become totally exhausted. Yes. And I mean I know that's a possibility. I'm not going to give any stories or personal illustration, but I happen to know that is entirely possible. Not because you you're weak or frail or not man enough to take it It's just that you give of yourself and give it yourself and give of yourself and give of yourself and give of yourself. And pretty soon your body starts talking back to you saying I ain't giving anymore And I'm not going. See? And so I've got a story going through my mind right now, but I don't want to spare you that. I'm just saying. And so Jesus was under this demand And the people just kept coming by the multitudes and kept coming and kept coming and kept coming. It was a time of high demand. Secondly, it was a high time of strong opposition. There was strong opposition against Jesus. If we took time to go through the account, they were opposing Jesus and they the Pharisees said that Jesus, ah, we got you. We've got you now. We saw your disciples in the cornfield and they plucked the grain and they put it in their mouth and they ate it on the Sabbath day. You've broken the Sabbath. Well Jesus didn't break the Sabbath. He is the Lord of the Sabbath. But he broke the traditions that they passed down and that they continued to expand upon. He broke the traditions of the Jews. uh on the Sabbath day. And I happen to believe he did that on purpose just to show them. Do you see your problem? That you have more regard for the Sabbath Tradition that is being passed to you from one generation of scribes and elders to another, you have more regard for the tradition than what Moses wrote. That's still a danger. And to 21st century Christianity, that's a danger. And we have to be careful of that. We want to say what the Bible says, but we'll get ourselves in a heap of trouble saying more than what the Bible says. And adding some great preacher, some well-known creature, some great individual that everybody esteems great, and because he said it, they take it for law. We was talking about some of that today, and they just uh take it as though it's the word of God. Now hold on just a second. There makes it Great men, and I'm thankful for men that have been an influence of my life, but there's only one book I trust. There's only one book you ought to trust, and that's the Bible that we have before. So Jesus, they said, You have violated the Sabbath day, which he manifestly did not. Secondly, they said about Jesus, they said to him that he had a devil. So they were saying about the miracles that he were doing. Well, the obvious question is: if he's not the Son of God, how could he do all these miracles? And the Pharisees stumbled around, well, well Well, he's doing it in the power of the devil. Now what a brilliant conclusion come to. And Jesus blew it away, you know that, and he said, now you have a real problem. Because if the devil is casting out his own cohorts, if the devil is casting out demons, if he is doing that, isn't he working against himself And is it true that a divided kingdom is not going to stand? And so Jesus answered that. I mean it's utterly ridiculous, but they were grasping for straws to discredit him and so they were opposing him and they were telling people he has a devil. He does this in the power of be else above. That's what they said. And the third thing they came, and this is a this is a lulu too. They came and said to Jesus Show us a sign. And I'm thinking, show us a sign. What do you think all these multitudes are coming out here for? Because of the signs that Jesus has been doing. The sign of taking five loaves in two pieces and feeding five thousand men alone. Somebody say amen. Don't just sit there and look at me. I mean, come on And they're asking for a sign. And there are people all throughout the region. Because see, it wasn't just around the Sea of Galilee and the Sea of Capernaum where most of his mining works were done. These people were coming from everywhere. They were coming from Judea, they were coming from Galilee, they were coming from the other side of Jordan, they were coming from all the region roundabout. People were coming from everywhere and they just kept coming And obviously, incredibly, people were being healed and healed. You don't read anywhere where Jesus said, can heal you? I won't heal you. And so whoever was brought to him, it appears that he healed them. And so it was evident and obvious to everybody. And these knuckleheads have the audacity to say to Jesus, Show us a sign! When signs are walking and seeing and talking and hearing. Come on, friends. And lepers are cleansed and demons are cast out. And all of these things are taking place and they have the audacity to say, show us a sign, when signs are everywhere about them. And that was the kind of opposition coming against him. So high demand and serious opposition coming against him And so his mother and his brethren, who by the way, John 7, 5 says that at that time neither did his brethren believe in him. Now you might chew on that one a while. Those that were raised up in the same household as he was did not believe in him. And even we have to believe that Mary had her own struggle, else she wouldn't have thought that he's lost it. And he is beside himself. Because she is a party to this. It's a party. Don't say anything against Mary. I'm not attacking Mary. I'm just saying what's in the scripture here. That she came because she thought he is beside himself. Or he's come apart. But they somehow forgot that the prophecy was made upon this Messiah and upon this Christ, this anointed one, the prophecy was made that when he comes, there's one thing you don't have to worry about. You don't have to worry about him losing heart. You don't have to worry about him failing in the purpose for which he came. You don't have to worry about him breaking down because of the pressure. You will never hear him say, I can't take it anymore. I want out of this. That didn't happen. And it wouldn't happen. It was prophesied in the eternal wisdom and foreknowledge of God that that was not going to take place, but apparently they weren't sure of it because they're going to come now watch and lay hold on him Now, study that out of it, I'm not going to make a big deal out of it, but it just means they were they were they actually meant to come and take hold get a hold of him Like when Peter said that Jesus said, I'm going to go to Jerusalem and be delivered in the hands of the elders and the chief priests and the scribes, and I'm going to be killed. And Peter took him, same thing. Took him and said, This shall not be unto thee. And so they were going to come and lay hold of Jesus, not realizing that he should get away from it. They're going to help him and take him away from it. Say or to lay hold on. You know, really, um this has been my experience through life and I never was in the military, but I'd almost guarantee that all military men uh would know this, that when you are like a private uh and some higher uh high ranking officer or whoever's above you, uh when they give you an order and you don't like the order, you don't go get a hold of him and say, Now let me tell you something. Am I right or not? And I learned that with my dad. When my dad he gave me a lot of instructions I didn't agree with or didn't want to carry out. But I never got a hold of my dad and said, Now dad, let me tell you something right now. I don't ever remember doing that And if I would have, I wouldn't remember. I'd just gone. Yeah. But it's quite a thing, isn't it? They were pretty serious about this, that they would go and the the Bible language lay hold on him To deliver him from this situation. Alright, so I want you to get the scene. You know, use your imagination. Always use your imagination, but get the scene in your mind Jesus is talking to the people. There was a multitude of people there. And so this just stands to reason. The multitude is out here. That's you. And uh Jesus was talking to them. He was teaching. We know what he did. He taught, he preached, he talked to them. And so Jesus is in a prominent position. And let's say he would be right here and he is speaking to the multitudes. And then the Bible says that the disciples were with him. And so I'm going to say that the disciples are right here. So the multitude is out there, and Jesus is here. And and the disciples are up here. See the disciples up here? No, everybody's done. See, we're not leaving until everybody sees the disciples. See the disciples up here? Alright? So the disciples are up here. And the multitude is there and Jesus is teaching. And from I'm just kind of pointing that way for whatever reason, as he is speaking and as he is talking from way back there in that corner of that outdoor uh audience there, there's a voice that comes crying out. I mean this man has uh seen that this lady has come and he recognizes them apparently and says it's it i it's the mother of the master, it's the mother of the teacher And it's a brethren. Somebody says, how would he know? Well, you have to know. I mean, come on. We have to understand that they came from everywhere. For all we know, that guy was also from Nazareth And so he might have recognized them by whatever means. And he recognized them and he cries out to Jesus. He interrupts while Jesus is talking, thinking, no doubt, he is doing him a favor, and he cries out and he said, Behold! Uh uh Master, I need your attention just a minute. Behold, thy mother and thy brethren stand without here and desiring to speak with thee. And so maybe everybody would expect, and probably this wouldn't have been thought um Um it wouldn't have been thought rude or the wrong thing to do if Jesus would have said, Oh, well, listen Excuse me now for just a moment. We'll be back to talk to you. We'll finish the lesson or the message or whatever. But my mother is here. And uh I I must go speak to them. Don't you think that the multitude would have said, well sure, they came and they're there. Now see they came from Nazareth and they're up around Capernaum. And um for you and me, the way we travel to get in a Buick and drive uh from Nazareth to to uh Capernaum, it's not a big deal. The way they traveled is a nice little trip. And so they had gone out of their way to come there. And so it would have been expec acceptable that Jesus would say, Oh, oh, okay, I will go there. But I'm kind of the persuasion, how many of you are with me? He probably already knew they were there. I'm quite sure that he didn't need that information, but let's not get too hard on the on the guy because probably in my prayer time I've tried to give God information that would help him understand the position in how I wanted to answer that prayer. When he really didn't need me to give him any information, right? Or you. And so here the man says, they desire to speak with you. Now look down verse 48. Verse 48. But now right there it kind of tips us off that He may not answer them like everybody would expect. Okay? Now let me run that by again. He said, Behold, thy mother and thy brethren stand without desiring to speak with thee. But Come on, that tips us off. It lets us know, oh, the answer is going to be different than they expected. And I guess we should expect I found that in my own Christian life. I've taken matters to God, and like I said, giving the information, and it's just obvious how God ought to take care of what I'm asking him about. But he often doesn't work like I'm thinking. I don't know. Maybe there's something to that fact that his ways are higher than our ways. And his thoughts are higher than our thoughts. As the sky is above the earth, I'm just saying his thoughts are higher than ours, his ways are higher than ours. And so the answer to their uh appeal here is but And Jesus answered and said unto him that told him, Who is my mother? And who are my brethren? Now I have a question. Why are these mother and brethren there? Why are they there? They think he's beside himself. Well this answer ought to give them a lot of comfort, huh? Who is my mother? Well you think they all said, oh he's doing fine. He's doing fine No, you know, they had to think right about that time. Oh my, this is worse than we even imagined. Because when he was uh when formed that we are here What does he do but say, Who is my mother? You mean he is so succumbed to the pressure and the stress that is upon him that he is so come apart or come to pieces? You mean that he is so beside himself that he has even recognized and asked the question, who is my mother and who are my brethren? Now, you have to admit that Jesus' answer would cause a good deal more consternation than they came with. If he doesn't know who his mother is and he doesn't know who his brethren are, but it doesn't stop there Because when he asked that question, verse 49, he stretched forth his hand toward his disciples, and he said, Behold my mother. Okay. Uh I think you missed that. These are all disciples of him. And he said, Behold my mother. Now how do you think they're feeling about his state? Who is my mother? Oh, don't you know who my mother is? Here she is. And there's twelve scruffy guys standing there And and then he says, And these are my brethren when clearly they are not his brethren. The men that were also born of his mother were back there with his mother. And these men were not from Nazareth. They were from various places around. And some we have some identification, probably seven, from around the area of Galilee and uh others that were from here and from there. And as far as we know, none of them were from the city of Nazareth where he was raised. And where they were from. And he said, I want you to look at this now and see, this is my mother and this is uh these are my brethren. Boy, we sure need some help, don't we? We need some explanation here And Jesus gives it. He gives it. Verse fifty. Four. Four. Whosoever shall do the will of my Father, which is in heaven. The same is my brother and sister and mother. Now that's Jesus' answer And this isn't coming from someone that's lost it. This is from someone who has it very much together, as we might say This is someone who knows full well exactly what he is speaking about and what he is saying. And he is not minimizing their significance in his life. or their importance as family, neither is he minimizing the significance of anybody's family, uh, because he in uh he uh instituted the institution of the family himself, so he is not minimizing that at all Then, Brother Sam, what in the world is he doing? Well, if you look at verse fifty, it's very clear. He said, I have to tell you that whosoever shall do the will of my Father, which is in heaven. Now let's stop right there and just remember something about Jesus, shall we? That we learn from very early on, he is all about his father's will. I said he was just a boy about twelve years of age In the Gospel of Luke in chapter two, and they had been to Jerusalem and they're on their way back, and he's not there. Come on, you know the story. And they look for him, and after three days, I believe it was, they find him And when they find him, thy father and I, we have looked for thee, we've been troubled and we've been worried. And Jesus answers, What? What? Wis ye not that I must be about my father's business And Jesus made it known to but a child at twelve years of age, you need to understand this. I am about my father's business I am about my father's will. When he began his public ministry, he made it clear over and over. He said, I do only those things that please my father. He taught us to pray and the disciples to pray. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven And when Jesus said, Nevertheless, Father, let this cup pass from me, but nevertheless, not my will, but thine be done. Come on, friends, over and over the Bible shouts out to us and says Jesus is all about the Father's will. He came to do the Father's will. And he would not be deterred. And opposition wouldn't stop him, and criticism wouldn't stop him And threats wouldn't stop him. Come on. And the high demands upon him, nothing would stop him. The devil himself took him into the wilderness to be tempted Uh uh the Holy Spirit led him into the wilderness to be tempted of the devil, and the devil himself could not tempt Jesus in his weakest moment. He was more powerful than the adversary, the devil And let's rejoice in that because he did that on our behalf too. Let's not forget that. So he's all about the Father's will. I think we can do it like this. Let's look at it like this. In this and the other passages, Jesus is not suppressing the significance of things. But he is magnifying the relation that exists between him and those who like him are devoted to the Father's will. That's what he's doing. Right, he's the spirit speaks lowly to the family. No, that comes from ignorance He is not suppressing the significance of the family. I am commanded to honor my father and my mother. I am commanded in the Word of God to take heed And growing up as a boy, I was taught all of those things until my dad passed away in 1983 of cancer, my mother uh 2013 at the age of 96 from Just old age and dementia and such as that, till my mother passed away. It was my responsibility to show them love and to honor them all the way unto their death. We understand That children obey their parents. Come on. And read the book of Proverbs and read Colossians and Ephesians. And it's all in there about the regard for family. So never, never, never would Jesus say, that family doesn't matter. That is not I imagine not suppressing the significance of the family, but but magnifying Do you understand the kind of relationship that exists between me and any of you who like me live to do the Father's will? Jesus said there's a stronger relationship. relationship there than even. Amen. Amen. That's right. I don't care how that sounds to me. No, I'm not trying to be okay. I don't really care how that sounds. That's exactly what the Son of God says. And the relationship that exists between him and those who like him are devoted to do the Father's will. With their life. Then we enter in to a fellowship, a communion, of closeness with Jesus that's closer than Love him. Amen. Amen. That's it. You know what I'm saying? Sam Davison. No, hold on just a second. Jesus is my Savior. Jesus is God. Amen. Amen. Yeah. Um you see me, you see the Father. Jesus is Lord. Yes. Jesus is a friend He's a friend of sinners, how much more? Those that are his own sheep. Uh Jesus is my brother. Say why. He's my brother. I don't know if it'd be right to call him a brother. Well it's not right, unless he says it's right. I said, no. I was over. He plays it, John. Right. Hold on. These disciples up here, uh, they had a ways to go. Would you agree? Yes. They had a ways to go. So Jesus, as is often the case in the Word of God, was He wasn't necessarily seeing them for where they were then, neither was he putting a stamp of approval on where they were then, every one of them to a T, because some of them had some hard lessons to learn and one of them wasn't even saved And so when Jesus uh made the statement, behold my uh this is my mother and my brother and my sisters, this is my king folk, it's right here. These these are them And it wasn't because at that very moment they were so comprehending the big picture that they were totally devoted to the Father's will. Because after this they're going to get into some debate about who's the greatest Who's going to set one on the right hand and one on the left? Come on, you know they had their failures. Peter's going to deny that he knows the Lord and they're going to all forsake him and flee So they had a ways to go. But it's sort of like when God called Gideon. I don't mean to go off on another story, but when God called Gideon, this fearful man God said to him Ho thou mighty man of valor, he said by the angel, Ho thou mighty man of valor, and Gideon must have looked around and said, Reckon who's he's talking to, you know, couldn't be me But it was him. But God didn't just see him where he was. God saw what he was going to do with him and make him what he wanted him to be. And that's the same thing with his disciples Jesus knew them. He knew all men. He needed not that any should testify to him of man. And Pastor Jesus already knew what he's going to do with these men. what his teaching and what the Holy Spirit that they're going to receive is going to do for them. And he knew that there would be men there that would go all the way to death with him, though they looked like stumbling, stumbling weaklings at that particular time. He knew what was coming. And he said, because of their devotion to my Father's will, here's my family right here. And uh he said, Whosoever shall do the will of my Father which is in heaven, the same as my brother. Now here's an interesting thing. You know uh Romans eight twenty-eight, most of everybody knows, so we're great in Romans eight twenty-eight. And we should We said, we know that all things work together for good, and the man that loves God is the man who are to call it according to his purpose. Isn't that a great verse? I mean, come on. I know it's late and it's night and it's enough, neither do we have a lot of people. Come on, this is great stuff. And we know that all things work together for good to them above God to them who are called according to his purpose. Moreover, who needed uh let's see, moreover, who needed for know he also called okay, now I Moreover, whom he foreknew, he also nope, we gotta get it right. Romans 829, come on. Nobody's perfect. Okay, Romans 8. 29. For whom he did I did have it right. For whom he did for know he also did predestinate. Okay. For whom he did foreknow, he also, now watch this. For whom he did foreknow Don't talk about that on this guy. Oh, I've had 34 hours. Yes. It's gone. But that definitely bothers me. Amen. When we did one, they also did a destroy. Don't use my work. I don't have a drop of I'm in a drop of uh Calvinist blood in me. Here's what happened. He said, We did forego he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son. The day you got saved, God predetermined to be at work in your life like it would be at work in my life and in their lives to shape us and to conform us to the image of his son. And if you want to see how he does that, you might go study the matter of God chastening his own children, that we might be partakers of his holiness, or that we might be conformed in the image of his son. And so the verse says, for God we also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son. But the verse doesn't get there. It says that he might be who listened, that he might be Jesus might be The firstborn among many, somebody say, Brethren, brethren. Firstborn among many, brethren. Brothers, brethren. This is my beloved son, whom I am well pleased. Father, how pleased are you with your son? I am so pleased with my son that I want many. more like him. That he might be the firstborn among many brethren, his brethren. I'm still not sure that it's the right thing to say, but it behooved him to be made like unto his breath with him. Hebrews 2. 17, that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest. See this idea, hold on for a second, this idea of us being brought into a relationship. with our Lord and our Savior Jesus Christ. Our Redeemer Jesus Christ. God to us. I mean we sing about His deity We preached about his deity. Jesus is God. Come on saying that. He said, I am in fact I am. And Jesus said, before Abraham was I am. And all of that is the claim to God, his father, expressed. Read the first chapter of Hebrews. Jesus is God, expressed to man. Yes, sir. And yet Jesus said, our Savior, our Lord, our Redeemer, our God. He said, Well, you devote yourself to God. to my father's will, like I devoted myself to my father's will. And I take you into my brethrenhood. And my father wants you to be like me. He wants me to be the first For among many brethren, many more life. Amen. Understand why I struggle with service. Oh yeah. Yeah, she had understand my fast. Oh almost everybody has But then maybe Christ is uh old things the best way before all things to become? That's either true or it's not true. And And when we are born again by personal faith in Jesus Christ, we have into a new relationship. God is our Father. We are his children. Jesus is our brother. I don't know about being brought into relationship with a brother. Well, I just wondered what you read. in the Bible that makes you think that disciples today that would be standing up here that are committed to do the Father's will, why Jesus wouldn't say to them what he's what he what he why he wouldn't say to people now what he said to them then that are going to be devoted to his will. Here's my brethren. Here's my family right here. These are my brothers. If your self-esteem is down, then you ought to just stop for a moment and think how do you talk Our Father that's heart in heaven, you just called on the authority of God. You just called the God who is the high and lofty one. You just called him your Father. Because of somebody's fancy words, but on the authority of God Himself. Well you should be. God's your father. But Jesus said, whenever you devote yourself to my Father's will, like I'm devoted to my Father's will, whenever you devote yourself to my Father's will, I You into my brotherhood, and I point you out and I say, Here's my family line here. Here is my brother. Now I'm here to tell you, I owe and And there are others in this room that do. I know the benefit of having a big brother. I have two big brothers. 556, my brothers are eight and ten years old. My oldest brother Lyle was his is his name. Lyle was two years older. He and I never got that close. I mean I love him to this day. I love my brother. But he and I were never that close He was ten years older. By the time I was aware of things a little bit, like he was going off to college to play football and and they carried got married and carried on with his life. And I always loved him and it's not like we never had anything to do with you then. With each other, but you wouldn't call it a really close relationship, like my brother Ben, who was eight years older than me. And the thing I remember about him is he never treated me like a little brother He was never that way. He treats me like he's young for you now. I mean it's just there's a I I'm still has I'm still thanking for it. And I'm 71, he'll be seventy-nine in just a few weeks. And I'm still back in Port. My kids still love you for it because the storage I I mean was just he was on the stairs. He was just such an incredible people. I remember the time that uh I was in trouble with well that time. I remember it was a time being in trouble with my dad, you know, and I knew that I was going to get it, I mean I knew it was coming and I said then what am I going to do? What am I going to tell and And he said, Same look at me. And I said, What? He said, Tell him the truth. And he said you better tell him the truth. How did he know for me to tell my dad the truth? He tried the other way. I didn't want any effect, you know. And so he said, tell us the truth, that's very nice. We all agree then. And I remember going to the end, I I didn't have money, you know, my dad was a sharecropper, but money was not just everywhere in our house and there was something about the way we were raised, but you just didn't go asking dad for money about that. I remember sometimes uh in situations I needed just a little money for some concern or something, I'd say good for I would ask him, did you loan me some money? And Ben always had money. He's always had money. And he would loan me the money. And then I'd try to get back and we're not becoming back. And he just treated me that way. At Christian Simon, birthdays, I mean he, you know, everybody was treated, Christian Simon, birthdays, but not like I was. He just did, he was just My grandma died when I was thirteen and I was just heartbroken because he had a stroke and lay for a long time. My dad was over with him, so my dad was away from home and he was a winter and the hard work was pretty much done except he's cattle And we didn't do that, so my bad it was over with his dad until we die. And I've been separated from my dad. My dad and I were very, very close. Ben came home from the army for the funeral. I'm just crushed and broken hearted from Ben got home by We're sitting on his bed and that was upstairs farmhouse and sitting up just trying the eyeballs out. And I said, I haven't seen Daddy, and I don't know how long grandpa's dead, man. And he just comes over, just uh let out of the army long enough to come to this service for reading a thing, put his arm around me, and said, We're going to prepare you in two days And you'll be able to. That's okay to wrap up some business for grandma. And then he'll be home. He hasn't forgotten you. He'll take care of it. You know okay. We take care of things. By the time she's talking to me, give me a people speak word or black book, within the same line, get up ready to go. You know? And everything happens. Exactly like he said. Came home. Went out of his way, said that's the doctor, helped me through this struggle with Joker's uh son. And I use his Just like they said. Just like they said. I remember the time at junior, I went from grade school to junior high. Go to Holy River property, go to school. You go from being the big south in grade school and Sixth grade, they go and get an absolute nobody in seventh grade. Back then, seven, eight, ninth grade, junior home. And sometime during that school year there were guys in there that, you know, it's sort of like a dog knows that somebody doesn't like You know, you can tell that for greater job. I I'm really unless a dog can point whale and retreat in and get cows out of the pond. I don't really care how much. I don't know if I'm taking a big income in 21st century America, so I just I'm just not a big dog. And so uh I remember oh let's say where was it And so I remember yeah my brother I was scared oh yeah the buildings are unknown. They can stop the kids that are afraid. They can't. Oh oh by the way, bullying is not a twenty-first century phenomenon. There's been finally bullying going on for a long time. And they're in school. I was a skinny little kid, my arms were about not the microphone was cool. They were not bad as a rain. I was just uh I was a pretty shy kid and skinny You know, of timid and afraid. And there were three guys here, eight two inhibitors and a nine creator. And they uh somehow they got turned off and think money. Every day I hated going to school. Well this was later after grandpa. I mean home from the money. And so one night I was talking to Dan and I said, Dan, I don't know what I'm going to do. He said, Well, I said, there's three guys in school, they're picking off me. They take me out the outlet and put me air for UK, they're gonna beat me up, they push me around, they're not punching the face or anything like that. Push me around and Just intimidate me. Oh, it's just visible. Babe said, you gotta stand up yourself. I said, there's three of them. And he said, no older than me. And they said, oh shit He said, uh we taught you a box. I thought about that later. Taught me the box. Me and my brother used to put boxing clothes on Take me out of the yard and beat me up with them. I can't put three guys, I can't even put one name. I can three of them. And my bird says, Oh, well, thanks for the help. That's my attitude. I went to school with Stanley and hit off the bus walk across the street over to junior high, and I hear a voice saying, my brother, Peter, he's walking across the street. He said, I'm going with you. I said, no, that might not be a good idea. It might get worse. He said, no. I'm going in with we walk in, we're now fifteen feet inside the door, and here they are. They're standing there, looking at the greenhead and smiling at me. And they suddenly notice my brother and he's out of the army He buffed up pretty good. He's 6'2. And those boys look at him and kind of start putting two or two together and their kinds of changes a little bit. My brother walked up to them with me by his side. He walked up to them and he said He said to this one kid, what's your name? The kid Dolphin's name and said, Oh, is it called another ass name? He said, Is that your brother? He said, basketball. He said, I play basketball with your brother. Your brother's good print. We're starting the town team up again. We're starting our town team up. And I'm going to play. He's going to play. And I wouldn't like your brother. What's your name? He said, my name is. And my brother said, Is your dad a butcher to have a sapless grocery store? You want to butcher them? He said, Yeah. I just worked a saquel. Your dad's one of my favorite people in this town He's a really nice guy. So I don't do that. Should the other be a sample? What's your name? I don't remember the connection. My brother do that. 5,000 people living all of our lives You know, you know a lot of people in my earlier picture. Everyone he sent. And he said to them, Now look, what is saying unto you? Nothing. Did you believe him a hard time? Why? Okay. Did you remember you were talking to your brother about that? I said, you want me to go tell your dad? I'll be see, I I can go. I my brother's working in hand, he said I I can go on the chair, my I'd say you'll talk to your dad. You know if you don't talk to your dad, I won't sugar Oh sir. Said the other day you're going to do a couple of your things? And he said no sir. He said, all right, no listen. We say that's anything you know, you didn't even say that. That's it. Okay. Resolve. Oh no, that's uh Had everything to do with the background. They gave me good counsel. He gave me resources I didn't have. Took me places I never got to get Go stood up for me when somebody was bigger and tougher than me. And I thought, you know, no wonder Jesus looks at us that are committed to his will as brothers. Because I still need counsel. I said I still need counsel. Well I I I have your counsel, isn't it ironic, that one of his names it was prophesied to be wonderful Counselor. The mighty God, the everlasting Father, and He is still the counselor that you need, and still the counselor that I need It pays to be in a good relationship with Him. It pays to be devoted to the Father's will. Because you're in that proper relationship with the one who can give you just the embodies of the moment. And I still have an adversary that is bigger than me and stronger than me. And when Michael the Archangel continued with the devil about the body of Moses Even Michael, the mighty archangel, said, the Lord rebuke me, Satan. And if Michael the Archangel turns the devil over to the Lord, I will pass for the devil, but I know who is. Greater is he that is in me than he that is in the world. And I have a big brother that can take care of any adversary. I said I have a big brother that can take care of any adversary that can be. And the resources. The resources. I mean, like any any other Christian that's tried to live by faith, this is a huge for me. It's anybody that tries to live by faith. You just wonder, well I'm going to do this, but I don't know how it's going to be financed. I don't know where the funds are going to come from. I don't know how I'm going to be able to live. I don't know how this is going to work out. Whether it's a building program, whether it's a move to give a man Whether it's going to a city in West Virginia to start a church, or whether it's moving here when there were 15, 20 people all together that would have come and still the church, how are you going to make a limit? How are you going to support your family? How are you going to take care of things? That's what people ask out there. How are you going to do that? I don't know. All I know is I'm supposed to do what the will of God is and follow the Lord and trust him in his reason his leadership. And he does not anywhere. Amen. This isn't some little nice formula for everybody to say, Oh, that's good. I can do anything I want to do. No, it's predicated upon this. Being devoted like Jesus is If you live unto yourselves instead of unto him, I refer to you to Son of P. If you're going to live unto yourself and rather live unto him than die for you And rose again from the dead. If his will is not important in your life and your wishes is all you're thinking about, then don't try to make this a eastern view to see everything I want. No. And then what you have need of in the course of carrying out the Father's will, he will supply. Absolutely. According to his riches and glory by Christ Jesus Oh yeah. Water both. Amen. I'm done with this. But he changed the fans. Peter, now if you know Peter would say something like this. Lord, if we persake all of all of you, what are we having? Well, he's basically saying, oh, we're persaking all of all of you. Now we're going to get out of this anyway And Jesus, instead of saying, Yeah, Jesus just said, I tell you Peter, that nobody's going to follow me. Nobody's going to be devoted to my Father's will. Nobody is going to be my disciple, which is what ages disciples reports devoted to the fathers. And nobody should do that, but what I will listen, give them not only eternal But in hundredfold in this one. Because Matthew 19 and the gospel Luke find the temperature together. And he said, I'm going to knock his But he said, and this light give you a hundredth folks. Yeah well that's uh apparently an intentional uh early brilliant meaning. Well I'm not sure of that I'm sure I agree with that. My dad died in nineteen eighty-three, but I never went from age uh thirty-seven when he died. So going on 38 From then on I I've never been without a father. My life and younger years as a pastor and as a preacher I'm talking about August Sumter, I'm talking about Doc Markman, I'm talking about Jim Lewis, I'm talking about Elmer Wetzel. Uh you may think I'm probably I'm not. I can go on and on and on of older men who were like a father, too. Like a father. They understood some of the mistakes I would make as a young pastor and all of that, and trying to give all of the advice without conducting one thing to the church. He's the one that walked out of the church when they voted on me because said we don't need to see it after that when he decided to handle the problem. And he walked out, one day to come back to church. After a few weeks he came back to church, he said, I was wrong, and I will be your friend. From that day on till he died, thought Mark was just my friend. I bet you probably want something like that. Besides you, oh absolutely fantastic. I've got two brothers I love very much, but I could go to Southwest Baptist Church or without even crying. I need 15 hands without even crying that I suppose the two my brothers. Oh, wow that's terrible. Well, it wouldn't be that way if my brothers were really And I still love him and we get along. By a part of Christ and Evo did the father's film. And he given me these made as purpose. So I said, why do you call people purpose? That's right. Well, I reached his brothers in my life. People that love me and that I love and they love each other. My sisters and I had some issues But you know, pretty much how things were over the year my old sister became our organist and became our secretary for a great number of years and we got along pretty good. But I have to day right now. I can find many godly Christian ladies and I'm forced to do any of my decisions. So you don't care about persistent evidence? That's not true. I do care about them. So because where they are spiritually and a light that's currently devoted to you divide. There's just not the fellowship. There's not the communion. There's not the unity that's there between those who also are like sisters. They have a false entry, the other one are like my sister. And you have a raillight system. The other light both is the other rainlight bundle. All over the place. Backway Western. So the little town right outside of Backway for Bible Baptist Church and Thomas Shepherd is a pastor. Preacher in that church and a preacher somebody came up. And so this about five years ago when she came up report, she tagged me on the hand at the last time we said you have a hand I wanted to say could you repeat that for me? She said young man, I'm an eighty-seven year old great grandmother, grandmother, mother And I read for the Lord, God has to read for the Lord. I will be likely to be claiming you as my son until Jesus calls me on as long as I have my mind. I'm going to pray to you. I'm right on the south of the staff search. I've been there for weeks. It's still on Pastor American Cersei Churchill. I go there. The first few months wanted West. Who out of the 65 years of that church was They have 63 of those. And precious, wonderful, near nine years of age now. One of the first people I go look for is wonderful. It's like a mall. And the brother's difference. No, it's real. It's real. That's why when you learn the moment at seven o'clock The name of your code. Is that a truth? Let's go. Jury was remote. Gracious, gracious. Mother of poor Thirty-seven years old, cancer, and through a long tough process. But not Thirst time on Mission Conference. I entered the hospital all day, but she was very heavy soul. And uh I left the church at 530. That's very I just think he said, Richard, you got a basic college? Oh, we're fine. We're fine. She said, Well, you're fine. And uh, right at seven So the watches that are over there and offices are there phone here today. We started the service at seven older people that run it, had gone home, mother or thirty-seven years old, saying the car and all the And uh just yeah. You know, you just love that church for this. She got it. And we prayed and sang together and prayed, and there were tears in that place. There was our mission conference, and I walked there and played in the field And are we on the mission time? Two segments, first one, and I'll show the slides and exponential patients maybe answer a question or two. We took a five minutes, we're going to come back later. A couple of congregations had a beautiful special and During the end of that special, you're going to walk in. And when she finished the special or day days of special, you walk in the island, and then she's one of those seat, three rows back. Well the whole circuit's moved. It's why you've been in heaven for an hour. And very sick. An hour 15 or 15 minutes. And very sick. And everybody was, you know, how it would work. And so they got up and preached and the service was over. And then of course he was standing. People want to show love to the even quite. So when I thought about Mama, we put Mona and Jerry and I said, and Jerry, I'm glad you see about any other show. I was shocked to see it just walking tonight, uh, you know, with when they're having just passed and all the pieces of grabbing preaching. Something like this happened to his hand Would you want to be a fail or this is what I think or you didn't have it? Now what's that about? This church that they had a lot of fun together, the church is just their things together, the church is just this little social community together. No, no. He like what was he Preached in that pulpit, and like the majority of the people that would have been there that night live to do the Father's annual. And the joy of the Brotherhood of Jesus Christ. And had his family expanded in a way that he would later say was deeper and more broad and more meaningful than he ever knew. So we're going to really appreciate the fact that we're that's not for a selected people, right? That's for those who I said that's those who will do what every believer in Jesus Christ ought to do, and that is live to do. Father's father's work. They're not do yourself anymore. Live on anyone. And like Jesus You devoted to the Father's will. And he brings you into the family that I call what a family. Father. I pray the lessons are well. And I don't have a whole list of things here. This would be the Father's will. That would be the Father's will. I don't have a list like that. But I would challenge every man, woman, born, girl in this room to have the mindset. To be so shaped by your word that it is a way of life that no, I can't make that decision until I know the Father's will. No, I can't do that because the Bible makes it known that is not God's will. Well yes, I must do this because the Bible makes it clear it's the Father's will. Or I am ready to make this step as soon as I have assurance from the Holy Spirit of God that I'm doing the will of the Lord. That ought to be the way of life. The way of life. In relation to relationships, jobs, service in church Purchases in life like homes, lands, cars, things To seek your face. To seek your will. To be a person that just says, I just want to be, I want to do, I want the Father's will to be done in my life. And when that is the mentality and that's the lifestyle, then Jesus would point and say, Behold, my mother. Brothers, my sisters, and my mother. Behold, here is my family. Those who with me are devoted. Committed to do my Father's will. Oh my, what a family we're a part of when that is the way of life. So I pray that you would work. I don't know who ought to bow before you and who ought to use the altar tonight. I don't know who should and who shouldn't. I don't know. But I know that your Holy Ghost knows. And I know that you've been at work. No doubt there's some that need to respond to this invitation time, maybe everyone. And I don't know. I'm just asking you to accomplish your will. Maybe there's someone still outside the realm of possibility of knowing such a relationship because they've never been saved. I pray that they would humble themselves tonight. and call upon Jesus to be their Savior. So bless this invitation time for your own glory and your own sake in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, shall we?