To 2 Peter chapter number 3. 2 Peter chapter number 3. And I'll take just a little time here and see if we can get the ball rolling. And I know Dr. Belcher's been here before and you know he's a tremendous preacher and Look forward to hearing what he has to say. And then of course we got in the morning. We're going to do all this again. And um and then um tomorrow night. And of course Brother Fox is gonna be doing music all the way along. That's another one of your songs you were singing there a minute ago. I know m you were introducing it to us. Beautiful. Wonderful. Yeah, good. Brother Fox writes a lot of good music. And uh we enjoy that. Second Peter, chapter number three, and I've been right at the top of the chapter This second epistle, beloved, I now write unto you, in both which I stir up your pure minds by way of remembrance Now you be mindful of the words which were spoken before by the holy prophets and of the commandments of us, the apostles, of the Lord and Savior. Knowing this first, that there shall come in the last days scoffers, walking after their own lust, and saying, Where is the promise of his coming For since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they were from the beginning of the creation. For this they willingly are ignorant of. That by the word of God the heavens were of old, and the earth standing out of the water and in the water, whereby the world that then was being overflowed with water perished. But the heavens and the earth which are now The same word are kept in store, reserved under fire, against the day of judgment and perdition of ungodly men. But beloved, be not ignorant of this one thing. That one day is with the Lord is a thousand years, and a thousand years is one day The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness, but his long suffering to us were not willing, not willing. Not willing that any should perish, but that all, all should come to repentance. But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night, in the which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat. The earth also and the works that are therein shall be burned up. Seeing then that all these things shall be dissolved, what manner of persons ought ye be? in all holy conversation and godliness, looking for and hastening unto the coming of the day of God, wherein the heavens being on fire shall be dissolved and the elements shall melt with fervent heat. Nevertheless, We according to his promise look for new heavens and a new earth wherein dwelleth righteousness. Wherefore, beloved, seeing that you look for such things, be diligent That you may be found of him in peace without spot and blameless. An account of the long suffering of our Lord is salvation. Now, I hear people asking questions about a lot of this. Some folks ask the question, and they'll say, What is this world coming to? Others will say things like Right when you think it can't get any worse, it does. And other people are are and and sometimes these are very sincere Christian people. It's like uh we we just we just can't figure out where all of this is headed. Now, it's understandable that we would be Up in the air about some things. If you just look back through our history a little bit, eighteen sixty five An actor went to the theater in DC and used a little pistol and killed the president. Our nation was already reeling from that long war And just the the war was over on Sunday, Lincoln was shot on Friday, died Saturday morning. You can imagine the state our nation was in. And then the twenty years later there was another one, and twenty years roughly later, McKinley. Uh nineteen sixty-three, some of us remember that November day when another president went to Dallas. And uh well, you know the story. And some of us who were alive and old enough to remember it. Um once again our nation was thrust into chaos. I mean there was there was trauma. Uh and it didn't matter whether you were a Republican or a plutocrat or I mean you you you could have been anything politically. But when something like that happens, all at once you you just kind of set all that aside. And uh Then you know, we had things like the First World War, nineteen fourteen, fifteen, along and there, the second world war in the early forties. 1960s, all the hippie revolution, Vietnam War, all of that kind of stuff. I mean just one thing after another has bombarded our country. 2001 Those uh terrorists commandeered the airplanes, took the towers down, went into the Pentagon, crashed over here and crossed the state line. Now we've had the pandemic, which I think was an act of war as well. Now With all of this, I mean every turn in the road, there's been frustration. There's been all kinds of trauma. And people just throwing their hands up and saying, what next? What next? Lots of hurt. Lots of chaos. Children lift their little faces to look into their mother's furrowed brow, asking questions she can't answer. Some of the most powerful men on earth meeting together in teleconference, trying to figure out how to deal with a lot of the great issues. Whitecoated, bespeckled researchers hunched over their microscopes in their pristine laboratories looking for answers looking for miracles that they don't seem to find. Some are educators, scientists, politicians, financiers, and all of them appear aloof and at a loss when it comes to the real questions that we're asking. But there is an answer. There is an answer. And every time that I strap on a microphone, I have an answer. I have no fear for who will walk through the door with their questions, with their hurts, with their burdens, their addictions, whatever else. Let them come. We have an answer. We have the answer. And it's right here in the book. People ask, where is all this headed? Well, look, everything is coming to a conclusion. This passage here very definitely says we're coming to a time when we face God, we'll be accountable to God, we're coming to judgment. And I think there there are two two things here that we need to not miss. Number one, we we must not misread the patience of the Lord. Lots of crazy going on. And I've heard people say, well, if he doesn't deal with America, he'll owe Sodom and Gomorrah an apology. Now to start with, I don't think God owes anybody. But I understand what they're saying, but I think they're misreading when they say that Misreading the patience of the Lord. Because this passage says, with him a thousand years is nothing. I mean when you talk about an eternal God, a thousand years, I mean, it really doesn't amount to all that much. The second thing I think we need to be careful about is that we don't misinterpret the scriptures There's a lot of good things here, and we can mess them up. Now, at this moment, if we're thinking right, we've got one eye on the sky. Got our hand on the plow, but we got an eye on the sky, and we are paying attention because The Bible said this same Jesus that you've seen go up into heaven shall so come in like manner as you have seen him go into heaven. So he is coming one day. Jesus himself said, In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you, and if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again. And receive you unto myself that where I am, there you may be also. And then that great passage in 1 Thessalonians 4, the Lord Himself Shall descend from heaven with a shout, the voice of the archangels and the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first. Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. So The fact is, he is coming. When? We don't know. But we've got instruction here about how to behave. And how to do until he writes. For example, in verse number one that I read, second epistle to Peter, chapter three, verse number one, he tells us to be zealous We have some time left. We're still breathing. The trumpet hasn't sounded, so we have some time. How long is it? I don't know. Might be a minute. Might be another millennium. I don't know But in the meantime, we are, number one, to be zealous. The passage says that we are to stir up Your pure minds by way of remembrance. Now, notice what we're to stir up. Does it say we're to stir up a bunch of corruption? You stir up corrupt things and you create uh odoriferous problems. Try to say that politely Now the fact of the matter is you you and I can can get so laxodasical, we can get so apathetic, we can get so lazy. That we let good things just drift. And what he's telling us here is stir it up. Stir it up. Get the zeal. I was uh I was in a meeting earlier this week down in uh Lexington, Kentucky And uh in the afternoon, after I had done a couple of teaching workshops, uh they had asked me to be a part of a panel uh QA with the pastors that was there and there was I don't know maybe maybe um I I think maybe about a hundred and twenty or so, maybe a hundred and twenty-five pastors there and then the the college students. So it was a pretty good bunch of folks in the in the room when we did this QA. And um and one of the questions that they fed to me, they said They said, how how how how do you stay excited about all this stuff? Now I looked around. I was the oldest guy on the panel So I don't know whether they were doing it because I'm thirty nine and counting. I I'm not sure why that the question came to me. But um But I said to them, I said, well, there's about three things involved here. Number one, I recommend not just for preachers, but for all of us. First item of a day, every day. Get in your Bible, read your Bible, and pray. Pray, read your Bible. Do it all together. You say, Well, I already get up at five o'clock to go to work. Get up at 4 30. That's fine. You say, how do I do that? Go to bed thirty minutes earlier. Shut the television off. Shut the Internet off And put priority where priority needs to be. And make it your business, first item of the day, every day, to spend some time with the Lord. You you read, you say, where where do I start in the Bible? Just open it up anywhere you want to. I mean just just just close your eyes, open it up, and start reading if you like. You can't open the Bible to the wrong page. You say, how do you know that? Because I've already read them all. More than once. Now, read your Bible. The second thing I'm going to recommend is Get off the couch and get out in town with some gospel tracts in your hand and start talking to people who don't have what we got. Talking about how to keep yourself stirred up. You know the city that I live in, they're in the southern suburbs of Nashville, City of Murfreesboro. That uh Burfersboro alone has about 162,000 people now. And I learned just this week somebody had done some statistical work. And I don't know how accurate they are, but I suspect that they're pretty close to accurate. And remember, Nashville is in the south. Supposedly the Bible Belt. But they're telling me that 70% of the people in our city have no connection to any church of any kind. And I can believe that because the Saturdays when my travel schedule will let me do it, like this last Saturday There's a little group of us from our church that go knocking on doors on Saturday morning. And uh there's lots of unsaved people. And unchurched people. Now, I come back just like I did uh Saturday. I come back after being out with them for a little while and we've knocked on a bunch of doors I come back pawing the ground just wanting I mean I mean I I mean it it just it just it just reignites my fire every time. Now, that's the second thing. Third thing I'm going to recommend to you is be in church. Every time the doors are open, I mean if they're having a if they're having a picnic on Labor Day at midnight, be there Now, you say uh you you mean you want me out on Wednesday night, yeah? And uh Sunday nights and all of that, and I'm not advocating anything here that I don't do and haven't done for a lot of years. And I'm going to tell you what, the church I'm a member of is smaller than the crowd we've got right here. Now we're we're building it back. One step at a time, we're building back. Went through some hard times building back. But I'm telling you And I've told them I preached there last night and yesterday morning. And I tell them almost every time I'm up, they have no idea They cannot imagine how much they do for me, me just being there with them. Now, I hope I help them a little bit along the way. But if I stay in the Bible, morning after morning after morning, Pray and read my Bible. If I get out and knock on some doors, if I carry gospel tracts and talk to people every day as I go And if I get in with God's people and fellowship and associate with the folks who are also on page with me and walking together with the Lord. I'm telling you, when I get up here in front of you, I I will not have to write in the margin, get excited right here. I won't have to. Because it'll already be there. Now I I I'm just I'm just telling you, in view I mean we we live in a world where a lot of crazy things are going on We have every reason to keep our eyes peeled because the Lord is coming one of these days. And the Bible tells me here, first of all, to be zealous. Secondly, verse 2 uses the term that we're to be mindful. In fact, verse 1 mentioned pure minds. Pure mind. And verse 2 says, be mindful of the words from the prophets and the apostles. What are we talking about? We're talking about what's in the Bible. And he tells us to be mindful of that. You know, it's very easy to read the Bible, and I'm telling you, I I get I get I get so I mean let me see what word shall I use here. I get so aggrafrette You see, that's not a word, it is now. I just made it up. I get so aggrafetted with people they they read the Bible in slight now, you know this was for the Jews. Or this this was uh this this was for and they'll come up with something else. Now I I may I may be dumb as a box of rocks. But I believe everything in this book, there's a reason why it's here. And a reason for me. Now It may be that it's there to be an illustration, to be an example, to be to be instructive. I mean lots of reasons why it may be there. But whatever I read things in the Bible, I need to let my mind absorb that. Be mindful of what the prophets and the apostles have given us. That's there. Second thing, if you drop down and look in verses 11, In 14, he tells us to be holy. Haha, that's HOLY. What manner of persons ought ye to be in all holy conversation and godliness? Verse 14, he says, be diligent that you be found of him in peace, without spot, and blameless. So he's telling us to clean it up Just clean it up. You say, where do we start? Man, start with the mind. You know? Start by turning off the cruddy television Stuff and internet garbage. You know, I I watch television when I'm at home, some. I think I've probably told you before, Benny and I have this have this deal. I watch baseball and baseball and baseball. She watches cooking shows in another room. And cooking shows. And cooking shows. When the baseball game is over, she comes to my room to the den and she says, uh, I'm done watching cooking shows, let's go out to eat, you know She's watching. No. But we we have we have a room at our house We have a rule at our house. She she doesn't put garbage on the table at mealtime and we and we don't let some Yahoo in Hollywood Put garbage in our house, period. In fact, if we're watching something and it and it turns to garbage, we turn it off and do it quickly. And it's just I mean we it's just a rule. We've always had that one vote rule at our house. Just takes one of us saying, oops, and off it goes. No question, no debate, off it goes You say, what's the deal here? The deal here is this passage tells us to clean it up, start with the mind, and that'll get our vocabulary headed. That'll get, I mean, that'll just get a lot of things headed right And listen, if the Lord's coming, we need to be sure that we got things headed right. Verse 13 tells us to be watchful about that. We look for the new heavens. We look for the new earth. We look for his coming. Verse number fifteen talks to us about It says the long-suffering of our Lord is salvation. Verse 9 says, God is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. He wants us to stay stirred up about getting people in. Getting people in. Stirred up about that. Never lax a day's ago, never, never willing to say, hey, enough is enough. You know, sometimes we get our buildings full and we get comfortable. Years ago when I was pastor over in Westminster, we had that smaller auditorium. Filled that thing up, started an 830 service, filled that up. Just every couple of weeks I found out s I found some fresh way to say to our folks. The fact that we've got no parking left that people are driving off the grounds and can't find a place to park, the fact that the buildings are full It has nothing at all to do with what we do this week. This week there are people in our city lost and dying and going to hell, and you and I need to be vigilant even if our buildings are full. And by the way, a lot of our people bought into that. It's the reason why over the years, the years Dr. Belcher's been there, they've continued to do that. I was there at his invitation just a month ago. Preach to a big crowd. Because they're still winning people to Christ. Now, this passage tells us also, verse 17 says, we're to be wary. Beware lest you being led away with the air of the wicked, fall from your steadfastness. I talk about you losing your salvation. That word steadfast has to do with your positioning. So you've got to be careful. You can get led astray, get led off track. And I'm telling you, all across this land, there are churches that at one time were afire. You go by there now, and the building is boarded up. And I'm talking about some prominent places. What happened, they got led astray. Got led off down the trail. Others others who buy into this, buy into that, buy into something else these days because it's new and it's exciting and it's what somebody said they ought to do. And instead of doing what they know to do, they buy into the unknown And it doesn't do well. Verse 18 tells me I ought to be hungry. It says, grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. That means you don't ever get so old that you don't need to keep digging. You don't ne You don't ever need to say, oh, I've been saved 20 years now. Oh, I've been saved 30 years now. Oh, I've been saved a long time now. And oh yeah, man, I got it figured out. Don't ever let yourself get that way Don't ever get to the place where you walk in here and hear the choir do something. I mean if you if you can't hum a note you can pat your foot I mean it wouldn't hurt every once in a while if you'd at least grunt some acknowledgement, amen. Don't don't ever don't ever let the quiet don't let don't ever let some soloist stand up here and sing their heart out and us sit there like knots on a log. Stay hungry. Yes. Keep keep saying, I I want I want to grow today. Every time the pastor walks up here, every single time that he walks up here and opens the Bible, just bow your head and say, Lord, have him to dump something on me today that I need. You know, with my t my traveling and my travel schedule. Like this month, for example. I think uh I mean the no we're not in October yet. We're about to be in October. I think I think in October I've got three uh I mean I've got meetings like Monday, Tuesday and uh Thursday, Friday and some stuff But I think I've got three Sundays that I'm actually going to be in town at home. Now, once again, I I like I like our church family. And our pastors I I mean he he just does good stuff every time he gets up. But I walk in there Sunday morning, Sunday night, and Wednesday night. And I I look at it, I don't know where he's headed, I don't know what his text is, I don't know what he's gonna say. But I walk in there, in fact sometimes on the way to the church, Betty, and I will pray one of us driving the other to the praying And and just real regular, we'll say, help us to kind of turn our empty hands over and let the Lord put something in it today. Why stay hungry? Stay hungry. Keep wanting it. No matter what your age, no matter how far down the trail you've come, no matter how good you may have been in the Lord's work, no matter what successes you may have had And all of this in a world that's throwing up its hands. I mean, they're look they're looking to play though And play though, I mean they look They look at it everywhere. Oh, we'll deal with the philosophers. We'll let the philosophers tell us what we need to know. Or we'll go out here and we'll play. We'll run with the world, do all the crazy things the world does And they come home empty. Every time. Soaking up with alcohol, shooting with drugs, all that kind of stuff, and they're empty. Suicide rate is skyrocketing. And all the while there's a wonderful answer in the book. And the passage I've read tonight is to remind us that we can, even though we're saved, we can lose our grip. We can lose our zip. We can lose our enthusiasm. You may you're saved and you're saved forever. But as a Christian, you can wind down And not be much in the Lord's service. And this passage tells me. Be stirred up, be zealous, be mindful, be holy, be hungry, etc. Lord help us, I pray. May these days be refreshing. May they be just such that we'll all be blessed And go home excited about what we have. Bless our pray the music that's coming. And Dr. Belcher's he stands to preach in a few moments. In Jesus' precious name. Amen.