Uh I'm preaching this morning on something I enjoy. There's some there's some uh subjects in the Bible and topics the Bible deals with in life that I'd be honest with you, I don't enjoy dealing with them. I don't enjoy preaching them Um the subject of hell is not a pleasant subject. Um we preach it not because we like to or because it's fun or anything is absolutely not. We preach the reality of hell because the Bible teaches that. And there's other subjects, sins that our Bible is very specific about sins that are very prevalent in our community, in our world today, that are very, very unpleasant. We don't like to deal with them, but we preach to them because God has given us the responsibility to preach the whole council of God. Do you follow what I'm saying? So there are some subjects and topics in Scripture that, to be very honest with you, I don't enjoy them. They're not pleasant. Don't enjoy preaching them. But we do because uh we have an obligation of God. Then on the other hand, there are subjects that I very much enjoy preaching on. And subjects I very much enjoy teaching and speaking about. And this morning is one of those subjects. If you would look with me in Acts 16. And I would like for us to read together Verse 30 and 31. Acts chapter 16, verse 30 and 31. I'd like for us to read this together in unison, if you would. Everybody have it there? I'm going to read ver beginning in verse thirty and down through the end of verse thirty one. Here we go. Are you ready? Let's read it. And brought them out and said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? And they said, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved, and thy house. I want to speak about the greatest question uh ever asked in the history of mankind and it's this what must I do to be saved? Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now our study of this passage. I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I pray you would use your word to challenge us and help us. Give us clarity in our minds exactly what it means to be saved and um and how that takes place in an individual's life I ask, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit and stir our hearts. I pray that those of us that know you as Savior, you would stir our hearts to share the message of the gospel with other people that need Christ. Give us boldness, Lord. Give us creativity. Give us ingenuity in getting this gospel into all the world Stir our hearts as more. Lord, some of us need to get some stuff out of our lives that's hurting us. Others, we need to incorporate some things in their lives to help us. Whatever the case may be, Lord, I pray that you would make that clear. Provoke us, Lord, to make good decisions in this hour. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. In our passage here, chapter 16, Paul is on what we call his second missionary journey. The church is very young at this point. Jesus Christ had just ascended to heaven, not long. before this, the Holy Spirit had come down at Pentecost, and the church was now established, the local church. There was a large church in Jerusalem. And we saw that on Acts chapter 2. 3,000 people get saved in one preaching service. Can you imagine that And uh and getting baptized, and the church is growing and s getting stronger, the membership is multiplying The people that are members of that church, their faith is growing. They're getting boldness and sharing the gospel with other people. Then we find other churches are springing up around Jerusalem. As the believers go out of the city, go to other cities surrounding Jerusalem, they're preaching the gospel. People are getting saved. Other churches are being established. A church in Antioch was started, and in chapter 13, God calls out Paul and at that point Barnabas to go on missionary journeys. These are the first directly called missionaries in history. And God calls these men to go out on missionary journeys and and uh they go out and they took this first journey and they traveled throughout the area there, go to a city And they would preach the gospel, they would tell people how to get saved. People would trust Christ, be born again, they would establish them in the faith, teach them how to live for God, establish a church, and they would move on to another city. Do the same thing Well, this is their second journey out. This time it's Paul and Silas. And they're traveling up, and they come to the city of Philippi. And there they begin sharing the gospel. And that's where these events take place. Let me back up here and just say this. God has given to the church a tremendous responsibility And that responsibility is, and when I say the church, I'm meaning us here. God has given Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church and other New Testament churches He's given this responsibility that we are to take the gospel of Jesus Christ to every single person on this planet. We are to do everything we possibly can to get the message of salvation in Christ to every single person on the planet. That is a tremendous responsibility. And God has given that to us. And so the church here, particularly in Antioch, they're taking that very seriously. They are sending these missionaries out at the direction of the Holy Spirit And uh they are taking the gospel into all the world. And so they're traveling around. Paul and Silas, and previously Paul and Barnabas, they had tremendous success. They would come into cities and people would trust Christ by the thousands. They had phenomenal success. as they shared the gospel. Churches, they'd organize a church and and uh and uh leave it behind they'd go on and that church would grow and develop and become a good strong church We got a good report this past week. One of our uh church planners, brother Mike Clark, up in uh outside of Pittsburgh. We read his letter in Sunday school this morning started the Legacy Baptist Church three and a half years ago. Next week they're going to vote to take him on as full-time pastor, drop all mission support, and there will be a self-supporting indigenous local church there. Isn't that an exciting thing? And that's what Paul and Silas, that's what they were doing. They're out getting these churches started. And as I said, they had tremendous success. Great churches were established, and many, many thousands were saved. Let me say this: the gospel will do the work if we just get it out to people. If we give the gospel out, I'm telling you, if we give the gospel of Jesus Christ, if we give it out, and we just keep doing it and keep doing it, I'm telling you, people will get saved. It is not our ability persuade, it is not our fantastic personalities, it's not our good looks. Lord knows that's true in some cases. Uh uh it's not our gifts, our natural gifts. It the gospel itself is the power of God unto salvation So Paul and Silas show up. They start preaching to people how to get saved. Lo and behold, people start getting saved. People start getting saved. Now, along with the tremendous success they had, there was also tremendous opposition. And every place they went to, there was opposition People would oppose what they were doing. And in many cases it was violent opposition. I mean uh uh death threats, attempts on his life, imprisonment, beatings. I mean just violent opposition. Now, they weren't surprised by that. And you and I should never be surprised when people of the world oppose us living for God. Jesus Christ, and we've been pointing this out on Wednesday nights in our study of the Beatitudes Jesus Christ made it very, very clear early in his ministry that if you live, if you follow Jesus Christ, if you and I make a decision, you know I'm not just going to believe on Jesus Christ. I'm going to be a follower of Jesus Christ. He says if you do that, listen to what Jesus said. He said if you do that, you're going to be hated. You're going against the grain. You're going to face opposition. People are going to say and do unkind things to you if you follow me. If you, as a believer in Jesus Christ, make the decision, I'm going to dedicate my life to Jesus Christ. He says, you mark it down, this whole world will hate you. You are going against the grain. Um uh and and by the way, the world does not like for people to go against its grain And you and I start following Jesus Christ, we say, you know, I'm going to obey God. I'm going to live my life for God's glory. He's told me to take the gospel and all the world He's told me to be pure in my heart and mind. He's told me to present my body. I'm going to do that. I want to do live like God wants me to live. And brother, we are going against the flood, the current of this world, and there will be opposition. Now, don't misunderstand. There'll be success We'll see people influenced. We'll see lives changed. But brother, the current of this world is against us, is against us. And so Paul and Silas found this out As they're out there preaching the gospel, opposition keen. Now, let me say this. When we give our life to the Lord And we decide we're going to live for God and serve Him. Don't misunderstand. There'll be opposition, there'll be difficulty, there'll be persecution many times, but there's also going to be many blessings. I'm telling you, living for Jesus Christ can bring peace to a heart that this world can never give. I'm telling you, many of us here could stand and testify. I lived in the world. I lived for sin for many years. I trusted Christ. I lived for him. God gave me a peace. This world never gave. I can testify that. Many, many others can Sure, there's opposition. Sure this whole world says and does things that are hateful, sometimes violent, but there is a joy There's a spiritual blessing that comes for living with God, living for God. And not only that, he says he'll reward us when we get to heaven. Reward us when we get to heaven. What amazing God we serve. So Paul and Silas are out there. They're preaching the gospel, shitty to shitty. They come to the city of Philippi. Nobody here state, nobody here, uh, no churches, nothing. This is just brand new territory. They show up and they have tremendous success and like everywhere else they had tremendous opposition. Um they're beaten. They're imprisoned because of the fact they're preaching the gospel and people are getting saved. But the amazing thing is, and Brother Brant read this a little bit ago, In verse 25, they're in prison, they're all beat up, bloody. Now, you need to understand, prisons in that day and age, and in this community that they're at, Philippi, they are not like the prison here in Hazleton. They didn't have air conditioning in the summer. They're not like the prisons we're used to today. They didn't have heat in the winter. They didn't have cable TV Than that. How many people are shocked? I didn't know that. I can't believe that. And I'm cable TV. They have air commission. They have Hayhe Um they didn't have ping pong tables, they didn't have video games, they didn't have workout gyms to work out, they didn't have uh um they didn't have beds. Uh they didn't have plumbing Get this. They didn't have food. The only food they got was what people in the community would bring by and throw in there to them I mean you and I cannot imagine how horrendous the circumstances were that Paul and Silas found themselves in. So they are beaten up, badly, bruised, black and blue, bloody, swollen. They're sitting in prison and look at verse 25. Now wait before you look don't look at it. Let me ask you this If somebody, all you're doing is trying to obey the Lord. All you're doing is trying to tell people about Jesus, how they sins can be forgiven, and they can go to heaven People start believing what you're telling, start believing the gospel, accepting Christ as Savior. And the government purities come in, beat you to a pulp, throw you in the nastiest situation you can possibly imagine How many people would gripe? Would say, ah, this ain't right. This ain't come on now. How many people would do that Yeah. Uh how many people would say, I'm gonna call the lawyer. I need a lawyer. This ain't re anybody. Yeah, that's how we would be. Look what Paul and Silas did. Look at verse 25. And at midnight, Paul and Silas, what? Prayed. Now let me stop there. That's probably not unusual. I would imagine, I mean these guys in jail in this prison, the the other prisoners are probably going to be executed. Probably in horrendous ways. So I'm no doubt praying in the prison was not unusual. They were probably all praying, oh God, if you get me out of this, I'll live for you, you know. So that in itself wasn't that unusual. But let's read on. They prayed and what? Sang praises to God. What in the world is wrong with these guys? Paul and Silas, in the midst of this opposition, this mistreatment, this brutality, for no other reason than living for God, obeying the Lord Jesus are here and my my summary of verse twenty-five is this they were happy They're singing praises to God. Praise Him, praise Him, Jesus, our blessed Redeemer. Sing all worth his wonderful love proclaimed. I mean, they're praising Jesus. They're happy. You and I'd be mad. We'd be griping. We'd be looking for a cell phone. I'm going to get my lawyer. I mean we'd just be going on. Not these guys. They're filled with the Spirit of God. They understood something that we really need to learn. That it is a privilege to live for Jesus Christ. And for them to be beat up in whatever, that was meaningless. I had the opportunity to share the gospel with other people and see them saved from sin and hell. And they're happy and they're rejoicing in that. And so I think it's interesting. Look at the last part of verse 25. And the prisoners. Heard them. That word heard, I got I got looking it up and seeing how it's used in different things. It's interesting. It doesn't just mean the prisoners heard some commotion going on down wherever Paul and Silas were It means this. They were listening very intently. I want to submit to you, they ain't never heard somebody singing praises to God in jail before This was, what in the what are those guys? Who are these guys? What's with them? And they were listening very carefully. Now, here's one thing true about biblical singing. You can understand the words. Now listen, some songs out there, and it's not, and it claims to be Christian, if you can't understand the words, it ain't Christian. If it's so loud and blaring and it's thrown out and you don't even, I don't know what they're saying, but boy, I love that music. That is not biblical. And so these prisoners are here, and they hear these Paul and Silas, and they're singing, and they're listening very carefully to what they're singing about. They're very listening very carefully to the words of what they're saying. And they're captivated by it. Then, lo and behold, as we read down through here, as this is taking place, an earthquake hits. And I mean it shaked the foundations of that prison. Whoa, that place just jars and that And those steel bars, the Bible says, it says the foundations, look at verse 26, the foundations of the prison were shaken, and immediately all the doors were opened, and not only that, their bands were loose. I mean these guys are chained in here. The bars are the doors are barred shut. This earthquake hits, and this is miraculous. Uh the doors break open, that's one thing, and the guys look and all their chains are off. Now if you were a thug, and some of you might I don't but if you were a thug Our deacons are here. If you were a thug and you're in prison, you're probably going to be killed some horrendous executed some horrendous way. And you're in prison, and all of a sudden, in the middle of the night, it's dark. Remember, they don't have streetlights and all this. It's no electricity. Uh the earthquake takes place Uh your door swings open and your chains fall off. If you were a thug, what would you do? I'd be out of there. I mean I would be high-tailing it for the state line. I went out of here. What do these guys do? None of them leave. I'm telling you, everything about this is miraculous. God is in this God is setting up the circumstances because he's got a jailer that will trust him as Savior And God is putting everything in place. I want to suggest to you, if you're here this morning and you don't know for sure that your sins are forgiven, that when you die, you're going to heaven I'm pretty confident, one thing I know about you, God is working in your life, setting up circumstances for you to accept Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. Might not be an earthquake, might not have prison, might not have anything to do with it, but I know this. God works in people's lives to put things in place so that they will come to the point where they will hear the gospel and accept Jesus Christ as Savior I want to suggest to you, there are people in our community right now, God is working in their hearts, God is working in their circumstances. God is sending earthquakes, so to speak, to prepare their hearts, and all he needs is somebody to come by and tell them of Jesus Christ, and they'll be saved. I am sure of that as anything God is working. God is working. And so this earthquake takes place. This miraculous event. The bands their their chains are loose and they don't run away. They just stay there. They're probably thinking I'm putting myself in the shoes of the prisoner, they're probably sitting there thinking, you know, I probably ought to get out of here, but for some reason I'll just sit here You know, I don't know what's going through, but God keeps them from running. And uh they're there. Well, the prisoner, the the the jailer wakes up, the warden. He's sound asleep. It's midnight. He wakes up earthquake. He looks out. All the doors are hanging open. He sees chains hanging loose. Before checking the circumstances, before doing a inventory and and checking the census of the prison He immediately assumes they're all gone. These guys are thieves, they're tramps, they're they're murderers, they're uh you know they're embezzlers, these guys are crooks, the chains are off, they're gone, I don't even have to look. And he does something strange. You notice there, he went and he was going to kill himself. Look at verse number 27. He says, uh and the keeper of the prison, awaken out of his sleep, and seeing the prison doors open, he drew out his sword and would have killed himself. Now look, supposing that the prisoners had fled. He didn't check. He just assumed. And he's going to kill himself. Now the question comes up, why in the world, why in the world would this guy kill himself? Because all these prisoners got loose. Well why would you do that? That doesn't make sense. Ah, but you need to understand Roman law. When he took responsibility of that prison, when he was given responsibility of that prison, part of his responsibility was this, no prisoner escapes. And the consequence for the jailer, if a prisoner escaped, he was to receive the punishment that the prisoner was due. So some of these guys, maybe they were going to be crucified. Crucifixion was a very common form of execution in Rome. It wasn't just for Jesus Christ. Tens of thousands of criminals were crucified. Perhaps some of those prisoners were going to be crucified, others beheaded or whatever. We don't know how they were going to be executed, but no doubt many of them faced death sentences. That jailer knew if these guys escaped, there's a very real possibility I'm going to be nailed to a cross. There's a very real possibility I'm going to be tortured. I'm going to be beheaded. And he came to the conclusion it's far better for me to end my life very quickly and as painlessly as I possibly can. Rather Then go through the torture of whatever the Roman government's going to do for me. And so that's his thinking. And he responds to that, and he's going to kill himself, but Paul somehow Sees what's taking place, verse 29. And Paul says, Do thyself no harm. We're all here. We're all here. There's no reason for you to take your life. And that's what sets up the greatest question in the history of the world. And he brought them out, uh verse 29, he called for a light. sprang in to where Paul and Silas were. He came trembling. He was he was seconds from death. He was just moments from going out into eternity. He is scared. And he comes in trembling before, and fell down before Paul and Silas, brought them out, and said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? What a question. What a question. Now here's my thoughts. Number one, I want us to notice this jailer's qualifications for salvation. What was it that qualified this guy to be saved from sin in hell and have eternal life and go to heaven someday? What was it about him that qualified him for that? Well, I put down uh a list thing. Let me say this. This guy's a perfect candidate for salvation. And I want you to think this morning, if you're here and you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven That when you die, you're going to heaven. I want you to consider as I go through this list, are you a candidate for salvation Do you meet the qualifications to have your sins all forgiven and to know for sure you go to heaven and not to hell when you die? This guy met the qualifications. Let me show them to you. Number one He was a sinner. He was a sinner. Only sinners can be saved. If a person is not a sinner, they don't see and understand themselves to be a sinner, they cannot be saved. Listen to what Jesus said in Matthew chapter 9 and verse 13. I am come not, I am not come to call the righteous But sinners to repentance. Again, in Mark chapter 2 and verse 17, he said the exact same thing. I am not come to call the righteous but sinners to repentance. Luke 5. 32. Exact same thing. Listen, I didn't come to call righteous people to repentance. I came to call sinners to repentance. Luke 19, 10, for the Son of Man is come to seek and to save that which was Lost, that which is a sinner. In Romans chapter 5 and verse 6, Christ died for the ungodly. If you're here this morning, you say I'm not ungodly, then if that's true, then Christ didn't die for you. You can't be saved. The only person who can be saved is a person that sees and understands that they are sinner. I like Romans 5. 8. But God commendeth his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners Christ died for us. Jesus saves sinners. And if I am going to be a candidate for salvation, if I am going to be meet the qualifications to be saved, I must first of all understand that I am a sinner. You read through the gospels. You know what you find Jesus constantly doing? He's going to sinners. He's eating with sinners. He's drinking, not drinking alcohol, he's eating and drinking with sinners. He's associating with sinners. He's talking to sin The self-righteous Pharisees who refused to see themselves as sinners, they criticized and condemned Jesus for uh interacting with sinners. But it is sinners who Jesus came to save And so this guy here is the We're not told that he was a drunkard, we're not told that he was an adulterer, we're not told that he was a thief, he perhaps no doubt was a very upstanding man, he was given a Very important responsibility. He was probably morally a fairly decent guy, but behind it all he understood that he was a sinner and only sinners can be saved. Only sinners can receive eternal life. Only sinners can get to heaven. So if you're here this morning, or you're listening on the internet or the radio or whatever, and you say, you know, I know I'm a sinner. Hey, guess what? You're a candidate for salvation. You can have eternal life and know for sure you're going to heaven when you die if you're a sinner The second thing I noticed about this guy, the second qualification, is not only was he a sinner, and this is very important, this next one, he knew he was a sinner. Now, fact of the matter is, everybody on planet Earth is a sinner. Follow what I'm saying? The Bible says Romans 3. 23, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. There is not a man, woman, or child. That is not a sinner. We've broken God's law. We've disobeyed God. We are sinners. For there is none righteous, no not one. So, but the difference is not only was this guy a sinner, but he knew he was a sinner. All people are sinners, but not all people acknowledge that they are sinners I've knocked on many, many doors here in Garrett County and the area and other places we lived over the years. I've knocked on many, many doors, talked to people about the Lord Jesus Christ. And I had said to me so many times I could never count something like this. I'll talk about being a sinner. If they let me engage them in conversation, I'll talk about the Bible teaching that we're all sinners, and I'll hear this sometimes, many, many times I'm not that bad. I fell down uh in Tennessee years ago He goes, I'm not that bad. I was showing him Jeremiah 179, where it says, For the heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. He goes, preacher, I'm not that bad. Listen to me. James didn't die for folks who aren't that bad. He died for folks who are sinners. And people who recognize and understand that. Until I get to the point in my life where I am willing to acknowledge the fact that I have sinned against a holy God Until I get to that point, I can't be saved. God won't save somebody who does not acknowledge the fact that they are a sinner. Now they are a sinner whether they acknowledge it or not. That's fact. But I've got to acknowledge it. I've got to be aware of that. I've got to say yes. Many times I'll ask folks, I'll go through, first point, for all sin, do you realize you're a sinner? Yes. I like to ask this Does that concern you at all? Are you concerned at all with the fact that you've sinned against God? I've had people, believe it or not, over the years make something like this. Well, you know, I don't know. It's not that big a deal to me Listen to me, sinning against the holy God is a big deal. Sinning against the holy God is horrendous. And I've got to number one, I've got to be a sinner. We all meet that qualification. Next, I need to understand. He knew he was a sinner. I put this down, number three. He knew he was under God's judgment for his sin. He was a sinner, he knew it, and he realized he was under God's judgment. He's asking to be saved. Saved from what? Saved from God's judgment on his sin. It is a very sobering thought to understand that I am under God's judgment For my sins against God. That is a sobering thing. It took God five months. I should put it this way: it took me five months. To get to the point where I realized how serious a matter it was that I was a sinner before a holy God January through May of 1979, God was showing me from His Word that I was a sinner, and the more I read the Bible, the more I realized how ungodly I was. More I realized how wicked my heart was, and by the time May came around, I thought I am the most ungodly person on this planet, and my only hope was Jesus Christ And I was under the judgment of God. Listen, this isn't a pleasant thought, but it is true. Any person, the sound of my voice that is unsaved You've never been born again. You've never accepted Christ as Savior. Right now, this very moment. You are under the judgment of God for your sin. Not going to be someday condemned already, John chapter 3, verse 18, and verse 36 says. Condemned already! And this man realized it. He's a sinner. He knew he was a sinner. He was under the judgment of God. He needed to be saved. I put this down. Number four, not only that, but he believed that he could be saved. He believed that he could be saved. If he didn't believe he could be saved, he wouldn't have made the request. Right? Does that make sense? Everybody with me? Everybody alright? I can preach louder than any baby can talk. I'll tell you that right now. So Uh, we'll be all right. But uh uh he wouldn't ask to be s what must I do to be saved if he didn't believe he could be saved. It would have been a mute point. But because he was convinced there is some way that I can find forgiveness of my sins, there is some way That I can be forgiven. There is some way I can escape hell. There has to be some way. And he's asking these guys, what must I do to be saved? I'm telling you our folks here that have witnessed and visited over the years, we could tell you there are times that we knock on a door, introduce ourselves, we talk to them a little bit, we ask them if you know for sure if you died now you'd go to heaven No, I don't and I want to know. And every now and then you come across somebody and they believe they can be saved and they're looking to find out how can I have my sins forgiven and know I'm going to heaven when I die. And that's where he was. He was convinced that he could be saved. I like the word whosoever. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whosoever believeth in him shall not perish, but have everlasting life. You're here this morning and you say, Preacher, I'm not sure when I die I'm going to heaven. I don't know. I hope so. I don't want to go to hell. I don't know, though. Boy, that'd be nice to have that settled. I'm here to tell you you can be saved You can be saved. Yeah, preacher, you don't know what I've done. You don't know how bad I've sinned. Hey, I'm telling you, Jesus came to save sinners. So, well I'm a sinner and I'm telling you you can be saved. You can be saved. Um then my fifth thought on this, his uh his um uh his qualifications for salvation, first of all, he was a sinner. Second of all, he knew he was a sinner. Thirdly, he knew he was under God's judgment for his sin. Fourthly, he believed he could be saved. And fifth, uh, he wanted to be saved He wanted to be saved. God never saves someone who doesn't want to be saved. God never gives eternal life to someone that doesn't want it. And you'd say, Preacher, I want to know that I'm forgiven. Preacher, I want to know that I'm going to heaven when I die. I'm here to tell you, if you want it, God can give it to you. God never withholds from salvation from someone who sincerely desires it and comes to him the Bible way. So God doesn't save anybody against his will, against their will. You have to want to be saved. One of the questions we ask people, we knock on the door. Do you know for sure if you died right now, you go to heaven? Uh yeah, uh sh uh uh kind of. I hope so. And uh we'll say, well, uh would you like to know? Nah, I'm not that interested. Uh you know I found out a person that didn't want to get saved, I never have saw them get saved. They have to get to the point where they want to. Does that make sense? So, one, he was a sinner. Two, he knew he was a sinner. Three, he knew he was under God's judgment for his sin. Four, he believed he could be saved. Five, he wanted to be saved. If you don't want to escape hell and you don't want to go to heaven, you're not going to get saved. You got to want to. Now, let me give you my second thought. I'm going through these quickly. Number one, his qualifications for salvation. And uh number two, his question, can you help there, Catherine? Maybe if you could help out. Thanks, that's fine. Catherine can help her there. There you go. I'm glad little children are in church, aren't you? Amen. Jesus said, suffer the little children to come unto me and what? Forbid them not. So praise the Lord. And um thank God for nurseries also. One of my favorite things about being pastor is I don't have to work in the nursery. But I'm grateful for those that do. Alright, so number one is qualifications. He met the qualifications. This guy can be saved. Sinner. He knows he's a sinner. He's under the judgment of God. He wants to be saved. He believes he can be saved. Now he's not saved yet. But he's met the qualifications. The second thought here I want to give you quickly is his question about salvation. He says, What must I do to be saved? That's a good question. That's a good question. I like it when people come up to me, a visitor, somebody comes up to me and says, Preacher, I'd like to know how to be saved. I'd like to hear that. I like to knock on the door and somebody says, yeah, you know, I'd like for you to come in here. Tell me how to be saved. He asks a good question. Now, here's some thoughts on this. First of all, his question for salvation, I want us to notice The persons that he asked about salvation. He went to Paul and Silas. Paul and Silas had the biblical answer for his question I noticed that he did not go to the prisoners and ask the thugs and the murders and the thieves. He didn't ask them how to be saved. They wouldn't be able to give him a biblical answer. Are you with me? He didn't ask the other jailers, the other guards and whatnot. He didn't take a survey and say, well, we're going to vote. Uh who all thinks they should be safe, whatever's most popular, that's what we're going to believe. No. He went to the right guys. He went to the fellows that had the biblical answer. Acts 1631, they said, believe in the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved. If you'll take that statement and compare it with other passages of Scripture, you know what you'll find out? Their answer was biblical. Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved. John 3:16. God so the world gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but of everlasting life. They had a Bible answer to the question as to how to be saved. He went to the right people. Hey, be careful who you go to for questions about God and salvation. There are all kinds of theories out there. There are all kinds of ideas out there. You can go to ten different churches and you can get ten different ways to be saved. I'm telling you, the only one that matters is the Bible way of salvation. That's the only one that's going to work. That's the only one that's going to save souls. So be very, very careful. You ought to find a church that preaches the Bible. You ought to have Christian friends that live by, believe, the Bible. And this this jailer had enough sense, hey, these guys know what they're talking about. These guys have an answer to the question. You go to someone says, you ask them, what must I do to be saved? And they say something like this, well, nobody can know whether they're saved or not. You walk away from that. That is not a Bible answer. Well, what do you have to do to be saved? Well you've got to do this, that, and the other, and keep this, and stop that, and join this and pay that and and go through this ritual and then you'll be saved. You walk away from that. That's not Bible answer Paul and Silas, they gave them a Bible answer. You find a church that has the Bible answer to the question, what must I do to be saved? You find a Christians that have Bible answers to the question, what must I do to be saved? I like to when the uh Mormons and Jehovah's Witnesses come by Um I like to ask them. Uh they'll talk to you their little spiel. Uh I don't invite them in the house. I don't believe you ought to invite them in the house. I step out and uh step out in the porch and talk to them and uh I'll say something like this. They'll do their little spiel and I says, Well let me ask you a question. Sure, whatever. Do you know for sure when you die your sins are forgiven on your way to heaven? Huh? And I have yet have one of them tell me that they know for sure and a Bible answer how they're going to heaven. You know what my conclusion is They don't have a Bible answer to that question. Joseph Smith says that. This guy said this. This there. Show them from the Bible. Well, that's not right what the Bible says there. Somebody tells you the Bible's not right. They're not right. And so, I like this guy, this question, what must I do to be saved? He went to the right people. He went to Paul and Silas. They had Bible answer to that question. Then I noticed the precision of his question. There was nothing abstract about this. There was nothing ambiguous about his question. It wasn't like, well, in the grand scheme of things, what's God's philosophical solution to the issue of immorality and un and uh and uh and uh all this stuff and and just this n not that no he was right to the point what do I gotta do to be saved Listen, most important issue in life is knowing that my sins are given, I'm on my way to heaven. Most important issue in life. And he got right to the point Man likes to talk about ideas and theories. I had a guy in Boulder, Colorado. I was in the parking lot of the church. He was skateboarding by. Uh see me later, I'll describe what he looked like to you. But um he's going by and I said, Hey! And he stopped and I said, Hey, I got a gospel track here. I want to give you a gospel track, tell you how to be saved. Oh, look at that. And we started talking a little bit. And I said, Do you know for sure when you die you're going to heaven? He goes, Oh No, he says, I'm going to planet Zotar or some weird name. I said, Really? I thought it looks like he came from there to me And he went off on some bizarre theory and all this and spaceships are gonna show up in a certain year and they're gonna certain people and I mean he just went on. I said, Do you really believe this stuff? He goes, Oh yeah I said, I tried to share the gospel with him and he skateboarded on to outer space or somewhere. I don't know where he ended up. I tell you, a man likes to come up with all these theories and ideas But you know, salvation design salvation requires precision. This is what I'm trying to say. I can be right on everything else in life. But if I'm wrong about salvation, I'm lost for all eternity in hell in the lake of fire. You can be the most successful businessman in our country. And be right on all finan every financial decision you make. And God bless you if that's true. But if you're wrong about salvation, you lose in the end. Let me say this, you can be the best daddy, you can be the best mother in all the world. You can have the greatest family that's ever walked this planet And be the best and succeed in every way. And be right in all that. But if you're wrong in salvation, you're in bad shape. Bad shape. This jailer was not beating around the bush. He was very precise. I need to be saved. How do I do that? You tell me, you show me what needs to be done for me to be saved. He's very precise. The other thing I put down real quickly, the point of his question. Now, what I mean by that, the point in time. He asked this question when he was right on the verge of death. He came that close to going out into eternity with his sins unforgiven. He came that close To going to hell. And he's very concerned about his salvation. I put this down. He missed eternity in hell by inches. By inches. I thought back how many times before I was saved, I just nearly clipped the car. Just inches we missed. And said, that would have been bad. Now I look back and stop and think, what if that inches had been the other way? And I'd erect and been killed, where would I be now? I'd be in hell. I'm telling you, he missed it by inches. This was a good point to be asking about how to be saved. I tell you what, facing death is a good big motivator in looking for salvation. I was chaplain with hospice for four years. And I counseled a lot of people, so many of them trust Christ, that their whole life they could care less about God They could care less about the Bible. They were living life and for themselves and not even thinking about heaven and hell and eternity and God and the Bible. Just put it out of their minds. And the doctor says, you've got three months to live, cancer's all through your body, you're going to die in three months. Suddenly they want to know how to be saved. Suddenly they want to know. I tell you what, facing death is a powerful motivator to get things right with God. Am I right or wrong? A lot of people get saved at a graveside, a loved one died, and they realize I might never see them again if I don't get saved. This point of his question was that he was on the verge of death. A tragedy in life is a great motivator to be saved You say, Well, preacher, I don't plan on dying for a long time. Now I don't want to be morbid, I don't want to be negative here, but the fact of the matter is you don't know when you're going to die. There's a very real possibility some of us sitting here this morning won't be here next week. Very real possibility We're not saved. We need to make sure of that. He just missed death. And the passion of his question, verse 29 says he fell down. He was desperate. He humbled himself. Here is the prison the jailer, the warden, on his face before two prisoners. Listen, his pride went out the window. His self-esteem went out the window. He said, Listen, I don't care what anybody thinks about me. I do not want to go to hell. I don't care what it requires, how I need to hold. Well, I've got more dignity than that. A lot of people died and went to hell worried about their dignity. And I'll tell you this: there's no dignity in hell. He humbled himself and he says, I need to be saved. What do I need to do? He was passionate about this. He was humbled by his unsaved condition. The most important issue in life, I keep saying this, is getting saved, getting saved, getting saved. Most important issue for the unsaved is often ignored. Don't even care. Can I tell you can I share my heart for a moment? I just got a minute or two left. I'll tell you one thing that worries me as pastor. And that is this. That there would be be members of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Maybe they grew up in the church or whatever. And all they ever did was just went through the motions. And they had the right answers, and they could put on the right show, but they were never truly born again. Never truly saved. We have people in this church could stand up and testify, I lived for many years as a phony Christian until finally I genuinely trusted Christ and got saved. We have people in this church could say that, testify. God saved them as church members. Now, I'm not, I would never in the world try and make a saved person think they're lost. But I'll tell you what's tremendously dangerous. is for a lost person to think that they're saved. Because I went through the motions, because I did this, because I, and it's just a show I put on, and down inside my heart. I've never truly been born again. And that worries me as a pastor. Sometimes young people grow up in the church and they're told their whole life what to say, what to say, what the answers are. And thank God for that. But it needs to be more than just me saying something. It needs to be a reality in my heart and soul. You follow what I'm saying? This guy was passionate about it. Listen, don't ignore this issue. Don't just say, well, I'm sure I'll take a chance. Listen, heaven and hell is not worth gambling over. Make sure. My last thought is this. Number one, his uh his qualifications, two, his question, last of all, his acquisition. The old boy got saved. Look at verse number 31. What must I do to be saved? Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved in thy house. And verse 34 at the bottom, and rejoice, believing in God with all his house. The guy did what God told him to do. He believed in the Lord Jesus Christ. That was my first thought on this. He believed. He did exactly what the Bible says to be saved. The word believe means to trust in, to call upon, to rely on. It means to put my faith in Jesus Christ. I'm trusting him to forgive my sin and get me to heaven. I'm not trusting myself. I'm not trusting in the church. I'm trusting Jesus. Listen, Jesus never fails. If I'm trusting him to forgive me and save me and get to heaven, I can be sure I'm saved and on my way to heaven. And he believed that. He believed that simply trusting Jesus to do for me what I cannot do myself I'm here to tell you this morning, I know for sure there's no doubt in my mind, when I die, my sins are forgiven, I'm going to heaven. I am sure of that. You say, preacher, you're awfully arrogant, you're awfully presumptuous. No, I'm as wicked a sinner as you can possibly imagine. But Jesus promised me that whosoever would call on him would be saved. I know I called on him for my salvation, and Jesus does not lie, and he never fails. My faith is in him to save me, keep me safe, and get me to heaven. And the jailer believed. He got salvation. He received it. And then I like this, he was baptized. Now baptism does not save a soul. Amen? Being baptized 900 times, it's not going to save your soul But once I accept Jesus as Savior, very first step I ought to take, and you see it all through the book of Acts, I ought to get baptized. And what he was saying was, I'm coming out, I want the jailers, I want the prisoners. I want the uh the other guards, I want this whole world to know I've accepted Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. I'm buried with him in baptism, I'm raised to walk in newness of life I'm a child of God, I'm a follower of Jesus Christ, I'm not ashamed of that. I want my family, everybody to know I've accepted Jesus as my Savior, and that's what every Christian should do. When we accept Christ and trust Him as our personal Savior, we ought to follow the Lord and believers' baptism. If you're here this morning and you're not saved, get saved this morning by trusting Jesus as your Savior. If you're here this morning and you've been saved, you've trusted Christ, but you've not been baptized, that is the first and most important step a person should take after they're saved. And if you're here this morning, you're saved and baptized. Let's live like Paul and Silas, follow Jesus Christ, be a testimony of this old sinful world so we can see other people saved. Amen? We got a new track back on our track rack. It's called Asleep in the Boot. It's up on the track rack back there. It's just a simple little track. There's not much to it Tells the true story of a guide up on the Niagara River above the Niagara Falls. One day the tourism was very slow. He didn't have anything to do. This was years ago. So he went out in his boat. He had it tied up to the dock there and just laid it stretched out across the boat in the sunshine and he fell asleep. Well the water, the waves were going like that, and it kept moving the boat and jostling around there a little bit and he's sound asleep and that thing worked itself loose from its moorings. And it began to drift down the river. People on the shores watching that thing, and to their horror, they realized, they saw the boat going down, and from the shore they realized there's a guy in that boat asleep. And they began hollering and shouting and trying to throw stuff out there. Get up, wake up, wake up, get up! He's just out, and he's getting closer and closer to the edge. And finally, at the last moment, as he just about, he woke up. And they yelled, get on the rock, get on the rock. But at that point, it was too late. And that young man in that boat went over that edge down into eternity. He's killed. What a story. You know what's sad? There are people all around us that are heading to certain judgment, heading out to eternity without Christ, and they're oblivious to their need to be saved. This jailer asked the most important question in the world, what must I do to be saved? And he found the answer. Don't be like this foolish young man asleep in the boat. Make sure of your salvation. Make sure of it. And those of that know Christ, let's do everything we can. to bring others to Christ. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd use this simple thought this morning, maybe. It's a matter of salvation. That we would have it settled in our own heart and soul, and that you would stir us to share this message of Christ with others And bring others to salvation. Lord, when the world opposes us and opposition comes, help us not to let it faze us, but just sing and pray and rejoice. And go forward living for God. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many Christians would say, preacher, I'd like to be a little bit more like Paul and Silas? I would like to be a follower. I want to follow Jesus Christ. I want to be a witness. And God used me to bring other people to the knowledge of Christ. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. Preacher, that's my desire. To be an effective witness, a rejoicing witness, happy in the Lord. God bless you, hands all around. God will help us Now we need to step out by faith and say, Lord, I'm going to follow you. I want to live for you. Maybe there's some areas in our life, in your life, my life, that need to get out That are hurting us, that are stealing our joy, sin and unbelief, disobedience. We need to get that out. God will help us. Maybe there's some other things we need to incorporate, reading our Bibles, praying, faithful to church. God will help us But we need to make these decisions. I wonder if there's some this morning say, preacher, I know someone in particular. Their name is on the tip of my tongue. They're lost. I want to see them saved. I want God to help me be a witness that they would come to Christ. I'm thinking of someone in particular that I'm burdened for that needs Christ. Any like that by the uplifted hand, hands all around. God will help us. Ask for wisdom. Ask for boldness. God will help us. One last question. Is there someone here this morning say, preacher, I'm not saved. I don't know for sure that when I die, I'm going to heaven And I need to make sure of that. You say, preacher, pray for me. Slip your hand. God bless you. Amen. I see. You can put your hand out. Are there any others? Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I don't want to go to hell. I want this matter settled. in my heart and soul. How about it? Any at all? Now, Father in heaven, a lot of hands raised. Some decisions need to be made this morning. Help us, I pray, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads about, eyes are closed