This evening two hundred and fifty-nine. To God be the glory, great things he has done. Let's all stand together for the fox comes to lead us. Two hundred and fifty-nine. All right, let's sing to God be the glory. Now everybody, let's do our best. Let's sing to the glory of God. Everyone. Great things we have done, so what we the world have been gave us his son. And the Almighty and all we go in. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let me turn his voice. Praise the Lord, only Let the people rejoice, oh God, to the Father, who Jesus thy son, and give him the glory, great things. We have all birth and creation of her believer of promise of God. That's all that comes in the war and bring three. Praise the Lord! Yes, pray the Lord, praise the Lord, let the joys, oh God, pray the Father. And give him the glory. Great victim. Great victim. Great thing. We have done a greater rejoicing proceed of time, but your eye and greater will be done. Wonder our thankful when Jesus Christ Amen. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord. Let us give glory, glory, O God, to the Father, who Jesus used, son, and give him the glory great thing. Amen. Amen. I don't think we ought to do a thing until we first stop and pray and ask God to bless our meeting tonight. Ask the Lord to get in on this thing. and stir our hearts. So join with me together in prayer, if you would, please. Father in heaven, we come before you this evening with hearts anticipating You dealing with us and challenging us and strengthening us and helping us. Lord, we want to serve you. We want to please you with our lives and our churches. And we look to you to help us. God show us where we're wrong. God show us where we need to shore up. God show us and strengthen us in the areas that uh we got a hold of. And Lord, we'll give you the glory for all you do tonight. Bless the singing, the fellowship, the preaching, all of it. We pray that to you would be all the glory. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. You may receive him Something is there, and a grander, sweeter song I shall sing. For I'll join the ransom choir on heaven's bright shore forever to Praise the king and while the ages roll, I'll keep on praising him, and my voice will never tire or grow. And my song shall ever be praise the Lamb who died For me, and I'll sing it while ages shall roll when a million years have passed in that wonderful place, my song. Song of praise will just have begun for my song will never end while I look on his face, and my song will never be. And while the ages roll, I'll keep on praising him, and my voice will never tire or grow old. And my song shall ever be Praise the Lamb who died for me, and I'll sing it while ages shall roll. I will sing it while What a blessing Brother Fox is behind that piano and singing. He's been with us many. We appreciate that, Brother Fox. Well, we want to welcome you out this evening to our eighteenth annual Sword of the Lord conference. Hard to believe a year has gone by since uh we were back here and uh doing this last year, and uh but here we are and And uh we're glad that you're with us. I really believe with all my heart that God has something really special in store for us tonight and in this conference. And so we're just thrilled that you're here and a part of it. Some of you drove a long way to be here, and uh we are just thrilled. uh what uh that you're with us and what we're going to do. We want to get right into the meat of the business, um uh which is preaching. That's what this is all about. Revival, soul winning And all that from preaching. Eighteen years ago, this past January, I went to a big old church down in Carroll County, Maryland. They're in a winter Bible conference And uh up here in Garrett County, January, uh you try and get out of here any way you can, you know. You just dig your way out. And so I went down there a few days and uh I knew of brother uh Dr. Sheldon Smith and uh got to see the church there and the work that was done here, the preaching. And uh when w when we left, I said, Dr. Smith, I'd like for you to come up for my second anniversary as pastor of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church and preach that day. He said, Well, I can't come Sunday, I have my responsibility as a church here But I could come up on Monday and Tuesday. I said, let's do it. So we had it all planned out and I was excited, my second year here, and Dr. Smith was going to come. And uh and then during that time the Lord saw fit to call Dr. Curtis Hudson home to heaven. And as God led and directed, uh, ended up Dr. Smith became the next editor of the sword of the Lord. When I heard that and found out, I immediately called down the sword and I I got a hold of Dr. Smith. I said, listen, everything's changed for you. Uh I understand if you can't make it and uh you can't be here uh for that meeting, I completely understand, we'll work something else out. He goes, No, no, no. He goes, I'm free to come up Sunday now if you like, like we originally talked. I said, okay. So we got talking about it and we decided we're gonna make it a Sword of the Lord conference. Sword Sunday and Sword of the Lord Conference. That was eighteen years ago, this weekend. Isn't that something? And here all these years hundreds of preachers been through and and uh And God doing the work all around and so we thank God for it. And it is a privilege and a joy and an honor to have Dr. Smith back all these years And uh we had a great day. Yesterday we had the 50th anniversary of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Fifty years ago, a guy by the name of Ed Wilt showed up in Oakland, Maryland and uh downtown, had a handful of people, asked him to come and start a Baptist church. He was here, I think it was two weeks, those same guys showed up and says, We're gonna help you pack and leave. You'll never start a church here in Oakland. Same guys invited him tried to get him to leave. And he says, Oh no, no, it don't work that way. God called me here. I'm staying until God has me leave. And uh those humble beginnings, here we are. And so Brother Smith preached our big day yesterday and uh we had a great, great day. And uh we thank God for him. So let's get our Bibles out. He's going to come and preach for us to get things started. Pastor, thank you. Thank you very, very much. Guys, uh I got all the buttons on. Help me out. Help me out. So may or you. Oh you got it. Now you got it. Double their salary, all right? Good. Good. We did have a great day here yesterday and uh After uh eighteen consecutive years of coming and for this conference, uh I just kind of Well, I was feeling my my oats last night and I just I just stood up here and invited myself to come back for the one hundredth anniversary of the church. Yeah, why why are you laughing? Anyway. Uh but uh you know, if you don't set a goal sometime and reach for something, you know, I mean I mean after all of it we might miss it a couple of years and only d do ninety five or ninety six of 'em or whatever. But uh but I'm I'm grateful Brother Leatherman and the good people of this church have done a a great great thing here in this what's basically a resort area, uh this beautiful Deep Creek Lake area And uh uh you know, a lot of folks move here to the area, they're not they're not thinking about church, they're thinking about boats and fishing and whatever else skiing I guess I don't know what all hunting that kind of stuff and you know and all that stuff I guess is good in its place. But uh but its its place is not when Sunday comes and so We uh we thank God that there's a there's a lighthouse uh here in Mountain Lake Park in Oakland, Garrett County. And uh what they've done here over the years uh has been quite phenomenal. And I'm grateful for it and glad to have been a part of it along the way. Dropping in a couple of days like we do every year And I'm glad that you're here tonight. Didn't get to speak to everybody on the way in, but if you'll hang around a little afterwards, we'll try to get it done. And we're glad to have Brother Sam Davison here. And I'm going to do what I'm going to do here tonight in uh fairly uh brief order. Shouldn't be more than a couple of hours. Give him plenty of time. But uh anyway, it's great great to see you. Glad to have everybody here. And I want you to turn your Bible to Matthew chapter 11 I uh told the folks yesterday uh I've had allergies so far every single day of my life. Uh up to now. And this week they have really been having a fit. And although I brag all the time about Maryland Air Uh and uh I even try to get people to bag it up and bring me a little bag of it sometimes. But uh but it hasn't helped and my my voice has been a little cranky But uh if you'll uh ask the Lord to help me a little bit, uh the voice is not not gone, at least not yet, but it's but it's just Junk going on, you know how that is. Matthew chapter 11 and verse number 6. And blessed is he Whosoever shall not be offended in me. Now, I've entitled what I want to do here tonight: What's your problem? What's your problem? I read the verse again. Jesus said And blessed is he whosoever shall not be offended in me. Now I find it absolutely hard to imagine. And yet I'm going to be very transparent to tell you. That there have been times in my life when I violated this verse. And if you're real honest, I think you'd have to nod in agreement and say, yes, I've Had my feet on this too when I shouldn't have. Now, hopefully it was not on a serious issue, a major issue, and hopefully you didn't stay there a long time. But what this verse is talking about is when we take issue with Jesus. He says something. And we kind of bristle up, or in obstinance, just refuse to go along. And thus take issue with him. They say, I can't imagine anybody would do that seriously. Well, there's cases right in the Bible, like in Luke chapter four and verse Verse 28 says, All they in the synagogue, when they heard these things, things Jesus said, they were filled with wrath. I mean, folks came to God's house. They heard what the man of God, who was actually God the man, they heard what he said, and they got mad about it. Now, there's another verse that comes to mind to illustrate this in John chapter 6, verse 66. I've always thought it's interesting. It's totally coincidental. Well it's interesting that this verse is John 6, 6, 6. And it's the one that says, From that time, many of them went back and followed him no more. They made a start and then they slowed down and then they said, Whoa, no further, we're not going there. What happened? Well, all the excitement? Oh man, this is great. Look at the crowd And then they found out some of what it meant to go along with Jesus. And some of these folks said, I'm not going there. They took issue with some of the requirements, some of the teaching, whatever. You say, Well, how how could anybody get in position get themselves in position where that they Uh really take issue with the Savior. Well, sometimes it's over doctrine. I I've had I've had more than a handful of people. I mean more than several people. Over the last few years, I mean it comes up fairly often. Folks will say, Well, you know, you know the church that I go to, uh, we we don't we we don't get into doctrine. My response is you just did. You you tell me you're an old doctrine church, that is your doctrine. Now, some folks hear the things that Jesus teaches, what the New Testament, the Old Testament says, and they bolt their back, and it's like, well, I know it's in the Bible, but I mean it's really got to mean something other than what it seems to say And so they're all time. In fact, that's one of the reasons why I think we have so many people trying to reinvent the Bible. They keep trying to reduce it to terms that agree with what they've already decided they want to do. And so some folks take issue with Jesus, get offended at Jesus over doctrine. Some people have things happen in their life. They they have a disease, or maybe somebody that they love dies, and they they immediately Uh, not realizing they live in a world where all this stuff goes on, but they immediately, when something happens, they turn and say, God, what why why did you do this to me? And uh the fact that a drunk ran over someone that you love and hurt them or kill them And we look up to God and say, God, why did you do the drug? You see what I'm saying? And a lot of folks blame God with all kinds of stuff that the devil's crowd does, and something happens, and it's like, oh, uh I just can't figure out what God's trying to tell me. They get offended. Some folks, you know, they set out in business or something, and all at once, man, a recession comes, they get foreclosed, everything goes crazy. And it's like, man, I I man, I've tried to serve God, and look what's happened to me. I mean, I was tithing, and look what look what God let happen to me. And they they take issue. I mean uh some big disappointment happens. Somebody that you believed in, somebody you trusted, somebody that was uh kind of somebody you thought highly of. They they foul up, foul out, mess up big time. Because thinking about that today You know, we uh we sometimes let our admiration for personalities Get higher than our attachment to principle. And if the personality messes up Then we we have a sinking spell because our principles have been lower than our personality admiration. And sometimes, in fact, I had a couple of conversations recently with people who said, well, you know, uh and I said, wait a minute, wait a minute, but the principles are off over here And so when the when the personality messes up, the principles are not in first place, and so the person often goes and does something That again doesn't reflect the principles they say they hold to. And folks, where it ought to be all of the time is principle ought to always be at the top of the heap Personality ought to be subservient to that. And if you and I have our principles right, then whether we're in the valley or from the mountain, in the light of the day or the dark of the night We'll have an anchor that holds. But some folks get disappointed and they start throwing accusations and epithets at God. Now, we can go on with that, but I want you to get the picture here that these this statement, Jesus said, you will be blessed if you do not take offense. At me. Now, there's a there's a second text that I want you to look at, and it's in 1 Corinthians chapter 10. And I'll read verses 31, 32, and 33. 1 Corinthians 10, 31. First point, first text said Let's not take issue with Jesus. Let's not get offended at the Lord. The second thing I see here, 1 Corinthians 10, 31. Whether therefore you eat or drink, or whatsoever you do, do all to the glory of God. Verse 32, give none offense. Neither to the Jews, nor to the Gentiles, nor to the Church of God, even as I please all men and all things, not seeking my own profit, but the profit of many that they may be saved. Now look at verse 32. It says, give none offense. Not to the Jews or to the Gentiles. And you and I, many of us, we look at that and say, Oh, I can handle that. The Jews, that's that's the unsaved religious crowd out there. And the Gentiles, that's an unsaved, wicked, worldly, god ungodly crowd. And they're out there, and I understand as a Christian, I'm supposed to keep my testimony in good form, and so uh out among the world. I'll I'll boy I'll be sure not to give offense when I'm out among the world. But the verse goes on to say, nor to the church of God. And sometimes we are clean as a houndstooth out in front of the world. And we come to church and practice every kind of a carnal thing that you can imagine. We come to church and we think we're entitled to Blow our cork. We're entitled to pout. We're entitled to stand around and act like well nobody spoke to me. I mean we're we act strange sometimes. Right. I I had a man in my church. He he was there all the time. Poor guy didn't have very many friends. And I know why and everybody else knew why. He was known for one statement because you couldn't turn on a conversation with him without him making it. I heard him say it dozens and dozens of times The statement that he made was, I I uh I say what I think and I think what I please. And he literally did it. I mean he was in somebody's face all of the time telling them what he thought. You know It's an ugly tie. You know. Now I can't believe you buy a pair of shoes like that. Guy all the time spouting off. Now somewhere I think my mother told me this. You've got to be careful about giving somebody a piece of your mind. It may just be the peace you're going to need. You know? But sometimes we come to church and we forget to practice The things that we demonstrate out in front of the world. I mean the the same same scenario happens. I mean I mean here's a guy I mean he is all buttoned up and then he is on I mean spit and polished when he's out at his job But the minute he drives into his own driveway with his family, his wife, his children, his dog, his cat, whatever. Guy is, I mean he is a gentleman out in the world where everybody's looking. He comes home and turns into a grizzly bear. Every time he shows up at home. He's tired of being pleasant. He's I mean he's he's I mean he just turns into a grumpy old codger. When he gets home. A lot of folks do that when they come to church. Or it's like, well, you know, I don't have any authority where I work. When I come to church, I want to be a big shot. I want to help make all the decisions, Pastor. And he gets himself in trouble because he keeps treading on stuff a lot of times that he shouldn't even be bothering with. Guy showed up at our place. He and his family joined the church. They'd been there a couple weeks, maybe a month, month and a half. He said uh Pastor said uh when do we have a business meeting? I said every Thursday night. He said, Really? I didn't know we had anything on Thursday night. I said, You show up Thursday night, that's when we do the Lord's business. I knew what he was asking and he didn't know what I was saying. He started to walk off and I said, Brother, I said, let me let me clarify. I said, no, we have soul winning every Thursday night, and that's the real business around this place. And he said, no, no, no. He said, I was talking about before we get together and talk about the church's business and vote on stuff. I said, we do that once a year, about two weeks before Christmas. He said, good night. He said, how do you manage not have it all out? I said, wonderfully. Cut out all the squabbles. With giving folks like that a microphone to get up and blow their cork. Now I better come back off that trail. So I said, why you running those rabbit trails? Most everybody I know lives off the road down there somewhere. Now, this passage says you and I are not to be giving offense to others. In the context of local church, we're not to be doing that. These Corinthian people, I mean, they were into it. I mean, up one side and down the other. Carnal crowd they were And he's saying to them, cut out giving the offense to each other. Now, by the way, this has nothing to do about us. I'm not addressing our taking a stand on issues and all those kinds of things. That's a whole different scenario. But we're talking about the kind of personal relationships here where we have to deal with each other. You say, Fry are you into this? I'm into this, and I got some more, I got some more I'm coming with here. But I'm into this because I was pastor for a long time. And I notice that some of the folks who are all excited one day get unexcited the next and the next they're nowhere to be found and when you go to check on them they say well you know we we just haven't been I mean these are folks who were singing in the choir a while ago. They were they were helping to do this, that, and the other. I mean, and all at once something happened. Well well I've I've waited put that cover down and I I voted for it to be yellow and it's it turns out to be green or blue or something. And I I didn't get my way on that, and I just thought, oh come on. There's a third point in a third text here. This one is found in Psalm 119. And it's verse 165. This one says, one nineteen one sixty-five. Great peace have they which love thy law. You get that part? Great peace have they which love thy law. It's Psalm 119, 165. The second part of the verse says, and nothing shall offend them. Nothing shall offend them. Hang on a minute, because somebody's gonna come up to me afterwards and say, Well, you know, there's certain things that happen that I don't like. You're entitled to not like things. You're entitled to that. Let me illustrate it for you. You see this? You see this head of hair that I've got? Hey, at my age, I'm glad to have her. I'm serious. I want you to know before before before I came over here tonight. I washed my hair and I combed it. And I sprayed it until it is set like concrete. I do not like for a hair to be out of place. Not even in a forty mile an hour wind. It's just a thing with me. I just like for it to be in place. And so I I try to try to make it happen. Now, if you come up to me after the service and you take your hands One fellow said to me, he said, I don't think in your case it's a two-handed job anymore to do that. But if you take both your hands and you go and you mess up my hair, I'm not gonna like that. I'm telling you now, I'm not gonna like that. In fact, you do that You and I might I well ladies well I wouldn't hit some of you ladies, but if your husband's standing close, I I I would I I would not like that. I don't think you'd like it if I were to mush up your hair either. But let me tell you where this plugs in. You mess up my hair if you wish, but he won't keep me from doing what I'm supposed to do here tomorrow night. Mm-mm. No, no. It it it won't it won't keep me from witnessing to some folks when I go to breakfast in the morning. Mm-mm. It won't keep me from doing that. You say, well man, man, so so somebody was unkind to me. Somebody, somebody, I mean they did something that's totally unjust. Do you realize? All we know about your Christianity is what you tell us and what we can see a little bit visibly until something goes wrong in your life, and then we really find out what you're made out of. When all's going smooth, not saying you're not a Christian, I'm just saying when when something really critical happens, then we will really find out. How deep we are. And the Bible says, great peace. I mean it closed down Deep inside of us, we love the Lord and the things of God and His law, whatever. We love the things of God. So much so that when something comes unglued We will not be offended in the sense. You're not going to be able to stop us. You're not going to sidract us. You're not going to distract us. You're not going to keep us from doing what we know. That we ought to be and that we ought to do. Nothing shall offend us. No I've given you three texts and three basic points. We take issue with Jesus, we can get offended at him, we can give offense to others, and we can take offense ourselves. And I think the last two of these are directly related to the first one. If you and I keep the first one in place. We'll manage the other two. So well I I I've been I've been trying to do it by I slipped up and I and I got a little offended. Correct it. Don't don't let it go 29 forever. The the altar, I mean, I mean every Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night, the altar is open. You say, well, if I if I go forward, what does somebody think? Don't worry about what somebody thinks, except what God thinks. And if you if you slip up, mess up, trip up on this a little bit, get to the altar, tell God about it, clean it up. And then get up and walk again. Like you ought to walk. Amen Our nation is in a peck of trouble. I mean we we gotta we I mean I mean any direction you want to look, we've got trouble in our nation. And it all backs up to the fact that we've got millions of our people who are lost and dying that without God they don't have a clue about how to conduct life. And you and I have access to the greatest message on the planet. And it's I mean it's too critical. The issues are too big. The the stakes are too high. For us to be peddling around with our feelings hurt. Or by saying, well, I I don't know whether I like what Jesus said or not. No. Listen, listen. I mean, I mean I mean I think about uncles and aunts and cousins and grandparents and grandchildren. I mean I think about all kinds of family members, my family, Betty's family, and and and Others that we all know and love. And the issues are too great for us to trip up over some little something. I've I've known churches that got so sideways with themselves that it went on for years and you begin to inquire and half the people couldn't even remember what it started over. I had two guys, not at Westminster, but another place where I was years before. Two guys in my church. They were brothers. They lived on adjoining farms. They fought like cats and dogs. Both of them were members of my church. One had set over here and one set over there. They'd lie about each other. They run into one another on the road. They'd try to run one another off the road. I mean, I mean on and on and on and on. And ever everybody everywhere it And I would say to the one guy, I would say, Well, where did all this start? He said, I don't know we've been fighting like this since we were boys. And that's the other guy, where did all this start? I don't know it's been going on since we were kids. You know, how in the world can that happen with two people who claim to be children of God? Here where it all backs up to. Somebody forgot to pay attention to Jesus. Because the Bible says if you and I will not be offended in him, we'll be blessed. There's all kinds of things in the Bible other than John 3. 16. I'm glad that's in there, but I mean there's things in the Bible about being kind, there's things in the Bible about being just, about being honest, about being pure I mean about telling the truth, about paying your debts, about giving an honest day's pay work and pay and all that. I mean there's all kinds of things in the Bible that is the Word of God. And if you and I will just take note of what the Lord says and follow it, Jesus said, we'll be blessed. You may want to chase this offend word in the Bible. There are a number of places. Jesus said in John 16:1, These things have I spoken to you that you should not be offended. Acts 24 says, herein do I exercise myself to always have a conscience void of offense toward God and toward men. Just keeping it clean with everybody. Philippians 1 says, approve things that are excellent, that you may be sincere and without offense till the day of Christ. So, I ask you tonight, what's your problem? You're not serving God, you're not walking with God, not acting the church, what's your problem? What will arrive? What got crossways? You say, well, uh how how can how can I tell if I've let listen, your spirit Tells things, your reactions, your obedience, your faithfulness, your daily walk, what you're willing to sacrifice for, what your investments are, all of those things. I mean everything tells a part of the story of the biography that we're writing day by day. I stumbled over this verse a few weeks ago. It's been in my Bible all along. And I've read it and read it and just read right on by it. I can't tell you how many dozens of times I was reading the Bible one morning early, and there it was. Blessed is he, whosoever shall not be offended in me. What's your problem? I think that verse may spell it right out if you're not staying close to the Lord like you should be. Our Father, we're grateful tonight for your goodness, your blessing. I pray, dear Lord, that you'll make these days so sweet, so special, so good. Turn turn us, I pray, toward yourself to do what you want done. And we'll thank you for that. Bless Brother Sam Davidson as he preaches now a little bit. Brother Fox as he leads the music, brother Letterman. Just give us your good blessing, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen