If you would, Book of Job, chapter one. That's a good book. It's a very good book. Um My wife and I really believe the Lord would have us for the remaining time that we have left. Do three things. We want to reach children. This is kind of an introduction before the introduction. There's 56 million school-aged children in America, according to Barner Group, half of which have never been into a church, a mosque, or a synagogue one time in America. Uh we work with lighthouse children's homes and so we work with children sometimes all across the world. I've been in Togo, West Africa. Kids are hungry for the gospel. I've seen 75 of them at one service in the public school raise their hand for salvation. We need to reach children. I appreciate this church, your heart for reaching children. Uh families in a mess are in a mess in America. So not only we want to reach children, we're trying to help restore families. If we can't get the families straight, the church and the country is never going to be straight. And we do a lot of family revivals from that. A lot of times Joe will take the kids out while I'm preaching and it allows me to deal with subject matter. It's a little bit more sensitive if younger ears were there. Uh we need to do that. But I'm getting old. Now my wife, she doesn't look as old because I've taken such good care of her and warned myself out, making life easy for her. And uh besides that we're from Arkansas. She was twelve when we were married. And and I'm more out and broke down. But we want to we want to help raise up another generation to do what we do. And it is our prayer that we can help train others to work for kids in some fashion. It was several years ago. Uh in fact Ten years ago almost that uh I I set a goal for our ministry. I've never done that before, and I thought, Lord, if you'd give us a hundred souls a year Some years we've seen a hundred saved, some years we haven't in kids' ministries and adults and all. And it's hard to tell, of course, who's made a profession and who's not. But the Lord knows those things. We were just asking for that. After ten years, it'd be, you know, man, that's that's that's good. That's a thousand people. And we also asked that the Lord would give us ten people a year That would tell the Lord, I'll work with kids some which way. I don't care. Run a bus, work in junior church, teach Sunday school class. And we need somebody else to do that. We we are spread thin. You can always use help working with kids. And then that would give us a hundred people at the end of ten years. And then, Lord, if you can be so gracious Would you take of that ten, give us one that might would give their life? And work full time in the gospel ministry working with kids. So that's what we've endeavored to do. And I gotta tell you that the Lord The Lord works in a way that is unbelievable. And whatever fruit that we've had from the ministry is not because of us. It's because of the grace of God working through us. And let me say this to all of you that are here in this church, and this is a working bee church. I mean, you've got a lot of worker bees around here. God can work through you to do great things. More than you could ever imagine And there's young people sitting here today, and I know you may have plans for your life, but God has better plans than whatever you can imagine. And so when we get to the book of Job, I want to call your attention to Job chapter 1 Verse 6 and 7. The Bible says, Now there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord, and Satan also came also among them. And the Lord said unto Satan, Whence comest thou? Then Satan answered the Lord and said, From going to and fro in the earth, and from walking up and down in it. Let's pray. Father, help us tonight to be clear. And Lord We're asking that you do something tonight that no one in this room can do, and that is to touch hearts. And God, we want to preach with a purpose when we go. And Lord, we don't want to be driving people, but God, we want to draw. So Lord, I pray that tonight, if the Holy Spirit of God Would help us and to walk up amongst these aisles and down these pews and touch hearts. Oh God, help us tonight. In Christ's name I pray. I'm going to tell you a story. It was one day in April in 1963, and it was in the throne room of God up in heaven. That Satan walked in just like he has done every day for thousands of years And God asked him, What have you been doing? He gave the same answer that he has given throughout the centuries. He said, I've been going to and fro in the earth. And so God asked that older accuser, what do you want today? On that day in April in 18 si in 1963. He replied, I want a little boy. I want a little boy who lives on Oxmoor Drive off of three-notch road in Mobile, Alabama. And I'm here to make a bid for his soul. So God said, What do you bid? The answer came back from Satan. The same bid I made for your boy one day. I'll tell him I'll give him anything that his eyes desire, that his flesh craves, along with fame, fortune, and celebrity. God said, but you won't tell him that there's a hook in everything that you're offering him. Besides that, who will you get to make that bid? And Satan said, maybe a drug dealer, offer him drugs to take away his pain, or a thief that will teach him to steal what he wants. Besides, I have hundreds all around him that I can use to make a bid for me Then someone speaks up. It was the Son of God sitting at the right hand of the Father. And he said to Satan, I made the final bid for that boy with my own blood on Calvary. Satan said, that's true. But he doesn't know that you did. So who are you going to get to make a bid for his soul? And the Son of God said, I'll send their neighbor lady who's a faithful witness. And she'll witness to them across the fence. And Satan said, but you know they're hard and they won't listen. The Lord said, Maybe that's true, but she'll plant the seed. And she'll send her pastor, Wayne Crenshaw, by their house. And I know my servant Wayne Crenshaw, and he'll make sure they'll at least get into church. And when he comes to church. I've got a faithful Sunday school teacher there. She'll tell that little boy how much I love you. But I died for him, and I want him to be my child. And you know She did tell me all those things. First time I really ever heard a clear presentation of the gospel. I was nine, almost ten years old. But I didn't know how to approach God Should have given an invitation. How'd have gone forward and got saved? It was a couple of weeks later, Wayne Crenshaw was preaching. You've got to understand there was no air conditioning in that auditorium in Mobile, Alabama. He had preached long, hard, and hot, Pastor. There's a picture of some of you old people helped me out. There's a picture of water. Sitting on a platter, ice water, condensation running down the side. One aluminum cup. All through the sermon, he's knocking that water down Well B old Liberal Baptist Church brings you little He preached hell hot. He finished his sermon. For the first time ever, I heard the Holy Spirit of God speaking to my heart. And I came forward and I knelt on the altar. I sit on that side. I came forward and I knelt on the altar, crying my eyes out. And as best I knew how, I asked Christ to come into my heart, forgive me of my sins, and be my Savior. And he was so glad. I was glad he called me. He was more glad I came. More glad. Is that proper English? Arkansas it is. Thank God for that teacher. I don't remember her name. But I will never forget that she was the first one to give me a clear presentation of the gospel and told me that Christ had made a bid for my soul. My father was saved shortly thereafter, and then of all things called to preach. And our lives were forever changed by the faithfulness of that teacher. That she was willing to teach God's word to a little boy and make a bid for his soul. God changed everything. When everything looked hopeless for the mocks on Oxmore Drive. God changed everything because He is able. We got young people here We used to play different games when I was younger. We played a game some of y'all have never heard of or not familiar with. A game is called Outside. We played outside from daylight to dark. They just had to make us come in. I know I'm old. I remember when WAMO came out with hula hoops. We didn't have no money for hula hoops. One neighbor he left his hose out. We cut that sucker up. We stuck sticks in it. Tried to hula hoop like they did on the black and white TVs with a garden hose. You can't hula hoop with a garden hose. You gotta swing them hips. I'm old enough, it's about that same time they came out with frisbees. Can you imagine I'm older than frisbees? We saw them frisbees, we thought, man. We didn't have no frisbees. Neighbor down the street, he was painting his house We went and gathered up the paint can lids. Tell you what, you'll learn to let it skip one time before you catch it when you're playing with paint can lids like it's a frisbee We used to play till dark. And uh they'd make us come in. And I remember how that We was out there playing with them paint can lids and it started getting dark and we'd learned don't catch them first. You know, you you you gotta watch how you catch a paint can lid and we'd let them hit on the asphalt first and you know and they'd spark It got to be dark one time. It's time for them boys to come in. Let them play. We're liking to see the sparks. Ooh, man. That's going to leave a mark on Johnny. You know But when my daddy got saved, he got what they call in South Alabama the double dose. And I remember one night, shortly after I'd gotten saved, he gotten saved on a Sunday. Monday. He called us in 30 minutes before dark And we loved our playtime outside. And my daddy sat us down on the sofa. And he pulled out a Bible. And a man that was born in a dirt floor shack that only had a fifth grade education tried to read us a chapter out of the Word of God Monday after he was saved on Sunday. And kids, let me tell you something. I never did miss that half hour of extra playtime. Because the man that sometimes was so drunk he couldn't hold me in his lap was reading scripture to me. And my life was forever changed because of a faithful Sunday school teacher that made a bid for my soul. Wasn't long after that, we found out about something called youth camp. I went to junior camp at Rolling Hills Youth Camp. And I enjoyed it so much that next week was senior week, and by this time my daddy had been asked to teach the Sunday school of the teens in Sunday school. They didn't have youth pastors back then, they had youth directors, and they didn't hire a lot of staff. They just had lay people do all the work in churches back then. Man, that was wonderful. I said, Daddy, can I stay? He said, son, I'm working. You can't stay and got nobody to watch you. Some of them teenage boys said, Brother Mock, we'll watch you. And I wanted to do all the things that they were doing. They were having pillow fights out on the ball field and they'd be feathers everywhere the next day and they'd get the tractor that they kept the grounds up with and they took a car hood and turned it upside down and would sling people off of it and into stumps and stuff like that and kill people and I wanted to do that stuff, but I was so tired by the end of the day I never got up and could do those things. But it was at Rolling Hills Youth Camp that the Lord spoke to me the second time. And he wasn't giving me the gift of salvation. He was asking me to do something for him. It was to serve him. And I knew back then the Lord wanted me. On the mission field. I didn't know where because God was calling me to Himself before He was going to send me out. And twenty-one years ago, because the Bible says in Romans chapter 11, verse 29, that the gifts and the calling of God are without repentance. My wife and I were faithfully serving God in a church that we helped start. We've done that all of our married life. We did everything, even be the interim pastor, in-between preachers. She played, sang pianos, taught classes, all of those things. But I was not functioning in my calling like God wanted me to. And we sold out everything we had in the business world and we moved, not knowing exactly where God would take us. And that's how we found the Lighthouse Children's Home. I'd gone to college with a neffs. And that's how we got into the ministry. And we've been doing this for 21 years. And I've never enjoyed myself any more in anything that I've ever done than serving God. Young people, God could do the same thing with you And I'm sure that that teacher had no idea that one day this little boy Would be invited back to preach the 53rd anniversary of Metalake Baptist Church. Tell you the truth, Pastor, surprises me too. That God would give us even a small part in the gospel ministry. It's beyond my imagination. A verse that Joe and I have been using is 1 Thessalonians 2 and verse 4, where it says, But as we were allowed of God, To be put in trust with the gospel, even so we speak, not as pleasing men, but God which trieth our hearts The gospel ministry is a sacred trust. Some of you here today, some of you here at Mountain Lake, Independent Baptist Church, here tonight. You've been in put in trust with the gospel. Some of you may feel like that you're not making that big of a difference teaching a small class. running a bus route or working in the superchurch that you have here. Some of you feel like maybe you're not making a big difference for the small amount of money that you're giving to missions. But I can tell you this, we sang a song this morning, Little Is Much, when God is in it. And when we are not able to do much in the ministry, you need to know this. God is able. And you could have influence over one that would make a difference in the world. with some of these kids. There was another day in April, not in nineteen sixty three. But in 1855, there was a businessman, his name was Edward Kimball, and he was teaching a junior boys' Sunday school class. And he was under conviction after praying for them about the condition of their souls. He did not really know if they were born again or not. So he made up his mind that he was going to make God's business his main business. And on a Saturday, he left his business in the hands of another, and he went looking for those junior boys to talk to them about their soul. He goes in Boston into a shoe store and finds a young man in the stock room named Dwight, who's one of his junior boys, and he's working in that stockroom. And nails him down about his soul's condition. Dwight Becomes one of the greatest evangelists of his day, moves out to Chicago after the Civil War. And there's someone that attends his uh meetings when he goes to England A young man named Frederick who was pastoring a church, and Frederick wasn't really doing much in the ministry, but because of the influence of Dwight, he gets on fire for God and he becomes a great evangelist. And Dwight invites him back to the States and he's preaching in the United States and he's become now a good evangelist in his own right. And there's a young man named Wilbur that comes to his meeting and he gets on fire for God. He was already saved, so was Frederick. But man, they were challenged by the preaching God got a hold of him, said, I can do something for God, and Wilbur started one of the greatest ministries that you've ever seen. I've read a book about him. and they started a revival that swept all through Australia and through the United States and was going to England and it ended right at World War One and he even went into the soldiers training camps and continued on after that. He was preaching and he had a big tent, and one night a young man named Billy, who was a professional baseball player for the Boston White Sox, came to the meeting, and he was one heathen. And he was a star player. He had the best time for running the bases in the Major League. And Billy got gloriously saved. And started working with Wilbur. Became his advanced man, setting up a tent, putting up posters. And I mean their ministry was going. And the invitations were coming in. And one day Wilbur said to him, Billy, I want you to take the tent, go to the next town, set it up, and put up the poster. He said, Right, Chief, that's what we always do. And he said, I want you to preach the meeting. And Billy said, What? I'm not a preacher. He said, here's five sermons. You go, you can do it and preach. And I'm going to this church and take this meeting. So Wilbur went to the church. Billy sets up the tent. Billy's preaching five sermons. Man, he's doing a good job. People say, Can you stay another week? He said, No, I have to go. He only had five sermons to the next place. And he started adding and adding and adding And it is said that over a million people came to know the Lord because of Billy's meetings. In one of those meetings, there was a young boy named Mordecai came. Mordecai gets on fire for God. He becomes a great evangelist in his own right. And Mordecai is holding a meeting in North Carolina. And a daddy comes to him and says, pray for my son. I'm going to try and get into the meeting. He's promised me he's going to come. Pray for my son. He said, I'll pray for your son. So when Mordecai is preaching there in North Carolina in a tent meeting, another Billy comes, and that Billy trusts the Lord his Savior. That Billy becomes perhaps the greatest evangelist of our era. You see, because of Edward Kimball, on an April day in 1855, decided that he would make God's business his business You have D. O. Moody. F. B. Frederick Brownington Myers. Wilbur J. Chapman And from that, Billy Sunday, from Billy Sunday to Mordecai Ham, and from Mordecai Ham to Billy Gray But the story doesn't end there. I have a good friend of mine, Bruce Schwalby. He was walking by the television set and he's deaf in Wisconsin. And he saw on the caption on the black and white TV someone signing, He Touched Me. And it gave him enough attention, grabbed his attention. He touched me. And he sat and he watched the sign as Billy Graham gave enough gospel for my friend Bruce Schwabby to get set. And he married Ruth Ann, one of my classmates from college, and spent his life on the mission field of India to the deaf. One of the greatest Christians that I've ever met. There's a young man, Striloff. Long story, but he's my adopted brother. He is raised Orthodox Jewish. He cut school one time to go see a Mets game at Shea Stadium. And he got the dates wrong. And it wasn't a Mets game. It was a Billy Graham crusade. Most people are safe in a ball field at home plate. The invitation was held. He came to center field and he was saved. Safe at center field in Shea State. When I met him, he was going to be starting an American serviceman center in Leesville, Louisiana. And today, he's working with a Jewish ministry, teaching churches how to win Jewish people to the Lord. All because of one man, Edward Kimball, a Sunday school teacher. I've never heard Dr. Robertson say anything about his salvation without giving credit to Daisy Halls in Louisville, Kentucky, who gave him the gospel and he got saved. a Sunday school teacher. So one day, today, not an April Day, October 27th, 2023. Satan is again returning to the throne room of God, and he's making a bid for some child. He may be making a bid, perhaps maybe for your neighbor's kid. One of your nieces, your nephews, maybe your grandchild, maybe your child. Maybe it's a child in Kazakhstan. Maybe it's a child in Togo, West Africa, where my adopted son is serving. Who's gonna make a bid in Christ's stead for that child? Have you grown weary of the fight? Are you ready to quit? Are you saying they need a break? Tired of being committed every Sunday to come and teach my class, run my bus route? Are you just tired Look at the missions. Maybe you're tired of giving more every year to missions. Maybe you'd rather start saying, I'm gonna spend some of that extra money on myself. I'd like a boat. Maybe a trip to the beach. Maybe a newer car than the piece of junk I'm driving because I'm given so much commission to can't afford what I want. You might be thinking, you know, we've lost a lot of money in my 401k lately. I need to get that all shored up before I retire. There's a thousand of things that you could do extra with that money that you're now giving to missions. I just came from a church, I do a lot of missions conferences, I preach them, some of them, I said, this one They're given about $300,000 a year to missions. A church that runs $500. I don't even think you run two regularly here, do you? And you're given $200,000? Some of y'all need to back off. Maybe you want a bigger boat. Maybe you want more shotgun time. Just stop and listen to Satan. He's telling you you're doing enough. You need time for yourself and for your family. You're giving enough. Maybe it's time for you to start spending some time for you. Not getting ready for that Sunday school class, visiting that bus route, giving that money to missions, you could be going on extra vacation. Satan may be saying to you, lower your bid. You've been carrying the load long enough. No one's going to know. What difference does it make? Let somebody else make that bid, maybe Satan's saying that. My son in Togo can fund a church planning national pastor for what most of you spend at dunking donuts and Starbucks. You can sponsor a childhood lighthouse home. Give up a Coke or two a week. But if God lays it on your heart, do it, give it And watch God do a miracle. Because when we're not able, God is able. God wants our time, He wants our talent, and He wants our treasure. But he will never demand it and make you do it. He wants you to surrender willingly. I want to say this as kindly as I know how. God does not need your money. I'm going to take it one step further. I'm not trying to be offensive God does not need you. But we desperately need Him. Oh God. If there's anything that we need in our churches today as I travel, Pastor, is we need to get back to seeing some faith We need faith-building moments. David killed a lion and a bear before he had to face Goliath. You might desperately be needing a faith-building moment. And it's in small things about whether you're going to increase your mission giving, whether or not you're going to be faithful to teach a class, run a bus route, do those things. Get faithful and watch God bless it and it's going to make you stronger for what you're seeing and you can't see coming your way And let me tell you, there's going to be something coming your way, and you're going to need these faith-building moments now. And God doesn't need your money, and he doesn't need you, but you sure need him. And he says, but without faith, it's impossible to please him. Faith is what we need. Step out on faith. I can tell you two different churches, and I know their financial situation. And each one of these churches have over a half a million dollars in the bank, and one of them doesn't even run a hundred people. You're not living by faith with a half a million dollars in the bank. When it could be used on the mission field to win souls for Christ. I'm telling you right now, God blesses two things, always, every time. Obedience and faithfulness. You want the blessings of God in your life? Be faithful to what God has called you and asked you to do So right now the throne of heaven, there's a bid being made. And it's going once. It's going twice. What will you bid? What will you bid? Let's stand to our feet with eyes bowed, heads bowed, eyes closed, if you don't mind. We're gonna start the invitation here in just a moment. I'm not trying to play on anybody's emotions, but I'll tell you this. There is something about when God moves. I don't want anything worked up. But I want to know this. Is there anyone here? No one's looking around. Brother Ted, pray for me. I do not know Christ as my Savior. I don't want to let that go. I don't want you to be like a little boy like I was and not know about the gospel And have an opportunity to approach Christ. Is there anyone say, pray for me, Brother Ted? I don't know Christ as my Savior. I know this is a Sunday night crowd. You may all say this are Christians. Born again, that's great. But I won't right now, if there's anyone that's lost and you know it, I'll pray for you if you'd raise your hand. Just let me know. I'm not going to embarrass nobody I got another question to ask because by that testimony you're telling me you're born again. Is there anybody here to say, Brother Mock, you need to pray for me? Because I know God is wanting me to do something and I just need to turn loose and say yes and do it and work for Him. Anybody like that? God is speaking. Oh, thank you so much. I appreciate it. Put your hands down. My goodness. Some of you young people raising your hand, let me tell you something. I'm not asking anybody to go to Zambia and be a missionary tonight. But I'll tell you this right now, if you'll get close to God, He'll speak to you and He'll tell you what He wants you to do one day. And I don't know what it is, but He does. And you can trust that his plans for your life are better than anything that you could imagine. Is there anyone here to say, Brother Ted, when you pray in just a moment, I want you to pray for me because I am growing weary of my job here at this church? And I just need some strength to go on. Is there anyone like that? Anyone at all? Father, I thank you so much for these kind people, their willingness to listen. Lord, I pray that you strengthen the ones that are working here. God, help them to see that you work through one person to reach one other individual, and God, you can do mighty things that way. Lord, help us to be faithful. Lord, help us to look beyond what we can see with our eyes. And Lord, work for that which is eternal. God, give these people souls for their labor, especially as they go out and harvest children and bring them in. Bless this church for that, Lord, and I know that you will. And Lord, there were a few that raised their hands and they think that maybe you're talking to them, speaking to them about service. And Lord, whatever it is, I pray that as it goes on, you'd make it clear to them. Lord, some of these young people raise their hands, and I know they might not understand about what you're asking them to do yet, but Lord, when the time comes, you will make it plain to them. And God, when you do, I pray that they would say, Yes, Lord, here am I. God bless this church, these people. But Lord, touch their hearts and draw them in Christ's name I pray. Pastor, why don't you finish up?