And um uh I enjoy the hymn histories. They make these songs come alive. Appreciate them so much more. Uh I hesitate to say this because I don't want to be I don't want to come across critical, but um you know a lot of the modern songs uh sometimes uh I'll see somebody will quote a a verse from a song, some mod well some of these modern contemporary songs. And uh I'll go and look up the group. I want to see a little bit about the people who wrote it and who who's behind it Uh I think it's important not just that the words and the music are right, but the people who it's coming from ought to be right. And uh so I go look at them and some of them I was looking at one, it's been a couple weeks ago, I had somebody had quoted a phrase from some contemporary song and it was nice quote it wasn't bad but I looked the group up and they said that their primary inspiration in getting into the music quote unquote ministry was listening to the Beatles And the Beatles had inspired them to uh get involved and get involved. And I thought, you know, here's somebody claiming to serve God, it's quote unquote ministry, and their inspiration is arguably one of the most ungodly group of fellows that's hit our country, you know, at least in that age period of time. And um so I really appreciate hearing that these hymns are from great godly men. And women, Aunt Fanny Crosby, that loved God, and many of these songs came out of great hardships and disappointments and heartache And God used them to uh uh write these songs for us. So I really appreciate that, Brian. These are really good. James chapter five. Just want to look real quickly at verse number thirteen. In fact, we're only going to look at the first part of verse number 13. I wanted to read 13 down through about four or five verses because I think they all come together. But uh for sake of time we're just going to look at verse 13. Just the first half Of verse 13. Notice what the Bible says. Is any among you afflicted? The answer is, if there is, then what should we do? Is any among you afflicted? Let him pray. What to do when afflicted? Let's pray and ask the Lord to help us understand this. Father, we ask you to bless our time in your word. Lord, the service has been good this evening all day. Lord, as we finish out this Sunday, this Lord's Day, I pray we'd walk out of here with our heart in tune with you and our focus on Christ and our burden for the lost and to live for you and glorify you, stirred. And Lord, I can't do that, so I pray that your Holy Spirit would fill me, and Lord, that you would speak through me and challenge us. I yield myself to you, and uh pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. I think the overall purpose for the book of James, and I keep coming back to this because I want to keep what these verses, I don't want to isolate them and lose context of what he's talking about. And in verse number four of chapter one, I believe James gives us the overall purpose of the book, what he's accomplishing, the reason he was writing this. Of course, it's under the inspiration of God. We understand that the Bible is God's word. It's perfectly infallible. It's the most powerful literature uh ever uh uh in the history of of mankind And in James chapter 1, verse number 4, he says this, but let patience have her perfect work. Now look at the next statement, that ye may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing. So I believe he's stating here the motive behind him pending this book here and the purpose God gave it to us was so that he would develop So that you and I as Christians would develop our faith and we would become perfect and entire believers. Now what does that mean, a perfect believer? Nobody's perfect. When we say that, what we mean is this. Nobody is sinless. For all have sinned, every one of us. Have failed God. We've come short of His glory. So when the Bible says, when God says He wants us to be perfect and entire, what He means by that, He wants us to be strong in our faith. He wants us to be mature and complete. We might say it this way, to be a well-rounded Christian, uh consistent In my walk with God, strong in my faith, mature in my understanding of the Lord and how I live my life. And so you go through the book of James, there's two ingredients In being a strong Christian, a mature Christian, having strong faith. One ingredient is trials and difficulties. And you go all through here, verse 2 through 4, that whole section of chapter 1. He deals with counting it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. Listen, when we go through difficult times, that is God challenging us, molding us, stretching us to strengthen our faith. That's what God uses to strengthen our faith. Trials, heartaches, difficulties. And the other aspect, two aspects, trials or difficulties, but also throughout the book, we notice the discipline of our tongue. Is a key factor in us being mature Christians. You say, where do you get that? Turn with me if you would, just real quick, and I'm setting a stage here. Chapter 3 of James, and look with me at verse number 2. For in many things we offend all. Alright? We hate to say it, but we end up saying and doing things sometimes that offend people. We don't mean to, we don't try try not to. But look at this. If any man offend not in word, the same as a what? There's that phrase, perfect again. And I believe what he's saying here, and we've already looked at this previously, but what he's saying here is listen, if you and I get to the point in our Christian life Where we're strong enough spiritually, we're mature enough spiritually that we can discipline our tongue. We can control this This muscle in our mouth, our tongue, we can control that and not say the things we ought not to say, and say the things we should say. He says, Boy, then you're on track to be a strong Christian Then you're on track to be mature, a perfect, a complete, well-rounded Christian. So afflictions and the control of my tongue are key Parts of me becoming a mature Christian. So James, as we point out last week, is a very practical book, How to What to do in our text. Now come to chapter 5. Now let me show a few things here real quick. Verse 13. Is any among you afflicted? Let him pray. Very practical. If you're afflicted, okay, this is what you do. Not a lot of theory, not a lot of doctrinal statements behind it. If you're afflicted, pray. Then look at the rest of the verse. Is any Mary? Let him sing Psalms. All right, what do you do when you're happy and and uh when things are going great and you're cheerful? We'll look at this next week, Lord William. Uh sing songs. Um uh I was going to tell you about me singing in the shower, but we'll tell you that another time. Uh verse 14. I I I sing pretty good, Brother Brian, in the shower. So when I step out, it's when it deteriorates really fast Verse 14 Is any sick among you? What do you do if you're sick? Let him call the elders of the church and let him pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord and the prayer of And so we'll look at that there. But he has three s issues here. If you're afflicted If you're cheer if you're uh merry, happy, cheerful, if you're sick, tells you right what to do. Pray, sing psalms, call the uh if you're sick, call the gang together, and uh pray over that. So he's very, very practical here And now in verse 13, the first party is addressing the issue of affliction and how to respond to affliction. Pray. Now that touches on the two areas all through the book that are necessary for us to be strong Christians. Affliction and prayer, in a sense, has to do with our tongue. And I see the tie-in here between these two. Whenever you're dealing with affliction, uh pain, or a heartache, it's an issue everyone can relate to. I don't know everything that all y'all that all y'all are going through. I don't know everything you're going through, but I do know this. I'm talking to probably quite a number of folks tonight, right now, sitting in front of me, quite a number of folks that are dealing with some tough things. I venture to say, I have no doubt in my mind. In fact, several of them I know for a fact. I'm dealing with some folks who are going through some heartache. I'm addressing some people tonight who's who's uh who are dealing with physical pain. I know for a fact it's not a coincidence that I'm preaching on this tonight. It's God's sovereignty, God's leaning. There's no doubt in my mind. There are some folks who are going through trials and difficulties and some needs are overwhelming. Some situations that there is seems no answer to. And so whenever you're dealing with heartache, you're dealing with difficulty, you're dealing with uh trials. Affliction, it's something everybody can relate to. It's something everybody deals with. And it's something that everybody needs if I'm going to grow in my faith. That's an important thing to understand. First of all, I want us to notice, number one, the basis of our affliction or the cause of affliction. What causes heartache? What causes disappointment? What causes pain? Well, there's various sources. There's various sources for this. God's people are no strangers to affliction. Some of the greatest men and women of God in the Bible went through some horrific situations, went through some terrible heartache, went through some horrific trials. So Christians are no strangers to trials, no strangers to affliction. Some of God's greatest servants had their hearts absolutely broken. We could give testimony here in the church now and uh in my family folks that could testify that through a tremendous heartache, God was present and God helped them and they came out stronger in the Lord. Trials, persecutions. You think of in the Old Testament and even in the New Testament, Book of Acts, the men and women of God, the persecutions they faced. Some of them slaughtered, some people saw them asunder Because of their faith in God. So afflictions aren't strange to the people of God. Some of God's greatest people have failed terribly. Went through difficulties and hardships. Now, what is the cause? Why is there affliction in the world? Well, ultimately it's because of the presence of sin Sin brought heartache in. Sin brought death. Sin brought all this in. So ultimately, the bottom line is under all this is the presence of sin in the world. But in a more primary cause, what is the more direct cause? Well, there's several, and we mention this almost every time we preach on heartaches and stuff. Some Some heartaches, some afflictions are the result of foolish decisions on my part. Sometimes we just do dumb things that hurt us. Can I get a witness? We just make foolish decisions and I'm telling you we pay the price. Now here's where we've got to be careful. If I do something dumb, I ignore one of God's warnings, I disobey God's instructions I do something dumb and the consequences are heartaches and difficulties. Don't come and get mad at God Because of the decision I made. I deal with this often with folks coming, I'm mad at God, God did this, God did that, and you get talking to them and here they made some stupid decision and all they're doing is dealing with the consequences of the dumb decision they made and now they're trying to blame God. Um so uh sometimes we Ignore God's warnings, we disregard God's instructions, and the consequences are. Sometimes uh afflictions are imaginary on my part. It's really not a problem, but I build it up in my mind and I think, oh, I'm going through this terrible thing. And it's really not that terrible. It's not that bad. I I learned this when I was youth pastor in Indianapolis. I was preaching at a church on the south side of the city, Suburban Baptist Church, and I preached to the chapel there, and I talked about difficulties and dealing with difficulties. And the youth pastor who'd been a youth pastor a lot longer than I was, he pulled me aside. He says, you know Sometimes young people think they have such a terrible time and it's really not that bad. He said I had a kid in my youth group, his parents didn't buy him a brand new Camaro and he was going to go kill himself because they hated him and it was such a terrible life it wasn't worth living because his parents didn't buy him a Camaro. And we laugh at that and I think, oh brother. But wait a minute, sometimes we're not too far off of that in ourselves. God doesn't do for me what I want. God does this, oh, it's so terrible. So sometimes our afflictions are imaginary, but a lot of times the and this falls in under this, is they're simply the foolish decisions on my part. I I read somewhere, somebody said this, everything happens for a reason. Sometimes the reason or I made a stupid decision. I like what John R. uh. I like what uh John Wayne said. John Wayne said life is tough, and it's even tougher if you're stupid. A lot of truth in that statement. I adjusted a little. Life is tough and it's even tougher if you're sinful. So why do we go through why is our heartache? Why is different ache? Sometimes it's because I just made a dumb decision. I ignored God's warning, I didn't follow God's instruction, I made it, and um it's just the consequence of the dumb decision. Sometimes Affliction is a result of other people's dumb decisions. Somebody else didn't heed God's warning. Somebody else didn't follow God's instructions. And as a result of that, it hurt me. As a result of that, it hurt a family member. How many young people, we preached on this morning, but how many children are hurting because of stupid decisions parents made? Brother Jerry gave testimony tonight. Sometimes other people do things that hurt us. We need to understand. None of us live into ourselves, none of us die into ourselves. Every one of us affects other people. And we are affected by other people. The reality of life is that sometimes people say and do things that hurt us That affect our lives, that that change our lives, bring difficulty into our lives. So we don't have time, but if you would jot down Luke chapter 17, verse 1 and 2 says basically this, the Lord Jesus says basically this. He says, listen, uh uh offenses are going to come. But he said, woe unto them through whom they come. And basically this is what he's saying. He's saying, listen, people are going to be offended. You're going to be offended by what people do. Just make sure you're not the one being offensive. And so sometimes people say and do things that hurt us. We see that throughout the Bible. People suffered because of actions of other people. And the third reason there are afflictions in the world, sometimes it's simply the will of God. Maybe I did things right. Maybe I was trusting the Lord. Maybe I was following His instructions and trying my best to heed his warnings. Maybe those around me are doing right the best they can. And nevertheless, still a difficulty came, still affliction came And sometimes God simply allows that to develop our faith, to help us grow and understand. We're not far away. If you would turn just a page over to 1 Peter chapter number 1. He addresses this. 1 Peter chapter 1, and notice with me verse number 6. He says, Wherein ye greatly rejoice, though now for a season, if need be, ye are in heaviness. Through manifold temptations. Now the word temptation there in this context is talking about trials, afflictions, difficulties, hardships. Though, if need be, you are in heaviness through manifold temptation. He says you are down, you're discouraged, you're in heaviness because of these difficult times you're going through. Now look at verse 7. That the trial of your faith Being much more precious than of gold that perisheth, though it be tried with fire, might be found unto the praise and the honor and the glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ. You know what we're saying? He's saying, listen, God's allowing you to go through some tough times. He's testing your faith so that when Jesus Christ comes back You're not going to be ashamed. You'll be able to give him glory. You'll be able to hear the Lord say, Well done, you were faithful to me, even when things were tough So sometimes we have afflictions, James addresses here in chapter five, suppose we did something stupid and we just have to deal with it. Sometimes other people do stupid stuff Simple stuff. It hurts us. We have to deal with that. Sometimes, uh, like Job, it's nothing we did. We were doing right, and the people around us. And still God lets us go through. And uh and uh but nevertheless He has a plan and a purpose I think there are some uh trials. I was thinking about Job. Job's trial was satanic in origin. Anybody remember the story? Satan is the one that attacked Job. But wait a minute, before you get too discouraged, Satan could not touch Job unless God allowed him. Now be very, very careful. There is a very real being the devil. There's no doubt about it. There is a satanic, there is a spiritual world, and there is a satanic aspect to the spiritual world you and I live in. Now I don't see a little devil behind every bush. But I do know there's a Satan, and I do know he has his devils. But they cannot do a thing to you or I without the permission of God. Devil could only do to Job what God in his wisdom and his power and his love allowed the devil to do. And God had a purpose for all of it. And so uh various reasons for trial. So one of the basis or the the causes of affliction uh is one of those three. Now quickly I want us to look at the benefits of affliction Or what the construction, I put it that way. What does afflictions do for us? Can we benefit from them? Regardless of the cause of our trial, God can and will use it to make us stronger in our faith if we trust Him. What do afflictions do for us? Number one, afflictions test our faith. We saw that in Peter chapter, 1 Peter 1, verse 7. You never know how strong a chain is. Until you put tension on it. May look good, may look great, you hold that thing up, say, boy, that's a good strong chain. But you put it on the vehicle and a tree stump and you pull that thing, you find out if there's any weak links in that chain or not. Just looking at it it's not until it's put to the test Do you determine the strength of the chain? You never know the strength or the seaworthiness of a boat, a ship, until you put it in a storm. It can handle calm weather and handle the little haven there and the and the harbor. It can handle that fine. But you put it out in the ocean and you get a storm at that thing, you're going to find out how strong that ship really is Um you never know the quality of a metal until you put it in the fire. You get that thing red hot, and then the blacksmith hammers on that thing and he can tell you from How it responds to the fire and how it takes the hammering on the anvil and the hammer, he can tell you the quality of that metal. You don't know that until it's afflicted The same thing is true with our faith. I don't find out how strong my faith is when all the bills are paid and I'm perfectly healthy and everything's going my way and the sun is shining. I find the strength of my faith when everything goes against me, and yet I remain faithful to God. And I'm able to rejoice in the Lord even in the midst of trial. I counted all joy. When I'm tried and tested. That is the strength of our faith. And that's where we find out how strong or how weak our faith is Thirty-seven years ago, God saved me. I wish I could tell you that every trial and every heartache I faced, I came through with shining strong faith. You know what? There's a bunch of them I went through. I realized I wasn't as strong a Christian as I thought. Bunch I went through, I realized my faith was not as strong as I imagined it to be. And I tell you, it's humbled me. I've learned that I've got a lot of growing to do and I've got a lot of uh uh work to do in strengthening my faith. And so uh the one of the benefits of afflictions is it tests my faith. It reveals to me how strong it is. I've never seen anybody's faith develop on beds of ease. I've never seen somebody come and come a stronger Christian. How was your week? Oh, I'm stronger now in my faith than I was last week. What did you do all day? I sat in the deck and drank iced tea and watched TV. That never makes anybody's straight faith stronger. Do you find somebody that goes through a valley and they experience the presence of God and they saw God work on their behalf and they come out the other side and they say, Oh now my faith is stronger And so it strength it tests our faith. Number two, I put this down one of the benefits of afflictions. It purifies our hearts I never heard of revival coming to a church out of prosperity and uh and uh uh pleasure I never saw anybody get broken and thoroughly right with God and get their heart yielded to the Lord when everything's wonderful and everything's flowers and lots of money and everything's going great. I never saw a revival come that time I tell you what, I stood by plenty of grace eyes, Brother James, where people's hearts were broken, and God's Holy Spirit began to convict them of their sin and how they may they uh lived their life and maybe it was a Christian mommy or daddy and prayed for them and now mom and daddy's gone and suddenly they start realizing I'm not the person I ought to be and God uses that heartache to make them realize that they need to get their heart right with God. I mean many people lay in a uh come out of a doctor's office and a doctor tell them we found cancer, it's malignant, it's not good. And suddenly they seek the Lord and they realize and they get their heart humbled before God and God's able to work and they get things right with the Lord and experience God's blessing. You follow what I'm saying? It's through afflictions that tests our faith. It purifies our hearts. I've seen a lot of people get saved in the times of trials. A lot of people get right with God in the times of trials. This is what worries me about United States of America. We are so prosperous. We've had such a lengthy period of time of relative peace. And we have everything our hearts desire, and Americans are not satisfied. We need more and we need more and we need more. It just blows my mind. It just blows my mind That we have leaders of states d arguing over and upset because men can't go in women's bathrooms. That blows my mind. How far from God have we gotten? I've never seen revival. There's no record in history that I'm aware of of revival coming to a nation when they got everything they wanted You read church history, you read the history of the world, revival comes to churches and nations when they are absolutely broken. Uh the Great Depression produced more souls saved than Great Prosperity. More people seek God when they're desperate than when they got everything they want. Am I making sense? So those afflictions, those trials that God allows us as individuals, as a nation, or any other context, those trials, those afflictions, God uses them To purify our hearts and break us down and get rid of this fantasy we have of who and what we are and how great we are, and suddenly we realize we're not that great and we're not that powerful and we desperately need God. Afflictions. One of the benefits of afflictions is that it tests our faith. It purifies our hearts. Another benefit of affliction is it reveals God's grace. Wish we had time to study a little bit more the book of Job, and we've been referencing this recently in various messages But Job learned more about God's love and God's grace in his affliction than he did in his affluence. The first part of chapter 1, Job is incredibly wealthy. He has a powerful position in society. People respect him. When he walked in, the children stood up in respect to him. His family was living for God. They were incredibly prosperous. And he was a good man, and he feared God. He eschewed evil and he was upright in all his ways. But it wasn't until after the unbelievable valley he went through that he said, I've heard of you with the hearing of the ears, but now I've seen you with my eyes. He said, Lord, I learned more in the time of affliction than I did in all my affluency that I had before. God, you've revealed yourself to me. I see your grace. I see your power. I see your love. I see your wisdom now because of how you allow me to go through that valley and you revealed yourself to me. So one the basis or the cause of affliction, there's various causes, the benefits or construction of afflictions. Well it's Tests our faith, purifies our hearts, reveals God's grace. Let me end with this. Our behavior and our conduct in afflictions. That brings us back to our text. James chapter 5, verse 13. Is any among you afflicted? Maybe you did something stupid and you're it's costing you. Maybe somebody else did something that hurt you and you're going through it. Maybe out of uh for whatever reason unknown to you God's letting you go through something What should you do? How do I behave when everything's going wrong? How do I behave when my wife walks out on me? How do I behave when the boss fires me and all of a sudden there's no income? How do I behave when the doctor says you've got malignant tumor, you have three months to live? How do you behave when you get a phone call? Your child's been arrested, they're in jail. What do you do? Is anybody among you afflicted? He tells us very clearly: we're to what? Pray. Pray. Pray. How we respond to hardship reveals much about our spiritual maturity. Some people, affliction come, that phone call, that doctor's report, the blue slip, the empty house. Some people they respond by getting bitter. They hate everybody and they hate everything. They get angry, they're out for revenge, grumble, and criticize. Be angry. It's interesting. The Bible addresses every one of those responses at various places. Sermon on the Mound, we're studying Wednesday night, deals with a bunch of those. Is that how we respond? The Bible gives us clear instructions here. If any among you, is any among you afflicted? Let him pray. Pray. Pray. In times of affliction, now some of y'all are going through it. There's no doubt about it. I know that. When that affliction comes, top number one priority should be prayer. It ought to be my first course of action. I get the report, I've got to pray. Find the ping flip? I've got to pray. Breakdown of the home, I'm gonna pray. Now that's not all we do, but that's the starting point. That's the beginning place. I get a hold of God. Prayer is our first course of action, not our last resort. So many times people say, well, I've been to this, I did that, I did this, there's nothing else to do. I guess now I have to pray. Listen, you got that whole thing backwards. Begin with prayer. And by the way, if I begin with prayer, I might know what to do these other things better Maybe my prayer in my affliction is Lord show me what to do. Rather than doing what I think I should do and then praying, maybe if I prayed first, then the Lord would lead me and direct me what to do and be able to deal with it better. Make sense Prayer. Prayer. Prayer is the most appropriate response to affliction It's the number one priority. Prayer will do one of two things. Here's my situation. You fill in the blank. This thing happened. It's terrible. It breaks my heart. It hurts me. It sets me back. It's a difficult time. Uh this is uh my first response is prayer. Prayer will do one of two things. Either one, it will remove that which is causing the affliction Prayer can and often does change the situation. My grandparents had a little plaque on the living room. They're both with the Lord now, but they had a plaque, and it said this: prayer changes things. I believe that's true. I would amend it a little bit. God, through prayer, changes things. Because prayer in and of itself doesn't But what I'm saying is this, prayer, if I do what God says, I'm in affliction, I pray. Many times, and you see it all through Scripture, people in here can testify I prayed, I sought the Lord, it was a tough situation, and God changed the situation. I'm glad we have a God that can change situations. I'm glad we have a God that can turn the heart of a king and give him favor towards Christians like we're praying for in Kazakhstan. I'm glad God can meet that need. God can provide. God can heal. God can uh direct. God can change situations. So sometimes when we're afflicted, And we pray like God instructs us to, God changes the situation. But not always. As often, if not more, God doesn't change the situation. What he does do, he adjusts my attitude. And sometimes when we're in affliction and we come to God and pray, as He instructs us, rather than changing or removing that which is causing the affliction, He changes my frame of mind about the affliction. You have a classic example of that in 2 Corinthians, and again we won't take time to turn there, but Paul had a thorn in the flesh. We reference this often. You're familiar with the passage. Paul had a thorn in the flesh, and three times he besought the Lord to remove that thorn, a very painful physical ailment, an affliction. And three times, three periods of time, we sought the Lord diligently to remove that affliction. And God said, in my words, God said I'm not removing the affliction. I'm going to leave it there. It has a purpose. It has a role in your spiritual development. And Paul said, most gladly, therefore, will I glory in my affliction. For when I am weak, then am I strong. Paul's whole attitude about that horn in the flesh changed The thorn wasn't taken away, it was still there, the pain was still there, the affliction was still there, it had a role. God had something he was doing in Paul's life. He was developing his faith. And Paul said, You know what, God? If this is good for me, if this is what I need, then I don't want you to take it away anymore. In fact, I'm going to glory in it. Thank you for what you're allowing me to go through And what you're doing in my life. I tell you what, that takes faith. How do you get on your knees and thank God for something that's crushing you? How do you get on your knees and thank God for something that has absolutely broken your heart? Faith in God. Faith in God. Sometimes what I need in my affliction is not relief, but revival. And so I'm talking to folks tonight. You're dealing with affliction of some sort, another. Maybe it's secret, private. You're going through yourself. Nobody in the world knows. But God. What should you do? Very simple. Pray. Pray. Bring it to God. First course of action. Bring it to God. God, here it is. Lord, I'd like for you to remove it. Lord, I'd like for you to change this circumstance. Lord, I'd like for you to take this pain away. Lord, I'd like for you to change, uh meet this need. God, please change this. There's nothing wrong with asking that. In fact, you should. But if God says no, I'm going to leave it there, you need this, then I say, God, thank you for it. Help me to see it from your perspective. It's been a number of years ago now. This is a little personal, but a number of years ago now, I went through probably the not probably, I went through the most difficult Time in my life, absolutely, and I sought the Lord and I prayed and I prayed and I prayed And by God's grace, and I'm not setting myself example, in this circumstance, God helped me, I believe, to respond in the right way. And this was my prayer. I said, God, help me see what's happening from your perspective. Lord help me to see it from your perspective that I can understand and know that what's happening has a plan, has a purpose, that you're in control, and that you're accomplishing something. And I can be honest with you, that helped me tremendously. I don't know what you're going through tonight. I know that I'm talking to some folks. It's not coincidence that we hit this verse now. I know that. God is in control. And my advice to you is what God instructs us here. Whatever you're going through, pray. Ask God to change it. That's fine. Maybe He will. Often He does, not always. But if nothing else, just yield to the Lord. Jesus said, Lord, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Change this situation. Change this circumstance. Nevertheless. What did he say? Not my will, but thy will be done. Lord, help me to see it from your perspective. Lord, help me to understand. That you're doing something, that you're in control, that you still love me. You still have a plan for my life. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. In the valleys and the storms and the heartache and the pain, help us to pray. To pray. Some of us are not going through difficulty. Some of us things are going just fine right now. Help us to pray. And be prepared. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. I wonder how many tonight, between you and God and your pastor, you would say, Preacher, I am dealing with some affliction of varying degrees. Maybe it's not the worst you ever have, but maybe it is. And you'd say, preacher, I want to follow God's instructions here and I want to trust the Lord and I want to make become an a prayer warrior on this situation. I'm going to make this the first course of action. I'm going to make this my greatest course of action. A matter of prayers or any like that by the uplifted hand between you and God and your pastor. God bless you, hands all around. Now no doubt it's varying levels of affliction in the crowd But whatever it is, let's bring that thing to the Lord. Ask the Lord to change it. Ask God to meet that need. Ask God to uh to change the circumstances. But all that with a yielded heart, understanding that it may be God's will for me to go through this and be a stronger Christian on the other end, more faithful. Is there someone here tonight say, preacher, I'm not sure that my sins are forgiven. When I die, I go to heaven. Trust me, you don't want to go to hell. Nobody in their right mind wants to go to hell. And you'd say, Preacher, pray for me that in my heart and soul I can know my sins are forgiven, and I hope a home in heaven You'd say, Preacher, I'd pray I'd appreciate if you pray that God would help me settle that in my own heart and life. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand, Preacher? I need to know for sure that my sins are forgiven. When I die, I'm going to heaven. God bless you. How about it? Any others? Preacher, pray for me. I need to have that settled. I want to be sure about that. God bless you. Now Father in heaven, you know our hearts. A lot of hands raised. Lord, I pray your will be done. Give us the grace we need to respond correctly to the trials that come to our life in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. You raise your hand This old-fashioned altar is just a good, good place to bring our burdens, bring our cares, bring our concerns to the Lord. It's Jennifer Place. Let's find a place at this altar. And let's do what that verse told us to do. Let's pray Let's pray. Here it is, Lord. If nothing else, just tell God all about it. If nothing else, just tell God how you feel, what it means, what your concerns are. Ask Him. Let your request be made known unto Him with thanksgiving. Whatever it is. You know, to raise our hand is fine and that's good and the Lord sees that and God knows it. But I tell you to humble ourselves before the Lord is so important. And say, here I am, Lord, I'll bring it to you. If you're not sure that your sins are forgiven on your way to heaven, we'd love to show you from the Bible how you can settle that. How you can find out and know in your own heart from God's word that God has forgiven me all my sins and He saved me from hell and I'm going to heaven when I die. What a wonderful thing We invite you to come. We'll show you from the Bible. You have that burden. Don't carry it around alone. Don't try and carry that burden yourself. Bring it to the Lord. Cast your care on Him. He cares for you. Pray. Pray.