Uh find that and keep your place. Then a little more obscure passage, Habakkuk chapter number three. I want to start with those two and um I'll speak tonight on what is revival. Probably, oh, in my mind anyway, one of the more important messages that we've preached, I think they're all important. To be honest with you, I think the preaching of God's word is the most important thing going on at that given time. And that's why it's important to give our attention and keep distractions down. That's why I get on the young people sometime if they're horsing around a little bit or not. to preach and I try to uh help them. But um what is revival? Uh You say, well, why are you preaching it this week? Why are you preaching it now? The revival meeting's over. Some people would put it this way. If you'll notice, I try to be careful how the wording I use. Some people would say the revival is over. I word it, the revival meeting is over. A revival meeting and a revival are not necessarily one and the same. And so sometimes, I'm just going to talk to you a little bit tonight about my understanding of revival, but um Sometimes a revival meeting, at least from my perspective as pastor, reveals rather than bring revival, it reveals the need for revival. Because you see, you have the preaching, you have the opportunity to respond, the opportunity to see revival take place, and when it's said and done, you look and say, wait a minute, we really need revival. Because we see what the the results of the meeting. So look with me, Psalms 85 and verse number four. I just want to read three verses from this passage and then I want you to keep your place and we're going to go over to Habakkuk, which is one of the minor prophets. later on in the Old Testament. But look at verse 4 of Psalms 85. Turn us, O God of our salvation, and cause thine anger toward us to cease. Now let me ask a question. Who's doing the turning here? Who's bringing about the change in this verse? God is. God's the one doing it. David is praying. Whoever wrote this, humanly speaking, they are praying that God would do something. Verse 5, Wilt thou be angry with us forever? Wilt thou draw out thine anger to all generations? Now look carefully at verse 6. Wilt thou not revive us again? Who's doing the reviving? It's God doing the reviving He's praying that God would do something. Then he says, then he gives the reason that thy people may rejoice in thee. Now, keep your place here if you would. Did you find Habakkuk? Still looking, huh? Uh if you go to the very front of your Bible, there's an index, and um you can look there and it'll help you. Right before Haggai and Zechariah and Hagi, Zephaniah and Hagi. That helps. Has anybody found this passage? Oh, good. Alright. I'm gonna go ahead and start this. Look at verse two. O Lord, I have heard thy speech and was afraid. Okay, look at verse 1. This is a prayer of Habakkuk. So he's looking to the Lord. Lord, I've heard thy speech and was afraid. O Lord, revive thy work in the midst of the years. In the midst of the years, make known, in wrath, remember mercy. Who is it that is doing the reviving in this passage? God is. Habakkuk is looking to God to revive his work. So throughout Scripture we find that it is God That revives. God does it. I can't revive this church. You can't revive this church. God, I can't revive my Christian life. You can't. God does that Alright? So what is the what is revival? What is it that God does that is called revival? Let's pray and we'll see if we can figure this out. Father in heaven, I ask that you would bless. I do believe, Lord, at least God, from my perspective, and I believe from your perspective, this is a very important message here, an important uh truth that we really need to understand. And we pray that you would help us. And I yield myself. I present my body anew to you, Lord, and I ask you to fill me. Speak through me in Jesus' name. Amen. I think most Christians, if they've been around church at all, at least in our circles, are familiar with revival. Probably most denominations have used the term revival. And we hear that term, we pray for revival, we talk about revival, but I think sometimes I wonder, do we really know what we're talking about? When we talk about revival. James and John's mother came to Jesus and she asked Jesus that her two sons could have a place in his kingdom. That one sit on the right hand, the other sit on the left hand. And the Lord's response to her was, uh, ye know not what you ask. And I wonder if that isn't the same approach that we have when we come and pray, God, send a revival. And we talk about revival. I wonder if the Lord is in heaven, doesn't look down and says, You really don't know what you're asking for. You really don't understand what revival is and what's all involved in that. We pray and we talk about having revival in America. How many people have heard or said that? I know I have. Mary, we need revival. And uh, do we know what we're talking about when we're asking God to send revival? Uh or do we know what we're asking for? Now, you've heard this before. Most of you have been around long enough and you've heard enough preaching that the word revival Or to revive simply means to bring back to life, sort of. To make alive again. Not that something is completely dead. And it's being resurrected, that's a different term. That's a different concept. Revival is not something dead coming back and becoming alive again, but something that is near death, something that is Uh something that is um uh um what's the word I want Fading or uh dormant is a good word, something along those lines, and it's becoming active. It's like this. If you have a fire, I've been talking about fire a lot lately Very for my wife and her house. And um But um it's like if you have a fire, you have a little campfire, and uh you go to bed and the next morning you crawl out of the tent and that fire has dwindled down and there's just a few little ambers down there. And so you get some bark and some uh little twigs and whatnot and you throw it on there and you start blowing on that. What are you doing to that that campfire You're reviving it. It was just about out. It was just down. Maybe a little twig of smoke c little twig of smoke coming up there. And um And uh will you blow on that thing and you revive that fire. It comes back to life. That's the idea. Um or like a person who nearly drowns Now you've seen shows or whatever on TV and they're nearly drowned. They drag them up, they're unconscious, and uh they're not dead. But boy they're there and they start beating on the chest and all of a sudden and they cough up water and uh they get up and oh thank you they were revived They come back to a point where they can function and uh and and uh brought back, or someone passes out And uh if I've had the wonderful experience of passing out on a number of occasions. And um what happens when someone passes out? What a lot of times you get something and you wave it under their nose Smelling salts. And boy, it does what? It revives them, brings them back to a conscious state, and they're able to function again. So revival doesn't apply to something that's never been alive Revival applies to something that is actually alive, but has gotten to a condition where it's barely alive, or you maybe you couldn't even tell that it's alive. That campfire you might walk by And you think there's nothing there. There's no there's no heat. There's no life to that fire. But if you get down close, you can feel a little bit of warmth. You blow on it, you see a little glow Needs revival. Unsaved people cannot be revived. They don't have life. Unsaved people need to be saved It's saved people that need revival. And by the way, you'll have more unsaved people get saved when saved people have revival. Follow what I'm saying? When saved people aren't revived, they're in that dormant state, if we want to use that term, or that uh that uh unconscious state, so to speak, spiritually, you're not going to have many unsaved people get saved. But you get those saved people revived. You're going to see more lost people saved. And so let's look at this. Number one, here's my first thought. Now, this is where my thinking has evolved, I guess, over the years and come to this point And as a pastor with a genuine concern for the spiritual well-being of the church, I give serious thought to revival and read and study on it. I want our church to be what God wants us to be. I want to be personally what God wants me to be. And I know that many of you feel the same way. And so I've given serious thought to revival and I've come to this conclusion. And this is my first point Revival is a process that we go through. It is not a goal that we achieve. Revival is not the end product. Revival is the process that brings me to the end product. Revival is a process. Now we said God sends revival. Here is revival. Here is point A. I'm a Christian, but I'm not living for the Lord. I'm not what I ought to be as a Christian. What are some terms you would use for a Christian that's not what they ought to be? Backslidden is a good term. There's another one. Carnal Christian is a good term. Revelation gives a term. Lukewarm. So here's a Christian. The terms we biblical terms we would use, they're lukewarm, they're backslidden, they're carnal, they're not living for God. That's point A. Point B is over here, and this is a Christian that is not carnal, but they would be Spiritual is the opposite of corner. Boy, they're spiritual. And um and uh they're not lukewarm, they're hot for the Lord, they're stirred up for the Lord, and they're not backslidden They're close to God and they're living for the Lord and God is answering prayer and there's the joy of the Lord in their life and their witness is uh they're very active in sharing the gospel and their witness has an impact on people, has an influence. The presence of God is there, the joy of the Lord is there, there's holiness characterizes their life, there's fulfillment in their Christian life, and they're everything God wants them to be So that's point B. Over here is point A. Revival is the process of going from this point over to this point. Once I get here, once I'm here, then the revival process is finished. And I'm what God wants me to be. And so revival is a process. Look, are you still in Habakkuk? Are you all still looking for that? Did you find it? Did you find it, Kathy? Oh good. Amen. Look what he says here. Lo Lord, he's praying. Habakkuk is praying for Israel. Israel is at point A O Lord, I have heard thy speech, and I was afraid. He's heard the word of God. He hears where God wants Israel to be. And it scares him because Israel is not over here. Israel is over there, and he's afraid for that. O Lord, revive thy work in the midst of the years. In the midst of the years, make known. In wrath, remember mercy. Israel is over here. They're living in disobedience. They're living for themselves. They're living, they would be what we would, it's a Christian term, we would use their carnal. And they're under the wrath, the coming chastisement, judgment of God, because they're not living for God. And Habakkuk is saying, we want you to move us from this point over to this point where your mercy is on us. And we're what you ought to want us to be. So revival is going from point for Israel in this passage, from being under the wrath of God for living in disobedience to God and the chastisement to the mercy of God and having God's blessings and protection and uh uh leadership in their in their lives as Jews. And so it's a process. Did you keep Psalms 85? Did you keep that mark in your Bible? Flip back there. Again, a prayer of revival for Israel, God's people. Look at uh look at verse Verse 4: Turn us, O God of our salvation, and cause thine anger toward us to cease. Wilt thou be angry with us forever? They're over here and the psalmist realize that Israel is not what God intends for them to be. They're not living for the Lord. They're living for here and now. They're living for the flesh. They're enamored by the world and the values and the pleasures of the world. And the psalmist is praying, you're under the anger of God. God revive us. Look at verse 6. Wilt thou not revive us again that thy people may what? Rejoice in thee. Get over here where the joy of the Lord is on my life and the blessings of the Lord is on my life. Revival is a process that takes place. We're familiar with 2 Chronicles 7 fourteen. If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways Then will I hear from heaven? We'll forgive their sin and we'll heal their land. And it's a process of going from pride He says they need to humble themselves, so that obviously they're proud. Uh he says if they'll pray, so if they need to pray, that means they're not praying, they're proud, they're prayerless, and turn from their wicked ways, they're living in wicked sin. And if they'll go through that process of that taking place, then they'll get over here, then they'll have answered prayers, then they'll have their sins forgiven, their land will be healed. They're going from being backslidden to right with God. Revival is that process. That takes place. Remember David? Would you agree with me? David was a great man of God. But David had his issues. David struggled. There was a period of time where David was incredibly backslidden for over a year. Now we don't think of that. We don't comprehend. But for over a year, when he committed adultery with Bathsheba, till he finally got things right with God, that was at least a year. It may have been up to a year and a half period of time Where he's living a lie, he's putting on this show, he's showing up at the temple and going through the ceremonies and all that the Jews were supposed to, and it was just a facade And his heart was cold and his heart was hard. And you read Psalms 32, 37, God's convicting him, and he says, my bones were miserable. And he just goes on and describes how unhappy he was. And I mean, he is absolutely miserable. And then you get to uh uh 2 Samuel and uh 2 Samuel 12, and uh Nathan shows up And Nathan has what I'm calling a revival meeting. It's a very brief meeting. It was one day, and it only lasts about 10 minutes, probably. That was all it took. And Nathan gives this little story, a guy has a lamb, the other guy has a whole slew of them, and this guy has a whole slew of them, takes the little guys, kills him to give to his traveler, comes along, and And uh what should we do to that guy that stole that guy's one lamb and he had all of these and David i his hypocritical uh uh indignation, oh, we ought to kill that guy, what Nathan say You're the guy. You're that guy. And boy, all of a sudden David breaks down. And a conviction of the Holy Spirit that's been building, building, building, sweeps him from point A over here to point B. And you read Psalm 51 and David just pouring his heart out to God. And his relationship with the Lord is, his fellowship with the Lord is restored, and the joy of the Lord comes back. He says, Don't take away thy salvation, restore unto thy servant the joy of the Lord. And revival, for him, it didn't take very long. But revival was that process. Of going from being away from the Lord, cold, indifferent, uh, hypocritical, phony To being real and having God's blessings and God's presence on his life. Peter. God called Peter. Jesus called Peter to do what? He said, leave your nets and follow me. And Peter, to his credit, did. And we studied him in Sunday school, and boy, he had his his little idiosyncrasies and all that stuff. But Peter crossed the line when he denied the Lord three times. And Peter went into a backslidden state for a period of time. Now it was only several days. Maybe a w I don't know we don't know the exact time frame, maybe a week or so. But Peter went into a backslidden state and He tells his other disciples, he says, I'm going fishing. Now we study that in Sunday school. He wasn't going out getting the bass boat out trying to catch some fish. He was going back, he was leaving the ministry. He's going back to his old occupation. He was abandoning God's call in his life. He was backslidden. He isn't confessing his sin. He wasn't dealing with it. He wasn't following the Lord. And so the Lord confronts him. It's John 21. He says, come and dine. Do you catch any fish? Nah there ain't no fish in this stinking lake. That's in the creek. And uh, nah, we didn't catch anything. Come and dine. Cast it on the other side, they do. Anyway, he comes in and uh it's the Lord. Peter comes running up, and uh the Lord had some fish there for him, they eat, and then what does the Lord say to Peter? Peter, lovest thou me more than these? Boy, Peter's upset. Three times the Lord says, and the Bible says that Peter was grieved. God's confronting him. There's a revival taking place here. And he's being transported from point A, a backslidden disciple, phony, just putting on the show, just cold, indifferent, not involved. And he's being transported over here to where Acts chapter 2 hits, and Peter is filled with the Spirit of God, and God's hand is on him, and he preaches just a simple little message, and 3,000 people get saved? And God uses him to record a portion of scripture, and he's a church planner, and 2,000 years later, we praise the Lord for Peter. A revival took place, a process took place. We have David as an example, and there's many others in Scripture. Peter, I thought of John Mark John Mark's a good guy. And Paul and Barnabas, uh, they're uh called of God, Acts 13, they're going to go to the mission field, they're called to be missionaries. Boy, they pack up and they're excited, and the church prays over them and sends them out, and uh they've got their support and they're ready to go, and John Mark tags along. We don't know what the circumstances are. They get to the first point on their journey, and something happens in John Mark's heart and mind, and he turns back and he goes back to Jerusalem And by all appearances, you study the book of Acts, he's backslidden. In fact, his abandonment, his quitting Had such an effect on Paul and Barnabas that they got in a fuss with each other and ended up having a falling out, and they go their separate ways. Whenever a Christian is backslidden, you say, Well, it's just me. No, it always affects others. Every one of these examples I've given, Peter, when he said, I go fishing, what happened? Other disciples went with him. David, backslid, trying to hide it, not dealing with his sin. Other people get killed. Uriah gets killed. Other soldiers get killed. The baby dies. When you and I are at point A, we are hurting more than ourselves, we are hurting others Our families, the longer we go out of fellowship with God, the longer we go in disobedience to God, the more we are hurting those around us. And so revival is when I go from point A in that lukewarm state, that left my first love, that backslidden state, that carnal state, whatever term you want to use. Revival is the process of getting me over here where God intends for me to live and be all the time. Revival is a process, it's a process. John Mark, I mentioned, he leaves the, he abandons the missions team, and we're not given a lot of details. But we are told in Timothy, Paul makes the statement in his letter to Timothy, I think it's 2 Timothy, he makes the statement, he mentions John Mark, and he says this: he is profitable to me. Oh. Something's changing. Before Paul was, don't bring that guy. I'm if you bring that guy, I ain't going. We are not bringing him. Barnabas said, I think we should bring him. No, we're not bringing him. He quit on us. He's a backslidden. He cannot help us. He'll be deadweight. He is not going. But now Paul says he's profitable. And then you get to the end of the period when the Word of God is being put together, the canon of Scripture is being finished, and lo and behold, John Mark has a gospel that God used him to record. And something happened. A revival in John Mark's life took place, and he's transported over here where God can use him. Did you get my point? Revival is a process. It's not a week-long meeting. It's not something that I attain. It's something God does in my life. It's when God changes me as a Christian and he takes me from a backslidden state. to a close to the Lord state, from walking in the flesh to walking in the spirit. It's when he takes me from when I've left my first love and I'm restored back to my first love, from being carnal to being spiritual. It's a process that takes place. Number two, revival is often problematic. One, it's a pre a process. Two, it's problematic. In other words, this, when God begins to get me from point A to point B, it usually disrupts my life. Um if you're going to uh we uh had the bathroom uh remodeled over redone at the house that really needed the house, the parsonage. And inevitably, what do you got to do? If you have a room and you're going to fix that room up, remodel it, make it what it ought to be, it isn't what it ought to be, and you want to make it what it ought to be, what do you do to that room? You tear it up And it usually is bigger than what you first anticipated, right? Oh well we'll just do this, that and the other. Once you get it this, you gotta do that, you gotta change this, you gotta change that, and before you know it's like good night, cost twice as much, took twice as long. Can I get a witness? Those stinking builders, there it's their fault. And that I found, and it becomes problematic, right? Well, we didn't budget for that, and we weren't planning on that long man alive. How long do we go without a bathroom? And uh, you know? And I found that that is very much the way God works in life when he starts changing things We'll go to revival meetings, start at a revival meeting. I'll go Sunday night. We sit there and boy, God deals, God pulls some tiling off the wall in our spiritually. Boy that, all right, uh God, you're right. Like you were saying, your son-in-law. Then you get that, and boy, all of a sudden it's the wiring back there is not right either. God's alright, I gotta have this changed in my life. Then you find out the floorboards are rotted out. We're gonna have to replace them. Good heavens. And next thing you know, God is dealing with and changing things. You thought, well, I'll just go to church Sunday night. Next thing you know, God's got your whole world turned upside down. Why? What's he doing? He's sending revival. He's taken us from where we are to where we need to be, and sometimes that's problematic. Sometimes that's disruptive. He disrupts our convenience Christianity. Can I make a statement? No Christian ever got from point A, as I'm describing these two points tonight, no Christian ever got from point A It doesn't happen. There's a price to pay. Dr. John R. Rice uh has a book and we've had it around here. I was kinda looking this afternoon to find one. Uh I might have to order more. But he has a a a little booklet, a sermon he preached, The High Cost of Revival And when God starts changing us suddenly, He starts turning things around and things that we held dear to, God says, you know what? You're going to have to deal with that. And some things that we really didn't want to be involved in, God says, all right, that has to take place. If you're going to be right with me, if you're going to have my blessings, if you're going to have my hand on my life, if you're going to have a fulfilled joy-filled Christian life, some things are going to have to change. And the old flesh doesn't really like that. And that becomes problematic. Here's an old saying, this is just Common Sense 101. If you keep doing what you're doing, You're going to keep getting what you're getting. So if I'm over here and I need revival and I need to get to, I need to move from this point to that point, that's where God wants me to be. Then something has to change. I can't just keep doing what I'm doing. Something has to take place. It disrupts our contentment with our carnality. What did what was David's first response when Nathan stuck his finger? And when Nathan approached uh let me back up a little bit. When Nathan approached David about this little Uh illustration he was given with the lambs. What was David's first response? He was angry. In fact, the Bible uses that. He got angry and said, We need to kill that guy. And all of a sudden David Dathan says, you're the man, and the baby's gonna die. Would that be would you agree with me? That's a little problematic. That wasn't the way that wasn't the way David planned this thing to work out. In fact, I want to suggest to you, after a year, David figured, all right, this is the way it's going to be from here on out. And God says, oh no, I've got so much better for you. But there's going to be some heartache, there's going to have to be some changes, there's going to have to be some humility, there's going to have to be some confession, there's going to have to be some rep To get over here. And that's not fun. Repentance is not fun. It's hard. Humility is not exciting. It's sometimes humiliating. Think about David in Psalm 51, the most public confession of sin in the history of the universe. How would you like for some sin you've committed that you're unbelievably ashamed of To be plastered on the Word of God for all eternity. That is humiliating. So it's problematic. Revival sometimes turns our world upside. Listen to what Charles Finney said. Nothing else than a new beginning of obedience to God. Speaking about revival. Nothing else than a new beginning of obedience to God. The first step is deep repentance. Breaking down of the heart, getting down in the dust before God with deep humility and forsaking my sin. That's not easy. And for the flesh, that's a problem. And for the Christian who is content in their carnality, that's a problem. And that is why many times Christians never see revival. Because it's too much. I'm not willing to pay that price. And they never have God's blessing, and they're never used of God. And I hate to say this, someday we stand before the judgment seat of Christ and we hang our heads in shape. Because we weren't willing to let God do what needs to be done in our lives. R. Tori said, I can give you a prescription that will bring revival to any church, community, and any city on earth. First, let a few Christians, they need not be many, get thoroughly right with God themselves. This is the prime essential. If this is not done, the rest I am to say will come to nothing. Second, let them bind themselves together in a prayer group and pray for revival until God opens the heavens and comes down. Third, let them put themselves at the disposal of God for him to use as he sees fit in winning others to Christ. That is all. This is sure to bring revival to any church or community. I've given this prescription around the world. It has been taken by many churches and many communities. And in no instance has it ever failed. It cannot fail. What is he saying? He's saying if you and I are willing to pay the price If we're willing to let God bring about the changes, if we will trust him and obey him, let him tear our house up so we can rebuild it into what it ought to be, God can send revival. But that's problematic for us. We have to face the materialism that's taken root in our heart. We have to deal with the pride that's taken root in our heart and soul. We have to confront the sin that we've become comfortable with. We have to deal with a cold heart. We have to deal with a lukewarm attitude, our love for the world, our prayerlessness. Our lack of love for the Lord. That has to be confronted. That has to be dealt with, or that process will never take place. My grandfather, I mentioned him, I think it was this morning, Sam Leatherman. We called him Grandpa Leatherman. My dad told me when my dad was a teenager, probably about the girls' age sitting down here, about their age, that they had gone to a revival meeting. And the Mennonite church, and they had a tent set up, and it was like the old Billy Sunday, he said they had uh sawdust trails and set up and the Grandpa Leatherman got the family together. We're going to the revival meeting. And he said, that preacher preached hellfire and brimstone. There was a day when other denominations preached hellfire and brimstone. And he said, Dad said, he said, when we he said, I still remember it to this day, when we come home That night, my grandpa, they called him Pop, Pop got out the Bible. And he gathered the family around. He said, from now on. Every day we are reading the Bible together and we are praying together as a family and we're going to church every time there's service. And that had a profound impact on my father's life. And as I was working on this message and thinking about it, I never thought of it this way. I'm now convinced that was a factor in my salvation. When grandpa said yes It's going to cost us a little time, it's going to adjust our schedule, it's going to require a little effort, maybe some inconvenience, but we are going to do what we need to do, and that revival process took place and it became a godly Christian home. And two generations later, God saves my soul. Because of influence of that he was willing to play on my father's life and my father's influence on my life. So yeah, it is a little problematic. It requires a little inconvenience. It requires some dying to self. It requires some changes maybe take place that God says, Alright, well I'll I'll revive you, but We need to deal with this stuff here. And last of all, revival is productive. In other words, it's worth it. Hey, I think many of you feel the same way I do. I would far rather be right with God with nothing than be away from God with everything the world has to offer. Because I've been on both sides. And I've found out God plus nothing is everything. And the world plus everything is nothing. It's worth it. It's worth it. That little campfire, the illustration we started out with, boy, that's going, boy, there was a day that fire was burning And it would it was light and the dark at night. Boy, it brought light and everybody came around and people stayed warm in the evenings. We're camping. It's cool. When that fire is burning, it's keeping people warm. And you get the marshmallows out and you've cooked those things. You don't light them on fire and burn black. That's not how you cook marshmallows. That's ridiculous. You roast them till they're brown and puffy and all melted through. Can I get a witness? Burning And man, that fire was and people were happy and the glow and the energy it produced was just a blessing. Time went by. And chh ch that fire went down. Now it's cold, nobody sits around, nobody's influenced by it. No no mar you have to put a marshmallow there, it's just still frozen, or whatever marshmallows are. And then little marshmallow the little fire down there says, I don't want to be like this. God says, all right, you're gonna have to have some wind blown on you. You're gonna have to have some ashes blown up around you. You're gonna have to be poked and moved around a little bit. A little fire says, I would far rather be a blessing. I'd far rather be poked and ashes turned up and and shuffled around and be something God can use to be a blessing to others than just be this little cold ash here. So God blows. Shoot rashes blow. Pokes some sticks in there, shuffle, and before you know it, that thing's burning again. And people are warm and there's light and marshmallows are being burnt. And it's revived. Revival took place. I'm telling you, it is worth it to pay the price for revival. I know that's true. I put this down, the joy of the Lord in my heart and my home. To have a happy home. Isn't that a blessing? A holy home where the presence of God is very real there. Fulfillment in my heart and soul. Boy, what there is great fulfillment in knowing that I am exactly what God wants me to be. There's nothing else in the world like it. The poorest Christian in this service here tonight To be exactly what wants you what God wants you to be is ten thousand times more fulfilled than the richest Hollywood actor that's living in ungodliness. It's worth it to pay that price. Um, effectiveness in my witness. I like Acts chapter 4. The church they prayed, Lord, grant unto thy servants that with all boldness We may speak the word of God as we ought. And the Bible says that God sent a mighty earthquake, and they spake the Word of God with boldness, and the place was filled with the Spirit of God. And people got saved. Isn't that exciting? I'd rather be a part of a church that is alive, that God is using to keep people safe. that maybe has uh uh stained carpet a little bit and maybe not the fanciest lobby in the world and maybe our buses are trying to work and keep them running but God's hand is on us and we're seeing people safe than to have the biggest cathedral in the state and be dead and doing nothing for God. That's revival. It's what God does If your Christian life is not what it ought to be, I'm speaking to our church tonight. Ask yourself, let's ask ourselves, am I really what I ought to be as a Christian? If the answer to that question is no, then I need revival. Then I've got to get from point A over to point B. It's going to cost something. I'm going to have to trust God and obey Him. I'm going to have to face some things in my life. But it's worth it. Something needs to be done. What could God do in our homes and our ministry if we were thoroughly right with God? What could happen? Read the book of Acts. It's amazing. I still think today, and I repeat it and I am with this, I am convinced because of that one night that Grandpa Leatherman Came home from revival meeting. Apparently they were over here. And he said, we're going to make some changes. It's going to be a little inconvenient. It's going to have to change our schedule. It's going to require some effort. We're going to read our Bibles. We're going to pray, and we're going to be in church every time those doors are open. And God began to work. God began to change. And they got over here to where God wants them to be. Had a profound impact on my daddy. My daddy's testimony had a profound impact on me. And I thank God for a grandpa that was willing to pay that price. To let the process of revival take place. Now, what about us today? What about our next generation? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. The Lord, it's a continual thing. It fluctuates. We go from point A to point B, back to point A, then over to point B, we go, and it's a continual effort. We have to keep at this And I pray you'd help us. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, and this is important, between you and I and the Lord. How many of us would say I'm not where and what I ought to be as a Christian? I know that. I know that's clear in my mind as can be. And I care about that. And by God's grace, I want him to do in my life what he needs to do to take me over to point B. How many of you are like that? Say, preacher, I mean that with all my heart. I mean that with all my heart. Now don't you're not trying to impress anybody, we're not trying to put on a show. But we really, really, really want God to move us from point A to point B. That's revival. Maybe it would just be a matter of kneeling old-fashioned old and say, God, I really need to start this process. God, I need just to start working. You've spoken in my heart, and here I am, Lord. Show me, help me step by step to get this thing rolling. To remodel here and get what it ought to be. Father, I see hands, Lord, you see hearts. I'm asking you to help us to mean business about this matter in Jesus' name.