I heard one of the worst jokes ever in my life before the service. I'm really tempted to tell it. I mean it is terrible Let's take a vote. How many people w want me to tell the terrible I mean it is terrible. How many people don't want me to tell it? Oh decisions, decisions. If see me afterward and I'll tell you the joke. It is terrible. It is terrible. I admit not all of my jokes are that great, but this one is terrible. Matthew chapter 6 How's that? I'll tell it to them in secret afterward. No, not even that. Verse 19, if you would, Matthew 6, verse number 19. We're right smackdab in the middle of the Sermon on the Mount And the Lord's uh preaching and teaching his disciples how to be disciples. He's saying teaching them if you claim to be my follower, you claim to be my disciple, well these things will be true in your life, and these will characterize your behavior and your thinking. And in chapter number six, I want to read verse 19 through 21. We actually started this a week or so ago and laid the foundation. I'm going to look a little more detail at the verses. Verse 19 says, lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth. Where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal. But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal And he makes this statement, kind of a summary statement, for where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. And for lack of creativity, I just entitled it, What to do with your treasures. Let's pray, and uh we'll see what the Bible says here. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless. our study of this portion of your word. I ask, Lord, that you would open our hearts and minds, that you would teach us to grow in our faith, and as your disciples, we would be stronger in our commitment to you, closer in our walk. Our faith would be stronger, and uh we could be we could clearly be disciples here in this world. And uh so fill me with your spirit is my prayer. I present my body, I yield my will, and ask with all my heart. That you fill me and speak through me. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. You remember we said this back this second half of uh of um uh Matthew chapter six, the Lord is addressing the subject of materialism. And I didn't really tie this all together until several weeks ago when I began studying this in depth. And I began to re- I Come to realize that verse 19 through verse 34 really are dealing with this subject of materialism. Now if you remember, we said material is this. It's a theory That the physical well-being and possessions are the greatest good and highest value in life. In other words, having things, material things, and possessing things is the best thing in the world for me. I'm happier if I have stuff, lots of stuff and lots of money. I'm better off if I have lots of stuff and lots of money. And uh we we use as illustration that little bumper sticker you see sometimes. He that dies with the most toys wins. That is a that is materialism. At its core. And the Lord's addressing that here. And in this passage, we read all the way, really, down through verse 23, he's addressing how we invest. our material possessions. What we as disciples do with the material possessions God has given to us, whether it's finances or houses, cars, whatever that may be. How do we invest that? What do we do with that? And so I'm putting it this way. Two aspects of materialism are one is working to get more stuff. Working hard to get more stuff. Then the second half from verse 24 all the way down through the end of the chapter, I think he's dealing with worrying about whether I have enough stuff. So the first half of this section, he's addressing those that are working to get more stuff, and the second half, those who are worried about whether they have enough stuff And so God addresses that, and we looked at that. We looked at Abraham, we looked at the Laodicean church, where they were rich and had all this stuff, but the Lord says you're miserable and poor, and you really don't have anything So I want to look at our passage here tonight. That was briefly what we touched on before, but I want us to notice I got three points to the my message and very simple. I hope that uh we'll be able to grasp what the Lord's saying here. Number one, I put this down. This section here, verse 19 and 20 in particular, the Lord is addressing our investments. He's addressing the investments we make. I need to ask myself this question in studying this passage. I've got to ask myself this question. What am I investing my life in? You and I have one life. God's given us one life. There's no do-overs. We don't get any second chances as far as life is concerned. Now in individual opportunities sometimes we'll have second chances, but as far as living our life and what we invest our life in, the question to ask myself in context here is what am I investing my life in? We bring missionaries through here on a regular basis. It was a blessing to have Brother Ed here Sunday night, missionary from the Philippines going back. That was a blessing. I enjoyed talking with him. We had prayer together afterward. He's a fine young man, 21 years old. He is investing his life into the gospel of Jesus Christ. Going to a city of three hundred thousand people, no Baptist church. That's what he's investing his life in. He's not going to get later in life and say, Oh, I changed my mind, come back and reinvest it. He don't get that This is the investment he is making. He's committing it. He's putting, so to speak, all his eggs in this basket. And so the question to ask myself at this point in my life, and what I have left. What am I investing my life in? The fact is, everybody is investing their life in something You say, well, maybe a young person, oh, I'm not thinking about it. I'm not really investing my life in in anything particularly. Yes, you really are. I think there's three areas that people invest their life. One is, and this is just my take on it, but one is people will invest their life in immediate benefits. In other words, whatever they have at their whether they have at hand, whatever opportunities or reasons resources they had, they just burn them up right away. For temporary, for closure right now. They get ten dollar bill, they spend ten bucks. They got an hour to do whatever they want, they just do whatever they happen to want at that time. No thought for the future, no thought what tomorrow might need be done, no thought for any of that, it's just what I want, when I want it, right now, and they'd burn it up. There's a word for that. It's called squandering your resources, squandering my opportunities. That is a form of investment. I've got this, I have these opportunities, I have this time, I have these resources, I have these abilities, I'm just going to burn them up right now And that, my friends, is very foolish. Proverbs talks about that. The Lord addresses it various places. I remember and when I was studying this, putting this together an incident came to mind back when I before I was fade, I worked at the meat packing plant. I was I mean I'm telling you I was a mess in every s way, shape and form. And a lot of times on Thursdays would come around, we have a quota of the number of uh meat we had to cut and the the amount of work we had to do and They'd kind of know as the week went we'd see how the week was going to come together. And sometimes they'd come in on Thursday and they say, Listen, we got two options We can get out a little early today, Thursday, but we'll have to work longer tomorrow, or we can put in a good long day and we get out a little early on Friday and have a little longer weekend. Maybe we get out at noon or whatever And I remember one time very distinctly, I don't know why this sticks out in my mind. One time there's a bunch of us there. I mean, you've got to understand, we our brains were fried. We were fools. And we had all this stuff we were going to do Thursday night, and we said, no, you know, we'll just go ahead and get out as early as we can Thursday and then we won't worry about Friday. We'll just work late Friday And uh we burned up. And afterward, it was the stupidest thing in the world. If we had worked a little bit, we had a nice long weekend. Now that's just a simple little illustration of squandering. Not thinking ahead. I just don't feel like working now, so I'll do it I'll I'll then I'll plow it on tomorrow. That's a form of investment Um I think our we've been thinking about our country a lot lately. I think our country is leaning that way. Just burning up the next generation's resources so that we can have a good time today. Burn up our children's opportunities so that I can get a free phone today. That's investing in a very moment type thing. People people will uh sacrifice They're futures and their testimonies in many times, because I want to do something now and enjoy some immediate pleasure now, and I'll invest my future opportunities into the momentary gratification. So George, the Lord is addressing, what am I investing my life in? Some one way of investment is to squander it, invest in the into the uh uh immediate pleasures, immediate benefits, there's another way to invest my life. And I can invest my life, and by life I mean my resources and opportunities and different things the Lord has entrusted me with I can invest them into a future benefit. In other words, I can be working now for my later on in life. Maybe a teenager is working very, very hard in school and they're getting good grades and they're developing good habits and they're developing uh uh uh charac good characteristics in their life, working them into their life because when they're in their twenties and thirties and forties, they will have greater opportunity and get a good education and Put themselves, learn a good trade, and then when they have a family, they're in place and things are in place and they can uh provide for their family and have a happy home and a nice place to live And so young people, if they're have any lick of sense, will work hard today to invest in their future life, and they'll make wise decisions today to invest in a better life when I'm older Rather than just squandering and doing whatever is stupid, wasting my opportunities now, then when I'm 20 and 30 and 40, I don't have any skills, I don't have any opportunities, and I just have nothing. So investing in a future benefits. An older person gets up and gets a job, they begin putting up money for retirement. They invest Sometimes significant amounts of money for their future retirement. When I'm done working, the kids are grown, they're out of the house, we can live, we can travel, we can do these things And they invest in their future well-being. So I can invest in the momentary and squander what the Lord has given me, or I can invest in the future benefits and future well being. And there's nothing wrong with that. And by the way Sometimes the immediate benefits, we do invest some money and time in that. There's nothing wrong with taking a little time and money and effort a day and just enjoying the moment and doing things. I think we should do that. Vacations are often that. There's nothing wrong with that within reason. And investing for a future well-being is a very good thing I think every person, my advice and when young people get married and will talk and different things and young people, my advice is always, in fact, somebody just recently I was telling them, you ought to take a little bit of money out of every paycheck and put that up Oh, we're so broke. I said, even if it's a dollar a week, get the habit, get that in your head, put a little bit of money up for future. There's nothing wrong with that. It's very wise. Proverbs talks about that. And so, how am I investing my life? For the immediate Pleasure and just squander my future? Or I have a little more sense, a little more wisdom about me, and I'm working hard and investing time and effort and resources So that my future will well-being of my future and my family or my retirement or whatever, and that's fine and that's good. But there's a third investment we can make. And that is investing in the eternal. Investing what God has entrusted me with in something that lasts beyond the grave. In something that lasts beyond the physical realm. But invest in the eternal. The Lord puts it this way, verse 19, lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth. Then he says, but lay up for yourselves treasures in what? Heaven. He's talking about that third realm of investment. In eternal things, in eternal things. In verse 19 and 20, he makes three key statements. Now he's addressing our investment, how we're investing our lives. Remember, we got one life to live. This is it. I know I don't I apologize for using myself as an illustration so much tonight, but it seems to fit my thinking. My teenage years, I squandered. I live today, and I'm not just bear with me, but I live today with the consequences of decisions I made as a teenager. I think I am lacking opportunities now because of ridiculous decisions I made as a teenager, and I'm still paying for those decisions. I squandered it. We can invest in the future, as I said, we can squander and invest in the future. And the Lord's addressing how we invest our lives. I don't get to go back and redo my teenage years. I don't get to go back and undo stupid mistakes I made. And so, how do I go to invest my life? What am I going to do with it? There's three key statements here. Look at verse 19, the first part There's a little phrase, and then in verse 20, the first part of verse 20 uses a little phrase that I want us to focus on for a minute. He said, Lay not up. Verse 19, verse 20, he says, a positive form of it, but lay up for yourselves. Verse 19, lay not up for yourselves. Verse 20, lay up for yourselves. Now what does he mean by that phrase lay up? What's he talking about? Anybody want to take a shot at it? Alright, size, good way of putting it. Anybody else? Lay up for yourselves. Lay not up for yourselves. Alright, everybody's satisfied with your answer, Tom. There you go. It has this idea to accumulate things. To put in store, the impression I got reading various definitions of that phrase from the the words it came from and in how it's used now Uh the impression I got was a safety deposit box. Anybody here have a safety deposit box? You know what I'm talking about? And you get things that are valuable, you get things that are important, you get things that means something to you that you want to be sure you have down the road a little ways. And so you lay them up, you put them up. Sometimes people will have uh a little glass jar and they'll take a couple bucks and they'll slip it in and they'll keep it under the bed or something. They're laying it up. They're putting that up. That's the idea To accumulate things, to put in store, to set it aside, to make it secure, something that I want to possess and not lose So when he talks about investing ourselves, he says, lay up for yourselves certain things And lay not up for yourselves certain things. So that phrase lay up is important. We need to understand what he's talking about. There's a second word in here that I think is important to understand. Look at verse 19. Lay not up for yourselves, what's the next word? Treasures. Verse 20 says the same thing, except positive. But lay up for yourselves treasures. Verse 19, in earth. Verse 20 in heaven. What does he mean by treasures? What's he talking about? It's pretty obvious. Well, uh yo, just staring at me tonight. Um uh what uh what what what what's your take on treasures? Alright. Valuable things. Stuff. It could be. I put it this way, and look at it, how it's used other places. Things that I treasure. Things that I cherish. Stuff that is I consider to be very precious to me. Things that are valuable to me. Things that I do not want to part with very easily. It would take a whole lot for me to part with that. It's very, very precious to me, very, very valuable to me. It's a high priority in my life. It's something I do not want to part with. be very, very difficult. It would take a lot for me to be willing to part with this. So he says, lay up, store up, put up in a seeking deposit, so to speak. Not treasures here on earth, but treasures here in heaven. Now we use that word treasure, and this is one of the reasons I asked for some feedback on the meaning of the word treasures. I thought somebody might say this: money And a lot of sermons, if you'll go and look at sermons on this passage, a lot of them will talk about money. Now I think when the Lord's saying here, lay not up for yourselves treasures on the earth But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven. When he's using that term treasures, I don't believe he's limiting it to just money. I think he's talking about anything that is valuable to us, anything that is precious to us. Now the Bible does talk quite a bit about money. In fact, it's one of the most discussed issues in Scripture. Jesus gave scores of parables and statements about money. Now, I do want to take a little, just go on a little rabbit trip here and touch on four myths I came across about money and Christianity. It's a big issue. Money is a huge part of life. And I think we need to have a clear biblical God perspective on it, a perspective from God's perspective on this thing that is so important in our lives. Myth number one, and again this isn't original with me, myth one number one is this, that poverty equals spirituality. In other words, if somebody is very, very poor, then obviously they're very spiritual. That is unscriptural. Proverbs rebukes that thinking repeatedly. In fact, Proverbs rebukes somebody. Many times, Proverbs will say the reason sometimes people are poor is because they're lazy Because they're undisciplined. They act foolishly. They handle their resources and their finances foolishly. So Poverty does not necessarily equal spirituality. In fact, in Romans chapter 12, I think Brian and I were talking about this the other week. Romans chapter 12 talks about the gifts. That God gives to Christians. And there's a number of them listed there, 11 or 12 on any count. And one of the gifts listed, I think it's around verse number 8 of Romans 12, it lists the gift of helps. And the idea behind that is the uh God enables some people and He gifts them with the ability to help other people in uh with various ways, financially and materially and things like that. It's a gift. That God gives to us. Are you listening? And here's my question. I'm thinking if poverty equals spirituality, and I don't have anything. If I have the gifts of help here's the way I want to say it. If I have the gifts of helps, I have to have something to be able to give to help. Right? And so I think some people, I think God gifts some Christians, very godly spiritual Christians, and they're able to uh make money and they're able to gain resources and things. And God uses them to help the cause of Christ. I'm thinking about a man called me about seven, eight years ago. He said, I'm from downstate. He said, I'm coming up there. I'd like to buy you lunch, preacher. Anytime somebody buys my lunch, I got plenty of time. So we went down to Oakmar. We sat down, he introduced himself. He's a Christian businessman. And he made this statement to me. This is fascinating. I've never had anybody say this to me. He said, for whatever reason, God has blessed me that everything I touch turns to gold. I said, really? Touch me He goes, I don't understand it. I'm not a great businessman. I really don't understand the business world. I don't understand all that, but We opened a little store back when my wife and I were young and for whatever reason it just made tons of money and we invested that in another store. He says right now I own a strip uh uh s uh strip mall, I guess you call it, a plaza type thing, and they told me how many stores were in there. And he says, we're profiting almost a million dollars a year I said, I'm glad you've got to meet you. I said, this is a blessing. And what he was presenting to me, he had a ministry where they helped churches, help church planners buy their first church. And he had named a bunch of guys, and a bunch of them were missionaries we support. If I said their names, you know who I'm talking about, the missionaries. And he would He would grant to them $50,000, $60,000 to help them make a down payment on a building, and then they would assume responsibility and get it going. You know what that is? That's the gift of helps. Is that man not spiritual because he has a lot of money? No. He's a godly man, loves the Lord, straight down the line. Doctrine, conviction, standards, he's a great man. I've got to talk to him a number of times since then. So the idea that poverty equals spirituality doesn't measure up the scripture. Now, sometimes people, God allows people to be poor and he uses them in that category, in that realm. And sometimes God blesses people and He gives them that gift of help. So the second myth I want to address just quickly is possessions equal happiness and fulfillment. The more I have, the happier I have. If I just had a bigger house, then I'd be happy. If I just had a nicer car, then my then my life would have meaning. If I just had more of that, or bigger this, or more expensive that, or more amount of money, if there's more money in my wallet, then uh the idea is this and we joke about it, but it's really false Money can't buy happiness, but money can buy a boat, and that's pretty close. Anybody ever hear something like that? That's baloney. That's just a watered-down version of materialism. And that's the idea that boy, if you have stuff, that's the Amer that is America today. And so that's a myth. Poverty equals spirituality is a myth, and the more possessions I have, the happier I will be. The fourth myth is this: prosperity is sin. There's an idea today that if you're wealthy, you're sinful in some way. You're obviously doing something wrong. And that's not true. I made this statement before. I I believe this. I thank God for rich people. I've never had a poor man give me a job. I've never had a poor man hire me and help me earn an income. Every place I've worked was owned by wealthy people. So just because a person is prosperous doesn't mean they're sinning or anything like that. It's not the amount of my possessions, but my attitude towards my possessions. That makes the determination. And then the fifth myth is this money is the root of all evil. You all hear that, we throw that around. Money is the root of all evil, but the Bible nowhere says that money is the root of all evil. The Bible says the love of money is the root of all evil. You don't have to have a lot of money to love money. A person can be very, very poor yet love money. And they may compromise their integrity and they may lie and cheat and steal and do whatever they want. do all these types of things because they love money and they want it. They don't have it. And they will they will break into a store and steal somebody else's money. And so money is not the real yield. It's the love of money is the real yield. That word love there, it's in 1 Timothy 6. 10. The word love there comes from the word phileo. Philadelphia. It's not, I thought it was interesting, it's not agape love. Agape love is you love regardless of You get anything back or not? It's an unconditional love I pour out on someone. It's the love that God has for us. Not because we're lovely, not because he gets anything benefits from us in any way He just loves us unconditionally. That's not the word about the love of money there. It's philale. It's brotherly love. That's the kind of love is this. I love you because you're pleasant to me. I love you because you make me happy. If you don't make me happy, you're not pleasant to me. I won't love you anymore. It's conditional. That's the love of money here. We love money because we think it will make us happy. We love money because it gets us stuff we think will make our life better. And so the love of money is the root of all evil. So The Lord is addressing here when he says, Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven. He's not just talking about money. Could be anything that I value, that I cherish, that has a high priority in my life I do not want to part with. It could be a person. A person uh uh uh cre we could get so enamored with a person. Oh, they're just so one um uh uh I heard it wasn't too long ago, Oliver B. Green preaching on this. Where it's possible for a parent to become so in love and cherish their children above the Lord. And he was saying how dangerous a thing that is to take a person and value them and treasure them higher than I treasure my relationship with the Lord. So a lot of Christians have have violated their relationship with the Lord Jesus because they become so enamored with a person. And so it could be this treasure could be a person. It could be a thing. An heirloom? I thought of this. Remember the woman that took the alabaster box, Matthew 26? She took the little alabaster box full of ointment and she broke it, and what did she do? She poured on Jesus' feet. And then Judas, ah, what a waste, you know how many poor people it could be They say, I don't know this, but my research on that says that that ointment, Spikenard, was probably worth at least one year's income I'm guessing, and it's been suggested, and I tend to agree with them, that this was probably an heirloom in her family passed down for years. And her love for the Lord Jesus became so great that no longer was this a treasure on earth. She took this treasure and she invested it in heaven. And the Lord commended her. She's anointed my body for its burial. And so a treasures, when he's talking about treasures here, it might be a person, it might be heirloom, it could be pleasures Just some pleasure that becomes so important to me and it takes over, and I invest my life into that pleasure, that uh it may be popularity A lot of Christians have compromised their convictions to be accepted by the world. A lot of Christians have grieved the Holy Spirit deeply because we want the world to think highly of us. Listen, if I'm going to be a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ as God intends me to, I've got to get to the point where I'm comfortable with not fitting into the world. Some point I'm not part of this. I don't fit in. And I'm fine with that. And so it might be popularity, it might be possessions, a house, a vehicle, a boat, a four-wheel, or whatever. I was reading one fellow, he suggested that it could even be a position in a church where holding that title becomes more important to me And serving God. I think, God forbid, I hope and pray I would never fall into this, but I mean it's possible, but I think preachers sometimes can fall into that Or the people want something, and we want to I'm just using a maybe extreme illustration, but the church wants another version of the Bible, or we want a different style of music And if he doesn't give in and give to the church what they want, he'll lose his position as pastor. So he'll compromise. And violate principles of Scripture so that he can stay pastor. Now that's treasuring a position. That's treasuring popularity. That's treasuring possessions. And the Lord addresses all of that. And so when the Lord says here, lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, he's addressing the subject of investing. Investing ourselves, investing our lives. And the question that we have to ask ourselves, what am I investing my life in? What is it that I lived for? What is it that I am not willing to compromise? I am not willing to forsake. I'm laying it up. This is the most important thing in my life. This is what I've invested my time and efforts and abilities and my resources into this. What is that? So he confronts us with our investments. Then the second thing I notice here, and I'll go quickly through this, is He gives instructions concerning that investment. So the first thing he brings to the disciples' minds is, what are you guys investing in? What you're investing in something. You're investing your life in something. Either heaven or things on earth or things in heaven. Now let me give you some instruction. He tells them what to do with these treasures, what to do, how to invest these treasures. He's telling his disciples what to do with their treasures. The first instruction he gives is negative. Is everybody with me? Everybody alright? Alright. I think this is helpful. The first instruction he gives is negative instructions. Again, verse 19, lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth. And then he goes on, he wouldn't have to do this, he goes on and explains why. Where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal. So the negative instructions here is don't take your resources, don't take your opportunities, don't take your gifts and abilities, and invest it upon the earth. Now what does he mean upon the earth? I think it's interesting how these messages come together, but Sunday night we began our series on Ecclesiastes. And a key phrase in the book of Ecclesiastes we gave Sunday night, to see if anybody remembers, is what? Under the sun. Interesting. We preached that Sunday night. Here we are Wednesday night, and I think that's exactly what the Lord is addressing. Do not Invest, lay up your treasures on stuff that is under the sun. Earth, material, the physical realm. It would be the temporal, material possessions. And he explains that there. He says, look, he says we're moth and rust us corrupt. Where thieves break through and steal. We were talking before the service tonight. I think a couple guys were talking about vehicles and stuff, and they said somebody had a nice pickup truck, a really nice pickup truck, I think it was a GM, and they parked it in a field And uh they left it in the field for a while and the grass grew up all under around it. And what do you think happened underneath that truck? It all rusted out and corroded out, and the thing was useless And here's somebody who had invested a lot of time, a lot of money, a lot of resources into getting this vehicle and ended up just rusty. You say, how dumb would that be? Hey, you know what's going to happen to your vehicle? The same thing. Second law of thermodynamics is across the board. All that time and money and effort we're putting in the house, someday that thing's gonna be flat. And so he's saying here, the negative instruction is don't invest all your time and effort, your life, so to speak, into things of the earth. But then the positive instruction is verse 20 But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven. What's he talking about? I'll tell you this, he's not talking about salvation. Listen, giving my time, giving my efforts, serving the Lord, investing my life in the things of God is not going to save my soul. Only one thing will save my soul: trusting Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. That's the only thing that will save my soul. He's talking to his disciples here. And now you've accepted me as your personal savior, and you made the decision to be a follower of me, to follow my uh uh my commandments and and uh love me and serve me with your life and what he's saying to us here as believers as disciples invest our lives in the spiritual realm in the eternal realm There are aspects of our life that are temporal. Right? We're sitting on temporary, you are, I'm not, sitting on temporary pews. And people thank God we accuse. Yeah, I'm the only one that has to stand the whole service. That's a very temporal pleasure. We invested some time and money and effort and get them re um uh re Upholstered. They look nice and they're comfortable to sit on and you can catch a nap and stuff. This is a temporary part of life. It's not wrong. It's just part of life. And they're temporary parts of life. Three things I love about August. Watermelons, corn on the cob, and tomato sandwiches. That's part of life. That's a temporary thing. We had a nice big watermelon. Today it's gone. I don't know what happened to it. It's amazing. So part of life is made up of the temporal and it requires resources. We have to put some attention and effort into the temporary life. But there's another part of life. That's so many people just disregard. And that's the spiritual realm. That's the eternal realm. Many ways my body is temporal. Now eventually I'll get a glorified body and that will last me the rest of eternity. This body I'm in now is just a temporary tabernacle This is not all there is to me. There is a spiritual, eternal part of me. That's me. I'm going to exist forever. And as a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, as a saved man, I'm going to exist with God for all eternity. That's as much a real part of me as my physical body is. But so often we disregard the spiritual aspect of life. We disregard the eternal aspect of life, God and His will in serving Him. And the Lord's saying, listen, don't take all your eggs and put them into the physical basket. Invest in the eternal, this physical, the moth and rust. It's not going to last. It's going to be gone. It's going to Temporary, it's temporary. And his challenge to the disciples is to invest in the eternal. Our treasures, our priorities, our values should be the eternal things. And then last of all, I got a couple minutes. Let me give you this. Then Jesus gives some insight into this investing. First of all, he confronts it. What are you investing your life in? Here, now, or the future, eternal, things of God, things of eternity. Alright, here's what my advice is. Here's my instructions. Do not Invest your life into the temporary here and now. It's just temporary. Invest your life in heaven, in the eternal things, the things of God, things that are going to last beyond your existence here on planet Earth. And then he gives some insight. Look at verse 21. For you could say, because this is why you shouldn't invest on the earth, lay up your treasures on earth, but lay them up in heaven. This is why Where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. Now, let's clarify something here real quick. The Lord is not trying to get more money out of his disciples. Alright? This is not a scheme that Jesus is using. Ah, don't don't put your money don't invest all your money in in houses and stuff and cars and stuff here Invest in eternity. We're taking we're passing the offering plate around. That's not what he's doing. I want to remind you, the Lord doesn't need our money. I like what he had Peter do, and I've been trying to make this work for me. He needed to pay a tax. He said, Go fish it. I've been fishing and fishing and fishing and I can't get that tax money Lord doesn't need our money. When he instructs us to give, it's not because he's broke. Because he's teaching us a lesson. So this is not attempt for the Lord to get money out of his disciples. First and foremost, the Lord wants what's addressed in verse 21. He wants our heart. He wants our love. He wants our commitment to himself. Why would Jesus be so worried about us loving him so much? Because he first loved us. You know why Jesus wants us to love him so much? Because he loves us so much. Would you agree with me? If there's somebody you really, really love, you would like for them to love you back? Sure. And God made us that way because that's the way God is. We're in his image. And what he's saying is what you're investing in, the time and money and effort and resources you have, whatever you poured in, that's what you love. That's where your affection is. I don't want you to pour your affection and your love and your commitment to the temporary things of this world. I want you to pour your love and affection and commitment to me. Because I love you. Where your heart is, that's where your treasure is. I want to be your treasure. I want to be the one you love and that you're committed to and you value so highly. What I am investing my life and energy and resources in indicates where my values are, where my heart is, where my love is. I think we mentioned this fellow last time we when we introduced this passage, but Dinas What did Paul say about Demas? He had forsaken me, having loved this present world. You know what Demas did? He laid up his treasures on earth. He's investing everything on earth. Suddenly the things of God were no longer important to him. The things of God were no longer of significance. His heart was not in. Living for the Lord. And he went back to where his investment was. It's a reason a lot of people we know and people in our church here. invest their lives in the ministry. And they give so much time and so much effort, invest so much of their gifts and their resources and their abilities. They invest in the body of Christ. They invest in the gospel ministry. They invest in serving God. Why? Because their heart is for the Lord. That's why we have missionaries take their life like the uh brother Ed was here on Sunday night, 16 years old, said, I'm going to invest My rest of my life into getting the gospel to people who do not have it. Why? Because his heart was the heart of the Lord. He loves God. That's why people here give long days on Sundays. Get up and run the Sunday school bus. They could sleep in, make Make pancakes or whatever, and as soon as the amen's over, zing. But they don't They get up early Sunday morning, they come to church and in wintertime it's cold and they'll run that thing around and work hard Saturdays trying to get people and they go out and kids that said they would come don't show up and Why? I believe because they their treasure is in heaven. They're investing things. Lord, Chris Phillips, I was emailing with Chris Phillips a little bit this week over in in uh Kazakhstan. Why in the world would a young forty year old man with kids, very successful, very intelligent, very very uh educator Lo and behold, his wife in her 40s finds out she's having another baby. Why would he take that whole family? Go to Kazakhstan of all places. It's where his treasure is. That's where his heart was also. Chris's treasure is in heaven. So he serves God. He's investing in beyond just the here and now. Love souls and love the Lord. That's why a lot of folks, I I was thinking of some preacher friends I have. I have thinking of one in particular who's been where he is. It's just a small town. He's got a small church, he has to work a job on the side, has for since I known him twenty plus years And a handful of people, and he preaches his heart out to them, and he visits the community, knocks on doors, and he pleads with people to be saved. And he's older than I am. And his whole life Has been invested not in the things of earth, but in heaven. That's what he's working for. Not temporary stuff, but heaven. That's what the Lord is challenging his disciples. Now, is it wrong to buy a house? No, obviously not. There are temporary requirements. We have to have a place to live. All these are part of the Lord's design. But he says, don't put your heart in that. Don't invest your everything you have into that. It's all said and done. There's nothing left. The Lord is telling us our time and abilities and resources are very, very valuable. The time I have to live my life is very valuable. I can't get any more. And every minute that goes by is gone. My life is incredibly valuable. Now don't squander it. Invest it. And things that last, things that are eternal, that will bring paybacks in heaven. Not salvation, but glory to our God. He's telling us that we must give very careful attention to how we invest our lives, our resources, our abilities, our gifts. So that we get the greatest benefit out of them. There's young people that are very, very gifted at singing. I mean they can sing. And people will come by the tens and sometimes hundreds of thousands to come and hear them sing, and they'll pay Lots of money they're making millions and millions and millions of dollars because they have the ability, the gift of singing And they have invested that gift into the things of the earth. I often think when I hear about some of these young people that are Well, stars and big stars and so gifted. If they would take that ability that God gave to them, And use that for the things of God and for the things of eternity. When they get to heaven, if they know Christ, they get to heaven. They have great reward. But instead They squander it all, and for 50, 60 years they live in a fancy house, and they drive fancy cars and they spend lots of money and then they die and have nothing. Squander it. The Lord says, don't lay up for yourselves treasures on earth. Think about it. What you have is valuable. Your life is valuable. You don't get another one. Be very careful. Think it through. Invest it very wisely. And invest it in the things of God, the things of eternity. Rockefeller, what was his first name? John Rockefeller, rich man from West Virginia. John D. Rockefeller. John D. Rockefeller. One of the richest men at the time, I guess, and maybe since then, incredibly rich. When he died and they did the funeral, somebody asked this question: How much did he leave behind? And the answer was all of it. He left everything behind. He took nothing with him. I tell you what, I know some dear folks. I buried some dear Christian folks that didn't have a whole lot here on this earth. But I know their life and I know what they invest their life in. And on the other side, they are rich. They've invested, they laid up for themselves treasures in heaven. Not treasures on earth. Whatever you and I have that's physical, whatever you and I have that's material, all the pleasures of this life. It's temporary. When it's all comes to the end of the rope, when that clock quits ticking, it's all gone. It's left behind. Nothing. And the Lord says, be smarter than that. Don't be dumb. Jim Elliott. How many people recognize the name Jim Elliott? Great missionary, martyr to the Alka Indians. Gave his life, Nate Saint, a couple other fellas. Killed for the cause of Christ. He made some tremendous statements. That man understood the heart of God in ways a lot of people never did. And he made a powerful statement. Most of you are familiar with it. In fact, we had it on the wall back here years ago. He is no fool who gives that which he cannot keep. to gain that which he cannot lose. That is what the Lord's talking about. What are we investing our time? Say, preacher, I gotta make housemates. Yes, we do. The Lord's not disputing that. We pay these things, we do all that. In fact, later on the chapter, get down later on chapter six, he says you need to quit worrying about that so much. I take care of the birds, close the lilies, feed the birds. You'll be alright. And the bears. Out of our bird feeders. Does that make sense? My heart was stirred studying this and made me stop. I got how many years left, who knows? I don't know how you feel, and I hope I'm I think I'm sincere when I say this. I'd really like to invest my remaining years in the things of heaven, not of things of earth That's why, let me throw this out, I quit. That's why I don't know if you notice the preacher was here recently, and he just aside made the statement. I don't know if you caught it. He said we took all our life's investment, put in the ministry. I can tell you about four or five other preachers I know Have no money laid up for the future. They've put it all they're just living by faith. Now I'm not saying that's what we should do. I don't know. I'm not making judgment. I'm not saying but I am saying this. I know them personally They're laying up treasure where? In heaven. In heaven. And that's what the Lord's saying. You're my disciple? Think carefully. What you have is very valuable. Be very careful, be very wise how you invest it. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd help us and Lord and challenge us in this matter. I need your help. I pray us as a church body that we would heed these instructions you've given us. And I pray, when it's all said and done, we stand before you, we would have something to show for our lives, said eternal and real and last into eternity. I asked your Lord, you'd help us. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher, God's Holy Spirit's challenging me? On how I use my time and efforts and resources and abilities God's given me. The Holy Spirit of God's really challenged me, and I'm going to be wise. And I would like for God to help me invest myself In the things of heaven, the things of eternity. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. Sure, my heart's been challenged. And so let's ask the Lord to lead us. Let's ask the Lord to give us wisdom and direct us. Father blessed now we pray in Jesus name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, Isaac