Again in your Bibles, 1 John chapter 1, I've read about a fella that was filling out an application and uh for something was going down a series of questions. One of the questions was, have you ever been arrested? And then after that it had another place that fell out. If you answered in the positive, then you had the opportunity to explain why you were arrested. So the question was, have you ever been arrested? He put down no And then he didn't read the next part of that correctly, and he just saw the word why. And so, have you ever been arrested? The answer was no. Uh if you answered in positive, explain why. He just didn't see that part. All he saw was why. He wrote down, I never got caught. And so Probably a lot of truth in that. And that fits right in with our message today. If you meet someone, some guy claims to be saved, says he's a Christian, if he says he's never sinned Or he does not sin. All that means he never got caught, is what he's talking about. And so look look with me if you would at 1 John chapter 1. I'd like for us to read together verses 8, 9, and 10. All of us together in unison, verses 8, 9, and 10. of 1 John, not the gospel of John, the little epistle of John towards the back of the Bible there. 1 John chapter 1. Begin reading in verse number 8. All of us together. Verse 8. Ready? Here we go If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us If we confess our sin, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us. Strong words. I want to speak this morning on what happens when a Christian sins. What happens when a Christian sins? Let's pray. Ask the Lord to help us and teach us. Father in heaven, we thank you, Lord, for good service this morning. My heart is blessed. This music was a real blessing to me, Lord. It seems like the truths this morning have all just uh meshed together beautifully the grace of God and your faithfulness to us. You're not going to forsake us. And I pray you'd just use these simple truths to encourage us And uh challenge us to go forward. Lord, the fellowship has been sweet. It's been a blessing. And now as we look into your word, we're asking you, dear Lord, to open our hearts and minds to the truth here. And that you would apply it to our lives as you know we have need. I pray, Father, if there be anyone in the service or under the sound of my voice Today that does not know for sure that when they die they go to heaven and not to hell. I pray that today would be the day of salvation That you would help them and help us to help them to trust Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. And Lord, those of us that know you, we have an ongoing battle throughout this life with sin I pray you would teach us from your word how we can be effective in uh overcoming sin and living lives pleasing to you. I present my body anew, I yield my will to you. I ask you again this morning with all my heart, I desperately ask, Lord, that you would fill me. With your Holy Spirit, and that you would speak through me in Jesus' name. Amen. I reference occasionally back when I was young, uh we had attended a church, it was a different denomination. Of course, events took place and I got out of church as a teenager. You know the story about how I got saved. But as uh I want to say it was third grade, uh I'm not confident that's the exact grade, but about that range. We were in Sunday I was in a Sunday school class. It was in the basement of the church, very similar to what we have set up here. And uh had a teacher And one thing I remember about that teacher, I cannot remember our other Sunday school teacher. I don't remember who they were while I was there as a young child. But I do remember this teacher, I can tell you her name And she would emphasize every single class. She would emphasize to that small class of third graders. She would say, you need to be saved. Jesus died on the cross for you. You need to accept Jesus as your Savior Now that denomination was not known for their strong evangelistic zeal, but this teacher, she got a hold of the fact that every single person needs to be saved. And she was burdened for her class. She was burdened for the children of her class. Me being one of them. And she would just teach over and over and over, you need to be saved, you need to accept Jesus as your Savior. It's the most important thing in life. Now I like to believe that years later, at the age of 19, when I did finally accept Jesus Christ as Savior, I believed that what she taught back in that class was seeds. that God was putting in my heart. And then as the li events of life played out, uh finally brought fruit when I accepted Jesus Christ as Savior. And so I appreciate uh that burden, that zeal and uh that she had for the salvation of my soul and many, many others At the age of 19, I did accept Jesus Christ as Savior, and I've referenced on occasion, and I think just recently, two fellows that took me under wing when I first showed up at church, Arden and Terry. These two young men, they're about my age, a little bit older, they took me under wing and they discipled me as a new believer. They taught me what it meant to be a Christian, how to live for God, the do's and don'ts, things I should and should not do to help me grow in my faith. Become strong in my faith. And one of the things they taught me very, very early on was this: that sin was going to be a major issue throughout my Christian life. That sin was something that was going to have to be dealt with throughout my entire Christian life. Since then, I've learned that what they taught me was absolutely true. Sin is a factor that Christians have to deal with till the day we reach glory Um, I've learned something over these years. I've learned that there's a difference between a victorious, strong Christian And a defeated, weak Christian. Now I'm looking, where's Brother Grant? Brother Grant, I'm going to get you to help me. And uh, Brother Derek, I'm going to get you. If you guys would come on up here, and they're going to represent two different Christians. One of these fellas, I'll wait till they get up here, Brother Grant, if you'll come over on this side, and Brother Derek, if you'll stand right there. One of these guys is good looking. I won't tell you which one. But um One of these, we're gonna have Pastor Grant. He's gonna represent the defeated sinful Christian. Beautiful and perfect. And uh Derek represents the victorious happy Christian. There you go. Man, perfect um role models here I found out, here's the defeated, sad, he's eat up with sin, he can't have victory, he's he's on again, off again, he's just a defeated Christian. Here's the victorious Christian. I found the difference Why this guy is defeated and why this guy is victorious. I'll tell you what the difference is not This guy is not defeated and this guy victorious. It's not because this guy sins and this guy does not sin. It's not the difference. Bible says, did you catch what we read there a little bit ago? If we say that we have no sin, we are what? A liar. It's not that one sins and one does not sin. That's not the difference. In this auditorium today, we have folks all different levels of our Christian life. Some this morning, you're on top, man. You're walking in victory. You're praising God. You've never been closer to the Lord than you are right now. I'm talking to some others this morning. You're here Maybe you've never been farther from God than where you are this morning. You're defeated. Sin has a hold of you. The joy is gone. What's the difference? One sins and one doesn't sin? No, no, no The difference is, one guy deals with the sin in a biblical thorough way, and the other guy doesn't deal with it. He doesn't face it. He doesn't deal with it. And thus it's got a hold of him and it's dragging them down. Victoria victory is victorious Christian, defeated Christian is not one sins and one doesn't sin. We all sin. There's not a just man upon the earth. For all sin and come short of the glory of God. There's none that doeth good. No, not one. We all deal with sin. But when we understand what sin is and what it does to us and how to deal with it. Then we can have victory. Thanks, guys. You guys can sit down there. And uh I hope Brother Grant gets victory in his life. And so we'll pray for him that God will help him. And I designed this message just for him, by the way. Not really. Alright, let's uh let's get right into this here. And uh I'm telling you, this is uh this is such an important subject, and uh and I want to be faithful to this. So let's get right in. Here's my first point. I'll encourage you. Maybe jot some of these thoughts out. It might be helpful to you in the coming days. Number one, I want us to consider the reality of sin in the Christian life. The reality of sin in the Christian life. If I'm going to be the Christian God saved me to be, then I must face the sin issue from a biblical perspective There are, I don't think there's a lot of folks like this, but there are folks that who have perhaps trusted Christ as Savior, and somehow they get the idea that now that I'm saved I will no longer sin. Now that I'm saved, in fact, uh during our youth rally a couple weeks ago, one of the preachers was here and we were talking to another very well-known preacher that's now out of the ministry And he had started teaching, he was nationally known, internationally known preacher, uh, and he he had gotten the idea, he started teaching and preaching, that he had reached a point of sinless perfection That he no longer sinned. He had such victory over sin that sin was no longer a factor in his life. I tell you what's interesting, he is now out of the ministry because he got involved sinfully with some other women. He was fooled, wasn't he? He did not have a clear understanding about the reality and the biblical teaching about sin and the Christian life and the sinful nature Uh some folks get the idea uh I I've been out soul winning and some of you maybe could uh witness uh bear testimony to this fact. Many times I knock on a door or I sit down with somebody or I'm trying to win someone to Get them to trust Christ as Savior. And they'll make this statement. Uh I've heard it uh many times over the years. They'll make this statement. Oh, I uh I won't get saved. I'm not going to trust Christ because I could never live it Anybody ever hear that statement? Oh, I would get saved, but I could never live that. They have a mistaken idea that when I get saved, then I can't ever sin again. I'll never ever sin again I have to live this sinlessly perfect life after I get saved or I won't be saved. They have an unscriptural understanding about what sin is. So God saves me. I trust Jesus Christ. I accept him as my personal Savior. God forgives me all my sin. He gives me a home in heaven. He gives me a new nature and I begin living a Christian life and things begin to change in my life and the Spirit of God begins working in my heart and now The things I used to do, I don't do them anymore. And the songs I used to sing, I don't sing them anymore. And the places I used to go, I don't go there anymore. There's been a great, great change in my life. Can I get a witness? Anybody have that happened to you? Trust Christ, God changed your life. And uh so God begins changing my life And he has a uh he wants me to be like Christ. And as if I'm going to be that person that God is working in my life, I must understand that sin is a reality in the Christian's life. It is there. It is real. We have to face it. We have to deal with it. Look with me again at verse number 8. Notice verse 8. If we, if, who? We, for uh the apostle uh John is writing this. Question, is John, the Apostle John, is he a saved man? Yes or no? Yes He's writing this book to believers. You study the context. This is written to save people. And he says, if We, myself included, if we say that we have no sin We do what? We deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. John is teaching these believers, listen, though you're saved, though you've accepted Jesus Christ as Savior. There's still a sin factor. There is still the issue of sin that we have to deal with even in the Christian life. It is written, and notice it's in present tense. If we say that we have no sin. He doesn't say if we say we had sin and we don't anymore. No, it's present tense. We all saved people right now have to deal with this issue of sin. What I'm talking about is the reality of sin in the Christian's life. We have to understand that. A lot of times a Christian will get sinned. This was true for me. I accept Jesus Christ as Savior. Man, there's been such a great, great change in my life. And uh I want to live for God now. And I'm reading my Bible. And I said and did something That was sinful after I got saved. And I'm telling you, it absolutely threw me. Oh, why would I do that Why would I take that action? Why would I do that thing? Why would I behave that way? I'm saved now. And that's where Terry and Arden came in. And they took me and they showed me from scripture, listen, just because you're saved doesn't mean that sin is no longer an issue. We still have to face it. We still have to deal with it. Everybody with me on that? Turn with me to Romans chapter 7. Say, well, I'm not convinced. I think a person gets saved, sin's no longer an issue. All right, let's go to Romans. Chapter number 7. Would you agree with me the Apostle Paul was a saved man? Absolutely. Would you agree with me the Apostle Paul was a great Christian? Absolutely. I mean all we know about him in my mind he is probably one of the greatest Christians, perhaps, that ever walked the planet. Of course, God knows everybody. But he was a tremendous man of God, tremendous uh Christian in every aspect. I'd like you to notice with me verse number 18. Of Romans chapter 7. And by the way, this is the passage that my two buddies that were helping me as a young Christian, they brought me to this passage and they showed me this. And notice in verse number, let's begin in verse 18. Paul writing to the church at Rome, believers in the city of Rome, he says, For I know that in me, that is, in my flesh, dwelleth no good thing. Now, he words it here. It's a little worded a little funny, and so let's go down through it and I'll come back and uh try and tell you what he's saying. I think you'll pick it up. For I know that in me that is in my flesh dwelleth no good thing. For to will is present with me But how to perform that which is good, I find not. Now look at this. For the good that I would, I do not But the evil which I would not, that I do. Now, if I do that, I would not, it is no longer I to do it, but Look at this next statement. But sin that dwelleth in me, I find then all that when I would do good, evil is present with me For I delight in the law of God after the inward man, but I see another law in my members, warring against the law of my mind, and bringing me into captivity to the law of sin which is in my members. Then he goes on, oh wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from this body of death? Paul is saying here, he says, I look at myself and I look at my flesh, and I see I have a sinful nature. There's nothing good about this old sinful nature. And he said, and he goes on and he begins to describe the conflict taking place within his heart and soul. And he says in so many words, like I said, it's worded a little awkwardly here, at least in our thinking. But he worded, this is what he's saying. He says, there are things of God that God says that are ought to be true in the Christian life that I want to do, and I find myself falling short And not doing those things that I really know I want to do and God wants me to do. Anybody here ever been that way? Something you know it's right. I said, Christian, I know that's right. I know I should do that. I'd I'd fall short and I didn't do it Can I get a witness? Sure. Paul says that's true. And then he says there's other things. I know they're not right. I know it's wrong. I don't want to do that. And I find myself doing it. And I find myself, I do things I know are not right, I shouldn't do, and I find things that I should do that I uh that I I come up short and I don't do them. And he has this he has this terrific conflict going on in his heart and soul. And finally, in exasperation, he says, Oh, who shall deliver me from this body of death? Who shall deliver me? He said, I'm in this conflict, I'm conflict. And we find out as we read on, praise God, there's a day coming, this old sinful nature will be put off, and we'll be just like the Lord Jesus, and that conflict will no longer exist What a day that will be. But until then, until then, as a Christian, there's the reality of sin. And I have to understand that I still have this old sinful nature. I still have this old conflict between, hey, praise God for the new nature. Amen? I'll tell you, for seventy-nine to fifteen is fifteen and nine is one is sixteen. How many years is that? Thirty-four? Thirty-six years. Hey, 36 years ago, God put inside my heart and soul a whole new nature, a desire to live for God, a desire to be pure in my heart and mind, desire to to do right and desire to live for God in every area of my life. Thank God for that. How many people get away how many people here since you've been saved, you notice God put new desires in your heart for that which is right and good and true. Amen. Thank God for that. Amen? Often thought, where in the world would I be if God had not saved me? Thank God for that new nature, but we need to understand that old nature is still there That old tendency and and that old bent towards evil, it's still there. And if we ignore it, and if we deny it. We're going to end up just like this defeated Christian here. Just like that preacher, that internationally known preacher, who got the idea that I no longer have a sin nature. I no longer sin. I'm above this. I'm beyond this And lo and behold, he ends up destroying his life and ministry. I'm telling you, we must face the reality of the sinful nature. The fact that man has a sinful nature is one of the most basic truths in all of Scripture That we have a sinful nature. A sinful nature. We must take the fact of the of the presence of our sinful nature very seriously. We need to understand how many folks here, you're saved to know it. Say amen. Every one of us need to understand that in our heart and soul is the possibility to do horrendous things, even as a Christian. That potential, that nature is there, and we must take that very, very seriously. If you knew If you knew that in your house, when you came home this afternoon, and you knew that in your house was a rattlesnake somewhere, you'd walk very gingerly through that house. Am I right or wrong? I'd burn it down, I'd just burn the whole house down. Fact is Those of us who are saved in our heart and soul, we have a rattlesnake of a sinful nature there. If we don't take that seriously, if we're not aware of that, we can destroy our Christian lives, we can make a mess, and we'll end up a defeated Christian and uh and mess up. Sin Sin is the worst thing in the world. Sometimes we get a little criticized here. Ah, got there, old Leatherman, he's preaching against sin. Always against something. I'm telling you what, we're against sin just like the doctor's against cancer. We're against sin just like the policeman is against the criminals I'm telling you, sin is the worst thing in the world. Every time I go to the doctor, all he says, you gotta take this pill. You're overweight. You're you're hot your blood pressure is too. I ain't going to him no more. He's negative. Alright, you go alright, tell you what, you go get you a doctor, all he ever does is tell you you're fine. And you're dying, you're eat up with cancer, but he'll just tell you, oh, you're fine. Nobody go to a doctor like that. I'm here to tell you this morning, sin is the worst thing in the world. Sin And it's in our lives. You say, why do we get on the young people? You've got to do right, you've got to do right. You know why? Because we've seen a heap of young people over the years that didn't do right and didn't take sin seriously, and their lives are destroyed. And we don't want that to happen to you. We want you to be victorious. We want you to have the blessings of God and fulfill the purpose of God in your life And until we face the reality of sin, that we have a sinful nature, and we have that bent towards that, and it's a very reality, until we face that, we'll never have victory. A Christian can never live a constant happy, victorious life until he faces the reality of his own sinful nature. Well God saved you and I. He gave us that new nature, that old nature still there. And Paul testifies to that very clearly in Romans chapter 7. So number one, my first thought is this the reality of sin in the Christian life. Number two, now this is where it gets a little ugly. The results of sin in the Christian life. What happens when I, as a Christian I allow sin to take place. I got this old sinful nature. The temptations are there, the issue is there, that that tendency is there to do wrong. Just like Paul said, I want to do right, and I end up doing wrong. I don't want to do wrong And uh I end up doing it, and oh, wretched man that I am. What happens when I give in as a Christian and I sit? I blow up and I say some things I ought not to say I do something I ought not to do. I think some way I ought not to think. What happens? One thing is abundantly clear in Scripture. I hope you'll get this God does not ignore sin. You and I, as a Christian, we sin. And there's no man that doesn't sin. If you say you don't have sin, you're a liar. The Bible says. And when I sin, God does not overlook that sin. He doesn't say, oh, well, that's a Christian. We'll just let that slip. That'll be okay. No, God doesn't do that. God does not overlook overlook sin. God doesn't ignore sin. Some Christian, I'm talking to some Christians this week. You messed up. Sin. I'm telling you right now, God did not overlook that. God didn't ignore that. Um God does not God does not take sin lightly Whether it's a saved person or a lost person, God does not take sin lightly. And we need to understand that there are results when a Christian sins. So the Bible is abundantly clear. God does not ignore sin, but the Bible is also abundantly clear. Now get this. This is where some of y'all are going to get hair-lipped. God does not send the sinning Christian to hell. The sinning Christian does not lose their salvation. That is important to understand. Some people have a hard pill for some people to swallow, but the Bible is clear God does not send his sinning child to hell. The only person that ends up in hell is a person that has never accepted Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. So God doesn't ignore sin. God doesn't overlook sin. He doesn't take it lightly. But neither does sin cause the Christian to go to hell. Hey, if sin made a Christian lose his salvation, there wouldn't be anybody saved. Huh? Because there's none that don't sin. So if sin is what makes me lose my salvation, then nobody in the world would ever be saved. Now having said that, oh by the way, sometime, and I'm going to preach, um I got another message putting together, and Lord will, and uh and with not too long, because God leads, I want to preach a message on the eternal security of the believer So I don't want to get into that now, but I will say this. Sometimes we get criticized a little bit. Oh, bat this out there. They believe once saved, always saved. When people come to me and say, Preacher Leatherman, do you believe once saved, always saved? I know immediately I'm being set up. And I'll say, this is my answer almost across the board. Yes, I do, but it is not a license to sin. Because that's always the next statement. Oh, you believe you believe once saved, always saved. Yes. You believe you have a license to sin. You can just go out and sin and still go to heaven. That's not true That's not true. God doesn't overlook sin. God doesn't treat it lightly. Now, God doesn't take away our salvation, but this is what I'm trying to say. He does deal with our sin as a Christian. And he deals with it very seriously. He does not treat it lightly. And if we got this idea that well I'm saved and I can just live however I want, I'm saved, I can just live in sin, it doesn't matter, I'm under the grace of God. If we have that idea, we're setting ourselves up to be this Christian over here, defeated, defeated Christian. I need to understand that sin is a reality and when it happens there's some very serious consequences even as to me as a Christian, as a Christian. Now, what are those? Oh, by the way, let me let me point this out. Sin, do not equate sin with making a mistake. A sin is not a mistake A sin is a deliberate action. Let me illustrate. I got the Walmart. I'm going to get a bag of apples I'm going to get a bag of grapes, which are very expensive right now and they don't taste very good. And I'm going to get two containers of fat-free vanilla yogurt. And I'm going to get frozen mangoes, chopped up frozen mangoes, and I'm going to get two bags of fat-free Snyder's pretzels. That's my grocery list. And so I go and I get all these things, um, and uh I'm going through the self checkout list How cool is that? And so I go through and I do all this stuff and I put it in my little blue cloth bag because I'm trying to save the world. And um And plus I've got plastic Walmart bags coming out of our ears. And so I put over there and I'm going out the door and I forgot to run the pretzels through the thing, and they're still in the cart. I get out to the car and I say, yikes, I made a mistake. I didn't pay for them. Question, did I sin up to that point? No, it was a mistake. I didn't deliberately try and steal it. It was a mistake. Sometimes people will sin And they'll say, oh, I just made a mistake. No, it wasn't a mistake. It was sin. Follow what I'm saying? It was sin. Let's go back, do my scenario again. I got the grapes, apples, fat-free yogurt, um, mangoes, pretzels. I go and I'm going through And I stick the pretzels back in the cart and I don't run them through the thing. And I go out. Did I make a mistake? No. That wasn't no mistake. That was sin. I deliberately stole them from Walmart. You see the difference? Now you say, oh, it's just semantics. No, I think it's the way we think about stuff. Uh years ago there was a lady down in Texas. She drowned all five of her kids. Anybody remember that news about 20 years ago? So? Horrendous! And they had to send the news, they had some big famous lawyer, and she's on these talk shows, and I still vividly see her on there, and they said something to her, and this late this lawyer is defending this woman. And she made this statement. She goes, listen, she made a mistake. We all make mistakes Now I'm not trying to be zero in this woman, but I'm trying to point this out. That was not a mistake. That was murder. It was a deliberate action. If she had inadvertently put her child in the bedtub and went and got distracted and the child had slipped and drowned, that would be a mistake. But to hold the kid underwater till they're dead It's not a mistake. That's murder. And as much as we are repulsed by that, when you and I do things that we know are wrong, we know it's sin. And we give into it, then we turn around and say, well, I made a mistake. No, it wasn't a mistake. It was sin against the holy God. You follow what I'm saying? And so do not equate sin with a mistake. A mistake is inadvertent. Sin is deliberate. And it grieves God. When we sin. It grieves God when we don't deal with it. So what are the results of sin in the life of Christians? I'm going to have to give these to you quickly. There's a list of them, and perhaps we could expand on this But let me give you a few. Number one, when a Christian sin, it brings God's chastisement on me. Turn with me, if you would, to Hebrews chapter 12. Very important chapter for Christians. Hebrews chapter 12. When a Christian sin, I've accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, I'm growing, God is changing my life, I'm getting I'm learning things and now uh before I never wanted to read my Bible, now I want to read my Bible. Before I never wanted to go to church, now I want to go to church. Before I wanted to listen to good godly music now I do And so God's changing me, but I still find within me this old sinful nature that wants to do things that are wrong, and I inevitably I give in to it. And things I would not I do. What happens? It will bring God's chastisement. Hebrews chapter 12, look at verse number 4. Now he's writing to these folks. He says, ye have not yet resisted unto blood in striving against sin. He says, you're not fighting against that sin nature as strongly as you could. You could fight it a little stronger. Now look what he says. And you have forgotten that the exhortation which speaketh unto you as children, God's children. Save people, my son, despise not thou the chastening of the Lord, nor faith when thou art rebuked of him, for whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth and scourgeth every son whom he receives If ye endure chastening, God dealeth with you as with sons. For what son is he whom the Father chasteneth not? But if ye look at this, but if ye be without chastisement Whereof all are partakers, all saved people, all God's children are partakers, then are you bastards and not sons? Furthermore, we had fathers of our flesh which corrupt uh corrected us, and we gave them reverence Shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the Father of spirits and live? For they, our fleshly fathers, verily for a few days chastened us after their own pleasure, but he, God our Father, for our prophet. That we might be partakers of his holiness. Now no chastening for the present seemed to be joyous, but grievous. Nobody likes getting a spankin'. Doesn't seem to be joyous, but grievous. Nevertheless, afterward, it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness to them which are exercised thereby. Do you catch what he's saying through here? He's saying, listen, as a child of God, as a saved person, when you give in to that sin When you allow sin into your life as a child of God, God loves you and he will chasten you. The word chasten means this, to confront and correct. Now be very, very careful here. It is not punishment. Now, this may be a little semantics, and you might this might raise some question marks, but God does not punish Christians for their sin And the reason I say that is this: Jesus Christ was punished for our sins for us. He took the punishment of our sins on himself. So when I sin as a Christian, God chastens me. He's not punishing me. He already did that on Jesus for my sins. He is chastening me. There's a difference. Chastisement is to correct the behavior. Get it back to where it's supposed to be. Punishment is a sense, a type of vengeance. You have to pay for what you've done. Chastisement is the love of God correcting me Getting me back in line, getting that out of my life, and getting me back to where living the way I'm supposed to live, behaving the way I'm supposed to behave, talking the way I'm supposed to talk, thinking the way God wants me to talk. And it's a correction So if I, as a Christian, I allow sin in my life, God will chasten me. He'll begin a series of events in my life to correct me and challenge me and get me back to in in line with His will for my life. I believe in my study of the scriptures and my experience that God chastens us in three ways. And they're progressive. First of all, God will chasten a sinning Christian with the Word of God. That's why it's so important we read our Bibles every day. I don't know how many times in these years where I was reading my Bible and a verse would just scream out at me some area of my life That I knew wasn't right, I knew it wasn't what it ought to be, and God used his word to chasten me, to correct me, and I got convicted about it. Anybody know what I'm talking about? As a Christian, you read something, you got convicted about it, say, you know, I need to make that right. Can I get a witness? So it might be in my daily Bible reading. It might be coming out to church. I don't know. I wish I had a record of how many times I stood in the back after service and I uh after service standing in the back shaking hands, oh God bless you, oh it's wonderful, and people come up and they look like this And in my mind I'm thinking Yeah. They'll say they'll say, You got me. I had one one time I'd preached and I went off on liquor. And they said, How'd you know? I'm back there, said, How'd you know? I said, How'd I know what? How'd you know what was in our refrigerator? I didn't know what was in your refrigerator. Well you preached about it today. I said, I didn't know what was in your refrigerator, but God did. And God was chastening. They convicted him, challenged him to correct that, make it right. So, God, if I allow sin in my life, God begins chastening me, and he begins first of all with the word of God. He'll convict me in my Bible reading or I'm in church and a preacher preach on something. I get convicted. Or I'm listening to radio, 88. 7 FM Fundamental Broadcasting Network, one of those guys, Albert B. Green, or Lester Off, one of those guys, they preach and uh And God convicts me. It is best, when God confronts me with his word, it is best to agree with God and settle it and get it right then and there. If God convicts me with His Word, He challenged me, He chastens me with His Word, and I harden my heart and say, Nope, I'm not going to do that. Lord, I don't care what you say, I'm not going to do it. Then I believe that kicks in the second stage of God's chastisement, and that is what I call the rod. First, he uses the word If that isn't effective, if I don't respond to that, I harden my heart as a Christian, stiffen my neck as a Christian, I'm not going to do what the word says, then he brings the rod in. And that can take many different forms. That is where God usually physically brings something into my life to get my attention, to make me stop and think and turn things around. I think for the prodigal son, I think it was him running out of money and ending up in the hog pen. That got his attention. That turned things around. That corrected him. So it may be, now I'm not saying this is what it is. God knows in his wisdom, he applies it uh differently as he knows as best, but it may be losing a job. It may be a car wreck. It may be a bad doctor's report. You've got this disease. You've got this sickness. You've got this, that, or the other. It may be a loss of some, it may be a house fire, it may be anything. But God ups the empty, so to speak, and he says, Alright, you're not going to respond to my word, I'm going to bring the rod. That's what he did with Israel. He sent the prophets over and over and over. He says, You won't hear my prophets, alright? I'm sending the Babylonian armies. And they're going to haul you off. You'll lose your house. You lose everything you've got. Lose your freedom. I think that's what's happening to America. I think God has been sending preachers for genera for decades to this old country to turn from our sin, abortion, and all the garbage going on And America has stiffened her neck and hardened her heart. And God says, All right, I'll start taking your freedoms from you. I'll put you in more dangerous situations. I'm going to allow terrorists into your country. And I'm telling you, God takes sin seriously. And first, he's very gracious. He'll try to speak to us from his word. If we don't respond to that, then he brings the rod. Now let me put a word of caution out here. Just because someone ended up in the hospital this week doesn't mean God was chastening them. Just because someone had a car wreck, just suppose someone lost their job, don't immediately say, ah, they're living in cell. God's getting old Fred Now you laugh at that. I had people t say that to me about other church members who are in the hospital and says, I know what it is, they're living in sin. I said, You don't know that. That's between them and God. Amen? I'm I've met some awfully godly people that had car wrecks. I met some folks that were absolutely thoroughly right with God diagnosed with cancer. So don't jump to some conclusion 'Cause somebody's going through a tough time that God's dealing with sin in their life. You worry about your sin, amen. I worry about my sin. Let God take care of that. So the first stage is the Word of God. He convicts us, He challenges us. If that if we don't respond to that, we harden our heart. The invitation's given. I ain't going up there making things right. God says, all right, then he brings the rod on. I've seen it. This is possible. This happens. Doesn't matter what. God just breaks them down, breaks them down, breaks them down. I will not humble myself. I will not obey God. A Christian. The word? Then the rod. If I don't respond to the rod, I put it this way, then there's removal. God says, alright. James talks about a sin unto death. Actually, I think it's 1 John 5. A sin unto death. Talking to Christians. I believe a Christian can go so out of sorts with God and harden their hearts so hard that God's word has no effect, God's rod has no effect, and God says, all right, you just come on home I was going to take you out of this world, bring you on home. You brought enough shame. You brought enough harm to the cause of Christ. I'm going to bring you on home. Now that's extreme. God, I don't believe God will do that until He absolutely positively has to bring them out But I believe it's happened. I think, I don't know, God knows this, but I think I've seen that on several occasions over the years. Where by my, from my appearances, God took that one home. Now that is how serious God is about sin. Now don't walk out of here and say, oh preacher said, if I don't get right, God's going to kill me. I'm not saying that. But I am saying this, for a child of God, God does not ignore sin. And he will convict us, and he will bring chastisement of the rod upon us. And it's a very real possibility in extreme cases where he has removed people out of here. And so again, we have to be very careful. Just because somebody died unexpectedly or something, don't have met, oh God killed him for sin. No, no, no, we don't know that. God knows that. It's kind of like uh we live right here on Broadford and uh the speed limit on Broadford is twenty-five miles an hour. That means they drive 65 miles an hour. I don't know what they would drive if the speed limit was 50, but they f what I'm trying to say, I'm trying to gripe a little bit, alright? So write the mayor and claim to them. But they fly up and down this road. Our boys, when they were small, they'd play outside. So we generally had them playing out back, but occasionally they'd go play out front. And suppose the boys were out front and they got out close to the road. You know, there's a little hill right here, and people come flying up over there. You don't have a chance to stop. I had one guy skid almost into the t uh into the uh mailbox. I was pushing the snowblower across the road. He came over there sixty miles an hour. I'm in the middle of the road He locked him up. Shh. Oh man, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I said, Yeah, you are So the boys are out there playing, and suppose they're out getting close to the road. Tell them, don't you go near that road. Don't you get killed. And they're out near the road. Kathy opens the door. Boys Get away from that road. Get in here. Get away from the road. What's she doing? She's chastening them with her word. Yes, mom! They come running in. The chastisement did its job. They corrected their behavior. They're where they ought to be. They're safe Let's suppose that they're out there, she looks out, and they're there again. Boys, I told you to get away from that road. Yes, Ma? They come run in. She looks out, they're out there again. She says, boys, get away from that road, and they say, no. Ooh, baby. I'm telling you, y'all think Kathy's sweet and nice. How many people think Kathy's sweet and nice? Woo Get in here, boys. Wow. Did you learn your lesson? Yes, mom They go out there. She looks out. They're out by the road again. She wails on them again. They're out there by the road again. Her word doesn't correct it. Her rod doesn't correct it. And finally she says, all right, boys, in the house. No more. You're too dangerous. Get in the house. You can't play out here anymore. And I think that's one of the aspects of God's chastisement. First, he tries to convict us. He tries to get it right through his word. And the best thing in the world to do is, yes, Lord, your word said it, I'll do it, I confess, I forsake it, I repent, I go on. If we don't do that, then God brings the rod and things start getting rough. We get miserable. Hopefully then we'll make things right. And in extreme cases, sometimes God will say, all right, come on up here to heaven. Come on, you're living that sin is dangerous. It is bad. You're hurting others with your behavior as a Christian. You're blaspheming them, you're giving enemies of God an opportunity to blaspheme. Come on home. Come on home. Come on home. Now, as I said, that's an extreme case. John says there's a sin under death. Don't pray for it. He says I'm not saying it's big, it's not, but it's there. It's a real possibility. And we need to keep that in mind. So what does sin do in the life of a Christian Well, one, it brings chastisement. I don't even have time. Let me just give you a list. Sin will cost us our joy. Cost us our joy. James David said in Psalm 51 and verse number 12, he said, Restore unto me the joy of my salvation. He committed adultery with Bathsheba. He tried to hide it, lied about it for a year. And David was miserable. And his sin cost him his joy. I'm telling you, the most miserable people in the world are Christians living in sin. They're miserable. God's convicting them and chastening them and they're hardening themselves, and the joy is gone. Sin will quench the work of the Holy Spirit in my life. If I have sin in my life as a Christian, I don't deal with it. It'll grieve the Holy Spirit. It'll quench the Holy Spirit. I'm going to lose His leadership in my life. I'm going to lose His power upon my life. I'm going to lose insight. I'm not going to be able to make good, wise spiritual decisions. Because the Spirit of God is grieved and quenched by the presence of sin in my life as a Christian. Sin closes up God's ears to our prayers. Psalm 66, 18, if I regard iniquity of my heart, the Lord will not hear me. God is pleased when we pray. He instructs us to pray. He promises to answer prayer. But if I as a Christian do not deal with the sin that comes up in my life, it shuts God off to my prayers. God closes his ears to our prayers for our family and for our children. He closes his ears to our prayers for our needs, for direction and for wisdom. As badly as he wants to answer our prayers, if I as a Christian do not deal with the sin that comes up in my life, it will close God's ears to my prayer. It has consequences on our family. You see that all through Scripture, when I, as a family member, do not obey God and I allow sin in my life, it affects the rest of my family. As a husband, it affects my wife. As a parent, it affects my children. As a child, it affects my siblings. It affects my parents. We do not sin in isolation. We affect other people And when I'm right with God and I'm I'm prayed up and my sin is dealt with and I have the presence of God in my life, I have a positive influence on others. But when sin is tolerated and it's not dealt with, I have a negative detrimental uh influence on the people in my family. You see it all through Scripture Has consequences. Eclipse our soul-winning zeal. Lot and Sodom was a joke when he tried to tell other people to get right with God because he had so much sin in his life as a believer. The son say, this guy, he's just a joke. His testimony was a joke. What's the remedy for sin? I wish I could preach a whole series on this. Say, alright preacher, alright preacher, I'm saved, I know I'm saved, and I know there's things in my life that are not right. I gave in and I sin and how do I deal with it? I don't want God to chasten me. I want to make it right, I don't want to hurt my family, I want God's power, I want God to hear my prayers. What do I do? It's simple, but it's not always easy. Number one, confess. The sin. 1 John 1. 9. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. I wrote in the margin of my Bible, 1 John 1. 9, I wrote in the margin, God's reset button. Or mic our mic away. My wife's hair dryer. Um I don't have a hair dryer. I have a towel. But uh on her hairdryer, sometimes that thing you'll go and it'll just click click there's nothing there. And it's shut off. The the power the line's been broken. There's a little red button in the back, you mash that little race set button all of a sudden Sin cuts off God's presence, God's power, God's blessings. But we confess our sin. He's faithful and just to forgive us our sin. Hit the reset button. Get back right with God. Number one, I need to confess my sin. By the way, confessing sin is not telling God you sinned. God knows you've sinned. He's not dumb. He knows it's there. You're not hiding it from him. It's not like, uh God, you didn't know this, but I said. God says, I knew it. I watched you do it. Confessing my sin is not telling God I've sinned. He already knows that. Confessing my sin is agreeing with God about my sin. God, this is wrong. God, this is horrendous. This violates your holiness. God, this is shameful. I agree. I see my sin the way you see with it. I confess I'm on the same page with you about this. I have the same attitude with you about it. It's a whole lot more than saying, well, uh, shh, Father, I have sinned. That dumb priest, quote unquote, there behind that little slide. He doesn't know you've sinned, but I'm telling you, God's no dumb priest. He knows you've already He already knows you've sinned. When I confess, I'm agreeing with him. I mean not I I'm I'm getting on the same page with him about it. I have the same attitude about it. So what do I do? I sin. Well, first of all, confess it. See it the way God sees it. Acknowledge it to be what God says it is, and have the same attitude God does. Then there's a second thing, and that's forsake it. Proverbs 28, verse 13, He that covereth his sin shall not prosper, but whoso confesseth and forsaketh, so fets it up. And forsake it. To forsake means to abandon, to walk away from it, let it loose. In other words, when I confess to God my sin, The next thing I need to do, if I'm going to be victorious, if I'm going to be over here, if I'm going to be victorious, I need to forsake it. Get it out of your life. Stop it. It's not the idea, God, this is so bad, and I just keep on doing it and just keep on doing it. No, no, no. God, this is wrong, this is wicked, this is sinful, I see it the way you do. I forsake it. I put it out of my life. I'm not going to let it back in Now, having the sinful nature, we often end up back here, and I've got to go through the same process again. I confess it and I forsake it. I put it out. But then there's a third one, and this one we miss. I confess my sin. God, you're right, this is horrendous. I hate it. I forsake it. God, I get it out of my life. But then the third one is, I've got to forget it. Forget it. An old song they sing, what sins are you talking about? I don't remember them anymore. When I confess my sin, God is faithful and just to forgive me my sin, cleanse me from all unrighteousness. I forsake it, and God says, all right, it's been dealt with, let's get up and go on. And as much as is possible, act as if it never happened. A just man falleth seven times and riseth up again. God expects his children when they sin and they confess it and forsake it, they expect them to get back up and get back on living for God. Don't lay there in defeat. Don't lay there saying, oh, I did so terrible. I stopped. I can never do anything. Oh, I'm there. I'm the worst. No, no, no. Get back up and go on for God. Go on for God. Listen, there are consequences I might stand and may disqualify me from some positions, but it doesn't disqualify me from being a good Christian. We had a fellow come through here, and some of y'all remember him. uh musician and he had gotten backslidden in his late in his twenties and he got in a motorcycle gang carrying on. Christian saved got in a motorcycle gang and he was in a wreck. God chastened him and cut his leg off And he confessed it and he forsook it and he got back up and he was trying to live for God, but every single day he had to get that prosthetic leg. and put it on there. And he told me, he said, you know, that thing just kills me. By the end of the day, it reminds me how costly it is to allow sin into my life. He got back up. There's consequences, yes, for the rest of his life. But get back up and go on. Get back up. There's a bell in our church in Indianapolis. I've got to quit He was wild, crazy. He got these tattoos across his hand and had filthy words tattooed on his fingers. Across the top, the back part of his hand here. Filthy, filthy words. He got saved. And um I said he I he always wore long sleeves and he'd always have be like this. He was an older guy, and back then he was well he wasn't that old in his sixties Seemed older at the time. But he'd always be like this. And and and he always when we sing hymns, he was always going like this, trying to cover it, trying to cover it. You know what? There's consequences. Those they're not gone. They're there. They're stuck. They're there. But he didn't lay down, sit at home, and say, I'm not going to church. I can't do anything. I've got all this terrible stuff. No, he got up and went on. You follow what I'm saying? Fess it, forsake it, and as much as is possible, forget it. And put it behind you and go on for God and keep reading your Bible and keep going to church And keep giving out gospel tracts and keep witnessing and keep praying. Just because you blew it is no reason to stop living for God. Confess it, forsake it, and for peace's sake, get up and go on and live for God. I am with this. Keep it going. If you strike a thorn or rose, keep a going. If it hails or if it snows, keep a going Taint no use to sit and whine if there ain't no fish on your line. Bait your hook and keep a tryin'. Just keep a goin'. When the weather kills your crop Keep a going. Though it's work to reach the top, just keep a going. Suppose you're out of every dime. Getting broke ain't no crime. Tell the world you're feeling fine and just keep a going When it looks like all is up, keep it going. Drain the sweetness from the cup. Just keep it going. See the wild birds on the wing. Hear the bells that sweetly ring. When you feel like singing, sing, just keep it going. And that's my point. You confess your sin, you forsake your sin as a child of God, and get up and rejoice in the forgiveness and the blessings of God and keep it going for God. Amen? What happens when a Christian sins? I don't lose my salvation. God deals with it. And he deals with it very seriously. But if I will, as soon as possible, confess it and forsake it, and then forget it and get up and go on, I can be a stronger Christian for it. I can be a stronger. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you use this somehow. Help us. Maybe somebody needed to hear what happens when a Christian sins. Some of us maybe are sucking our thumbs and whining because we blew it. Help us to confess it and forsake it and then go up and forget it. Help us, Lord, to be a blessing. Help us to live for you. Our heads bowed, eyes closed, how we say, Preacher, I'm a Christian and I know what you're talking about. I am fully aware of that sinful nature still in my life as a Christian. Anyone, can I get a witness? Anybody? Yes I deal with it on a daily basis. That's the truth. Now maybe there's some here this morning and say, Preacher, there's some areas in my life That God's been dealing with my heart about, and I need to get in line. I need to get them straightened out. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I can agree with God on this. And I can get this back in line. Is there any like that? Anybody at all? Preacher, there's some areas of my life I know are not in tune with what God's will is. And as a Christian, I need to confess that and forsake and get it right. Any others? How about it? Many hands around. How about it God bless you. Don't put that off. Don't harden your heart. Agree with God. Agree with Him. Forsake it. Do what you need to do to make it right. Then get up and go on. Is there someone here this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure when I die I'm going to heaven? I'm telling you, you don't want to go to hell, and Jesus is the only one that can keep you out. And you'd say, Preacher, pray for me. I'm concerned about going to heaven when I die and not going to hell. And you say, I appreciate your prayers. Would you just slip your hand up, say, preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure I'm going to heaven. I don't want to go to hell And I want I need that settled in my heart. Is there any at all this morning? Any at all? How about it? Any at all? Father, bless our invitation. A lot of hands raised. Help us to be tender hearted. Help us to be responsive. And to deal with things right away and not put it off in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bound, eyes are closed. Jennifer