And that's been true for us. So let's get our Bibles out. He comes and brings the message tonight. Well, let me ask you to turn in your Bibles to Luke chapter 19. Luke chapter nineteen tonight And while you're doing that, is there uh someone, one of you fellas, that can help me with the commitment cards? Is there some Uh are there some commitment cards available that you could uh make sure everyone has one? Maybe you were not here last night. You did not get a commitment card. We want to get this in your hand and have you thinking about it, praying about it, and be prepared for Sunday morning. As God speaks to you and deals with you, and it'd be good to have that commitment card in your hand while you're praying about it. Amen. I have some uh magazines on a table in the back. And uh on the small table. There's a couple of um magazines that are printed by our mission board, B IMI World. And this is just about missions around the world. And then there's uh one that uh we print in the islands uh about every three months or so. And this uh covers the missionaries in the islands, things that are going on there Now these are free and I would not only encourage you to take them, I would ask you please take them. And if you have someone else, maybe someone you work with that you're witnessing to or they're saved and interested in missions, you're welcome to take some and uh get them into their hands. But please take those And uh if you take all that's back there, then I have some more and I'll bring those in. Also have a brochure that uh just shares the work in the islands and the need, and so you might want to get that in your hand also. Well Luke chapter 19 I want us to look at the first ten verses tonight. So let's begin and read through Luke chapter 19, beginning in verse 1, it says, And Jesus entered and passed through Jericho. And behold, there was a man named Zacchaeus, which was the chief among the publicans, and he was rich. And he sought to see Jesus who he was, and could not for the press, because he was little of stature. And he ran before and climbed up into a sycamore tree to see him, for he was to pass that way. And when Jesus came to the place, he looked up and saw him and said unto him, Zacchaeus, make haste. Come down, for today I must abide at thy house. And he made haste and came down and received him joyfully And when they saw it, they all murmured, saying that he was gone to be guest with a man that is a sinner. Zacchaeus stood and said unto the Lord, Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor And if I have taken anything from any man by false accusation, I restore him fourfold. And Jesus said unto him, This day is salvation come to this house, for as much as he also is a son of Abraham. For the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. Now, Father, we want to ask you again tonight to speak to us from your word. Holy Spirit, we pray that you would open the scriptures to us tonight as you have written them and preserved them and Make it alive to us individually. Because you know what we need. You know where we are in our lives spiritually. And you know what we need to see in your word tonight. I pray that you would bless these folks In just a special way. In Christ's name. Amen. Well, this is a portion of scripture that we have known for a long time in our Christian lives, haven't we? Zacchaeus singing the song of Zacchaeus and and thinking about the story of the little man that got saved. But I want to use it in uh this way tonight. I was reading it sometime back and the Lord just uh spoke to my heart about what happened here in a different way. You know, sometimes we can get so used to a portion of scripture that we read it Already knowing what we're going to get from it. And the Holy Spirit does not have an opportunity to give us something fresh, speak to our hearts in a different way And we need to be open. And nothing needs to become so familiar we do that we do not uh gain something new. Not necessarily that it's new, but it's new to us. Here's the thought I want us to look at tonight in this section of Scripture. What happens when a preacher comes to town? What happens when a preacher comes to town? Because that's what these missionaries are doing. These missionaries are answering the call of God. Now we talk about places. You know, we name the countries they're going to, and they're going to this place in this part of the world. But really God doesn't call them to a place, He calls them to a people. The people, that's the important part of missions. And when when these men answer the call, God has called them to a place Most likely where there's no gospel preacher, nobody preaching the truth. Oh, there's religion. You see religion in just about every presentation that you see. But that doesn't mean that Christ is there in a personal way. His name may be mentioned, but the salvation that you and I know and enjoy is not explained. And so there's no opportunity for folks to hear the gospel. And then God calls somebody to take the Word of God. Call somebody to take the truth. Now imagine a town, a city I mean you hear places twenty thousand, fifty thousand, million, four million. You hear these figures, but imagine when a preacher comes to town with the truth what that means to that place. And that's really what we're dealing with this week. You know, money's a part of it. God made money a part of it. They need to be supported financially. They need to live. their salaries need to be paid so they can live and take care of their families. But really the important thing is for us to get that preacher there, because when the preacher gets there with the truth about Christ, Then things begin to happen. Amazing things begin to happen. You're saved tonight because somebody came to town with the truth. Huh? You check back, maybe you directly or indirectly, a preacher came to town where you were. And through that preacher, the results of that preacher coming, you're here tonight. So I just want to stir our hearts to think about that when we think about missions. So let me give you three thoughts. Number one, when a preacher comes to town, unusual people show up Rascals show up. Tonight we have a room full of a bunch of rascals. Aren't we? Uh you remember when you got saved, what you were like if you say were saved a little a little older in life Uh we were rascals. But uh that's who God saves. See? And uh it's amazing how the rascals show up when a preacher comes to town Now we have a good example of that right here. Zacchaeus. He was surely not the most respected, the most liked person in town. He was a tax collector. It says there that uh there was a man named Zacchaeus, which was the chief among the publicans. That means he was a chief tax collector. He worked for the Roman government, the Gentiles, to take advantage of his own people. And so he was definitely not really respected, probably not liked very much. Because what they did as tax collectors, they collected what the government uh demanded that they collect, and then for their own salary or what they wanted to have, they could collect above what the government required for themselves. Now he had other tax collectors under him. So he not only has uh this opportunity to gain from taking from the people, but He gains from all of the other tax collectors because he's over all of them. Now, you know how you and I feel when the IRS is mentioned. We want to be low-key, don't we? We don't want them to know where we live. We don't want them to know anything about our lives. We really uh do not have or do not want to have a lot to do with tax collectors. And here he was right among them. And uh and use the people to gain for himself. And then all of a sudden, when Jesus comes to town Boy, he is interested. He wants to see what's happening. Possibly possibly he's heard about it. Possibly he he's heard about the miracles. But he wanted to see what was going on. Now that's what happens when these men go to uh go to these places, when these families go to these places. uh the rascals begin to show up. They might not be the the uh well respected of the area they not they might not be the the well liked in the area As a matter of fact, they they may be shunned in many cases because of the life they live, but it's amazing how God has them show up When a preacher comes to town. I was preaching in the Dominican Republic for a missionary, and uh I was sitting on the air uh the uh platform, the small auditorium, and And uh he and I, the missionary and I were both sitting there and I was just ready to go to the pulpit. And uh He leaned over to me and he said, you see that fellow sitting down there? And he described him. I said, yes, and I see him. He said, now he's packing. Now that didn't bother me a lot. But then he said the reason he's packing is they have a hit on him. Now that bothered me. Because I'm getting ready to go to the pulpit, I'm going to be the center attraction of all of the activity for the next few minutes. And I could picture those guys with a hit on him coming charge uh come charging through the back door and the fire starting between the two of them So, but that's what shows up uh when you uh when uh the preacher comes. Those people show up in the congregation. We uh have uh missionary in the Dominican Steve Siddler. Do you sport Siddlers? But uh yeah uh Brother Leatherman has been there. And uh there's a man, Brother Siddler went down, started a church in a real poverty area of Keetoswenia. And I mean uh it has it has grown some and it's a little better than it used to be, but but uh it is a drug area. It is a difficult section. But he knew God wanted him there and God has blessed, and he has a great work. But there's a fellow that lives in the community where he is, the community of Keith Swena, by the name of Marcello. Now you might jot that name down if you would. Just write it down, and anytime you can think about it, pray for Marcella's salvation. Marcella has the reputation of being the meanest man in Keith Swinga. I mean he brother Siddlers told me about sitting and talking to him some and and Marcella would start uh telling him about people he k he's killed. And uh Brother Sandler would say, now wait a minute, I don't want to hear that. I don't want that on my mind. I don't want him to know that. Don't tell me about those things. He is a bad dude. But Marcella really likes Brother Siddler. And he really likes the church. And he's put the word out. Nobody touches the preacher Nobody touches that church. If you do anything to that church, you have to deal with me And he uh uh one day uh Brother Siddler put some nice lights on the outside of their building. Well it it wasn't long at all until somebody had stolen the lights and And taking them and and Marcella put the word out. He said, Now I know who got the lights. And he said, I'm coming to your house. And when I come to your house, I'm going to kill you. Now that'll get your attention. Because they know he he he's means what he says. He said those lights had better be on that building before I get to your house. And needless to say, the lights were there. But that's what, hey, listen, that's what happens when the preacher comes to town. It would be a great thing if Marcella would get saved. He loves the preacher. He listens to him. He talks to him. I went one time to to visit someone in the uh right up behind the church and And Steve and I, I was just standing there listening because they were talking in Spanish and he was witnessing to this guy and talking to him. Three or four times people would come up And uh they'd come up and stand there a couple of minutes and the fellow he was witnessing to would just tell him, he said he would say something to 'em and sort of shoo them away. After we finished and Steve and I left, he I asked him, I said, What what were all those people? Why'd they keep coming up? He said they were coming up to buy drugs. And he was telling go away, come back later That's what happens when the preacher comes to town. I was preaching in a town called Bonal. I may have told you this story before. But uh it's a good example. A missionary had gone to Bonau, city of about 70,000 people, and started a church. And uh they bought a a house and they were holding their church services in this house, turned uh turned it into their church and had a small auditorium And uh I went up on a Sunday night that I was in Dominican and preached for this missionary. And so uh I'm preaching about halfway through my message. There was a fellow sitting on the middle on the left side, he got up and headed toward the back door. There was one door right in the middle going out And there was another fellow sitting on the back row on this side, and when this fellow started toward the back, the fellow back here got up and blocked the door and wouldn't let him out. Now they're back there. It's just a small room and uh they're uh arguing and have a confrontation going back there and uh everybody's watching them, they're not listening to me, and so I just had to stop Wait until they finished. The guy wouldn't let him out, so he came back up and sat down. After I finished preaching, I asked the missionary, I said, what in the world is going on? He said this fellow over here that was trying to get out is town drunk and he did not like what you were saying. The fellow back there knew he needed to hear what you were saying, he wasn't going to let him out He was going to make sure he stayed and heard what you say. I came back home about three months later, the missionary called me and said, You remember that drunk? Down drunk? I said, Oh yeah. He said he got saved. See, that's what happens when the preacher comes to town. And they bought a big old 60-passenger bus and shipped it down to the Dominican Republic. This town, Bow Now, is it sort of has a Wild West flavor. But instead of horses all over the place, it's mopeds and motorbikes. They're just all over the place. And they were running that 60 passenger bus all through Bownau, picking people up, bringing them to church. I went down about a year later. You know who was driving that bus? The town drunk. Why? Because that's what happens when a preacher comes to town. Sometimes you and I get caught up in the we gotta support missionaries and we have to pray for missionaries and we need to read the missionary prayer letters. We lose sight sometimes of the personal touch. That there are people just like you and just like me. They're there, they need to hear the gospel, and when the preacher shows up, then those rascals show up to see what's going on. Let me give you a second thought. Secondly, when a preacher comes to town, some come to hear the message and see the message. Some come just because of suspicion, or just their emotions Just what in the world is going on over there? Why are these people gathering? What are they saying? And some people some people just want to see for their own personal interest what in the world's going on. Now you think about Zacchaeus that day. He here he is, tax collector. You know, the people may not have liked him, but in the position, he probably thought he was something special. You know, he thought he probably big stuff. And here he's running down the street trying to get in to see what's going on. And he climbs a tree. So he can see what's going on. He was interested in seeing Jesus and what he was all about. Now what the thing about it, that day, Zacchaeus thought, I want to see Jesus, I want to see what's going on, I want to see what he's all about. When all the time Jesus was looking for Zacchaeus, he was Choosing Zacchaeus. He wanted to speak to Zacchaeus. And that's what that's what happens on the mission field when these fellows go and and they get in these communities and get in these towns and and find a building and start a Baptist church, then then people become interested in what's happening. And we have all kinds of people that come for different reasons. uh to church. Sometimes people will come just because they they are facing a traumatic situation. They're going through a difficult time. And they turn to the church, or they and they they don't necessarily turn to salvation, they don't necessarily turn to Christ, they turn to church in their own minds But when they get the church where there's a where there's a preacher preaching the truth, then they get more than what they think they're looking for. And that's happened to many of us, right? Well, that's what happens. See, when these fellas get to the mission field, when these families get there. When the preacher shows up, then uh uh people become interested. They they want to find out what's happening and and uh what they can do. to uh to get close and to hear what's happening. And so they start searching, they start looking When all the time Jesus is looking for them, when all the time He wants to speak to them, when all the time He's creating the circumstances I was preaching in a little island, Cayman Brac. Cayman Brac is part of that Cayman group. There's three islands in that Cayman group, Grand Cayman. Uh the large island, about sixty-five thousand people. Then there's Little Cayman, they call it, and then there's Cayman Breq. Cayman Breck Is imagine this. Cayman Brack is three miles wide, 13 miles long. My wife calls it Gilligan's Island You can see the whole thing in twenty or thirty minutes and it's over. But think about living on a piece of dirt Surrounded by water, three miles wide and thirteen miles long. Some people having lived there all of their lives and their elderly Now there's not a lot to do on a piece of ground three miles wide and thirteen miles long. But they'll come to church. Many of them. Not all of them, but many of them will. And they come to church. We have a missionary there, been there, goodness, 35-40 years. And they'll come to church And sit there and listen, and they're lost as a goose to hellstorm. It just seems to go over their heads. And boy, if you're preaching there, it can become uh real difficult to handle. Because you're you're preaching and you know they're lost and and you're trying to get the gospel across and and they they just do not grasp And yet they are just so nice and sweet, and they'll be back the next service and sit there, especially when a guest preacher comes. I was preaching one time I uh was scheduled to preach to start on a Sunday, go through Friday. And uh I'd preached all day Sunday, and we were having services Monday night. On Monday night, I preached the message, finished the message, finished the invitation, headed toward the back door. Small auditorium, just one door in the back, and I I was I turned it over to the missionary and he was closing in prayer and I was briskly moving to be back there when folks came out so I could shake hands. And I got to next to the last pew and when I got back there This uh this man stepped right out in front of me. I'm moving fast, almost ran into him, and I had to stop. Captain Glenn, 65 years old He stuck his hand down. I said, hey Captain Glenn, how are you doing? He said, I'm doing good. He said, I like what you're saying. He said I might do something this week. What he meant was God's speaking to my heart. I need to make a decision. I said, Captain Glenn, missionary and I need to come down and see you tomorrow morning. And the next morning we went down. He lives about 300 yards from the church uh right on the only road that comes up that side. And uh right beside the road, we went down and sat on it sat on his front front porch and and uh Yeah, as we sat there we looked out across the at blue, green, beautiful water and those palm trees waving uh eighty-five degrees. We need missionaries there. Keep that in mind December rolls around. We sat there for about an hour and Captain Glenn shared sea stories with us about uh being on those boats. They didn't have uh any radar. The only time they knew there was a storm was when they got in it. And he would tell us stories about being in those storms and and uh what he went through. And then uh after about an hour I said, uh Captain Glenn, you need to get your Bible. We need to talk about the Bible. He got his Bible and came out, and about an hour later he bowed his head and received Christ as Savior. Why? Because the missionary came to town. You see. And when the missionary comes to town, interest is stirred. God opens hearts. God creates that instrument, that interest, and causes people to come just to see what's going on. And when they do, many of them get saved. When the preacher comes to town. That's what we're trying to do. We're just trying to get preachers to towns. We're just trying to get preachers to places where there are people God's dealing with. You know, they hear the false religion, they think about Christ, they know there's somebody that created this. God gives them that interest, that yearning. And when the preacher gets there, things begin to happen. Let me give you a third thought. When a preacher gets to town, lives are totally changed by the gospel. Think about it, people who've never heard the gospel. People that have no idea what it's all about. Oh, they know God, they talk about God, they made him talk about Christ. They may mention the name of Jesus, but they have no idea what it's all about. And then one day the preacher shows up. And lives are totally changed. Here's this man, takes advantage of people, and then Jesus shows up. Verse 8. It says, Zacchaeus stood and said unto the Lord, Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I will give to the poor. And if I have taken anything from any man by false accusation, I restore him fourfold. He knew what he was. Huh? He knew what he had done He knew what he had taken and his life has been changed. Now it's not, I want to get all I can. Now I need to get this thing straightened out Now I need to get my life straightened out and I need to take care of these things that I've done. Notice what the Lord said. Jesus said unto him, This day is salvation. Come to this house. Hey, salvation didn't come because of what he said here. What he said is done because salvation came. That's what happens when the preacher comes to town. Do you folks support John Gossett? You don't know him? John Gossett is a missionary in Trinidad. Just a a great missionary. He's a West Virginia boy from down in Ripley, West Virginia. He was a policeman. I was in Chattanooga years ago and And I got a call and he said uh he said someone asked me, said I need to call you, said God's called me to go to Trinidad as a missionary. And he said, uh, uh, you think you can help me get there? On Saturday morning I met John Gossett in a parking lot of a church. We spent a couple of three hours just talking about Trinidad and him getting there At that time, BIMI did not have any missionaries in Trinidad. And in order to get into the country, of course, Trinidad is right down next to the South American coast at the end of the line. And in order to get into that country, you had to be approved and come in under an established ministry in the country. And we knew no one there. So John and I got ready and planned a trip and we went down to try to find someone that would bring him in under their uh wing. And we talked to people, and we finally got to someone that that sort of understood what we were and and I I I had to get across to them that he was an independent Baptist preacher He was not a part of a convention. BIMI was not some conference. Nobody told him uh how to run his ministry. He was an independent Baptist. And I said we explained to him there's some accountability 'Cause his home church, uh, that's who he answers to as far as sending and the board helps him and says so there has to be some agreement to doctrine and practice. But he's an independent Baptist. Nobody tells him uh uh well how to run his ministry. And I had to get across and finally we had a fellow that that agreed to this to bring him in. And so uh uh It's sort of difficult to explain. We were having a field conference. A field conference is when all the missionaries or as many as can make it come together in one spot. once a year and just to fellowship and have preaching and and get together and we were having our field conference in Puerto Rico at that time. And they're ready to go to Trinidad. John had his stuff already shipped. They had already put their stuff on the boat, headed toward Trinidad And he had all these suitcases and his family. They came to Puerto Rico to spend a week at field conference and from there they were going to Trinidad. But while he was there that week we got a call That pastor of that church that he was going to go under had gotten in trouble, disqualified himself, and had to leave. And so we decided John was going to go on down there, and he went down and that church took him and he became the pastor of that church. And there was a man in that church, and this is really the thing I wanted to share with you, by the name of Ke Keith Lovelace. His wife came, she came regularly. But he he was a drunk. Had a great job, management and a manufacturing plant, but uh drank every day. He wouldn't come to church. Finally, he visited the church. And then he became he became just a little bit more. And after a while there was a friendship created between him and John, and John was able to lead Keith Lovelace to the Lord. His drinking stopped. He began witnessing at chur at uh his work, inviting people to church. And now Keith Lovelace is the pastor of Trinity Baptist Church in Arima, Trinidad. Why? Because that's what happens when a preacher comes to town. You see. And that's what this week's about. This week is about getting preachers to places where there's no preacher. Because when a preacher gets there, things begin to happen. I don't know if Josh is going to tell you, Brother Weston's going to tell you this story, but I was down there probably maybe a year and a half ago, and uh preached a couple of times at uh church that Brother Wesson has started and his family And uh was able to ride with them to pick people up before and after, take them home after the service a couple of times. And they've got this fellow that comes to their church. I want you to think about this He is deaf and he's blind and he's crippled. Now think about that. Deaf and blind and partially crippled He walks three or four blocks to get to where they pick him up. He's had all kinds of accidents just getting to where they pick him up. One time the somebody removed a manhole cover, he fell in the manhole Just uh many things like that. But he's faithful. He comes to church. They pick him up, bring him to church. Take him home after, let him off. He walks back to his house. Uh people know about him, they'll help him sometimes. But what he does, Joy, Joshua's wife, has a great death ministry And has uh a number of people in the deaf ministry. And he comes, and what he'll do, he'll come, and he'll sit in a seat, and someone will sit right in front of him. And he will hold their hands. And while Josh preaches, this person Speaks to him in the death language. And he f in feeling their hands, he gets the message. He gets the gospel. Why? Because a preacher came to town. See, that's what happens. And so we've got to keep in mind as we deal with giving and sacrificing and doing our little bit. That these people that are going, they're the ones that are going to make a difference. Amen. And we've got to keep in mind that things really begin to happen. When that preacher gets to town. Let's pray. Every head bowed, every eye closed. Why don't you ask God to just use you to help get some preacher to a place where there's no preacher? Giving the truth. Why don't you ask him to make this week a week that this church Does more than ever before to get some preachers to places where there's no gospel preacher. How many folks would say, preacher, that's what I would like? That's what I I want. I want God to use me. I want God to use me in a way that maybe I don't even know. To be a person that helps get preachers to those places where there's no preacher. Pray with me. Pray for me. Would you slip your hand up all over the building? God bless you. Why don't you slip out of your place tonight in the invitation? Get along with God and say, God, I want to be used in that way. I really want to be used, and I want to hear from you as to the decisions I need to make this week. Let's stand as we pray. Father, bless our invitation tonight. Help us. Help us. To keep the right attitude, help us to keep our minds set in the right direction when it comes to this matter of missions. Help it not to become mechanical, routine. To us, but God help us to keep that personal thought of people like us Having their lives changed like you've changed us. And help us to be willing to be the part you want us to play. I pray for these who have raised their hands. Bless the invitation tonight. Heads are out, eyes are closed. Unless you're moving forward, why don't you come? It's been its place. Why don't you slip out of your place and just get along with God and say, God I want to be a part of that. I want to be used the way you want to use me.