To be an encouragement to you here at Mount Lincoln Definitive Baptist Church and a warning. It says in verse number eight, be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, has a roaring line walketh about seeking whom he may devour. Let's pray and we'll begin. Father in heaven, thank you so much for your goodness to us. And Lord, now I pray that I be a vessel in your hands. I pray that I would feed your flock. Help me to save Only what I need to say, but Lord, I pray what I say would be a blessing to your people. Lord, I pray you open our hearts. Lord, I pray that you guide my words. I pray for anybody on the premises that may not be saved, that they would be saved. And Lord help me speak what you'd have me to say. In Christ's name. Amen. Over at Calvary Baptist Church I work with young people. Usually I'm working with third through fifth grade or second through tw uh sixth graders. So I'm used to seeing young people and this m message actually comes from a series of messages for young people. But uh the truth that I got excited me so much uh it's for adults as well. I tell you Now I didn't share everything I'm going to share with you tonight all in one message. They only could stand for ten minutes and then their minds are wandering out somewhere or trying to figure out what I'm trying to they I've lost them after that long. But hopefully you can endure just a little bit He said eight o'clock. I'll try to let you out maybe a little bit before then, but I I want you to grab something from here. This study was actually a part of a series of studies on animals. We did a lessons on animals. There were several different ones that we did. We did the eagle. This particular one, the lion, was a fun one to do do with the young people. The kids know what the line is. If you hold up a dog and ask them what this is, they're not going to say that's a line. They are familiar with the line, the mane, the fierceness. The lion is the king of the jungle. They are they know about the lion. And I think Peter, when we look at this passage When he has a line in mind, I studied I like to when I study these animals, different animals of scripture, I like to see where they uh fit in in Israel because Uh you often think of America. It's a little bit different there. And when you think of a lion in Israel and I got the study, that's kinda like the lion you think of, the one with the mane, the line you usually see in pictures And I think in my mind, Peter has this kind of animal in mind when he mentions this to these believers that he's speaking to, a lion. He wants to warn them. He gives them a very good caution. Be sober, be vigili because your adversary the devil And he gives them a picture illustration. I love picture illustrations because it helps the kids understand. But he says that devil is just like a lion. He's lurking about seeking for a Christian that he can devour Looking for a lost person that he can devour. I think at the audience that Peter is writing to, these believers, they know what persecution's like Uh I thank God that I live in a country that I don't experience what these believers did. You know, we think someone gets mad at us because we tell them about the Lord Jesus Christ. That's persecution. That's nothing compared to what these people went through. I don't have to worry about being thrown out of my home because of sharing Christ with others or what I personally believe I don't have to worry about being fed to a den of lions or the wild beasts because of what I believe. But these believers had that real danger And it's to these people that Peter says, you need to be on your guard, because the devil wants to destroy you. He knows about their physical condition. But he also knows about their spiritual. In fact, he writes a whole nother book warning them that the devil doesn't just come after our physical well-being. There's false teachers you need to watch out for because the devil wants to destroy you spiritually. You and I face that same devil. When I studied the line, I noticed something about the line. The line will change its tactics based on terrain, type, and prey and time of day. So the devil's not going to just use one item and say, okay, I'll try this and see if it works with everybody. No, he knows where your weak spot is. He's watching you very carefully. You and I need to be on guard for our enemy, the devil. There's a number of descriptions here. Lord Welling, I want to give you five of them tonight. I don't play to be long, but I want us to look at these descriptions in detail and help us to give a better understanding of our enemy. When a soldier goes to war, he needs to know who he's in battle with. You are in a spiritual battery whether you choose to be or not. When you choose to become a child of God, when you ask the Lord Jesus to save you, you entered a spiritual warfare. By the way, if you're lost today, there is a battle going on for your soul. The devil would love to keep you right there in his palms. You and I have a devil that we need to watch out for. So let's get some descriptions from this verse about our adversary, the devil. In fact, that's the first one I want to look at. He is called an adversary in this verse. Be sober, be vigilant because your adversary, the devil. Now I I thought this was going to be fun without teaching the young people, and it was fun teaching the young people But in a totally different way than I expected. You see, when you and I think of adversary, you think of combat, you think of the enemy that's coming after you, that's ready to destroy you But this word adversary didn't mean that. When I studied it a little deeper, this word adversary here has this meaning. This one is someone who goes against you in the court of law Someone who's coming against you in a court of law. I think of Job. Job illustrates this very well, but I'm not going to take the time to turn there. Where I want you to go is the first John chapter number two. We're going to use our Bibles tonight. But first John chapter number two, I want you to see something there. while I talk about our adversary the devil. Job gives a perfect illustration of what the devil does. You look at what uh when Satan comes before God, he accuses and he is trying to get God to discredit Job for what he was. And he does that with you and he does that with me. I may be speaking to someone here or someone online today Who has a past. The devil loves to bring up the past. Says, I know what you've done. This is where you you've been to this place before. Oh, this is the sins that you've committed. Don't you remember? He loves the bring that back to your mind. So many of us have to be like the Apostle Paul. He said, forgetting those things which are behind I tell you, Paul knew about his past. Dealing with those Christians. In fact, we've been talking about on Sunday morning, me and the young people, and I've been teaching them how that Paul, when he came to those church, those believers that first time, if it wasn't for Barnabas He may have not have come because they didn't even want anything to do with him. They knew he had a past. They knew how he treated the believers. And Paul were had to write and say, I had to forget those things. Because those things were going to keep me from doing what God wanted me to do. And I tell you, if you're not careful, the devil knows your past and he loves to bring it up. But I told you to go to 1 John 2 for a reason because I love this passage of scripture. You think of that court of law, you think of how Satan accuses you. But God gives us this friendly reminder in 1 John 2, those of us who know Him as Savior. It says, My little children, these things write unto you that ye sin not. And If any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. The word advocacy means someone called to one side, especially called to one. to one's aid. I love our advocate. The devil will try to accuse me and try to bring up things to me, but I'm able to go, look, devil, it's under the blood. Jesus Christ has paid for that. He's defending me, and he says, you cannot hold that against him anymore. It's been washed away. And that's what the Lord Jesus Christ wants to do for you. He wants to stand on your behalf. When that sin comes, he doesn't want you to be downhearted. He wants you to confess it to him, and he wants to wash it away And give you that ability to move on just as he did for the Apostle Paul. We have an adversary who loves to destroy, put us down We have a wonderful advocate who loves to bring us up. And you and I can serve and be a blessing to others because of what he has done for us. He's an adversary. Let me hasten on. Not only is he an adversary But the passage calls him the devil. Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary the devil. Now it's interesting when you ask a child what the devil is, you ever ask a child a definition I ask children definition. You know what they do often? They like to say the definition is what the word is. They give the word to define the word. They really have a hard time defining. So you ask them, what is the devil? They say the devil. You know, if I ask you what the devil is, what do you think the devil is? I tell you what, there's people out there that think he's a little red guy with a tail and a pitchfork Hollywood likes to belittle what the devil is. But he is a real adversary, a real danger. We're going to look at it here in a little bit. But what is the devil? Well, he is a real being I wish we had time this evening. We could take the time to go to Ezekiel. We could see where it all started, how he was created, how he was a beautiful being up in heaven. And from what it looks like, he was used for musical abilities. I want to mention that because we're going to get that a little bit later. Isaiah lets us know there was a problem, though. Iniquity was found in him And Isaiah as well as Revelation tells us that he was thrown, cast out of heaven, and a third of the angels with him. He is a real being. He went from being Lucifer, which means light bearer, the shining one, to being the devil The devil, I think the name what it means is interesting. It means false accuser or slanderer. A slanderer is a defamer, one who injures another by maliciously reporting something to his prejudice. It's interesting. When you slander somebody, by the way, the Bible gives clear warning about being a slanderer, but when you slander somebody, think about this, you are being what the characteristic of the devil is. You are being more like the devil when you slander somebody. As we looked at he likes to be our adversary in the court and he likes to slander you. He likes to defame who you are. But I'll study the scripture and I got to thinking, what is it? Go to Genesis chapter number 3. What is it that Satan loves to defane more than anything else? Yes, he knows your past. He loves to bring up your past. He loves to slander those of the believers. But when I study the scripture and I look at Genesis chapter number three, at the very beginning he was a slanderer. And look what he likes to slander in Genesis chapter 3 verse 4. The Bible says, then the serpent, by the way, that's Satan. The serpent said unto the woman, Ye shall not surely die, for God doth know that in the day ye thereof Then your eyes shall be open, and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil. One of the things the devil loves the slander the most, and I bring this up because it's happening a lot today, is God's word. He loves to defame and put down the Word of God. You go to our institutions and you'll find the atheist who puts down God's Word versus Science. You go to most modern churches today and they try to water down God's word. The devil's for religion, as long as it is not God's word. He was trying to tell you to put God's word off to tomorrow. You don't need to read it today. He is constantly slandering this book. And he'd love for you to do it too. He'd love for you to slander God's Lord. He'd love for you to slander those who hold this book. I tell you why I thank God for Pastor Leatherman and his stand here for this book at Mount Lake and Baptist Church. But he would love for you to slander someone who stands for God's word. There's people in our world today that love to get on Facebook and terrorize and demonize people who uphold this book. Churches that uphold this book There's people like to tear those down as well. The devil loves the slander. It's his greatest tactic. If you and I are not careful, he loved to get you and me to do the same thing. You say I'm a Christian, I wouldn't do that. Oh, there's people that say they're Christians that minimize this. I tell you what, you want to hurt these young people, minimize this Cut down the standards of this book. Say, okay, I believe this, but I don't believe that. It won't be long before you have a generation that just doesn't believe any of it. The slanderer, the adversary. The last three that I have here this evening all have to deal with this predator known as a lion. It says, Be sober, be vigilant, for your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour. Three characteristics I notice about this line, this predator, number one, he's an intimidating predator. It says as a roaring He's not being quiet. He's making himself known. The word roar there means a couple of different things. It means to roar or to howl. He loves to intimidate believers. You ever go try to share the gospel with someone? By the way, go to 2 Timothy chapter number 1. But do you ever try to give the gospel to someone and you're getting ready to give the gospel and you feel like you're inadequate? You feel like maybe I shouldn't tell this person. You know, all these reasons come to you why you shouldn't share the gospel I tell you, Satan likes to get you intimidated. He doesn't want you to say something to somebody else. You ever been around people and they make you feel uncomfortable because you're a Christian? That's the devil wanting to intimidate you. I tell you what, you and I have no reason to be intimidated in Christ. I love what 2 Timothy 1 7 says. For God hath not given us the Spirit. When the devil tries to make you fearful, we don't have to worry about him. We don't have to have that spirit. Realize when that spirit of fear comes, it's not from God Because what spirit does he give you? But of power and of love and of a sound mind. I think of this passage here, be sober, the idea of a sound mind. You're clear in your thinking Oftentimes we're not clear in our thinking because we're not in this book. This book will help our thinking to be clear and be on track. Also, it says of power and of a sound mind. I love Acts 1. 8. He gives us power. We can be bold in our witness, because he gives us the power. What we do for Christ is not of us I can't stand here and say I can teach because of me. It's only because of him. I can only look at my past and say I am where I am today because of him. He gives us the ability and the strength to be able to combat the devil. Not only does he give us the spirit of power and of sound mind, but I like that and of love. You know, John tells us that perfect love casts out fear. Oftentimes when we're fearful, where is the love that? I'll tell you where the love is. It's not here. It's not with him. It's with our own flesh. What we want. We care about us, not about him. When we have a true love for the Savior, and we love Him with all our heart and with all our soul and with all our mind and with all our might. That devil's not going to have uh any power over us. We won't have any reason to fear. What can man do unto us? What can he do unto us? He tries to intimidate us. He's the intimidating predator. By the way, I said it means to roar it to howl. I thought it was interesting. It also sometimes carried the meaning of to sing loudly. With roaring lion sings loudly. I don't want to overlook this and I got time. Go to Colossians chapter number three. Colossians chapter number three in the New Testament. The devil is no fool when it comes to music. I had a young person one time come up to me and tell me, you know The world's music sounds good. And I said, well, the devil wants it to sound good. The devil's no fool when it comes to music. As I mentioned, when he was in heaven, according to Ezekiel, he knows what he's doing with music But I want to caution you. He knows how to sing loudly and hook you with music. Let me ask you what kind of music you listen to. I want to caution you. Look at Colossians 3. 16 Let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom. Teaching and admonishing one another, how are we to teach and admonish one another? In songs, or in hymns, and spiritual songs. I wanted you to say something that someone taught me a while back, and I really love this verse for that reason Your music teaches you. Teaching in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. The question is: what is your music teaching you? If it's not teaching you this, it may be leading you astray. He sings loudly. He loves to lure people away with their music. The devil would love to get you to believe that music has It's just not it's just neutral. It's not going to affect you in any way, shape, or form. But God's word says otherwise. It's teaching you something. What is the message of your music? He intimidates the predator does. There's another thing I notice about it. He is a deadly predator. It doesn't call him a uh eagle, although an eagle is a predator. It doesn't call him a puppy dog. It doesn't call him your pet hamster. What does it call him? A roaring lion Again, Peter, I don't think, just chose this word accidentally. By God's divine power and by God's wisdom, he chose to call the devil a lion. Even with teaching little ones that I could teach, they know what a lion does. They know how fierce it could be, they know how deadly it can be. that they could tear and shred into dangers. They love to hear about that story about Daniel. By the way, that's a real story. It really happened. But they love to hear about Daniel, how he went down amongst those lines, because they know what danger those lines pose for him, and how God miraculously delivered him. But even those little ones know what kind of predator a lion is. And your devil that you're dealing with, again, is not something that the world presents them as It's crazy to me to find that there's people in this world that actually think that Satan's worth serving. The devil's not worth serving. The devil doesn't want anything for you. He wants to tear you limb from limb. He is a dangerous, deadly predator. All one has to do is look at the book of Job to see what Satan would do if he was allowed to have but he didn't even have full power. God limited what he could do. But you saw everything that he could possibly do, that he had freedom to do, he took advantage of it. And if it wasn't for the grace of God, what he would do to each and every one of us. He is a deadly predator. He's an intimidating predator. Here's another thing I notice about him. He is a busy predator. He is walking about seeking whom he may devour, and everything else I'm going to talk about has to do with this deadly, busy predator. I like what God told Simon. And he said, the Lord said unto Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to have you that he may sift you as wheat. Jesus loves Simon enough to tell him, listen, you better be watchful. There's a real devil and he wants to sift you. You think of that sifter going out there and cutting down that wheat. He says that's what Satan wants to do. He just wants to sit to you, he wants to get rid of you. He has many tactics, as I b mentioned, and We could be here all night talking about tactics. But we'll wrap up with these six tactics Zach C three from the life of Christ and three from the life of Job. So let's go ahead and go to the book of Matthew. We'll end in Matt we'll start Matthew, we'll end in the book of Job, but Matthew chapter number four. Tactics tactics that this Evil, wicked predator wants to use on you. How he wants to destroy you In Matthew chapter number four, we find the Lord Jesus Christ was not exempt from Satan trying to attack him. But thankfully As God Almighty, he had victory over Satan. And by the way, he gives us an example, how you and I can have victory as well. We don't have to live a defeated life to the devil One of the things we need to do though is be aware of his tactics. So let's look at three of them here with the Lord Jesus Christ. What are some of his tactics? He still uses them today. The first one I see is in verse 3 and 4 And when the tempter came to him, he said, If thou be the Son of God, command that these stones be made bread. But he answered and said, It is written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. One of the first ways the devil likes to attack us is through our flesh. He knows we are just human. We're not supernatural. He knows that our flesh likes to give in to sin. He likes to tempt the flesh. Here the Lord Jesus Christ had been fasting forty days and forty nights. The Bible says he was hungered. And the devil knew that, and he came and says, Here, why don't you just make these rocks into some bread? You're hungry. Why don't you make some bread out of these rocks and eat this? You and I, if we're not careful. The devil come, he knows what our flesh likes. And he'll put out the bait to get us to try to give in to our flesh. The spirit is indeed willing, but the flesh is weak. I think of the old story, I've used this with children many times. I think of the old story, though, of it an Indian he he was talking with a preacher and he says, I feel like there's a war going on inside me between good dog and bad dog and the preacher asked him which one wins and he goes, Whichever one I feed the most I tell you what, who do you feed the most? Do you feed your spirit? Or do you like to feed your flesh? The devil loves to go after the flesh. We think of young people that he goes after them with the flesh, but each and every one of us, if we're not careful, he likes to go after our flesh. He knows what our flesh likes. He knows what appeals to it, and he wants to try give it us to get us to give in there. He appeals to the flesh. Look at the next one in verse number five. Then the devil taketh him up into the holy city and sets him on the pinnacle of the temple, and saith unto him, If thou be the Son of God, cast thyself down, for it is written He shall give his angels charge concerning thee. And in their hands they shall bear thee up. Lest at any time thou dash thy foot against the stone. Hey, let me remind you something. The devil knows Scripture. He knows what the Bible says. There's people out there that like to take what the Bible says and twist it just like Satan does and make it say something that it's not trying to tell you. But what's he appealing to here? He appeals to the flesh, but he's trying to give them to give in to pressure. Oh, I love this I never seen this before I study this. When I study this out, the pinnacle of the temple was the highest point. And when you look at images of that, it was not only just the highest point But it was also the most visible where people can see. So can you imagine, I never really thought about this, but can you imagine you have Satan and the Lord Jesus Christ standing there on top of the pinnacle? How many people saw that? You know what he likes to do? He likes to give us get us to give in to pressure. Hey, everybody's watching. Everybody would know you're the son of God if you just go ahead and jump off. Because your angels will take care of you. They could all see it. They could see you're truly Messiah. Why don't you just go ahead and do it? We're all adults in here, right? We don't give in to pressure, do we? We're just as bad as young people. It grieves my heart when I study this and think about this. But it is the older I get and I look around at people, I'm strongly convinced most Christians do what they do because they learn from other Christians instead of because the Bible tells them to do it. We're mimicking what other believers do. Now, that's not necessarily wrong in and of itself. Paul said, follow me as I followed Christ. A lot of people get themselves in a big mess because they'll follow people right into sin. Because they're like, well, so-and-so does this, so-and-so does this, everybody's doing this, this must be okay. They're Christians, it must be okay. This is to be a lamp unto our feet and a light unto our path. And it doesn't matter what everybody else is doing, it matters what God's Word says. And when we look at God's word, Satan tried to get him to give into pressure. He tries to give us get in the pressure. Oh, everybody's going this way in Christianity. You ought to go this way too. If it's not the Bible way, it's not the way to go. This is the only way that's true. This is the only right path. And we don't have to give in to pressure when the devil gives in gives us pressure. He tries to get us to live by the flesh. He tries to get us to give in to pressure. He tries to get us involved in false worship. Again we see him when he comes to Christ. Again the devil taketh him up into an exceeding high mountain and showeth him all the kingdoms of the world and the glory of them, and saith unto him, All these things will I give thee if thou wilt fall down. And worship me. This is the God of the universe. And you're trying to get him involved in false worship. Well, he's doing that with you and me as well. Don't marvel about the fact, for such are false apostles, deceitful workers, transforming themselves into the apostles of Christ, according to 2 Corinthians. And no marvel, for Satan himself is transformed into an angel of light. Therefore is no great thing if his ministers also be transformed as the ministers of righteousness. If someone came by with some false teaching, would you be able to know the difference between it and what is true? The devil loves seeing people get involved in false teaching. He loves people being involved in false worship because it gets them away from what is true and what is right. You and I need to be good students of God's word. I love what the Bible says. Study to show thyself approved unto God, not unto man, not unto the preacher, but unto God. A workman that needs not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth. Do you know the truth? I think of the illustration with a bank. They say that, and I know a couple of bankers, but they say that they don't have to teach them all the different false things out there. All they have to teach them is what the true one looks like. And if something comes along and doesn't match the true one, it's not the real one. They can recognize a false thing when it comes to the bank. When you compare everything to the truth, if it doesn't line up, you know it's false. He tries to get you involved in false worship. Now go to the book of Job. So we seen three with Christ. Now I'm going to look at three more tactics with the devil. I only got nine minutes, or I'm sorry, nineteen minutes. So we're doing pretty good. Three more tactics, and again, there's way more than this. These are just some of the highlights. The tactics the devil will use to try to destroy you. We see him use some with Job. I think it's interesting. He tried to destroy Job's food. He destroyed Job's family. He just destroyed Job's finances. He tries to do that with us too, doesn't he? Why would he do that with us? Because he feels if he can get those things in a place where we are worrying about that, we lose our faith in God. So how does the devil try to get us um off track? What are some more tactics he uses? Look at verse 5 of Job chapter number one Job one verse five and nine. It says, And it was so when the days of their feasting were gone about that Job sentence Sanctify them rose up early in the morning and offered burnt offerings according to the number of them all. For Job said, It may be that my sons have sinned and cursed God in their hearts. Thus Job did continually And I gave you the wrong one. I needed chapter two verse five with that was a good verse, but chapter two, verse five it says But put forth thine hand now and touch his bone and his flesh, and he will curse thee to thy face. Verse number nine Then said his wife unto him, Dost thou retain thy integrity, curse God and die? One of the tactics the devil uses, he tries to get you to deny the goodness of God. He wants you to deny God's goodness. Curse God and die. Now this was a really good study. I got to study that word curse. I said, What do you think of curse? You think of, oh they may be swearing against God. You think of curse, you think of Someone that's uh trying to put a spell on somebody or something like that. When you look at curse, what do you think of? Well, I definitely did not think of what it means. The word curse here means to bless Now that really was puzzling to bless God? Bless God and die. So I did a little more digging. It's used in the Hebrew as a euphemism. A euphemism substitutes another word for the actual word. In other words, what he was doing is instead he was meaning for say or the devil wanted him to accurate God, but he wanted to do it in a sarcastic way. Well, bless God. That's what he wanted him to do. His wife came to him and says, I'll just bless God and die The devil likes you to deny the goodness of God. Oh, you look like you're happy. You look like everything's going good, you know, everything's great, but you're just putting on a show He wants you to deny the goodness of God. I like this statement. He wants you to be hopeless. Hopelessness is the belief that God is not good. When you're hopeless, you feel like you have no hope, you're denying that God is there for you Psalm 42, 5. Why art thou cast down, O my soul? And why art thou disquieted in me? Hope thou in God. And you and I, we don't need to get discouraged when things aren't going good for us. We have a good God that is very good to us. The devil tries against deny the goodness of God. How does he do that? The next one I notice j the devil tries to destroy what we have I wish we had time to look at all the book of Job, but you look at Job's life. He destroyed a lot. He had a lot of things. He was very well financially. He had a great family. He lost it all in one day. Talk about having it bad. He destroyed everything he had. Why would the devil do this again to try to guess that not how good God is? Had a man Probably about a year now ago. I was talking with him, he wanted to talk with someone in the church, and he g he said, I just don't understand how you why is g you think God is good, how can that be? And he went through a series of things. Well if God's good, uh why does this child get cancer? If God's good, why does so and so have a stroke and they're in a bed and they can't do anything. Wha if God is good and on and on the th uh the excuses go Bad things do happen in our world. And uh we can preach a whole message on that. We actually did uh at Mount Calvary for a little bit on suffering, why we have suffering But understand this, in the midst of that suffering, God can work everything out for good, just as he did with Job. There is a reason for suffering. And you and I, when bad things come, we need to realize God is still good and God has a plan and God can work it all out, just like he did with Joseph. When those fetters were hurting his hands and his feet, and when he was lied about and accused falsely of, and everything seems to be going wrong. And we look at the story and we don't re we don't stop and think that that didn't happen just as fast as we read the story. That was years in the making. From 17 years old till when he's 30 years old, 13 years before he finally saw what God was doing with all that. And sometimes when you're suffering and you're in the here or now, the devil does real good at getting you to doubt. But you don't see what's down the road and what God's going to do. Suffering can either make you a better Christian or it can make you a bitter Christian. And the choice lies in you. It's not in your circumstances. He tries to destroy what we have. He tries to get us to deny the goodness of God. Here's the last one, and we'll end with this. The devil tries to get you in the wrong company. Verse 10 and B and 11 of Job, it says this. But he said unto her, thou Speaketh as one of the foolish women speaketh, what? Shall we receive good at the hand of God, and shall we not receive evil? And all this did not Job sin with his lips. Now when Job's three friends heard of all these evil that was come upon him. They came every one from his own place, and you can read the names, for they had made an appointment together to come to mourn with him and to comfort him. I don't get that last part. You say, what do you mean? My family was reading this in the mornings for devotions and I got to listen in on it and it's like They came to comfort him. These friends were anything but a comfort to Job. Most of the book of Job is Job's friends telling him why he's such a horrible person. You know, that's what the devil likes to do for us. He likes us with the wrong crowd, with the wrong company. He likes us to be around people that's not going to make us better. We think this is a teenager thing. We think this is a young person thing, but if you and I are not careful, we can get around the wrong kinds of people and it's not long before we're the wrong kind of person Who are your friends? Just stop and think about it. I do this with young people as an adult. Stop and think, who are your five closest friends? And do they draw you closer to God? Or are they drawing you away from God? Well, let me ask you this. What kind of friend are you? What kind of friend are you to them? I mentioned I drive school bus. I remember one time coming back, I was uh hauling a baseball team and we came back and we got back into town. And I'll never forget it's etched in my mind the coach, uh when we were pulling in some of the young people, they know some people that were you could tell they were living on the streets, they were involved in things the in drugs And they were making kind of smart remarks about it, but I I'm I'm glad for the wisdom of that coach. He looked at those young people in the bus, those baseball players, and says None of them thought when they were your age viewed himself as being like that They didn't think about themselves being like that. He was trying to get those young people to understand that could be you one day. By bad choices and bad company. You think, oh, I never ever would stop serving God. You get around the wrong people. It could happen to you. They could have you believe in wrong things. A number of people have gone to university. I'm not saying getting an education, there's anything wrong with that, but there's been a number of people who've gone to university and come back an atheist. Wrong company. Wrong people. What kind of friends do you have? By the way, as I mentioned, are you a good friend? Because I notice in scripture this works the other way. You look at Lot. Lot, yeah, he messed up a lot, but guess when Lot did his best? When he was with Abraham. When he was with Uncle Abraham, things were going okay for Lot. Abraham had a good influence on Lot. Most of us are familiar with David. David in his darkest hour thankfully had a friend in Jonathan that loved him as his own soul. I tell you, each and every one of us could use a friend like that. Each and every one of us ought to be a friend like that. The devil wants us, though, to get in the wrong company, the wrong crowd, the wrong people. If you're not careful, we may be it could be you. The world needs Christians who are hanging around the Lord Jesus Christ. I like this verse in Acts 4. 13. Now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John and perceived that they were unlearned and ignorant men, I think God's word emphasized that because it wants us to understand they didn't learn this at some school. They weren't the smartest of the bunch. They knew that, but they took knowledge of them that they had been with Jesus What they noticed different about them that was changing this whole world upside down was the fact they were with Christ. If you and I spend time with Christ, it's going to show. It doesn't stay with us. And people need a friend that hangs out with the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm going to wrap this up. We get back to our lion. I got to study this and I looked at this and I wish we had time. This is a whole nother message. There's a part two to this message. Maybe I'll get to come sometime and talk about that But with this lion, started studying about the lion, and I thought, boy, a lion is pretty fierce. How do you deal with a lion? And as I did some research on this, a lion, you can't run from them They can outrun any of us. They said don't play dead with them. Some animals I guess it works, but they said it won't work with a line. They'll know the difference You won't hide from them because of their senses. They say your only hope if you ever encounter a line is to fight it. And I thought how true that is with Satan. You're not going to run from Satan. You're not going to hide from him. He knows who you are. Your only hope was Satan. is to fight back with God's help. You say, how do I fight the devil? Again, we don't have time for that, but if you read 1 Peter chapter 5, he tells you, be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary of the devil, as a roaring lion walking about seeking Whom he may devour, whom resists steadfast in the faith. You can fight the devil with the Lord's help. You can stand against it. God does not want us to live a defeated life to him We can be victorious. The choice is yours. Heads bowed, eyes closed.