Bible if you would and turn with me. When you get that, turn to Joshua 24 and hold it. Both of these passages will be familiar to you. But I want to spend my time this morning, both in my first message and then in my second. talking about two heroes of mind from the Old Testament, and I'm sure if they're not your heroes, you at least hold them respectfully in your thinking, and that is Joshua and Caleb. They were two very unique men, uh greatly used of God, both of them. And yep, I think they were probably different kinds of men, yet given to the Lord And my first message is simply this this morning. What is a man? I thought I might answer that for our world, okay? Because our world seems to be incredibly confused on what is a woman and what is a man, and you really don't have to live confused about that. God makes it abundantly clear what is a man and what is a woman We'll leave what is a woman to a different session. You guys don't know much about that, all right? Numbers 32, and let's begin reading in verse 6 And Moses said unto the children of Gad and the children of Reuben, Shall your brethren go to war, and shall ye sit here? You remember that occasion. Moses didn't have all the information. He thought that the tribes that were going to live on the other side of Jordan were perhaps running out on uh doing their part to conquer the promised land with their brethren. They weren't, but uh he's getting that clear right now. And in the process of getting that clear, here's what he says, verse 7 And wherefore discourage ye the heart of the children of Israel from going over into the land which the Lord hath given them? He had experience with this about 40 years before this, when some men had discouraged other men in doing what God wanted them to do. Thus did your fathers When I sent them from Kadesh Barnea to see the land. For when they went up unto the valley of Eskyl, And saw the land, they discouraged the heart of the children of Israel, that they should not go into the land which the Lord had given them. And the Lord's anger was kindled the same time, and he swears, saying, Surely none of the men that came up out of Egypt from twenty years old and upward shall see the land which I swear unto Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacob, because they have not wholly followed me, save Caleb, the son of Jephunah the Kennesite, and Joshua, the son of Nun, for they have wholly followed the Lord. I would just say this before we turn to the other passage. The crowd that decides to wholly follow the Lord will probably never be the big crowd. But it's the right crowd to be a part of. And I know on this day that Caleb and Joshua were glad that the testimony of their lives were, even though they had spent forty years wandering in that stinking wilderness Because of the unbelief of those other men, their testimony was, we did believe God. We've given our hearts wholly to the Lord. And now, in a sense, they're being vindicated. I don't know what other men may think of us, but let's be that crowd that purposes in our heart, regardless of what my neighbors do, regardless of what my workmates do. regardless of what my classmates do, regardless of what all my circle of friends do, I will wholly follow the Lord. Amen. Now turn over to Joshua And Joshua 24 and verses 14 and 15, you've probably never seen these verses before. Now, therefore, fear the Lord and serve him in sincerity and in truth. And put away the gods which your father served on the other side of the flood and in Egypt, and serve ye the Lord. And if it seem evil unto you to serve the Lord, choose you this day whom ye will serve. Whether the gods which your father served that were on the other side of the flood or the gods of the Amorites in whose land ye dwell, but as for me and my house We will serve the Lord. That's good preaching. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this day and for the opportunity to be together. We pray that you would bless our hearts with understanding of your word. Holy Spirit, will you descend upon this crowd, upon this preacher and these that listen? We're not smart enough on any day of our life to understand everything that you want us to understand without your help. So, Holy Spirit, speak into our lives your word and the understanding of it, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. All that is true and right can be found in the Word of God. I have men that often say to me, and and for myself as well, I I wasn't raised in a Christian home. Uh I was twenty-three years old and married with a child when my father got saved He was 63 years old and a soul winner came by the door, knocked on the door, he led him in the living room, and they led him to Jesus Christ. And then mother got saved, and then they went after us two boys And uh both of us married and gone and long story short, which I hate to do. I love long stories long, don't you? But we'll make it short and and uh we got saved and oh man I'm not the man I used to be. But I'm I am saying this that though I did not have modeled in any of my life a dad who was a Christian dad I don't lack for knowledge about what a Christian man ought to be. All I have to do is open the Bible and begin to read the Bible And ask the Holy Spirit to guide me in my decisions, and the Holy Spirit will teach me what a Christian man ought to be. So quite frankly, I understand it it's easier if you've got the model. But if you don't have the model, don't use that as an excuse. Get your Bible out and read your Bible and ask the Spirit of God to help you be the Christian man that God wants you to be. In our world today, we can't figure out even what a man is And I want you to know that God imprinted in the DNA of his creation. Please understand this. All the transgender foolishness that we're dealing with today is actually a refusal to believe that there is a creator God. And I'm here to tell you now that there is no Mother Nature, but there is a creator God. And God created them, male and female. And in the female, God, by his design and by his power, he implanted two X chromosomes. And in men, he planted an X and a Y chromosome because men are always being asked of their wives, why did you do that? And so we are the XY chromosome, but make no mistake, God is not confused about what a man is and what a woman is, and if we will read and believe his word It evaporates all confusion. Now our world is painfully trying to confuse what a real man looks like. If you just observe what our world does, Hollywood makes him an absolute buffoon. Every show that Hollywood produces, the father is an idiot. He is a, he, he plays at life. He has no understanding of how to treat a wife, no understanding of how to raise his kids. He's a buffoon. Madison Avenue portrays a man as a guy with a drink in his hand and maybe at a cool bar or looking for another beer and and you have to have alcohol in your life or something like that in your life to be cool. Sports. I love sports and I will die loving sports. I hope the Lord, when I get to heaven, will not I hope I don't lose a whole lot for just loving the Washington Redskins And the Cincinnati red legs. Okay, I love sports. Now, you say, Freeze, you have a point in this? Yeah, I'm sick of sports. I'm sick of what they do to manhood I I'm sick of a man being a guy who spikes the ball in the end zone and then does a stupid dance. And that's portrayed as manliness. That's not manliness. Manliness doesn't shove their pride into the face of others Manliness accomplishes it, done his job, and he walks back to the bench and gets ready to do it again. Now, my point is just simply this If you model your manhood after the world, you're going to be in trouble. And so you've got to consciously reject what the world tells us a man is And you've got to cause yourself to say, okay, God, teach me what is a man. That's what I want to spend the next few moments doing. Not because I'm a man's man. But because God has taught me how to be manly according to His Word. I want to share about six or seven thoughts with you, and I will go through them as quickly as I can, but you follow along with me. is a man. Well here's number one. A man is made in the image of God. Well you say, preacher, every created human is made in the image of God. And in a general sense, not a general sense, in an absolute sense, that is true. Every man and woman has intellect, every man or woman has will, every man or woman has uh emotion, and so We are in the image of God. My personal belief is we are tripartite beings. We are body and soul and we are spirit. God is the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. So I agree, everybody is created in the image of God. But we got to deal with 1 Corinthians chapter 11. If you want to turn there, you can. I'm going to read starting in verse 7. For a man indeed ought not to cover his head. Forasmuch as he is the image and glory. of God. You say, preacher, would you preach this message if women were in the room? Yes, but I'd be far more quiet about it. But the woman is the glory of the man. For the man is not of woman, but the woman of the man, neither was the man created for the woman, but the woman for the man. Now, what I want you to understand from that is that man reflects the glory of God, and woman reflects the glory of man. Now I can't pretty this up for our culture. I can't excuse it away. It's what the Bible says What we have to understand is what does the Bible mean when it denotes to us that maleness is in the image of God, but also the glory of God. Well, it does not mean that men are glorious. We know that's true. Okay? It does not mean that we are the glory of God. It means that we're in the image of the glory of God. God, what are you saying? Well, God is the exalted one. God is authority. And by the way, God is not she, God is he. The Bible clearly indicates that God is male. That is our understanding of who God is, and God created males on purpose to accomplish what God accomplishes as God in a human way. What do you mean, preacher? I mean God is the great authority. God reigns. He is King of kings and Lord of Lords. Hey, listen, we may get the impression sometimes circumstantially that men reign They only rule as God allows them to rule. God sets them up, God takes them down. And we may not understand all of his purposes and all that he is doing, but never, ever doubt Man's not in charge. God is in charge. But as God is authority We are created in his image and in the image of his glory to bear authority. And we are to bear authority not over all women, over our wives. And we are to be the head of our home. We'll talk about that in a moment. I'm not making that up. That's not culturally my preference. That's not male chauvinism. That's Bible. And understand what authority is. Authority has two aspects. Authority has number one, responsibility I am responsible for the life of my wife and the life of my home, the lives of my children. I I can't make them be what I want them to be, but I am responsible for the atmosphere, the opportunity, the attitude of the whole that allows them to glorify God in their lives. That's my responsibility. And along with that responsibility comes an awesome word that men don't like. Accountability. Not only am I responsible for it, I'm accountable for it. You know what makes me sick in our world? You say, well, yeah, abortion makes me sick. How can a woman take her child and and kill that child before birth? That is wrong and it makes me sick But you know what makes me just as sick? A man who will father a child with no even thought of taking care of that child. That's sick! That's a man who rejects responsibility and rejects accountability, and that very fact is why our world is where it is. We're not aborting babies because women hate babies. We're aborting babies in our nation because men are not responsible or accountable They're not responsible for their lust and for their pursuit of sex outside of marriage, and they're not accountable for it when it happens. And say, well, I don't like it said that way. Well get over it. There'll be a lot more you don't like, all right? But that's part of authority and responsibility. So we love the authority part. We don't like the accountability part. I'm just simply saying That we are in authority in our homes. Now, think for just a moment what's that mean? Does that mean that I get the remote, the easy chair, and slippers brought to me? No. Because the model of leadership in the Bible is never master servant. It is servant leadership. And what being an authority in my home What responsibility and accountability do in my life is make me the servant of everybody at my house. It makes me the servant of my wife. Don't hear that wrong. It doesn't mean that I do whatever she tells me. It means that I take the responsibility for the atmosphere of my home. And I'm accountable for it. That's number one. We are made in the image of God and of the image of the glory of God so that we bear authority. And by the way, I don't care if you're 6'4 and 280 pounds, or like me, 5'8 and 170. Thank you, Brian. I thought somebody's going to think I'm lying, you know? I'm kidding I don't care what your stature is. I don't care whether you got wavy hair or no hair like me. If you're male, if you're man, that responsibility devolves upon you. And you can be the most rugged man's man outdoor, or you can be uh uh uh a fellow who is more inclined to do uh uh academic things or indoor things. I don't care. It is If you're male and you got a wife and kids, you are an authority. You are responsible and accountable for those for that wife and kids. Here's number two, a man to be a real man must be saved. I'm so tired of the image of our world for Christian men. You know, they're either uh tender, soft, delicately dressed, never forceful. Of course now the image for men, especially in the pulpit, is you've got to have b bridges with holes in them and you know, and flannel shirts and this I'm so tired of all that. I don't live for the world's image of what I'm supposed to be. Caleb and Joshua were the only two with guts enough to go in. Because they purpose to have a right walk with God. And a man to be a whole man has to have come to the place Where he sees his sinfulness and the sacrifice of Christ, and he receives what Christ has done for him, he submits himself to the Lord. Isn't that something? You know what a real man is? A guy that's learned to submit. Can I say it again? A real man is a guy who's learned to submit to Almighty God. Manliness not only has a macho aspect, it has a moral aspect. And you're not a whole man You're not the man God wants you to be if you walk around rugged and you got guns the size of pipes. That does not make you a man. It certainly is acceptable in a man's life to be fit and to be strong and to to do things like that. But lacking the moral aspect of having come to the place where you've submitted to the Lord for salvation, you're not a whole man unless you have both those aspects. I am not a great outdoorsman, but I want to be both rugged and righteous. And my wife needs me to be both. As a man, you've got to know the Lord. And if you're here tonight, I appreciated what preachers said. An alcoholic, a drug addict, and a fornicator. And the whole time you thought you were a real man. You thought that's what men did. And then you come to the end of it and you see that trail and where that goes. And on your knees, you submit to something besides yourself. And you say, God, I am hopelessly lost and hopelessly undone, and I need you to help me. I need you to save me. And I trust what Jesus did for me. I don't need anybody to do anything for me, then burn in hell, friend. Because you desperately need what Jesus did for you. It's your only hope. And a real man will come to the place where he understands that and trusts Jesus Christ. If you're here this morning and you're not saved, you say, well, this is a Christian crowd. We're all from churches. We're all here to pre here preaching. Yeah. I've been in a lot of crowds as that as a young man and walked out unsaved. You're here this morning and you've not come to the place where you've come to the end of yourself and Placed your trust in Jesus Christ. There's a lot of guys here that can help you, and they've walked the trail before you. They've done the exact same thing. Here's number three. A man needs to be decisive. A man needs to be decisive. Joshua said, as for me and my house we will Serve the Lord. I love that definitiveness, don't you? I don't think in my mind's eye he turned around to see if Mrs. Joshua was okay with what he was saying, but we're we will serve the Lord He didn't say it w right, honey, we will, we will serve the Lord kids. We we I don't think Joshua even turned around. I think he said, here's the decision for my house. We, all of us, we will serve the Lord. You mean as long as it's convenient, Joshua? No, I mean we will serve the Lord. And we need something besides wishy, washy, lukewarm on and off men who will come to the place in their life where they say this. There are a lot of men that live in indecision, they have lack of direction, they have non-committal spirits, they leave decisions to their wives And their children that their wives and their children were never meant to make. And then they can't understand why their family goes in a wrong direction. It's because you abdicated leadership. You are the decider. You say, well, preacher, I don't think that's fair that I decide everything. I don't think you have to decide what kind of peanut butter they use. But I do think you've got to make the life decisions and directions for your family. Can I remind you of something? In Ephesians 5. 23, the Lord tells us we are the head of our homes. Now, whether you like that or not, whether you like the responsibility and the accountability that that brings That's true. We are the head of our homes. Let me remind you of something. There are five. Five senses. You know where all five senses are? In my head, I can smell, I can see, I can hear, I can taste, and I can touch. Did you know that's the only place where all five senses are? You are the head of your home. You see things, you understand things. You know things. You are responsible to exercise the discipline and the direction that your wife and your children, though you have sons, they're not mature enough to make, and your wife does not. have the capacity to make. I didn't say she's not intellectual. I didn't say she's not smarter than me. I'm just telling you she doesn't have built into her the same a the uh ability to lead that you do. She is the heart of your home. You are the head of your home. Act like it I thank God that my wife feels things that I don't feel, understands emotions that I don't understand. I'm I'm thanking God that she is able to commune and communicate with my children in ways that I don't I I'm thankful for what she perceives sometimes that I don't perceive because I'm not essentially emotional. But I'm telling you, there are things that I need to lead in that she is not able to lead in. You are the head of your home. And that means you make the tough calls. You set the directions. Well we don't like that. But everybody else You ever heard that as a dad? Everybody else is doing this. Even my wife would say, well, honey, all the rest of the kids. I say, you know, those kids are so blessed because I'm not their dad. But God chose you. God, in his sovereign wisdom, chose you to live in my house And this is what our house is going to do. Oh, preacher, you can't do that because your kids will reject you, really? Because my son's my pastor. You talk about tough deal. I gotta do what he says now. He didn't reject it. My daughter is a godly woman. Christian school teacher. All my kids went to Christian college. All of my kids, my youngest son's the treasure of his church. I I'm just telling you, it's not true. If you set a direction and walk it yourself and explain it as you go when they're able to understand and you make the hard calls, even when it's contrary to culture. and friends and school, if you'll just walk the walk and I'll walk with you. You are the decider. You ever had this experience? Honey, I'd like to take you out to eat tonight. Where would you like to go? I don't care anywhere you'd like to go. No no no honey. I really want to take you. Where would you like to go Well, I really don't care. And then sometimes it ends up in an argument. You say, well, we're just going to stay here and we'll have peanut butter jelly. You know what I do when I get into that now? I will I'll say, honey, where would you like to go She's saying, I don't care. Just wherever you want to go. I put the car in reverse back out of the garage and drive to her favorite restaurant. That's what servant leaders do. But they decide. And they decide for the good of the other. All right, quickly. You ever believe that when a preacher says that? Because we never mean it, do we? You know what the most senseless act in a Baptist church is? It's when a preacher takes his watch off and lays it It's just bothering his wrist, that's all that it is. Okay. There's numbers four. A man has to have the courage of his convictions. The courage of his convictions. Number one, he's got to have convictions. I love Caleb, and I won't have you turn back there, but in Numbers 13, he says, we are well able to overcome it. He's standing there with those ten spies weeping and crying, we can't do it. We're grasshoppers in our sight, the cities are walled, they're tall, they're big, we can't do it. Caleb says we can. We can because God says we can and because God told us to. Stop it. He had courage of his convictions. And can I remind you of this? He was 40 years old when he first said it, and at 85 he was still saying it. You know what I would give anything for in our churches? Men who start with the Lord young and stay with the Lord until they're old. as a wonderful example of how a man walks through life. They tell me that the average life of a believer, a believing man in churches like ours three to five, maybe seven years. That ought not to be so. I don't want to live as an old man and talking about what we used to do and how we used to do it and have that only be my conversation. I do want that frame of reference to be in the minds of young men who chat with me because I want them to know at 73 I'm still doing what I did at 30. And it's still important for me to do at 30. At 73. You say you still go soul winning? I do Hey, when your daddy gets saved because somebody knocks on a door, you have to be kind of committed to that, you know? Yeah, all right. Seems to me to be a stumbling block in decisiveness is that we don't know what we believe I'd also note that in Joshua's decision, in his statement, as we've already said, he had conviction about it. He was going to do it. Whether everybody was cool with it, whether everybody was pleased with it, he was going to do it. I'd suggest to you four areas that we need convictions. Number one, men, we need to lead our homes in the matters of separation. Now I I know we live in a time when all authoritarianism is supposed to be gone and and nobody wants to talk about it, but but I just want to tell you I'm going to say this very carefully. I think like a man, do you? I don't think my little girl understood how men think. I'm not sure that my wife is always aware how men think. I know how men think. I know how the world works. And sometimes I have to take the position and say, honey, to a daughter, I know you may not understand this, but this is what's best for you to wear. And I would suggest strongly, you ain't wearing that. I'll get off that. Sacrifice. Spiritual education. Hey, uh you know, I'm a man, I I don't read that good and I I work, I don't have that much time to do that, and otherwise I don't lead my family in devotion. Stop! You've got the Holy Spirit within you to lead you, to lead your family, and they ought to know you're a man of the book. I'm not telling you you've got to write three point sermons with a a a poem, but I am saying to you that your children ought to be able to talk to you about the Word of God. Your wife ought to be able to talk to you about the Word of God. And you ought to have an understanding of it and you ought to read it with her and with them. You ought to take the lead in spending. If the love of money is the root of all evil, then dads ought to be responsible in their home. Men ought to be responsible with their finances. I'm not saying where every dollar is spent. Man, let your wife make some decisions and help in that. She's got needs you don't know about or understand. Same with the kids. I'm not saying that all the dollars are yours. I'm saying that the leadership and accountability and responsibility are yours. Not only should we take care of money, we ought to take care of service. No man ought to drop his kids off at the front door of the church and leave and go home. Unless it's for a youth activity. I'm just saying that soul winning ought to be a family affair. Church attendance ought to be automatic. That's your that we ought to take that leadership. Because we have convictions and we know what it needs to be, and we're going to take responsibility to make sure that we serve in our family. Here's number five, quickly. A man is the initiator. Once you have direction and courage, get started. Joshua didn't wait for other men to serve the Lord. He didn't wait for Mrs. Joshua's approval. He didn't wait to see if Caleb was going to do it. He just started serving the Lord. We ought to initiate. We ought to initiate a lot of things. We ought to initiate sacrifice in our home. If anybody's going to do without, It ought to be you. Wear your shoes longer. Do without a new rod and reel. That's close to my heart. It's very hard to say. For some of you, it's do without a gun. Do without that golf game. Whatever it is, you ought to lead in sacrifice. You ought to initiate service. You ought to initiate character. You ought to initiate romance. You're the one that ought to act right so that your wife can be in the frame of mind to be pleased with you. You ought to remember that she is the weaker vessel. You ought to initiate those things. Not wait around for her and wonder why she's never ready for you. You ought to initiate being her husband. Loving husband. I've got to be careful. We got a lot of ages in here. Initiate. I think a lot of our problems in our lives today, in our culture today, is we have trained the initiation out of young men. I know I'm old. Can I be old for a couple minutes? Take the video games. And the controllers, and lock them in a room. You thought I was going to say blow them up, which is a good option. But at least lock them away. And say, son, let's go cut the grass together. Son, let's go outside and walk the woods. Son, let's go down and see if we can catch a fish. Son, let's see if we can find a snake to pick up. And and kill. And uh let's let's let's see if we can't do some things. Hey, g man, give them some Legos. Build something, boy. Build something And and have it be not just visual, have it be actual. And again, I know I'm talking like an old man, and I know these are different times But I'm telling you, our culture is where it is because men have lost decisiveness and initiation. They don't do anything. To be a man, a man needs to be disciplined and finish. I'm not much anymore, but I used to love NASCAR and I still do I still check NASCAR. I like fast cars and I love big engines. I just I just like that But the one thing I never understood or ever got into was who won the poll. I don't care who won the poll. Because you set your car up to win the poll, but winning the poll is not the same thing as winning the race, and nobody remembers a week later who won the poll. And winning the poll doesn't get you into the championship. It doesn't get you into winner circle. It just is the poll. It's where you start. How about this? Care about finishing the race first. How about winning the race? How about finishing strong And what I love about Caleb is that 45 years later, that dude is still saying, I want that mountains. And he makes a statement in there. He says, my strength today is like it was back when I was 40. I'd like to get a check on that, all right? Because I've lived a few years and my strength ain't what it was 45 years ago. I assure you. I think maybe part of what he was saying was, I have not lost, I've not taken my eye off the goal. I've not taken my eye off of what God has for me and and with my family's help we're still willing to go up there and take We're still willing to put them giants down. And by the way, with God's help, we can. And give us some men who will be men every day of their marriage. How about this? Give us men who will be godly men leading up to their marriage. It is not a badge of honor for a man not to be a virgin when he goes to marry his wife. It's sin. Stop acting like it's okay. Not okay. You ought to be a man in his teen years You ought to learn to work something other than this. You ought to learn to be godly in his relationship with a woman. He ought to be godly when he asks her to marry him. He ought to pay attention to the authority of her father and understand that God has placed that little girl under her daddy's authority until her dad says, Okay, God has directed me to give him to you. That's how it works. We've gotten so far away that I don't even know in our circles we think like that. Be godly when you ask that young lady to marry you. Be Be godly with her father. Be godly the first weeks of those marriage. Be godly the first years of those marriage. Be godly when you s when you have those children. Raise those children. Be godly when you're an empty nest. Be godly when you're retired. Be godly. You never retire from the Lord. Finish it. We may not always be able to do what we used to do, but bless God, we ought to be wholly hearted for God if all we can do is sit on the porch at the rest home in a rocking chair and hand out tracts to people that go by. godly at the end of it. And would to God we'd have the spirit of Caleb. Then quickly I'd say that men desire, ought to desire spirituality. They ought to desire to know the truth. I won't spend much time there because we've already talked about it. But Joshua says, serve him in sincerity and truth. You know what Joshua is saying is you gotta know God to serve God. In truth. No God You gotta have a personal walk with the Lord. If your diet of learning the Lord is a couple hours through the week with preacher, that's great. That ain't enough. And you have got to turn off the TV. You've got to do without sleep. You've got to put away golf clubs, guns, and fishing rods. Whatever it takes to walk with the Lord yourself. I pastored twenty mil our our church was twenty-two miles south of the Washington Monument. We were right in the DC metroplex. And if my all of our men, most of our men, worked at D. C. either at the Pentagon or some agency there. And and we were just a mile off of I-95. If they were going to be at their desk at 8 o'clock, they had to be in their car on 95 at 515 Which means they would have to get up at 4 30 in the morning. And I I would preach to them, man, you've got to have a walk with God. You gotta know God yourself. You've got to walk with God yourself. Never a day you're smart enough to be your wife's husband. Never a day you're smart enough to be to be your kid's parent without God directing you. You've got to walk with God. And a guy came to me and said, are you saying to me, I get up at 4. 30 every morning? Are you saying I got to get up like at 3. 30? And with no arrogance and no authoritarian, I said, Yeah. Yeah, that's what I'm saying. I'm saying you've got to be the author of sacrifice. You've got to be the author of searching out the scriptures. You've got to be the teacher in that home. You're the pastor of your home. And whatever you've got to put aside, even if it's sleep, Put it aside for the years your kids are in your home and your wife needs you to help you. Help her lead those kids and You follow what I'm saying? A man desires spirituality. I'll be done. Here's the last one. A man to be a real man has to love. Hmm. Joshua made these decisions not because he wanted to prove he was boss, but because he loved those kids and wife that were standing behind him. And he knew the world had no answers for his home. As a matter of fact, he knew the world would kill his home He said, I've got to make a decision for all of us. And I'm going to love you in making it, and I'm going to help you in times that you need help. But as for me in my house, we are not going the way of the pagans. We are not going to fall down before the gods of this world. We are going to serve the Lord. And I'm sure there were times when that got down from principle to practice. Little Joshua's daughter said, Well, the rest of the kids, I know, honey, but I love you. And I know it's best for you. And I know there were times probably when Mrs. Joshua said, You're being too hard. He said, Honey, I I know it looks like I'm being hard, but won't that be something someday when when little Billy Bob's our pastor? And he's a man of the book and preaches the word. Won't that be something? And I'm just telling you, we've got to walk through some hard stuff like this Not because I want to be boss. Not because I think I'm always right though I am. But because I love little Billy Bob. Because I love Susie more than my own life, and because you are the most important thing in my life other than my God. Because I love you. I've got to be the man leading in the way that I ought to lead, even when it's really tough. Honey, will you trust me and follow me? We don't do it for any other reason. We don't correct our kids because we want to prove how tough we are or because we're mad at them. We correct our kids because we really love our children A real man loves. Hey, don't test your manliness by a quarterback. Don't test your manliness by a guy who can dunk the ball or shoot three pointers. Don't test your manliness by a guy with a full head of hair. carrying a beer in his hand. Don't test your manliness by what the world says a man is. Get in the book and say, hey, how am I measuring up, Lord? Am I bearing the authority like you want me to bear it? Am I serving my family? God, am I being decisive in the way you want me to be decisive? Am I initiating the things that you want to initiate. God, am I loving my family like you want me to love them? God, will you help me? Will you help me? Will you help me? And to every dad in here, I don't care how long you've been a dad, to every young man in here looking forward to his life, you need God's help. Father, we thank you for these minutes you've given us, and I know I've been long. Lord, I pray that you would teach us today what we need to understand. And then, Lord, would you help us to be the men that you want us to be There may be guys in here right now that need to make some decisions. Oh, I know these are good men. I know these are men that love you. But sometimes we just get swept away. We get We get busy, we get tired, we get discouraged. And Lord, I just pray that there'd be a time where every man, whether in his seat or at this altar, would just say, Lord, I know how big a job this is. Would you help me to be the man that you want me to be? And if it involves correcting something, something great, get it corrected. If it involves just asking God for help to continue asking, because we desperately need God to stand to our feet.