I wanted to uh you know, you you like you like to tie in your message on Veterans Day with the Veterans and And I'm sorry, but that was just I just couldn't do it this time. So you're gonna be stuck with a message that I just feel like that God wanted us to have. Now I could I could make some applications I guess and I may do that as we go through this. But in Mark chapter two, if you'll take your Bible and turn there with me, Mark chapter two And let me say this before uh before I get into the preaching time. Um in the on that back table back there, now it's all the the military paraphernalia back there, but on the back table, uh uh on my right and your left is uh a table that has uh some of my artwork. And uh uh you might look at it. Some of you will probably back the rest of this week as we uh preach the revival meeting, do the chalk drawings each night But there's some of you may not, so why don't you stop back there and buy five or ten of those pictures and and make me a rich man? All right No, people you might find something back there, you know, Christmas is coming up. Maybe you can find something for some presents. They're cheap. No, that's not the right word. We're in Mark chapter two, and I'm going to ask you, if you will, to stand with me and do reverence to the word of God. We're going to read twelve verses, and it's a familiar story, and and uh there may be nothing new in this uh message tonight. But I do pray that uh that if you're here today without Christ, it'll be something that'll make a new man out of you in this message. The Word of God says in Mark chapter 2 and verse 1 And again he entered into Capernaum after some days, and it was noised that he was in the house. And straightway many were gathered together, insomuch that there was no room to receive them, no, not so much as about the door. and he preached the the word unto them. Now that that tells me there that this is a this is a uh a church service You might as well say. When he comes in the house and begins to preach, the people gather. That to me is a is like uh the the church used to be back in its beginning. They were in houses, they didn't have big beautiful buildings like this and uh so forth. And so uh he's preaching the word to him in verse three. And they come unto him, bringing one sick of the palsy, which was born of four And when they could not come nigh unto him for the press, they uncovered the roof where he was, and when they had broken it up they let down the bed wherein the sick of the palsy lay And when Jesus saw their faith, he said unto the sick of the palsy son, Thy sins be forgiven thee But there were certain of the scribes sitting there and reasoning in their hearts. Why does this man speak, thus speak, blasphemies? Who can forgive sins but God only? And immediately when Jesus perceived in his spirit that they so reasoned within themselves, he said unto them, Why reason ye these things in your hearts? Whether it be easier to say unto the sick of the palsy, thy sins be forgiven thee, or to say, Arise and take up thy bed and walk. But that ye may know that the Son of Man hath power on earth to forgive sins, he saith to the sick of the palsy, I say unto thee, arise and take up thy bed, and go thy way into thine house. And immediately he arose, took up the bed, and went forth before them all, insomuch that they were all amazed and glorified God, saying, We never saw it. On this fashion. Let's pray. Father, we now vow before you to ask for your presence, for your power. Just uh I pray, Lord, that you'll speak uh to that heart here tonight that has a a yearning deep inside that they want to know you better. I pray that that one who's not saved they might trust you as Savior. I pray for that Christian, Lord, that's just been walking on the line. aren't sold out to you and it's got a foot in the in the world, I pray Lord that you might uh might speak to that individual. They might come to you and Dedicate their life to you. We ask you, Lord, to bless and to service in a special way in Jesus' name. Amen. And amen. You may be seated. When uh when I see this this story The the focus here is not on Jesus per se and the preaching part of it But it seems to me that the focus on this in this these twelve verses has to do with four men. Four men who were bound together for a common cause. Now I could make application, I guess that's the military for you, because that's what mil the military uh does. Uh they put a group of people together, they have a common cause, and they go accomplish a mission. That's pretty much what these guys did. These are these are four guys that that had a friend and uh this friend was uh beyond their help. This friend was a uh uh had a palsy, had a a paralysis of the body. Unable to to walk, unable to move, possibly unable to speak, he was uh uh almost totally helpless. He lay in his bed day after day after day and and uh had no no hope of any help at all Until one day four guys got a hold of the bed and uh whether they talked to him or not, not sure. Maybe so They heard that Jesus was going to be in this particular place at this particular time. You know, I believe God has a time and a place for a person to get saved. Today's the day of salvation. Now's the appointed time. You're here this morning, and perhaps you're you've never been born again by the Spirit of God. And you thought, excuse me, you thought I'll try to block that so you don't get the ma the big part of it. Uh but uh uh it may uh The uh I forget where I was going on that thought. That but that's that's uh eighty five year old's excuse for forgetting, I guess. That's what's all it is. Um but anyway, uh He was an individual that uh that lay there at at the at uh uh that was unable to do anything for himself And yet he at least he had four friends that did care about him. Cared about him enough to say, you know, I understand that Jesus, and these are four believers Because Jesus saw their faith. Here is uh these four men that that uh felt like that they could make an impact. But the problem is that they couldn't do anything themselves as far as healing the body, as far as bringing uh uh you know, some uh relief in this uh this friend's uh uh condition, they were totally helpless on that part of it. But uh there's something about faith that uh uh is wonderful Faith will find a way. I found that out years ago. It seems like that whenever you whenever you uh come to God and say, listen, God, this needs to be done. And I believe that you can do it. Faith will always find a way. These four men, they uh they uh decided to gather this man up and take him over to where Jesus was Now when it got there the problem was there was an obstacle in the way. And the obstacle was the people. There were just people all around the house and they had the doors blocked and the windows blocked and The the crowd had just grown to the place where there was no way that that they could get this man in to see Jesus. Well there's uh uh There's y there has to be uh some way that they can uh move this whole situation around where they can get him in there Looking around they find that there's a set of stairs going up on the outside of the building. Those buildings back in those days, uh in Bible times, they had uh tile on the roof, they had uh usually the stairs on the outside that went to the roof, a patio sort of situation where they could uh go up there in the evening after the sun had gone down and enjoy the cool breeze coming in and just kind of relax in the evening evening air. And so s seeing that the uh the doors and windows are all uh locked up with people, why they decide that's the best way They gathered the man up, each with a corner of the bed, and as they made their way up those stairs, one way or another, they got to the top, and uh there they had another problem They've got a roof up there and uh uh they can't see anything going on, no way to get down to where Jesus is. So here's where the here's where the thing uh uh gets interesting We have a tendency that whenever it's particularly in the spiritual realm, I've noticed it particularly in that realm because I guess it's easier just to sort of back out. But when when people come up against an obstacle in the spiritual realm, why, or doing something for God, if I can put it that way. It's uh uh it seems like that uh it's easier when the uh when they see the object or the or the the object that's blocking the way it's easier for us to just back off and say, well, I guess you know we tried, you know. We have uh uh uh these people saw the the objects that was the uh uh The obstacle. I'm looking for that word, obstacle. When they saw the obstacle, uh instead of seeing that as a an excuse to get away from doing something for God, they saw it as an opportunity to find a way, to use their faith and to to get the job accomplished. And that's when they started tearing up the the tile. You see, faith will always find a way. If there's some some individual that needs to be saved, and we look at him and we say, Well, I know that guy, but he's uh he's an old reprobate and he's a drunk and he's uh does this and does that and we look at all the bad things about And so I guess he's too bad to get saved. The truth of the matter is, those are the kind of people we need to turn over to God and realize that faith will find a way. Faith will find a way. There'll be some way that we can reach that individual if we have a desire. If there's really the desire, the determination to do the to get the job done See, we underestimate God. We have to understand that God's on this on this uh the saving business. And so there's no one that's too too tough or too hard for God to say. God can uh He can do anything as our uh courses say I look down there in verse uh verse two. And it says straightway many were gathered together, insomuch that there was no room to receive them. No, not so much as about the door, and he preached the word to them, and they come unto him, bringing one sick of the palsy which was born before. And when they could not uh uh come nigh to him for the press, they uncovered the roof where he was, and when they had broken it up, they let down the bed wherein the the sick of the palsy lay. And when Jesus saw their faith Uh it's always interested me and I'm s uh I suspect that uh those of you who've read these verses over and over, uh when you look at that and and it says when Jesus saw their face and not the face of that individual that was being lowered down when he saw their face. I can see Jesus in the in the house that day. And he's preaching to uh obviously a a multitude with the many could get in and as many who could surround the house and look through the windows and so forth And I can see him as he's uh preaching the word of God to him. And all at once uh there's some dust trickles down in front of him. Now he understands what's going on, and I can see a smile sort of sweep across his face. because he knows there's there's four guys up there that's working feverishly to take that tile out uh without causing a collapse of the ceiling and uh trying to get it big enough so that they can lower this guy down on the uh in front of Jesus. And uh I see Jesus as he looks up as a a whole first appears, and all at once as he looks up he sees four faces looking down And I see these four faces with sort of a uh uh what kind of a smile would that be? But uh sort of an ordinary smile, can I put it that way? Because they know that they've done something wrong, done something out of the way, done something different. You know, we have a tendency to um uh to want to do things the same all the time. Now there's some things that you know uh that you shouldn't change. You shouldn't change this this book. You know This is an old King James Bible here. And uh uh t we shouldn't change it. This is the Word of God, see. Uh there's some things we shouldn't change, but you understand that there's uh Th there needs to be some change in order to accommodate the times. Uh I was an associate for uh a couple of years uh in the church that we still belong to down down Campbellsville, uh, Kentucky. And uh down there, that church was just getting started. Uh it was about two years old when they put me on staff. And uh we had uh I don't know uh three or four buses at that time. Uh but the time we left we had I think it was eleven buses. We had run about three hundred on the buses. And uh uh We were given out uh bubblegum on the buses. Wow, bubblegum on the buses Well, we had a lot of c criticism because of that, uh, from other churches that were running about twenty and twenty five and sometimes they were running thirty or forty But uh we were running about three hundred, four hundred, and so uh uh that's you know uh th the question was uh is uh is giving out bubblegum wrong No. It was just different. Just different. These guys were doing something different. You know, sometimes we have to get unusual do unusual things in order to reach people for Christ. It might not be exactly what uh you know uh uh what the the formal churches would come up with, but uh the the important thing is uh these guys looked at that roof and they looked at the guy on the on the on the on the bed that they brought and they realized that that this guy and his condition was more important than that piece of of ceiling there that they were going to have to tear up. And whenever we get the idea that the import most important thing is the soul of man, what should it profit a man if he gained the whole world and losing his own soul? The soul of man is the most important thing. that we can uh be involved with. And so uh these guys uh uh uh just like we today, there's there's things, you know I suspect that there was probably somebody that criticized pulling a bus across The parking lot. Now that was sort of unusual, wasn't it? Yeah. But they had a bunch of kids on that bus, didn't they? You know what I'm talking about? Sometimes we have to step out of this mold and and uh the mold that we get put ourselves in uh and and do something different. Something different that causes us or allows us to reach people for Jesus Christ. And so, anyway, that's what we see here in this situation. They could have said, well, you know, uh we made an effort, guys, but you know, there's tile there and you know we'd have to tear out the tile to get this guy down through that but think of how big it's gonna have to be. It's gonna have to be six foot this way and Or maybe he's a little short guy. He's only three foot this way. I don't know. But you you know you can't tell. But the point I'm getting at isn't is that they solved the value of the individual They saw that. And that was more important than that hunk of roof that can be replaced in 15 minutes after, you know, after it was uh After he lowered him down in there. In verse three, and they come unto him, bringing one sick of the palsy, which was born of four. And when they could not uh come nigh to him for the press, they uncovered the roof where he was, and when they had broken it up, they let down the bed wherein the sixth of palsy lay. And when Jesus saw their faith, He said unto the sick of the palsy, Son, thy sins be forgiven thee. Thee When he saw their faith, you know there there's some people that have eyes and can't see There's some people that have eyes that they should be able to see, but they can't see. Some people have ears, and but they can't hear. Let he that hath an ear, let him hear. Some people close their ears off and close their eyes off. They don't want to see God working. They don't want to hear the message of God. They don't want to hear that which could actually change their life. It's tragic when we we we look around us that that uh the turmoil that's going on in in the hearts of people. I mean, the world's in turmoil and the nation's in turmoil and uh but the but individuals that's where that's where it really is And even sitting here I look a look around and and uh you know I can't r you know I can't read your mind or look into your heart and see the anguish that's going on, but there's some in here no doubt. That at home you've got a home situation that's just tearing you apart. There's nothing you can do about it. Listen, I believe faith will find a way. I believe God will help you if you turn it put it in his hands. Yield yourself to him totally and then put it in his hands and say, Lord, I can't do anything about this. Help me tear up some tiles. Show me a roof that I can make a hole in and get this situation down in you where you can touch it. Woman had an issue of blood. She'd been to all these doctors and was nothing better, but rather grew worse, the Bible says. But she heard of Jesus. Somebody told her about Jesus and the and the thought came to her mind, if I can get to him, if I can just if I could just touch his just the hem of his garment, I can uh I can be made whole. Fate will find a way. The crowd coming down the street. She looks out the window and she's old and feeble She comes out the door and she sees Jesus, but he's in the middle of a throng of people. And she she could have just said, well. I'm too tired. I I can't make my way through that crowd. But she didn't do that She fought her way through. She kept f finding her way through until finally finally all once there was there was Jesus and I can just see him as he kind of whips these It's like that, and her hand just brushes the hem of the garment. And at that very moment The Bible says virtue went from him to her, and she was healed of the plague, made whole. Faith will find a way. Give God a chance in your life. Give God a chance to work out your problems. It just means that you you need to turn yourself over to Him. I didn't get my deer this year. Just thought I'd throw that out. Nothing you can do about it. But faith will find a way. There's a lesson there somewhere. There's two preachers over in England years ago. Fell named Whitmore and that's not right. Whitfield. There you go. Whitfield and Wesley. They were on fire for God. But the Anglican Church over in England would not allow them in their pulpit. They closed it off, said you can't preach in our pulpits nowhere in in Great Britain. Can you preach in an Anglican church pulpit? But faith will find a way. And he Couldn't go to the churches, so they went to the streets. They went on the streets and they preached the gospel. And crowds came. They went in homes and they preached the gospel and crowds came. They they preached here and yon wherever they could get a place and matter of fact one of them, I think it was uh I believe it was Footfield. Stood on his father's grave and preached in a great meeting that resulted in many thousands of people that could save. The revival fire spread across Great Britain because of two men that needed to find a way, and faith found a way, to get the gospel out. There are stories like that throughout the Bible about men who were up against the hard things, but faith found a way. And we're able to accomplish things for God. Maybe your life is is a mess. And maybe it's time for you to turn it all over to God. Maybe it's time for you to tear up a few tile. And live with that that problem, that heartache that's giving you so much trouble. That individual that you care about that just can't seem to reach. Maybe it's time for you to Tear up the tile and let them down to Jesus because He'll help you. He's the one that can forgive sin. He's the one that can cleanse. And he can do it when nobody else can. These things in the spiritual realm are out of our uh out of our hands. We have to find a way. And we have to turn it over to the Lord. And that's what these four men did. You're here tonight. You need to trust Christ as your Savior. Do what these men did. Turn it over to Jesus. Turn it over to Jesus. Our Heavenly Father, this morning we gather here in your name. Preaching the gospel, the gospel that changes lives, that gives new hope to those who are without hope. I thank you, Lord, for these veterans that are here today. For each one of them, Lord. I pray that every one of them has been born again by the Spirit of God and has a hope of heaven. But I pray, Lord, this morning, that as we give this invitation time, that there'll be those who need to trust you, that need to tear up the tile and let their problems down to you. Well, so do these old-fashioned alders up here. Lord, I pray that you'll do a work here in this special time in Jesus' name. Amen and amen. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. Let me ask this question. How many here tonight this morning would say, Brother Williams, I know beyond a shadow of a doubt? If I was to die right now, I know I'd be with the Lord. To be absent from the body, to be present with the Lord. How many have said, Brother Williams, I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. I trusted Christ, and I know it beyond a shadow of a doubt. Amen. God bless you. Many hands. All over the auditorium. I see a an ocean of hands. There may be some here that that were just like I was back in nineteen sixty-one before I got saved. I'd come to service like this and I'd feel nervous. There'd be a nervous stomach, you know. And it'd be a little bit nervous when the the preacher started the invitation time because the Spirit of God was dealing with me and showing me that I needed to do something about my spiritual condition. And that's where you're at here this morning. And I'd like to help you best I can. I'd like to get you up on that roof and tear out the tile and lower you down to Jesus and let him do that work that I can't do. Only he could forgive sin. I want how many here this morning and say, Brother Williams, I I'd like for you to remember me in prayer in just a moment. I'm not saved and I'm concerned. I don't want to die and go to hell. And I want you to pray for me. I'm not going to embarrass you, but I'd like for you to raise your hand right now. Would you do that? Just slip it up all over the auditorium. Just raise up that hand. God bless you, sir. Someone else quickly I'm not saved and I'm I'm concerned. I don't want to die and go to hell. Pray for me. Someone else quickly. How about it? Maybe there's a Christian here this morning. Say, Brother Williams, yeah. I'm saved, but I'm not walking with God. And God's been dealing with me about it, and I need to do something about it. Just slip your hand up and let me pray with you right now. How about a Christian? I got yeah, I saw that. Hey God bless you. Others. Heavenly Father, you know what the needs are here? Just like back in this day, when these four uh godly men chose to do the unusual. And allow God to do the miracle. And I pray this morning for these that raise their hands, God help them to make the right decision this morning. To come to this old-fashioned altar and let us take a Bible and show them how to be born into the family of God. And we'll praise you for what you do in Jesus' name. Amen and amen.