Chapter fifteen this morning. Well I get set up here, Proverbs fifteen. It's always good to come home. I love coming back here to the mountains of Maryland. I came back here and I was like you guys have gone high tech since I left. I was looking around at these T V screens, these new monitors, these even a new clock back there. I got time right here. But uh one thing I was grateful for though you didn't go high tech with it was the pelmics. I was afraid after seeing those motors. The first thing that went through my mind was Those little handheld devices on the side of the heads, I mean there's nothing simple about them, I don't think, but boy do I hate them mics. But I'm glad we still got lapel mics here that I can use It's always good to come home. And I want to encourage the young people, I think uh Phil More kind of hit on it in Sunday school, you know, y what you have here is good and you know, we can upgrade all the technology and stuff. We can't upgrade what God's given to this place. You know, and I encourage you young people, I love coming back home. I love coming back here because I come back here, you're still preaching God's word, the King James Bible. You've still got the good music and I want to keep encourage you to keep that. A lot of the world is going the wrong way and I don't want to ever see that happen. I I'd dread the day if I ever came back home and to see that happen. Well I don't want to see that happen here. So continue to stay faithful to God. Hopefully by now you found the book of Proverbs in chapter number fifteen. Now I'm gonna do now What I hate when a lot of preachers do it, but I'm gonna do it for once in my life. Uh I want you to put a piece of paper there in Proverbs chapter number 15, because that's not what we're gonna read. That's where we're gonna be at today. And I want you to turn to the book of 1 Corinthians, chapter number 3. We're going to lead a read a lot of po scripture this morning. I do want to say this, that this is is this my water? Looking for a head this one mine? I don't want to be drinking Brother Mark's water I know he wants it if it is still either. I'm going to read a good portion of scripture this morning, but I'm reading these portions of scripture to have us think this morning. I'm going to start with 1 Corinthians chapter number 3, verse number 9. By the way, if you have your Bibles, hold them up for me just a sec. I I I usually teach the young people in church. I'm I I do the adult classes sometimes as well, but I love seeing the Bibles. I encourage the young people, bring your Bibles to church. That's what we're going to be studying, that's what we're going to be looking at. And we're going to jump at a number of portions of scripture. I don't know if I mentioned this is the first time I've ever preached this message. I usually get like I feel the least comfortable with a message when it's the first time ever done it. Usually when I come over here, I preach something I've already preached over in uh Mannington, West Virginia, but today's not the case. You guys are the first ones to get to partake of this meal But first Corinthians chapter three, verse number nine says this for we are laborers together with God. Ye are God's husbandry, ye are God's building. According to the grace of God which is given unto me, as a wise master builder, I have laid the foundation, and another buildeth thereon But let every man take heed how he buildeth thereupon, for other foundation can no man lay that is than that is laid which is Jesus Christ. That's an important verse there There is no foundation you can have in your life apart from the Lord Jesus Christ that is going to sustain a good structure Verse 12 says, Now if any man build upon this foundation, gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hey, stubble, every man's work shall be made manifest. In other words, it shall be made known, for that they shall declare it, because it shall be revealed by fire, and the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is If any man's work abide which he hath built thereupon, he shall receive a reward. If any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss, but he himself shall be saved yet so as by fire. Go to 2nd Corinthians chapter number 5. Here in 1 Corinthians, the very next book, 2 Corinthians chapter number 5. And we're going to begin reading in verse number 9 of 2 Corinthians chapter 5. Second Corinthians chapter 5, verse 9 says, Wherefore we labor that whether present or absent we may be accepted of Him. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. I want to emphasize that phrase, judgment seat of Christ. We're going to look at that in a little bit. That everyone may receive the things done in his body. According to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad. Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men, but we are made manifest, and the God, not trust also, are made manifest in your conscience. So let's go to the book of Hebrews, chapter number 10. Hebrews chapter number 10. To save us some time while you turn there, I'm going to read Hebrews chapter number 4, verse 13. The Bible says in Hebrews 4 or 13 Neither is there any creature that is not manifest in his sight. But all things are naked and open unto the eyes of him with whom We have to do. You're in Hebrews chapter number 10. I'm going to begin reading verse number 29. The Bible says this. Of how much sore punishment, suppose ye, shall he be thought worthy Who have trodden underfoot the Son of God. If the Son of God means nothing to you this morning, it's just a light thing, and you trodden under your feet. How much sore punishment waits for you And the Bible goes on, it says, and have counted the blood of the covenant wherewith he was sanctified in unholy thing, and have done despite unto the spirit of grace. For we know him that hath said, Vengeance belongeth unto me, I will recommend, saith the Lord, and again the Lord shall judge his people. Verse 31 reads, It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. One more portion of Scripture, Revelation chapter 20. Revelation chapter 20, and I'm going to look at beginning in verse number eleven The Bible says in Revelation 20, verse 11, I saw a great white throne. Again, I want to emphasize that phrase, a great white throne. We're going to look at that. And him who sat on it, from whose face the earth and the heaven fled away, and there was found no place for them You know, Hebrews just emphasize how terrible, how fearful it is to fall into the hands of the living God. We find here in this portion of Scripture how even the earth and the heavens fleeed away from the face of Him. Verse 12 reads, I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God, and the books were open, and another book was opened, which is the book of life, and the dead were brought judged out of those things which were written in the books according to their works. And the sea gave up the dead which were in it, and death and hell delivered up the dead which were in them, and they were judged every man according to their works, and death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death. And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. Lord, I do pray now that you'd help me as I preach this message. I believe this is something you stirred on my heart I pray that it would be you speaking through me, that you would get these words across to your people this morning. But Lord, I do pray that you bless now as we get into the message. I pray, Lord, if anybody does not know your Savior, that they would be saved today. And Lord, we pray that some each and every one of us in here would walk away challenged. to mold according to this book. In Christ's name, Amen. Before I get into my message, let me do say, as Brother Mark mentioned, Pastor Letterman's out of town. I'm preaching for him. So if you're here visiting today, I want to encourage you, don't judge this whole service by what I'm doing. Give it another chance, come back when Pastor Leatherman's here, but uh I do appreciate Pastor Leatherman giving me the opportunity to be here. Back in college, which seems to be not so long ago to me, but I can't believe how long ago it has now been. Back in college though, I remember writing this English paper and I tell you what, I I was I was proud of this English paper. I wrote this paper, you know, in college I I can't tell you what the margins are now, but I used to haven't memorized what the margins were you had to have this paper at Um you know, I had those margins where they were supposed to be. I had the punctuation, it was an English paper, I set made sure my punctuation was right, I made sure my grammar was right, made sure all these things were in place. And I tell you what, this was a pretty good paper Say Bertie's your time in West Virginia has made you pride. Well no, I'm serious. This paper was a great paper. The problem was the teacher didn't think that I I tell you what, I've been through high school, I've been through college, up until this point. I've been through I was in English before this class. This is a new English class. I never had gotten a paperback that had so much red on it in my life And I looked at that paper and I saw all the markings there. I didn't I don't remember to this day seeing a grade on that paper. I don't know if they felt sorry for me or maybe it was there and I just didn't was afraid to look at it. But You say, why do you tell that story? I fear a lot of people on this earth are living their life like I did with that paper. They're living their lives thinking they got the A plus life. But the teacher doesn't think so. Let me remind you, but all things are naked and open unto the eyes of him with whom we have to do. You and I are going to stand before God one day, and I fear for a lot of people, because the Bible says many, and why does that gate that they're going to destruction? Many are living a life that they think they're a pretty good person They think they're on their way there. There may be one here today that thinks they're on their way there because of the good they are doing. And sad to say, they're going to hear these sad words. I never knew you depart from me. There's a lot of Christians, I believe, today that are thinking they're doing okay in the Christian life. One day they're going to be weeping over the rewards they lost. Because they pleased them, but they didn't please Christ. We will stand before Him. And let me remind you, just as with my paper, It's not based on me what the grade is. It's based on the teacher. This life is not based on what you think. It's not based on what your friends say. It's not based on what your coworkers say. Your life is going to be based on what the Lord Jesus Christ says. And I praise God that He loved us enough to give us this book that we can know what is truth and what is right. Let me remind you that Paul wrote to a young preacher in 2 Timothy. He wrote to Timothy, telling him that all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. I tell people that tells you what is right, what is not right, how to get it right, and how to stay right. That the man of God may be perfect through the furnace unto all good works. I read to you two a bunch of portions of scripturals on these judgments and I point out some key points. I don't want to emphasize too much on it because I don't this is not where I want to spend my time and want to get back to the book of Proverbs, but I'm emphasize that there are two judgments. One was the judgment seat of Christ we read in Corinthians. The key to be at this judgment, as is mentioned in that passage, is your foundation is Christ. The Lord Jesus Christ comes into your life, he saves you, you will stand before him one day at this throne. But if you refuse the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, if you choose not to accept him, One day that great white throne we mentioned in Revelation chapter number 20 will be your judgment. And that lake of fire that was mentioned, where hell was cast, that will be your home. I fear a lot of people, as I mentioned, are living their lives not knowing that's where they're heading because they think they're doing okay because of their works. Let me remind you the scriptures are clear that works cannot save. You say we just read a bunch of scriptures that talked about works. Yes, it did You can take any portion of scripture out of its context and you can build a doctrine on it if you want to. A lot of churches will do that. A lot of people will do that. A lot of false doctrine is out there because they take one verse out of context. In fact, me and my brother of mine at Calvary Baptist Church, Brother Ken and I were talking, he said, look here, it says in the Bible, see, drink no water. They don't drink that water over there. God's not telling you that. You have to understand the context. In these contexts, if one is not careful, they may think, well, that works is what's going to get me to heaven. But the if you look at the rest of the scripture, it's plenty to see that Salvation is not by works. I wish I had time to build upon this, but if you were to look at we'll take what I look at one of Ephesians chapter number two, verse eight and nine. Look at Ephesians chapter two. Some of you may have memorized this for the scripture memory challenge, and I'm glad that you did. Ephesians 2, 8, and 9. Another one that was memorized with Titus 3. 5, and the beginning of that says, Not by righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he hath saved us. Over and over, the scriptures are clear, there's not a single good work you could do to get to heaven. The Bible says in Ephesians 2:8 and 9: For by grace are you saved through faith It's not through works, it's through faith in Jesus Christ. It goes on to say that not of yourselves. That totally eliminates anything that you could possibly do. And not of yourselves It is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. God tells us that if we could work our way to heaven, someday we would have something to brag about when we get there. God says there's going to be no bragging for anybody in heaven. You're there because of the you were bought by the blood of Jesus Christ, because you put your faith and trust in him. Where does works come in? Well, we're already Ephesians. Look at verse 10. For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath foreordained that we should walk in them. Good works don't save us, but we're saved to do good works. God has saved us to do works. You're here today and you are working at something, but you're not saved. Your works may get you a lesser degree of punishment, but it will not save you from the punishment. I base that on the scriptures of God told a number of times to a number of people it shall be more tolerable. There's some people that are suffering a worser judgment in hell because they chose to reject the evidence that was given to them. And though you may have good works, you may be judged by your works, it's going to show your condemnation if you don't accept Christ. However, if you have accepted Christ, we saw in the book of Corinthians, those works are going to be tried. And you're going to stand before God, and you're going to wonder, was that work going to burn with fire, or is that work going to bring reward? Well, it's based on whether it was for you or someone else, or was it for the Lord Jesus Christ? Pastor Leatherman preached not too long ago, you heard the quote, but uh as I was listening to his message online, I heard this quote by D. L. Mooney, and I thought it struck me, it goes along with something I've been meditating upon in Proverbs, we're going to look at soon. But D. L. Moody said this: our greatest fear should not be of failure, but of succeeding at something that doesn't really matter. I encourage young people and uh uh us that are older as well. I feel uh I feel D. L. Mooney hit it right on the head that sometimes We're not fearing to be a failure, we're trying to succeed, but sometimes I wonder are we succeeding at something that really matters? When I gave that paper in, that teacher, what I put in there I thought really mattered But none of it mattered enough because it did not meet the teacher's requirements. In college after that, I've learned it was necessary, not necessary to know all the materials. I didn't have to know everything that they taught me. to get a good grade. I learned what mattered is I need to know what that teacher was looking for to get a good grade. And you and I are someday going to stand before God. My question is, what's your grade going to be of your life? Well the key is simply this. Are you succeeding at what matters to you, to others, to men? Are you succeeding at what God says really matters? In the book of Proverbs, chapter number 15, that's where we're going to be at. I want to show six things that matter to God. I was reading through this portion of the scripture. I've been chewing it for quite a while. As I was reading through, God showed some things that really stood out to me that I saw and I said, these things are important to God. These things really matter to Him. Now I couldn't help but wonder, you know, as I stand before God one day, God's going to be looking for these things. Now this isn't all inclusive, obviously. The scriptures, it takes years upon years to study. But God gives us his word so we can know. But I found it interesting, God mentioned throughout this little proverb here, some things that he really takes note of in our lives. And if you're going to stand before God one day and you're going to do what's pleasing in his sight, You need to have these things in your life that are right. Let me mention this up front. I'm not going to mention salvation in these points, but it may not be mentioned here. Salvation is key. You're not going to be standing at the right the right judgment if you don't or if you're not saved. I can't emphasize that that enough. If you don't know Christ, if he's not your Savior, you'll stand before him one day, you'll bow before him one day, but you'll be judged to a Christeless eternity. One day. But for those of us who are saved here this morning, I want to challenge you, as this has challenged me, some key principles I noticed that God is interested in our lives. The first one I found in Proverbs chapter 15 is in verse number 3. And I don't care if this is Brother Mark's or not. I'm getting really thirsty. By the way that clock up there, if I see anybody doing this, I'm just gonna have to start preaching like you guys are looking at me. I'm just gonna have to preach like this. Look at verse 3. The Bible says, the eyes of the Lord are in every place beholding the evil and the good. The first thing I notice that God's interested in our life is, God is interested in your works. The very things that you do in your life, what actions you are perceiving to do God is interested in. As you stop and evaluate, hey, one day I'm going to stand before God, what are your works today? I can stand up here and I can mention name Michael Jordan and most people in here think basketball. I can stand up here and say Tiger Woods and they think golf. If I stand up here and say your name What comes to mind? What does your work say about you? When you stand before God that day and he looks at your works, what is he going to see? And again, all these could be a message in and of themselves. Keep replacing Proverbs. I want to turn over to the book of Galatians, though. We could study a lot on this. I don't want to take a lot of time. I want to get you out before the top of the hour. But I look at the Bible, and it does have a lot to say about works. I want to look at this one in Galatians chapter number five. While you're turning there, Revelation chapter 2 and 3, God writes letters to some churches, and God has this to say over and over again: I know thy works. And don't be fooled. God knows each and everyone here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, He knows your works. The sad truth is, in those churches, there's most of them, God said, Yet I have somewhat against thee. Because there was works going on in that church. God knew about it and said he did not like those. But Galatians chapter number 5 of it believes a good evaluation of what kind of works you're doing. Look at verse number 19 God says this, now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these. In other words, these are works of our flesh. These are works God's not interested in. And if you stand before Him someday and this is your life, this is what you're promoting. That I would suggest that they'd be gone. The Lord knows they're there. Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these, adultery. Fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variants, emulations, wrath, strife, sedition heresies, envyings, murders, drunkenness, revelings, and such like A lot of us could understand what these things are, and you think, ah, what I'm doing is not in that list, God says, and such like These wicked deeds that are of the flesh, do you look at that list and say, you know what? I could say, yeah, that maybe that's in my life. You're working a work that God is not interested in. It goes on to say, but the fruit of the Spirit, this is what God is interested in. But the fruit of the Spirit is love. Joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance, against such there is no law. I love verse 24. And they that are Christ have crucified the flesh In other words, if you belong to Christ, you should say no to what the flesh wants to do, because you're still battling this old flesh. When you get saved, you're not going to be sinless. You're not going to be perfect. You're going to have your battles, but you're going to have to put that flesh down You're going to have to say no. Have crucified the flesh with the affections and lust. And Paul gives this admonition as well: if we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit. Where are you walking at today? What are you doing with your life as far as your works go? Does your works promote the cause of Christ? I read a statistic not too long ago and I was like, oh boy, it increased. It used to be the statistics said 10% or 90% or 10% of the people did 90% of the work in the church. I saw a statistic recently said that increased up to 20% of the people do 90% or 80% of the work in the church Some may get all excited about that. I still don't get excited about that. Why is it only 20% of the people want to do God's work and the rest just come here and just sit and hear a message Why doesn't everybody want to be involved? I think of a message I recently heard by a preacher named Oliver Areza. He says, I can't understand why there's lacking in any department. Because when you taste it and see that the Lord is good, why wouldn't you want to serve Him? What's your works like? What are you doing? You you're going to stand before God one day and he's going to look at your works. I can't help but wonder who here what you are doing at Calvary, I'm used to saying Calvary, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church here at this church. You say, oh, I'm a deacon, I'm a bus driver, I'm just what are you doing? What are you doing for God that really matters? You may work a job, and God has us work jobs for reasons in our community. Who sees the good works of God in you at work? I level one preacher said, that job is not your life, it's just your supporting. Your life is Christ. In others I see that your living here is just a temporal thing. This world is not my home. We're just passing through. Your works show who you are interested in. Is God interested in the works that you do? As I mentioned, I feared a lot of people are going to be like my paper. They think that what they're doing is okay, but oh they're going to get to heaven and see how much more reward they could have had. Had their works matched what the Lord wanted them to do. I need to hasten on. Go back to the book of Proverbs. God is interested in your works. I mentioned these could all be messages in themselves. We could spend all day on one word, sorry The very actions that we do, God's eyes are on them. He sees what is evil, he sees what is good, and God is interested in good works in our lives. Next one I found is in verse number eight. The Bible says the sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination to the Lord, but the prayer of the upright is his delight. Here's the second truth I have. Not only is God interested in your works God is interested in your prayer life. God is interested if you talk to him. I wonder what the prayers of this people in this room are gonna be like on judgment day before God. I fear that because of our nation, the way it's turning, the way it has heading, I wonder if it's because the prayers that we have are not there. I think of the portion of Scripture in James that says, ye have not because ye ask not. And all the problems that we have in our nation, the wickedness that we have, we like to blame the world around us, but how often is it because of God's own people being wicked themselves? You have the scriptures. Turn to Isaiah 1, verse number 10. While you turn to Isaiah, I'll read that verse again. The sacrifices of the wicked is an abomination to the Lord. I find it amazing that God used, we're going to Isaiah chapter number one. I find it amazing that God used the word sacrifice when talking about the wicked in that verse, but he used the word prayer when talking about the upright. The very base that the upright has, the very simple prayers that he has, that is more pleasing to God than the biggest show that the wicked could put on. And your prayer life may be all big, it may be all fancy, but if it's empty with the sincerity of what's going on on the inside, God is not interested. We see that in Isaiah chapter 1 verse 10. Hear the word of the Lord, ye rulers of Sodom. Give ear unto the law of our God, ye people of Gomorrah. He's not speaking to Sodom and Gomorrah, by the way. They've been burned long ago. But this is what he's referring to, these people, this nation of Judah as. This nation who has turned away from God. He's referred to them as if they are Sodom and Gomorrah. They turned so far away. And verse number 11 says, To what purpose is this multitude of your sacrifices unto me? Saith the Lord, I am full of the burnt offerings of rams and the fat of fed beasts, and I delight not in the blood of bullocks, or of lambs, or of he goats By the way, if you think sacrifices is what saved, you need to read the book of Hebrews, chapter number 10, where we were just at. It teaches clearly that there is no sacrifices that we can do with animals that will save anyone. And there's not by the way that poetry scripture all teaches there's not a priest under the other than the high priest Jesus Christ that can save. You're not going to find a man on this earth that can save you. But we read on, it says, When ye come to appear before me, who hath required this at your hand to treat my courts, bring no more vain obligations, in other words, empty ones. And says it's an abomination unto me. The new moons, the Sabbath, the calling of assemblies, I cannot. Away with it. It is iniquity. Even the solemn meeting, your new moons and your appointed feasts, my soul hateth, they are a trouble unto me. I am weary to bear them. And when ye spread forth your hands, I will hide mine eyes from you. Yea, when ye make many prayers I will not hear. God is telling them you guys got the ritual down pat. You guys are trying to talk to me. You guys put on the show Toward the nation of Israel. As my priest, you look good, but on the inside I know you. It is an abomination to me. Why? Because verse 16 said at the or verse 15 at the end says, Your hands are full of blood Their wickedness of shedding innocent blood. Verse 16 shows what God was interested in. Wash you, make you clean. Put away the evil of your doings from before my eyes, cease to do evil, learn to do well, seek judgment, relieve the oppressed, judge the fathers, plead for the widow Come now and let us reason together, saith the Lord. Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be white as snow, though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. Now I'm not saying God is not interested in good works. That's not what God is saying. But God is not interested in good works that has no changed heart You can put on a show with your prayer life and you could do all the you could just do it out of ritual, but if God your heart is we're going to get into the heart in a little bit, I don't want to get too ahead of myself. But if what you are doing is not right As we mentioned with the works, God is not interested. Turn to 1 John 3. 22. The psalmist himself said, If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. I think it is a sad truth that many Christians pray to God, believing that He is hearing, but they're so attached to their sin it separates that He is even listening to them. First John 3, 22. The Bible says that whatsoever we ask, we receive of him, because we we receive of him. That's the kind of prayer life we want. We want the prayer life where we ask God, as a father in here, I know I want God to hear me because of my children. I want God to hear me for my children. I'm sure the parents in here understand that. You need God's prayers. You need God to heed to you. That's the kind of prayer life we need. And whatsoever we ask, we receive of Him, but here's why. Because we keep his commandments and do those things that are pleasing in his sight. A lot of people believe they can live the life they want to and just ask God and just talk to God and it's all okay God wants a holy life. I'm not saying you can't pray as a sinner. We all sin. But I tell you what, we don't have a life to back up our prayers. What a horrible thing it is. Turn to James. I look at the man Elijah. Elijah was a man of prayer. I can't imagine being like Elijah and being able to pray, and God just shuts up the heavens. But in James chapter 5, verse number 16, it says this, confess your faults one to another and pray for one another that ye be healed. The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. And then he goes on to say, Elias, the New Testament word for Elijah, was a man subject to like passions as we are. I was just talking to young people about prayer recently, and I told those young people that tells us Elijah went through the same things you go through. He was not something supernatural. Elijah was a human being just like you and I. He was subject to life's pastors as we are And he prayed earnestly that it might not rain, and it rained not on the earth by the space of three years and six months. Elijah had a prayer life that was efficient. And we need prayer lives that are efficient. Someday are we going to stand before God, or are we going to have a prayer life that is efficient? Well I'll tell you what, if we choose to hold on to sins and not be the righteous people that we are, we live in a world today that wants the love of God without the righteousness. Of God. And that doesn't work. God is loving, but God is also righteous, and he expects us, as he saves us according to Ephesians 2, to walk in good works. God doesn't just save us, do whatever we want. As I look as we stand before God one day according to Proverbs, God is interested in how you pray. Are you the kind of pro person, as that verse says, that prays that you are upright and he delights in it Are you the kind that even though you may sacrifice, oh you have a prayer life that's big, but you're living a wicked life and it's an abomination to God. It makes him sick. God knows your works. God knows your prayer life. I'm going to hasten on. God knows your direction. Verse number nine of Proverbs 15 says, This the way of the wicked is an abomination unto the Lord, but he loveth him. That followeth after righteousness. You weren't here in Sunday school. You're missing out. You miss out when you miss out in Sunday school. It's a time for doctrine to be taught. It's a time for learning. We heard in Sunday school this morning about the Israelites in the book of Judges, how when they chose to go the right way, God blessed them. And when they chose to go the wrong way, they were taken captive, they were judged. Now, what person in their right mind would look at the ways of God? We just read it in our reading this morning with Psalm 1. Look at what God does for those who choose to go his way. And be blessed. And if you choose to go this way, you're going to suffer his judgment. What kind of person we're looking at with a reasonable mind and say, I want to go this way? The Bible teaches in Proverbs 13, 15, just a couple chapters back, good understanding giveth favor, but the way of the transgressor is hard. You say all that Christian life is hard. No, the Bible says the way of the transgressor, that is hard. It's going to be hard on your life, it's going to destroy you. God knows the direction you're choosing. Each and every one of us in here. I can't help but wonder, look at each and every one in here, say, what path are they sank in? taken. What path are you choosing to go down? There's a number of young people in here. You got a lot of decisions you're gonna make. You're gonna be going down a path. And the decisions you choose today. I can't I can't believe this, young people. I can't it wasn't that far or long ago. But the decisions I made in your age, that has an effect on the two children that I have today And their decisions, I look at it and go, I would never have thought those kind of decisions had an impact on what they are today. You are making vital decisions. You are choosing the direction that you're heading to go, and the world's going to promote their way. That is the best way, they say. But I'm glad, as I mentioned, we have a book that God teaches us what way is true, what way is the best way I almost was tempted to preach a portion of scripture from the book of Exodus. You know, a lot of people use this. Well, Christian gets saved. They still have hard times. Why should I even bother getting saved? You're going to have hard times if you're not saved. I love this illustration. I found it I saw in the Book of Acts one day. I love seeing those pictures, those types as Brother Mark talked about on Wednesday, those types that we see in Scripture You know the Apostle Paul when he would was on that boat with these men and they got out in that storm, these men were floating around for their lives in the midst of a storm. See, Paul told him straight up, you shouldn't have listened to me, you shouldn't have departed from Crete. Now I don't believe Paul was telling them, look, hurricanes are don't hit land. I know what Paul was saying. Paul was saying it was going to be far better over there than it is out here in this ocean. I tell you what, when you're on the rock of Jesus Christ with your life, it is far better to be on the rock of Jesus Christ than to be out in the ways of the world when a storm comes into your life. And what I almost preached was in the book of Exodus is storms are going to come into your life. There are going to be some really I'm not I'm not going to present a false front to the young people. There are going to be storms in your life. The adults here know that there are going to be some hard times in your life. The world would like you to picture that everything, all these high moments of your life, but that's not how life is sometimes. Pastor just talked about this recently. But that's not how life is. Life a lot of times is a doll as this. You get up You go to work, you come home, you work, you go to bed, you get up, you go to work, you go, and you do it all over again. And without the Lord Jesus Christ, you would say, boy, this is this is not worth it. I've got to go find something. Oh, the devil will give me something, alright. But the end thereof are the ways of death. What direction are you heading? I tell you what, the directions you choose, God is interested in. And if you choose the way of the wicked, that's an abomination to him. When you stand before him one day, it's going to make him just as sick to look back on than it was when you stand before him. But he loveth him that follow after righteousness. What direction are you heading? I'm going to hasten on. Number four is this, and verse number eleven. Hell and destruction are before the Lord. How much more than the hearts of the children of men? So God's interested in your works, He's interested in your prayer life, He's interested in your direction, He's interested in your heart. God is interested in your heart what goes on in here. I tell you what, what goes on here a lot for a lot of people is not seen on the outside. In fact, when you look at the man Samuel, when he saw David's oldest brother, he thought, surely the Lord's anointed is before me. God said, No, I have rejected him. Man looks on the outward appearance. What you're seeing is on the outside, I've looked on the heart. And what God saw on the inside was not what he wanted for a king. He had a man after his own heart by the name of David. God is interested in your heart. Turn with me with the book of Jeremiah. Well we've got a familiar portion of scripture. Jeremiah The book of Jeremiah chapter number 17. I believe also this one was on those 100 verses that memorized Jeremiah chapter 17. And I'm going to look at verse number nine. The scripture says in Jeremiah 17, 9, the heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked, who can know it? The New Testament Jesus Christ told us the things that come out of our heart. And they're not good things. By love verse 10, we often leave verse 10 out when we read verse 9. God says this: I the Lord search the heart, I tried the rings, even to give every man according to his ways and according to the fruit of his doings. God knows your heart this morning. You could be harboring all kinds of sin here this morning that I don't even know about, but God does. And when judgment day comes, he knows that. Young people, I hope this is in you, but you could be heartbreaking your heart right now. One day I'm going to do my own thing. I'm just here to entertain my parents. God knows your heart. And one day you're going to stand before him and he you're not going to fool him with your heart's decision. I can't present to you young people that your heart's wicked and not saying mine's not. I need to, as the psalmist says each and every day, say, create in me a clean heart, O God, renew a right spirit in me. God, I need you to help me with my heart. God, I need you to take care of God, as Proverbs says, keep my heart with all diligence. Because Lord out of the issues of life. What I'm going to choose to do with my life is going on right in here. And I need your help and guidance with it. God is interested in your heart. As I quicken, not only is he interested in your heart, the book of Proverbs also teach us he's interested in your thoughts The book of Proverbs says in verse twenty five of chapter fifteen, The Lord will destroy the house of the proud, but he will establish the border of the widow. Verse twenty six says The thoughts of the wicked are an abomination to the Lord, but the words of the pure are his pleasant words. I actually have it worded this way in my notes. God is interested in your conversation. Because he's not only just interested in the conversation that's going on up here, he's interested in the conversation that's going on right here. What's your speech like? What is your speech like? A lot of people are different at at church than they are at home. They'll go home, they don't care what they say. They're careful around other people How many children are hurt today by parents who say something they shouldn't have? How many spouses are hurt today by something that shouldn't have been said? I illustrate with the young people what we say is kind of like a tube-a-toothpaste. We can squeeze it's real easy to get it out. But it's really hard to get it back in. And what you say, it's really easy to spit it out, but it's really hard to take it back. You need to think before you speak speak, which I mentioned. God's not only interested in the conversation that goes on here. God's interested in the conversation that's going on up here. A lot of times we'll have thoughts in our minds and we don't say them, but God knows them. And I tell you what, young people, and as everyone in here, the devil is interested in your mind. It's a battleground he would love to win. 'Cause if he can get you thinking the way he wants to, it won't be long before you're doing the things that you shouldn't be. I won't take time to turn there since We're almost out of time, but the Bible says in Philippians 4 8, brethren, what sort of things are true, what sort of things are honest, what sort of things are just, what sort of things are pure, what sort of things For lovely, what's our things are a good report If there be any virtue, if there be any praise, think on these things. God wants you to think about holy things Second Corinthians 10, verse 5 teaches us casting down imaginations and every high thing that exalted itself against the knowledge of God and bringing it to captivity, taking captive Every thought to the obedience of Christ. Wonder what the judgment day is going to be like for you when you stand before God and he views what was on your mind I tell you some of the things that come into our mind, there's some wicked things that will come into our mind, but God tells us to cast them down, to bring those thoughts into captivity, to get your trent thinking where it should be. I don't believe God would give us a commandment to think on good things if he knew we couldn't keep such a commandment. God wants our minds to be pure because he cares about the conversation that goes on in our mind. He cares about what we say. The Bible teaches us by the Lord Jesus Christ, he said, every idle word we shall give an account for. How many words we say something we don't even think about the meaning behind it? And the damage that they cause. Here's the last truth I have. So not only is God interested in your works, not only is God interested in your prayer life, your direction, your heart, your thoughts. The last one I got out of this portion of scripture is God is interested in your relationship with Him. In verse 29, it says, the Lord is far from the wicked. But he heareth the prayer of the righteous. He is far from the wicked. But the idea of the word hear there, he's close. He's listening How close are you to God? I can't help but think when I read that about Enoch How the Bible says that Enoch walked with God. You read that portion of scripture in Genesis, a lot of those people lived and they died, but Enoch didn't just live, he walked with God. He had a close relationship with God. And God desires us to be close to him. The Bible teaches us: draw nigh to God, and we'll draw nigh to you. W what's that judgment day going to be like for you? Are you close? Maybe you just need to start taking those steps to them. Maybe that step is I need to be in church. Well I should be. Or maybe that step is, well, I've been reading my Bible off and I just need to hit it every day. And drawing closer down. Or maybe you when we talk about prayer, you knew you that prayer life needs to kick up and you just take another step and you decide, I'm going to pray this much each time, this moment, every day. Are you taking those steps you need to go closer to the Lord? Are you used, as the scripture just says here, or are you far from him? What's your relationship with the Lord like? Is it like me right now that is close to the brother Billy here? Is it is it is that close? Or maybe you're back there where my daughter is, maybe you're about that far. Maybe you're where my son is, he doesn't even know where I'm at right now. We laugh, but that's how some of us are with God. We're just clueless. Had a man recently just tell me this week, you know, he just doesn't feel like God's hearing him. Had someone tell me, another person this week. I actually had two people tell me this week, just feel like God's not even hearing them. Are you that far from God? God doesn't desire to be far from you. God wants to be close to you, but God has given you a book so how you can be close to Him. How you can obey him and walk with him. God's not the one destroying the fellowship with him. We're the ones that destroy the fellowship with him. Uh just because you're if you're born again when you sin it doesn't mean you separate from God. My daughter, when she does something wrong, it doesn't mean she's not my daughter anymore. I tell you what, it may hurt our relationship, but it doesn't hurt Or it may hurt our fellowship, but it doesn't hurt our relationship with each other. How close are you to the Lord? Are you doing what's pleasing in his sight? I close with my illustration again. That paper, once I gave it in to my teacher and she graded it and gave back, that was too late to do anything about it. The time for me to have done something about my paper to make sure it would match what my teacher wanted was while I had it in my hand still It's the time for you to be evaluating to judge and see your Christ is not wait until you see what it's like when you get there. I encourage you get in this book now. See what God wants now so you can have a life. You say my life's not where it ought to be. Well get there. You don't have to stand before God at that judgment seat and be so disappointed. You don't even have to stand at the wrong judgment seat. You can know the things of this book. You can know him as your Savior. But you have to make that choice now. You need to make those choices now. Why you those life you have it? Because one day you're going to stand before Him. What's your grave going to be like? Let's bow for prayer. With heads bowed, I'm not and eyes closed, I'm not gonna ask anybody in here where you are. God knows where you are. I tell you what, I don't feel like I've arrived myself. Maybe the Lord shared something with you today and says, you know what, I know I'm going to stand before Him. And that needs to change. I tell you what, as I mentioned, today's now's the moment to make that right. Some of you you're gonna have to go to somebody after the service. Some of you you're just gonna have to make a choice what you're gonna do tomorrow, but you know what you need to do So heads bell, eyes closed. I tell the young people every day, every time I preach to them, I can't pass an upper opportunity when I preach. To pray for someone who doesn't know they're going to heaven. And maybe that's you today. And you say, I don't know I'm going to heaven someday, but I'd like you to pray for me. And if you slip your hand up, I'll pray for you in this closing prayer. Anybody at all says, Brother James, would you pray for me? I don't know that heaven's my home. Would you pray for me? Anybody like that all by upslide lifted hand? I don't know for sure that heaven's my home Now Father in heaven, you've seen the hands, but more importantly, you've seen the hearts. And Lord, I pray that if there is anybody that does not know you as as Savior, that they would be saved today. And Lord, I pray for each and every one of us, including myself, Lord, that we would just stop and evaluate what that day is going to be like when we stand before you. And I pray, Lord, that we're not succeeding, as D. L. Moody says, at things that don't matter I pray that we would succeed at what you have for us. We ask for your blessings on this invitation now in Christ's name. With heads bowed as closed as the beginning, it's to tell you why we all stand to our feet. And maybe if God sets your heart, maybe you know something that