To second Timothy in chapter three. And once again, for the benefit of those people that were not here tomorrow, just do a very quick review of what we've seen so far. That of course Paul talking to Timothy and this time wanted to encourage Timothy. And that's what I want to do by God's grace And for his glory with and for you tonight is to encourage your hearts. Understanding that there's nothing too big for God. Isn't that good? You know what the world says? That's just too good to be true. There's nothing too good for God. Amen. And the world can say that all they want to, but hey, God's in control. And even though the heathen are raging Uh he's laughing. You get that, right? I mean nothing has ever occurred to God. He knows exactly what's going on. So Paul, through the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, tells Timothy, this know also, then the last days perilous times shall come. He lists that catalog of corruption. I'm not going to go back through that again. If you want to take some time in your spare time, go through that. And he talks about the catalogue of corruption. And that is through verse 2, down, through verse 4. And then he talks about the people that are pretenders from verse 5 on down. But in verse 9, God says, But they shall proceed no further. For their folly shall be made manifest unto all men, as theirs also was. So God says, look, it's coming a day, a day of reckoning, where these people are going to be shown for what they are. Verse 10 gives us our marching orders. Says, but thou hast fully known my number one doctrine, two manner of life, three purpose, four faith, five long-suffering, six charity, seven patience. And then he talks about all the persecutions that God delivered him out of all of those persecutions. And then he says, yea, and all in verse 12 That will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution, and evil men will continue to wax worse and worse. But look at verse 14. God says, what does he want us to do? What do we do in perilous times? Same thing that Paul told Timothy, but continue. Continue down the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them. And so he learned them from Paul. Paul received them from the Lord. And Paul would say this, as I follow God, you follow me. Amen? That's a wonderful thing. So we know that this is directly from God, through and by the inspiration of God. So I want to continue to preach this message, what to do in perilous times, and that is to continue in seven things. Heavenly Father Now as we bow before you, thank you already for what you've done in our minds and our hearts just by allowing us to assemble together. Father, thank you that iron sharpeneth iron. And that here, brothers and sisters in Christ have already come together and smiled at one another and greeted one another. And Lord, they have followed your under shepherd, their pastor here, that has encouraged them to come to the Sunday night service. And Lord, that simply by them being here tonight You are honored. And because of that, it is so powerful that the very small remnant that is here tonight, we believe, is the very thing that's staying your hand of judgment off of our nation. Because there's churches like this all over the United States. But Father, you look at each individual church, and Lord, you use and you honor that very small remnant. So thank you, Lord. Just by allowing us to be here tonight, you're honored. You are exhibiting mercy to our nation. And you give us the vision of what we can do as we go forward. Lord, now we ask once again Through and by that holy emission of the Holy Ghost, that you would create and maintain a hedge protection around this assembly. And Lord, that you would have free reign through and by the presence of your Holy Spirit in every mind and every heart. Lord, may we have liberty tonight. Oh God, we ask for the miraculous this evening. As I step back, Father, use this vessel. As I surrender everything that I am to you, articulate my speech, clarify my thoughts. But most of all, Lord, we pray that you would indwell me through and by your Holy Spirit. Fill me, Lord. Everything that I say might be an honor and glory to thee. Once again, season it by thy grace Infuse it into our hearts for thy glory, and we'll be very careful to give you all the praise and all the credit for what you're about to do. Well we ask it in the precious name of your Son and our Savior by the power and the merit and the authority That is in the name of your Son, Jesus Christ. Thank you. Heavenly Father, we love you. Amen. So, doctrine, that doctrine, our belief system, our Bible, what amazing thing is that we have the Word of God. Amen. That's already settled in heaven. Don't get over it. Don't get over, don't get used to the Bible. Amen. The Bible is as fresh as the moment in which you live. So we need to understand the news media is not going to do anything for us. Watching something on television is an amusement. That means amused. That means not thinking. Okay? Amen. You ever seen anyone watch television? Very, very uh intelligent look, isn't it? I mean you're talking to them and they're very articulate and then they turn to the boob tube and and this is how they look. You ready? That's an intelligent look. Why? Because our music means not thinking. Musing is to think. So make sure that this book is open. Amen. And you're not getting upset by the news, you're opening up the good news. Amen? From a far country. When my wife and I travel throughout the United States, we're giving tracks out and and we say, look, this is good news from a far country, and we all need good news and you should see the people. They go Yeah, we do. I said, there's good news how you can know for sure when you die you're going to heaven. I'm gonna read that. I'm gonna read it as soon as you walk away. I mean, it is a perfect time. This is harvest time You understand? Because people are wondering what's going on, and they want to know what the purpose is, and we can tell them through and by God's word. It is once again the standard. Everything should be measured by God's word. That means all books are dark planets That's the sun right there that illuminates all books. And it's a wonderful thing that it has guided our nation for many years, girded our men going into battle. I remember one time One of those Kirby boats going in to the shores of Normandy, and the sergeant turned around, the men, the Marines, were fighting. I mean amongst themselves. And above the roar of the engine, he said, What's going on? Stop it. And finally one of the twenty-some-year-olds said, Well these teenagers We told them they haven't lived as long as we have, so they need to get in the back and let us run out first because that way they have a better chance of living One of the teenagers raised his hand, Sir, yes, we told these 20-something-year-olds they have families at home and they need to let us run out first so that they can have a better chance of living and get back to their wives and their children. See, that's what America is. It is the sacrifice that defines us. It comes from God's word. Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends. That's who we are. Amen. We're who we were. It's what we need to be still to this day. And so don't let the news Sensationalize things and get you going off in three different directions. Keep your heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. Our manner of life Once we get and we receive and we continue in God's word right here, then our manner of life should be what we give to God. That means being the same everywhere we go To everyone we meet. Amen? That means we treat everyone the exact same way. Amen? That means when you go to work, you don't laugh at off-color jokes. That means you don't get with those men that are saying things that maybe have a double meaning. Amen? That means people know that you're different. And he said, Well, you know, Brother Honey, I want to fit in. No, you don't want to fit in with the world. God says, be in the world, but not of the world. Amen? And so we're supposed to be there, but hey, you walking into an area, people should know you're different. Just by the way you look By the way you walk, by the way you talk. Amen. Who you are, they should know that. Hey, get this. Hear me now. You should be putting people under conviction wherever you go. Just by your presence. There was a man by the name of Charles Finney, the spark of the Sun Great Awakening. He would walk into a factory, and just his presence would get people into conviction. They drop to their knees and start asking God to forgive them Where's that holy living again? We need to start living holy lives. You see, because every single one of us, the Holy Spirit will put his finger on something that we need to say goodbye to. So we can say hello to more of God. Amen? I don't know about you, but it the the life of a Christian is a constant battle. The old nature against the new nature. And so our manner of life should be literally just living what God wants us to live. And I remember this. When we look at our manner of life, we understand that it's not living inward. Amen. It's living outward. Our purpose should be for others. Remember when it first broke? The COVID broke? And none of us knew what was going to happen. Remember going to Walmart or some of the big box stores? I remember this. And people were walking out with cases of toilet paper. I mean they were smiling. They were hugging the toilet paper. I mean I said, don't squeeze the sharmin. And it was like, you know, I'm r I'm wealthy, I have toilet paper. You couldn't find toilet paper, remember that? And people, you know, pushing out carts, you know, filled with food. Look, there's nothing wrong with being prepared. But don't live inward. We need to live outward. Gary Bykirk is a Medal of Honor recipient. He's the chaplain of the Medal of Honor Society right now. And he came on the National Prayer Call. By the way, there's going to be a national prayer call this Tuesday night. And uh I I want you to join us. And it's Tuesday night at 830. And if you want the phone number, It's 339, those that are listening out there, 339-207-6363. Say, what can we do for our country? Pray collectively for our nation. Why? Because prayer transcends time Prayer goes to the throne of grace, to God's grace, to his throne, and we can literally change things through and by prayer, because prayer touches the heart of God and moves his hand. Amen. So you want to do something for our country? Get on the national protocol this this Tuesday. If you're not doing anything, Brother Leatherman, I would love to invite you to be one of the pastors to pray for us this Tuesday. Amen. Okay? Well good. Your pastor is going to be on there. 339-207-6363. Now, if you can't remember that, you don't have anything to write it down, you can go on our website. The phone number's on our website. No code needed And just call in and listen to men of God get a hold of God and pray along with us. We have hundreds of people from all the United States praying for our country. Prayer changes things. Amen? And so that's what we need to do. We need to understand this. But Gary Bikirk, he came on the National Prayer Call when we first started, we did it for over 70 days straight, with the exception of Sundays. We had governors, we had senators, we had the assistant to the vice president come on. I mean it was amazing. We have pastors from every state pray at least once. I mean all of them we had missionaries calling in and listening from all over the world, amen, as we went to prayer for our country, not knowing what was coming. And Gary Biker got in one night and he said, you know, as a special forces medic, I was watching a news report with my wife. And the guy told his children, one day you'll be able to tell your children that you survived the COVID pandemic of 2000 You know, nine nineteen, whatever, twenty, you know. Gary said that struck my mind and I my mind went back to the early days of Vietnam when I was in the mountainous area and I was working with what the indigenous tribe called the Montayard people. And I asked one of the little boys, I want you to teach me how to survive. Because I'm afraid of snakes and tigers and and uh and the little boy laughed at me. I was a special forces medic, you know? I was I was tough guy and this little boy laughed at me. He said, I don't want to teach you how to survive I want to teach you how to live. The jungle gives us life when we work together. He said I learned something that day that we have a precious gift, you see. It's called liberty. Soul liberty as a Christian, civil liberty as Americans, that's why we go over and try to help other people, not To become enslaved by communism, I forgot why I was there. It wasn't for me, it was for others There was a great man by the name of General Booth who started the Salvation Army over in England and saw hundreds of thousands of people come to know the Lord Jesus Christ. And also improved their their status and gave them the wherewithal how to work. So completely changed the nation of Great Britain through the gospel. And so they had him at Oxford University as an old man, and he had done amazing things by God's grace and for his glory. And so all the Best and brightest of Great Britain were there waiting for this man to come up and talk to them. And so they were looking at him and wondering How long was this man going to speak? And what great words of wisdom, what profound truths, what powerful exhortations would he bring to them? He was introduced. He walked up to the podium. And you could hear a pin drop. He said, Gentlemen, if you live your life by these three words, you will never suffer regret. He looked out and said, Others. Others. Others. And he sat down. That's why we live, isn't it? We live for others. We glorify God with our life by reaching out to others That's what this world is looking for. They're looking for someone that sacrifices themselves for others It says in Isaiah 26 and verse 3, Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on thee because he trusteth in thee. See, the world's looking for peace. We have perfect peace. As long as our mind stayed on him and not on what's going on. Too many times, you know what we do? We look through God to circumstances We start looking through circumstances and see God standing there. Amen. John Adams, our second president, very, very staunch Christian man, went over to France as the ambassador to the court of St. James. And he was at this sumptuous table and all kinds of beautiful food and table settings, and there were tapestries hanging and statuaries in in the corners and the music was playing and beautiful porcelain. And this is what he said when he was asked the question. by his hostess, this French woman, and of course France being a very ancient civilization, she said, how do you like our statuary and our tapestry? and our porcelain and the niceties of our civilization, the music that's playing. How do you like all of this? Everyone got real quiet. You could hear a pin drop. John Adams thought for a moment, and this is what he said. He said, I must study politics and war. That my sons may have the liberty to study mathematics, philosophy, geography, natural history, architecture, navigation, commerce. agriculture in order to give their children one day the right to study painting and poetry and music and architecture and statuary and tapestry and porcelain. But I I studied politics and war. His hostess said, well said, sir. And they applauded him. Why? Because they knew he was living for the next generation. See, that's what we must do as well. We need to live for the next generation. The great commandment of the law is what? Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart and with all thy soul and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is likened unto it, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Amen. So our purpose is others, that we, you and I, may be blameless and harmless, the sons of God, without rebuke in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation among whom it's you and I that shine as lights in the world, holding forth the word of life. That's what my wife and I do when we go to Capitol Hill and invite pastors to come. We're holding forth the word of life. We're giving tracts out about the gospel of Jesus Christ. We're talking to people and Praying for people, and we've seen people come to know the Lord Jesus Christ right there in their offices. May I say this? So when do you have to knock on a door? You go to Washington D. C. they have welcome mats at the doors. She can go right in. It's an amazing thing. But some people don't realize how accessible these folks are and what we need to realize is is our purpose should be to seek and to save that which was lost. But it's a God and country thing. You understand that, right? When I first started up, people said, Well, I just don't see it. I said, look at it this way. Our Savior, Jesus Christ, came to seek and to save that which was lost, correct? But didn't he also weep over his national capital? Sure he did. All of the prophets. We're also patriots. That's why we call Mission to America patriot pastors. We wouldn't even have a country if it wasn't for preachers That formed who our founding fathers were, the root thinkers of our war for independence, were preachers, and where do you think they got the truth from? Right there, God's Word. Amen? And so we need to realize that our purpose is living for others It is declaring that God is. It's determining not to know certain things in the world so we can know Him more, so we can receive and understand and see the demonstration of the Holy Spirit of God. When we talk to people The spark of eternity is there. And when we save, there is a way that you can know for sure when you die you're going to heaven. I don't know about you. That's exciting to me. Amen? They uh that God allows me to introduce someone to him Wow. That I mean you understand what an ambassador is, right? When I worked for Diplomatic Security Service at the State Department, ambassadors, they represented a country. They were very important people because they were the emissaries of their nation. Of their kingdoms, of their king or queen. And so they were treated with great respect. We may not be treated with great respect, but we are ambassadors to our nation, heaven. And to our King, King Jesus. Amen. And that's what we need to realize. The most patriotic thing people say, what can I do that's patriotic, Brother Harding? You can lead someone to the Lord Jesus Christ. That's the most patriotic thing you can do. Lead someone to the Lord because it changes the whole mindset. It changes who they are and what they are. Amen. And so it all comes back to the cross. It all comes back to This pulpit right here. Number four, faith. So we have the doctrine, our Bible, right? We have after the doctrine God tells us through and by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit that the doctrine leads us to what? It leads us to that very thing that We need to understand what is our manner of life and the purpose that we have and the faith is the action word. It's the fuel in the fuel tank that moves us forward. Amen. Faith is an action word. If you don't have faith, you know what you're suffering from? Fear. See, the Christian life is dynamic. You're never standing still. You understand that? No matter how long you live, you're going forward or you're going backward. I don't know about you. I like going forward. You know why? Going backward, you run into things. Amen? Unless you have a camera in the back of your car, you know. But we don't have a camera in the back of our life, do we? You go backward, you're running into things, right? Obstacles. Going forward, you could you have a clear road It's the King's Highway. Amen. So I don't want to go backward in fear. Too many times that's what's going on. People are afraid. They're afraid of the culture. Even some Christians are afraid of what people are going to think. I don't know what people are going to think. Are you kidding me? I don't care what people think. Hey, look, we have always been counter-cultural. You understand? We've always been the ones that have stood up and said, Thus saith the Lord. And sometimes we do suffer persecution, but all that live godly will fall into that category. Now I don't know about you. If I'd have the choice of living godly or ungodly and suffer persecution or not, I'm going to choose living godly. Even if though there is some persecution that comes. Because there's some strength in moral fiber. What are we? A bunch of wusses? We a bunch of buttercups? Huh? I don't I don't want to say that because I don't know what people are gonna think. I just want to tell you something very very clearly about what's going on in our culture today. Everyone's running scared of the word racist. Let me say this, racism comes in all colors. Did you hear that? Okay. If you don't know that, you're colorblind. Amen? So what we need to do is understand that, hey, God has made all nations of one blood. One blood. That's it. And it's not the color of skin. It's righteousness or sin. That's what we need to look at. That's what we need to proclaim. And we need to start standing up for things and stop cowering as to, you know, I'm I'm not sure what, you know. It it's just crazy. Faith is the victory. We sing that song that overcomes the world. Habakkuk 2. 4, Romans 1. 7. For therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith, as is written, the just shall live by faith. That's how we live. We don't live by fear Amen? The fear of man bringeth what? A snare. You ever see an animal caught in a snare? Not a pretty thing. I don't want to be snared by the fear of man because that way it stops the progress of God in our life. Amen. And by the way, God's not given us a spirit of fear. Hmm. So if God's not given us a spirit of fear, where do you think that comes from? The Holy Spirit or the Unholy Spirit? Huh? The Spirit of God, Spirit of Christ, or the Antichrist? You understand? Hey, let's just get plain talking, shall we? Because our nation is at jeopardy right now. And we need to be very clear about what we say and what we understand. Amen. You with me tonight? And so we need to realize that faith is the very thing that we need to move forward in. Hey, to whatever extent you're afraid of man, to that same extent you're diminished. God says, I've not given you the spirit of fear, but the power. I want power with God. What about you? Amen. You know what? I felt the power of God in the song that was sung this morning by The family. There's power there. Amen? Well, you know, you you say some well, you know, it wasn't the the one those most wonderful performance. Oh yes, it was Because the Holy Spirit of God was there. It was powerful. Amen. I I've seen little children. Look at me. I was uh at a church one time, this little boy came up to me. He said, I wrote down how many times you said the word God and Jesus Christ in your message. And he had how many times I talked about Jesus Christ, how we talked about God. And when he showed me that, you know what that was that was powerful to me. A little boy, and keeping track of how often I talked about the Savior and how often I talked about Jehovah. And he was marking it down in his Bible. Everyone here is being watched by someone Little eyes are watching you. That's why we need to live by faith. Because to whatever extent you're afraid of man, to that same extent you're diminished in your power with God and your love for God and others And in your sound mind. Some people, you know, you can actually die from shock. You can be scared to death. You get that right? You can be scared to death. Now look, I don't care what it is. If it's inhibiting me getting closer to God, I'm going to give it up. There's nothing worth it In my mind, to keep me separated from God, even in the slightest bit, because people are looking towards us to do something in our country. And we need to have that love, that power, and of course, through and by God, the right thinking, a vision for our nation. The vision for what would you where's that picture at Joe? Give me that picture on your phone. Okay, this is my wife right here, if you've never seen my wife. You know the picture of what we can do for our our country, okay She she's scrambling now. Amen. I I put her on the spot, okay? Any of you guys who put your wives on the spot? Well here you go, okay? It says look if you want to look if you want to take back our nation, because a lot of times people say, well what can we do Here's something from General McEnary. Okay? If you want to take America back, you want to stop fraud, you want to take back control of the establishment, start taking control over school boards. You can run for school boards. Some people run without being even opposed. School boards decide what young minds are going to learn. You say, well everyone is going to a Christian school or home school. Yeah, but every young person that goes to public school is going to affect your life and mine. Sooner or later. Amen. Number two, taking over city councils. Hey, run for city council. Well, I can't do that. Are you a resident of Maryland? Then you can do that. Amen. Because hey, there is amazing things that go on all over. There is a pastor out in Atwood, Atwater, California. Atwater, California. sleepy nice little agricultural town and uh the mayor wanted to introduce cannabis cultivation The pastor said, Brother Harding, you showed me the importance of getting involved. I went to the city council meeting. I started just going, and I just happened to be there when this came up. He said, and I listed why it was wrong morally, fiscally, and every other way to our little community. And the mayor wasn't even there, but he was watching on live stream and he called me afterwards and said, Pastor I listened to what you said and you're right and I'm wrong and we're not going to bring cannabis to a to our little city. Amen. Why He wasn't even on the city council, he was just attending city councils, but one pastor kept a whole wonderful little town from being encroached upon criminally by that drug. Take over city boards of directors, take over mayoral races, take over sheriff's departments, take over your local GOP positions, take over pole workers and poll watchers. You know why this was a fallacious vote this last time? You know why? Because God's people weren't there as poll watchers. Because we weren't there, because we let the godless, the liberals, in many cases, take care of that. God's people need to understand we need to get involved once again. It all goes back to saying, look, I'm going to live by faith, and by faith I know I can do much more than I can even imagine, because when you start following God, he opens up great doors and effectual. Amen? Hey, we don't live by explanation. We don't live by news media. We live by faith. Amen. And I'm not going to be diminished. I'm not going to be diminished in my love and my power and my sound mind. The Christian life is I want to continue to go forward. Faith opens doors. Hey, do you understand when I first started this ministry 18 years ago, that guy said You're going to try to get independent Baptist pastors together? Good luck with that. In fact, one guy said, that's going to be impossible. Because why? Well independent Baptists, we're a little prickly sometimes, aren't we? What what part of independent don't you understand? Amen. Now he's not prickly This is this is a lovely guy. I don't know if you know that or not. Amen. I get around him, I just want to hug on him, okay? But he's not the norm. There are some exceptions, okay? And what I'm saying is when they said that's impossible, I said, thank you. They said, What? I said, hey, I serve the God of the impossible Here we are, and we've seen some amazing things happen, but it's all because of faith is always victory with God. Number five, long-suffering Long suffering. You want to do something for God. You want to continue to do what God wants to do in perilous times? Continue in long suffering. You know what that is? Bearing injuries will provocations for a long time It says in Exodus 34 and verse 6, And the Lord passed before him and proclaimed the Lord, the Lord God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering and abundant in goodness and truth. Amen. Our founding fathers signed the Declaration of Independence. You understand? People did not pucker when they saw them coming. Two-thirds of this nation were spitten when they saw them coming. Only one third was on their side. They were outnumbered. They were in the minority. Amen But they were used powerfully, and here we are today. What I'm saying, they did not let the slights of men deter their course God had given them. They endured against insurmountable odds And continue to do what was right. See, in a Christian life, you're going to get lied about. People, I mean, your pastor's been lied about, I've been lied about We've been lied about before, we'll be lied about again. Amen? But you know what I do when attacks come I'm not one of those people who say, well, I'm just going to give them a peace of my mind. I've heard people say that. I'm just going to give them, I'm going to show them, I'm going to give them a peace of my mind. You know what? I know a lot of people, I would hold on to that. I wouldn't be giving people a peace of your mind, okay? Because you'll wind up, you know, drooling out of the left side of your mouth, alright? Say, well, you know, I'm just no no no. What what I do, what I've learned to do a long time ago, is let God fight my battles. Because He does a much better job. Okay? Have I been lied about? Sure I've been lied about. From some of the most unusual quarters I've been lied about. But I I just give it to God. And I forgive them. I think one reason why we're not experiencing revival in our nation is people are walking around with a little bit of bitterness there. Because they haven't forgiven someone. Well, Brother Harding, you don't understand what they did. And they didn't apologize. Don't trip over that bottom lip. You say, well, shouldn't they apologize? They should, but they don't need to for you to forgive them. Are we in the eighth grade? Oh I'm sorry, what what grade are you in? Anyone in the anti case? But the fact is, look, we don't need people to apologize for us to forgive them Well, you don't understand what they did, Brother Hardy. I don't see anyone with nails here. Huh? And what did the Lord say? Father, forgive them. For they know not what they do. You know what the Lord did? He learned to look past people at what was making them act the way that they're acting. That's what I've done. A lot of times it's fear. Sometimes it's pride. Whatever the case is, I've learned not to lash out. I'm going to let you take care of that, Lord. And boy, has he ever done a tremendous job in doing just that. You try to do something, he'll say, okay, hands off, you want to take care of it, fine. And you're going to make a mess of it, I'll guarantee you But God, oh, he he does one. And you know what it does? It's the likeness of Christ, but it's also liberating. I mean you can walk around with a clear conscience and I mean yours lie as a feather. Amen. It's a wonderful thing to understand when the Christian life And offenses come. You know what David said? Psalm 119 and verse 71. It is good for me that I've been afflicted, that I might learn thy statutes. Wait a minute. Wow, David, what did you say? It is good for me that I've been afflicted. Wait a minute, wait a minute. I don't like afflictions. Neither do I. But David said, it's good that I have been afflicted. Because that's where God brings you through the fire and burns out that dross and mire. Remember the old song by Left Lester Olaf? He'll take you through the fire, but he'll burn out the dross and mire. Hold on a little longer. Hold on. Hold on to him. Hold on to forgiveness. Amen. We need to realize, hey, God can and will. Well, Brother Harding. They disparage my reputation. Well, wait a minute, your reputation is what men think you are. Your character is what God knows you are. And we need to give God everything. And if he wants a reputation, give that too. But you be concerned. Why? Because Paul said it this way, Acts 24 and verse 16, and herein do I exercise myself. Now you don't do an exercise once, and that's good, right? You continue to do it, don't you? Day after day. Paul says, and herein do I exercise myself. to have always a conscience here now void of offense toward God and toward men. Look, you want to continue to do the things that God will bless in perilous times, then exercise yourself to forgive people. And when the devil, the great accuser, comes back and accuses them again to you and says, How dare they did that to you? Then you just go ahead and give it right back to God. Amen. It's an exercise. You understand? Over and over and over again, give it back to God. Give it back to God. Because that is the thing that you need and your family needs. You don't want bitterness. It's a root sin that goes down. And oh, I'm going to teach them. I'm going to hold on to a hot coal. Yeah, that's really going to help you. It's going to hurt you. Well, teaching them are not going to forgive them. That's not going to hurt them. It's going to hurt you. Amen? Wow. And make sure about that thing. Right right there. It's going this way, not this way. Amen? Now my parents were Europeans. Okay, they were immigrants. And and my mother cooked us tongue How many have ever had tongue in here? Raise your hand. Wow, look at all the people who have tongue. Praise the Lord. I'm amongst the brethren. Boy, normally when I ask that question, there's like two people, and the rest of the people are going. And I didn't know what it was. My mother said we're gonna have tongue. I was a little kid. I was out we didn't have video games. We were out climbing trees, falling, breaking our arms You know, wholesome entertainment, you know. And we come home come home and I was hungry. And my mother said, We're gonna have tongue. I had no idea what she was talking about. I was just a little kid. She had it all sliced up. We put mustard on it A little different of a consistency, but I ate it. I was hungry. Amen. Until one day I got old enough and I walked into the kitchen. I said, Mom, When you said we're gonna have tongue, did you mean tongue? And she was in front of a pressure cooker. How many remember the pressure cookers? And she looked at me quizzically, she said, What do you mean, son? And she took the top off and you know shh and then she undid the top and she put it down and she took this big fork. And she stuck it in there. And I was just standing watching. I didn't know what was coming. And she pulled out This beef tongue, it just kept on coming. You said it was no, it was not that long. Have you ever seen a cow lick its ear? It was that long She said, What do you mean, son? And then she took it from the pressure cooker over to the plate and it waved at me. I'll see you in a minute. I'll see in a minute. I'll see you on the plate. I'll see you in the and and when she put it down and went flop. And all the on it. I said, I don't think I'm hungry. Last time I ever ate tongue. Amen. It was ugly. We need to be careful of that little member. Because it's set on fire of hell if we're not careful. To keep a guard. over our tongue and always be going this way, not this way. Always try to keep your conversation Upward, not downward. Because if you do that, if you live a life where you forgive people, and then you just keep on doing what's right. You know what our founding fathers did? I believe they lived By this verse in 1 Peter 2 and verse 15. For so is the will of God, that with well-doing ye may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men So people could criticize you. Just keep on doing what's right. Doing the will of God. God says it's going to put them to silence. When you don't lash out, let God take care of it. We need to understand that brings us to the next one, number six, charity. Because when you forgive people, guess what? You have more love Amen. And you can love the unlovely. You can even love those people that have done you wrong and actually pray for them. Amen. Now you don't do it for this reason, but God says if you pray for those that despite will use you, it's like p pouring coals over their head. Okay, I I don't know about that. But what I'm saying is what we need to do, I want to ask you, would you like to love God more? tomorrow than you did today? Let me ask you this. Do you need to love God more tomorrow than you did today? I do. I want to love him more tomorrow. I want to talk to him more. I want to share more things with him. And every once in a while In these last days, in these perilous times, you know what we need to do every once in a while? Just go to God in our prayer life and not ask Him for anything. But just thank Him. And let him know, Lord, I love you. You know, they sang, I'm so blessed. Eyes to see, ears to hear, mouth to speak. Hands to touch, legs to walk. Every once in a while it's good to go to God and not ask Him for anything, but just go to God and say, Lord, I just want to come to you. And let you know how much I love you. And how much I appreciate that you loved me when I was unlovely And that you sent your son to die for me. And that you went after me and wooed me. So I would come to the knowledge of truth and the gospel of your Son Jesus Christ. And where I was. You understand, I didn't get saved till I was twenty one. Okay? And I was a wild young man. And I'm not going to paint Sin a rosy color. I was wicked and wild and went after the world. Just about anything aside from that was which was perverted. I was after the world. And I know where I belong. I belong in hell. And God could have sent me to hell decades ago, completely justified. But he didn't. He gave me the grace, unmerited favor, and brought me to a knowledge of who Jesus was, and I accepted him, and nothing can ever now change my destination, which is heaven. Wow. I have friends that I used to run with that died in very nefarious ways. That died violently. And they're in hell. They've been in hell for decades. It makes me shudder when I think That's what I deserved. I'm so glad that God didn't see fit, gave me the grace to bring me to salvation. Isn't that wonderful? Every once in a while, you know David was a man after God's own heart, right? You know he was the seventh son. That means he wasn't going to get anything. A shepherd, the lowest menial tasks of anything that anyone could do. And yet he was sitting on the hill singing to God. You know, even though he had some mistakes in his life, God measured all the kings by him. And even told some kings after, I'm going to do this for my servant David's sake. Wow. Why? I think it's because David sang to the Lord and didn't just love God, but was in love with God. I mean loved God. I want to be able to go to God and say, Lord, I love you. And I want Him to be able to say, I know you do, Chuck. I know you do. I sing to the Lord all by myself. So while I I don't have a very good voice or I'm not on tune, it doesn't make a difference. Make a joyful noise unto the Lord. Go someplace in your house where no one can hear you. Free devotions, okay? And sing something to God like, Great is thy faithfulness. Or what a wonderful Savior is Jesus, my Jesus. Because, see, he likes that. When we sing, and we as we did tonight, We weren't just singing to sing, we were singing to him. Next time you come together and you sing, remember that. You're singing unto the Lord and you're getting the hearts prepared for the man of God to come and preach the Bible. God loves us to sing to him. You know what he said? If I was hungry, I would not tell you. If I was hungry, I would not tell you. I want to go to God and say, Lord, I'm hungry for you. Because if I love him more, guess what? I'm going to love my wife more. And you like that, don't you, honey? Shake your little head without your Amen. And and I and I can love other people more. Amen. See, I I love your pastor. And there are so many people in here. When I pray for your pastor in this church, there's so many faces in here that that God brings to my mind. That I'm thankful for. That are my brothers and sisters in Christ. Amen. And I love being able to genuinely love people. Because when you do that, that's Christ-like. And so we love up so we can love out more. Amen. And that's a wonderful thing, the charity, that love that's truly from the Lord, that's a holy love. And so let's build rather than destroy. Let's heal one another rather than wound. Let's praise rather than criticize and go to God in prayer. And not to man in maliciousness. Because when we do that, you see, God says in Galatians 5 and verse 13, For brethren, you've been called into liberty. Only use that liberty for the occasions of the flesh, but by love Serve one another. For all the law is fulfilled in one word, even this, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. But if ye bite and devour one another, Take heed that ye be not consumed one of another. So, John 15, 9 As my father hath loved me, this is the Lord. So have I loved you, continue ye in my love. Don't you want to do that? Hey, let's love on one another more and truly pray for one another out of the sense of love. Amen? Mrs. Leatherman, may I say? Is that okay? She's in the hospital tonight. A little reaction. So Kathy, hello. Amen. And Kathy, we love you. And I'm praying for you. What I'm saying is, folks, we too understand the reason why these young people have no decency. Why they have no love. Why these people, these young people are beating up the elderly. And anyone that's differing from them is because they have no brotherly love, because they have no knowledge of God. We need to be different. Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my strength and my disease my redeemer. You have some bitterness? This tongue's been wagging. You might want to come forward tonight and put it at this old-fashioned altar. Say, God, I want my Conversation always to go that direction. Lord, if there's anything that the Holy Spirit's touched in your heart tonight, you need to come forward. You know why? Because our nation needs you Because these young people need you to be right with God so we can pray for God to do something miraculous in our country. That's why my wife and I put that together. And look, I want to urge you, don't read that. Pray through that. It's solid scripture. That is put together in a beautiful prayer, basically addressing most all the major needs in our nation. Come on to the prayer call on Tuesday night. Don't forget that. Number seven and last. What do we do in perilous times? How do we continue? In patience. Patience. You know the war for independence was eight years and six months. You understand that? Amazing that the patience because Those eight years, Benjamin Franklin quoted often saying this, he that can have patience can have what he will. Ben Franklin, you know, he was the man that was very good friends with George Whitfield, the spark of the first Great Awakening in our nation. He was the one that measured from where George Whitfield was speaking in the open air with one lung, by the way. One of Whitfield's lungs was collapsed. He had one lung. He would measure a mile And you could still hear George Whitfield clearly a mile away. You know what that is? That's supernatural intervention. Because so many people knew to the gospel and they couldn't get close enough. Ben Franklin, he would go to listen to Whitfield And he said, and he would give every men had these little things that they called purses too, because everything was coins. He would give all of his purse to Whitfield. He said, so I stopped taking my purse He said that didn't work. Because I was so moved I borrowed from the guy next to me. And I've already written, You should not be a lender or borrower, you know So that went against my grain, so I just kept on taking my purse. But what he did, Ben Franklin, I truly believe at the end of his life. I can't be dogmatic about this, but I believe O Ben, seeing his immortality looming on the horizon. I think he accepted the Lord of Savior because on his tombstone, written by himself, said, don't judge this old book by its cover. Because this corruption has gone to be put to put on incorruption because I have gone to meet the author. He was always very cryptic in what he said. But Penn said, look, you just be patient. Be patient. You understand that George Washington never went back to Mount Vernon. One time in the eight years and six months of the war for independence, he could have, but he never did, because he knew if he had, things would have gone down very quickly. But my wife and I, we live right by Annapolis in the Annapolis State House. You can go and you can see his sculpture and Martha's sculpture, who was watching him in the balcony, where he gave her the sword back to the Continental Congress. He gave the power back to the people. They wanted him, do you understand right, to be the president of the United States. They were almost forcing him. And George Washington said, you do understand Why we just fought eight years and six months for. To get rid of the king, the monarchy. I said, yes, but we want you because you're you would be a great king. He said, but my The people behind me may not be. I will not be a king. The King of England found out and he said if George Washington turns down the monarchy of the Americas, that'll be one of the greatest things man has ever done. He'll be one of the greatest men that's ever lived Well he did because he wasn't concerned about control. He was concerned about people And allowing people to have the freedom and liberty that he fought for. Once he did that, him and Martha got in the horse and buggy, and for the first time in eight years and six months. Went back to Mount Vernon, his beloved Mount Vernon. He had a little book that he would carry over his heart of what he wanted to do when he got back to Mount Vernon. It's available. I mean you could go see it. I've seen his journals that are stacked about six foot and they are like this that he used to write all the way through his life and even in the war and put in the saddlebags. And you can go and read them They're our documents. I have a researcher's card. That's where I learned the stories of our heritage, which I I wish I had more time to share so many precious stories with you, but Washington was so patient As our other men were, to get through war. So you and I could be sitting here tonight and worshiping God and learning what to do in perilous times. Hey, we need to continue to do what God has told us to do, and that basically is patience. We need to be patient. You understand Ben Franklin's son was a loyalist His own son was Lord to the king, Ben Franklin's son, though not everyone joined in. And so in these perilous times What do we continue to do? Just go forward. In doctrine. Get into that book like you've never gotten into that book before. Don't just go home. Don't just listen to this message and go home and do what you've always done. Because if you do what you've always done, you'll get what you've always had. Don't you want more? I want more. Amen? I want more of God. I want to see God do something in our country. I want to see some miracles occur in our nation, especially the horrendous things going on in Afghanistan. I want to ask you this, and I'm almost done. You with me tonight? Say amen. I want to ask you this question. Very serious. How uncomfortable Do you need to get before you get serious about your Bible? Reading it, memorizing it, meditating upon it How uncom how bad does it have to get in our country for you to start determining to pray for our nation? That's why my wife and I put together that booklet. You know how God works? Let's tell you how God works. When you are basically looking to him and going forward, it costs us two thousand two hundred and some dollars to get all those books printed. My wife, she's the one that said, I don't want to sell them. I said, I don't want to sell them either. She said, Well I'm going to start praying that God will provide the money. She started praying. Two days later, someone we don't even know So it's a $2,000 check. Say, but I want to see some stuff like that in my life. Well, I'm telling you how you can see that. And then we still need $225, $250, something like that. And two days later, a United States congressman Sent us a donation. How do you like that? I kinda like it. Amen? And so what we said was we're just going to give them out. I I love that. We can just give away and we got I don't know how many thousands to give out to people, but look, just giving it to you, it's not gonna do any good. You're not gonna go and put it under your pillow and say, okay, everything's gonna be all right. No, you've got to read that And study that and pray that. It's a prayer, it's a beautiful prayer. All scripture. Beautiful prayer. So that's what we need to do. We need to pray for our country. But look, I don't want to pray out of desperation. Once it's gone. I want to pray out of determination now. Because I believe God's getting ready to do something really big. I believe that God is bringing us to a point that we have nowhere to look but up. And I want to start looking up right now. What about you? I don't want it to get any worse. I want to start looking up right now. Because I believe this, I believe God's getting ready to do and to bring us, as I've said before, a third great revival in our nation. Starting in our hearts. The revivalist, R. A. Tori, said this: every time in history, three things happen. A revival occurs. Number one, we get thoroughly right with God and others. You know what that means? You forgive others. Number two, we join, we bind ourselves to someone else to pray. That's why, I mean, I I think it'd be a good idea even on a Wednesday night to just have a prayer meeting for America and just pray all night. Not all night, but all during that that service. Pray through Psalm 35, which is the Psalm that our founding fathers, the Continental Congress, prayed through for three hours when the British began attacking. Psalm 35 was a powerful, powerful prayer. That's put at one time at least to music. But we need to bind with one another because two people Time and time again through history, binding themselves together, they've seen revival come. Husband and wife Friends, whoever that is. And then thirdly, you avail yourself completely to God. You know what that means? You keep an avenue open in prayer to God all the time. Middle of the night you get up, you wake up at 3:30, you start praying, Lord, revival, dear God, begin in my heart. But pray us a revival in our nation. Begin here. You see, We live in a continuum of threes, all in Genesis. Time, space, and matter. We exist in threes. Time, past, present, future, space, height, depth, width, matter, solid, gas, liquid. God's a God of threes. He has principles of threes. He's in history in threes over and over and over again. We began this country with the first great awakening. Two hundred years later, we had a second great awakening in the 1800s. It's been 200 years since the second great awakening. See, these young people here, they need us to believe. These young people, the bubble blower back over here. Amen. He's selling bubbles. Amen. I like that for a sick young lady. This little one here, there's no idea what's going on. But she's got a sparkly dress on. Very nice. Amen. This one here, Mama, when is this guy ever gonna stop? That's what she's thinking. This guy here in the blue, amen. All he knows is someone's got him. Okay, he's getting hugged. It's a good thing. They need us to believe. By the way, they need us to act on our belief. They need us to continue. They need us to continue in doctrine. They need us to get into the Word of God like we've never gotten into the Word of God before. Start getting some three by five cards and writing scriptures. I don't three by five cards and say them six times every day. You say them six times every day for six weeks, and you got it. Doctrine, manner of life, purpose for others, faith, long-suffering, charity, patience, all of these things we must continue, and for them. So what do we do? Hear this one scripture, and then I'm going to give an invitation to you. Joel, and if your phone's ringing, pick it up. Amen. Joel 2, it says this, therefore also now, saith the Lord, turn ye even to me with all your heart. And with fasting, and with weeping, and with mourning, and rend your heart, not your garments And turn unto the Lord your God, for he is gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and of great kindness, and repenteth him of the evil. Who knoweth if he will return and repent and leave a blessing behind him, even a meat offering, a drink offering unto the Lord your God? So what do we do now? We come to God in prayer and ask him, do something different in our life. Get out of our comfort zone, as I said this morning. And do some things we've never done before. I don't know about you. I want to see some things happen in my life that's never happened before. Good things from God, blessings. So each day I'm going to add just a little bit more to my prayer life, to my Bible reading, to my witnessing, to giving to others. You can't outgive God There's no way you can have. He's going to be a debtor to no man. Amen? I mean, no matter what it is. I don't know about you. I love being the answer to someone's prayer. That channel of blessing is someone's prayer. Amen? I'll end with this one story, and then I'm going to bring you an invitation. I bought two hamburgers one time. Big Juicy, fresh hamburgers. How many like hamburgers in here? You're not American if you don't like hamburgers. If you're not ha if you don't like hamburgers, you need to hit the altar. Say Brother Harding, chapter and verse, please. Okay, okay. All right Personal preference, okay. But I bought two hamburgers. I ate one of them, man, it was it was wonderful. I mean I got into it, you know, almost covered my face, you know. I was I was so full I didn't need a second hamburger. I was going by our college where I was teaching at the time, and I said, Lord I want to give this hamburger to someone. It was like 10 30 at night. So I turned to the college parking lot. There was a student coming by, just got off work. 1030, 11 o'clock at night. I rolled up, rolled down my window, said, hey! Hey, Brother Hardy, how are you doing? Hey, you want a hamburger? Brother Hardy, I was just praying for a hamburger. I said, here you go. Thank you. I'm so hungry. You say a hamburger? Uh much more than that. It's walking lockstep with God. Or it's fun. It's joyful to continue in these seven things. So that God's so vibrant in your life. That he is ordering your steps, step by step. We need more of God, don't we? And by the way, God needs more of us. If you want to see God do something miraculous before we're out of here, if there's any chance of a third grade awakening, I want to be in on it. What about you? I want to be praying for it. I'm going to be active in doing my part. What about you? We need to do something different tonight, and that is get to an old fashioned altar. And beg God, Lord, I want to do some things different. And if the Holy Spirit's put his finger on something that you need to Forgive, ask God to forgive and forsake, then why don't you stand up right now? In fact, let's all stand up right now. And I'm not going to ask a parent of play. I'm going to ask you to come down to this old-fashioned altar and let's do some business with God tonight. Let's shake the foundations of heaven. Don't hesitate. Come now. And let's do what God wants us to do. Let's not pray out of desperation. Let's not wait for it to get so bad that we are praying out of desperation. Let's pray out of determination tonight. Let's pray and ask God to do something different in our life by us doing something different purposely for Him Let's ask God to work in our minds and our hearts, young people. Moms and dads, grandpas and grandmas Let's promise God some things tonight. Let's ask God to do some things for us tonight in this quiet moment. Oh God, I'm gonna make some commitments tonight. I'm gonna make some determinations tonight. I'm gonna get into my Bible more. Start giving some simple three by five cards and actually start memorizing some verses this week. Maybe a time when you need those verses and you don't have a Bible. Commit them to your mind and your heart. That's what they did at the Hanoi Hilton when they were going to be tortured. They wrote verses down, created a Bible with all the verses that those men remembered that they had learned in Sunday school as boys. Who knows what may be coming? May we be prepared spiritually. Morally strengthened, and doing something different than we've ever done before. God bless you.