First is Mark chapter number nine. If you would turn to Mark chapter number nine, when you find that and mark it and keep that place there, and then we're going to look at Luke chapter twelve. Mark nine and Luke twelve Somewhat of a sober message tonight, a very serious subject. Subject. Seems like we live in a day. When very few preachers I mentioned this this morning, but it seems like we live in a day when very few preachers are preaching on the destiny of man, what happens after death, and what we are facing in eternity We like to it seems like today's preachers like to talk about what they call the practicalities of life. About living here and now and the here and now and dealing with the here and now. And uh don't misunderstand, we need that. We are living here and now, and the Bible deals with that. But I'll be honest with you, eternity is a lot longer than here and now. And here and now ultimately ends up in eternity. And we're very foolish if we disregard the ultimate destiny of man and what lies beyond the grave, especially when it's dealt with so clearly in Scripture And so notice if you would in Mark chapter 9, and I really want to encourage you, I think it's a good thing to mark in your Bible and underscore verses and take notes And I'd like for you to mark this passage in your scriptures, Mark chapter 9. I'm going to begin reading in verse number 41. Mark 9, 41, it says this, For whosoever shall give you a cup of water to drink in my name, because ye belong to Christ, verily I say to you, he shall not lose his reward. And whosoever shall fend one of these little ones that believe in me, is better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and that he were cast into the sea. Now here's what I want to get to, verse 43 And if thy hand offend thee, cut it off. For it were better for thee to enter into life maimed. than having two hands, and go into hell unto the fire that never shall be quenched, where their worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched. If thy foot offend thee, cut it off. It is better for thee to enter halt into life than having two feet. and be cast into hell, into the fire that shall not be quenched, where the worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched. And if thy eye offend thee, pluck it out. It is better for thee to enter into the kingdom of God with one eye, than having two eyes, to be cast into hellfire, where their worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched. Now, I think we understand here, the Lord isn't telling us that we should cut off our hand or our foot or pull our eye out to escape hell. The point here is we ought to be willing to do whatever's necessary to avoid hell. Whatever it takes to avoid hell. We ought to be willing to do that. Now if you would, come with me to Luke chapter twelve. And notice with me, I'm going to begin reading in verse number one. Luke 12, verse 1. In the meantime. When there were gathered together an innumerable multitude of people, insomuch that they trod upon one another, he began to say unto his disciples, first of all, Beware ye of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy. For there is nothing covered that shall not be revealed, neither hid that shall not be known. You know, it's really dumb to try and hide something from God. That's dumb. Therefore, whatsoever you've spoken in darkness shall be heard in the light. And that which ye have spoken in the ear in closets shall be proclaimed upon the housetops. Now look at this. And I say unto you, my friends. Be not afraid of them that kill the body, and after have no power that they can do. Have no more they can do. But I will forewarn you, and this is the passage I think you ought to underscore, but I will forewarn you whom ye shall fear Fear him which after he hath killed hath power to cast into hell. Yea, I say unto you, fear him. Now here's the question. What exactly is hell? And is it real? Let's pray. Father in heaven, some very serious passages here, very sobering. And I pray that your Holy Spirit would deal with our hearts and help us to see the seriousness of this truth, the reality of this place. And I pray when we leave here tonight that our love for you would be stronger, our understanding of life would be clearer. Our faith in you would be stronger. Please, Lord, I yield myself to ask you to fill me with your Spirit and speak through me. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I said that it seems like few preachers deal with the afterlife. Deal with where we go when we die. And it seems like even fewer preach about hell In 19 in on June 19, 2002, the Los Angeles Times did a series on subjects that are preached from the pulpits of America. I don't know what their motivation was. for doing this, but they put an investigative reporter on this. And he went out and he surveyed and found out uh what um uh preachers preached on, what the subject of their sermons were, and they came to this conclusion That preaching on the subject of hell from the pulpits of America is at, and this is their term, an all-time low. Very few preachers are preaching on hell. That was in two thousand two, eleven years ago George Barna, who does surveys, various types, they did a survey on what Americans believe about hell. 67% of Americans surveyed said they do not believe that there's a literal place called hell. Now I would suggest that maybe because the preachers aren't preaching on it. In eighteen seventy-five George, General William Booth. Anybody recognize that name? Salvation Army, founder of the Salvation Army. He made this statement, 1875. He said the day is coming when churches will preach heaven without hell. I think his prophecy was pretty accurate. Anybody recognize the name Maurice Rawlings? Anybody recognize that name? He was a cardiologist and a professor of medicine at the University of Tennessee. I worked for four years in um uh in the surgery department of the Park Ridge Hospital in Chattanooga, Tennessee. The surgery department worked for four years there. And yeah, thank you. And um And that name was mentioned on numerous occasions when I was there among the doctors. He passed away a few years ago. In nineteen seventy-eight He wrote a book entitled, I think the title is Life After Death. And it was an account of him as a cardiologist, people that died. Indicating in their death, at the moment of their death, that there was something beyond that they were going to. Now, this isn't some crackpot. This is a very educated man. And one event in particular prompted him to put together these experiences he had and these observations he had made and write this book. It was in 1977, he was trying to resuscitate a man that had been screaming in terror. Each time the doctor would regain his heartbeat and his respiration, the patient would scream out, I am in hell. Dr. Maurice Rollins said that this man was terrified. And he was pleading with me to help him. The doctor said I was scared to death. I said, I noticed a real alarmed look on his face. He had a terrified look, worse than the expression seen in death. This patient had a grotesque grimace expression of sheer horror. His pupils were dilated, he was perspiring and trembling. He looked as if his hair was on end. Then another thing, then another strange thing happened. He said, Don't you understand? I am in hell. Don't let me go back to hell. The man was serious. And it finally occurred to me he was indeed in trouble. His panic was like I had never seen. And Dr. Rowling said this, no one who could have heard his screams or saw the look of terror on his face could doubt for a single minute that he was actually in a place called hell. Now here's my question. Is that legit? Is there really a place that people called hell that people go to when they die? My first point on our message tonight is yes. The re the hell is a reality. It is impossible, listen carefully to me, it is impossible to take the Word of God at face value. It is impossible to come and interpret this book in a literal grammatical literally grammat uh to interpret it literally, both grammatically and historically, it's impossible to do that and not come to the conclusion That there's a place called hell. Not if we take the Bible at face value. This Bible tells me there is a very real place. Called hell. I've been in the ministry a a little bit a little while. I've heard probab what I would imagine is just about every argument against hell that there is. And I'll be honest with you, not one of them stand up to Scripture. When folks deny the literal reality of hell, they must explain away So many passages of scripture, their arguments do not hold water. Um Carl Barth, infidel. He said the Bible verses on hell, the Bible verses on hell are only threats from God. They do not mean anything. You talk about blasphemy. Emo Brunner, who was a famous Liberal from Europe in years gone by, he said, men will be annihilated. The punishment of hell is only temporary. Emo Brunner was wrong. It's not what the Bible teaches. Now, don't get mad at me, I'm just telling you what he said. Billy Graham. Said, I quote, I believe that hell is essentially separation from God. We are separated from God, so we can have hell in this life and in the life to come. I cannot describe hell in vivid terms like I did 30 or 40 years ago. I don't know if there is actually fire in hell or not. I do not know Pope John Paul II said hell should not be seen as a fiery underworld, but rather the state of those who freely and definitively separate themselves from God. These men are wrong. The scripture is clear. There is a very real place called hell with very real fire, exactly as the Bible gives it to us. The modern Pope, and I don't have his name on the tip of my tongue here, but this past week said that you don't have to believe in God to go to heaven, as long as you're sincere and how you live your life. God will accept you to heaven. The Pope is wrong. I've heard just about every argument that can be given of as to Trying to deny the reality of hell, and as I said, not one of them stand up to Scripture. Nobody can take this Bible, open it up, and say, all right, we're going to take it literally for what it says And deny the reality of hell. It cannot be done. There's one man In the Bible that spoke more about hell than any other of the sixty Whatever, 40-some penmen that God used to record the Bible. And that man is none other than Jesus Christ Himself. Listen to what Jesus said about hell. Jesus said this In Matthew 25, verse 46, he said that hell was a place of eternal punishment. Jesus said that. In Matthew chapter 8, verse 12, chapter 22, verse 13, and chapter 25, and verse 30, Jesus said that hell is a place of outer darkness. In Mark chapter 9, verse 43 to 44, we read here a few moments ago, he said repeatedly that hell was a place of unquenchable fire. In Matthew chapter 13, verse 42, then again in verse number 50, he said that hell was a place of wailing and gnashing of teeth. In Matthew chapter 5, verse 29 to 30, and in our passage in Mark, he said that hell was a place where physical bodies go. Cast the body and soul into hell. In Matthew chapter 25, verse 41 and 46, he said that hell is a place of everlasting fire In Mark chapter 9, verse 46 through 48, which we read a few moments ago, Jesus said it was a place of undying worms. Hell. The Bible presents hell as a real literal place that has no hope, has no end, and there is no mercy. You'll have folks occasionally come by your house. They'll want to leave literature with you, their religion. They deny the reality of hell. I've engaged them in conversations about it. I've challenged their teaching. And in every case, they have to explain away the clear teaching of Scripture. In every case they have to say, well that's not what it means. Well that's not it doesn't mean what it says. Well that's just a parable. Well that's just a figure of speech. Well that really doesn't mean what it says. I'm sorry, but my God is intelligent enough. He is able to communicate and say what he means and mean what he says So hell is a very real place. Then my second question is: what's the reason for hell? We have the reality of hell. It's very real, it's there. And uh but what's the reason for it? Why would there be such a place called hell? Well if you would take your Bibles, turn with me to Matthew chapter 25 Matthew chapter twenty-five. And notice with me, if you would, verse number forty-one. Again, Jesus is speaking and teaching here. And he says in verse 41, he says, Then shall he say unto them on the left hand, Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire. So he's referencing hell. Now he tells us why hell exists here. Prepared for the what who? Devil and his angels. Hell was prepared for Satan and his angels. Now it's interesting, that word prepared there caught my attention. It's the exact same word used in John chapter 14, where the Lord says, Let not your heart be troubled, you believe in God, believe also in me, in my father's house or many mansions For when I saw I would have told you, behold, I go to prepare a place for you. Exact same word Satan, uh hell is a prepared place prepared for Satan. Heaven is a prepared place prepared for believers. Here's my point. God did not create hell for humans. It's not his intention for mankind to go to hell. God created man to live, not to die. But man disobeyed God. Man rebelled and sinned against God, and the wages of sin is death. So ultimately, man dies in his sin, and he ends up in this place that wasn't designed for man. He ends up in this place called hell. Hell is designed for Satan and fallen angels, not mankind. Here's my question though. Why does there have to be a place called hell? Why did God even have to make it in the first place? Well, that's a challenging question. I suggest two reasons that I see and I understand in Scripture. One reason I believe that there has to be a place called hell is because of the holiness of God Now, to be very frank with you, you and I, as limited human beings, as sin stained human beings We are incapable of comprehending what the holiness of God really needs. Our minds are so limited and so stained with sin. That I don't think we can even remotely comprehend what it means that God is holy I like to refer to God's holiness as the blinding holiness of God. Or the intense holiness of God. Absolute purity. Absolute holiness, and we can't we can't even fathom what that means We use the term holy and we really don't know what we're talking about. It is so far beyond our experience, the holiness of God. I believe someday we'll be in the presence of God with a re uh with a purified hearts and minds and the glorified hearts and bodies and minds, and maybe we'll comprehend how what the holiness of God is, the intensity of it, the extent of it. And I believe then we will understand that the horrors of hell Are the only adequate consequence for violating the blinding holiness of God People say, what kind of cruel God would create a place called hell? You're missing the whole point. It has nothing to do with cruelty. It has to do with God's holiness. And a consequence of violating that incomprehensible holiness And in my mind, the holiness of God justifies the reality of hell I think there's another aspect that explains why hell has to be not just uh the the incomparatible holiness of our God, but here's something, the s exceeding sinfulness of sin. We really don't comprehend how awful our sin is. We are so saturated in sin And we really don't realize how exceedingly sinful are things we justify on a regular basis How offensive they are to a holy God. And has how could God someone love someone and send them to hell? Has nothing to do with the love of God. Has to do with how sinful our sin is. Um the offensiveness of our sin. This past was it December I think it was and I don't know the guy's name and I'm glad we don't know. He doesn't deserve To be recognized. But a demented man walked into an elementary school in Connecticut. And took his weapons and executed little children. Just executed defenseless little children. We're horrified by that. Am I right or wrong? It's like, what in the world? This guy doesn't and I think the world was in agreement. This guy doesn't deserve to live. My thinking on all of that was I wish he'd have killed himself first and then And we think how how offensive that act is. This past week um there was a news report coming out of the Middle East somewhere. And apparently some Muslims or Islamists had some little girls younger than the girls down front here. I'm talking five, six years old. And for whatever reason, I don't know what these little girls did, but these guys beheaded these little girls and took their bodies and drug them around and made a big show of the fact That they had brutally beheaded these little girls. And I saw that and I thought, what monsters! What type of person would do that? Can I say something? The little sins that you and I justify are just as offensive to a holy God. We don't comprehend the sinfulness of our sin. We excuse it and we unjustify it and we ignore it. But our God is so intensely holy. That even what we consider the slightest infraction is a horrendous offense against the holiness of God. We don't see that. I think these old time preachers, back the Puritan preachers in these old time, they have a little grass. Of the sinfulness of sin. Everybody ought to read Jonathan Edwards' sermon, Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God. As he preached that Bible message, and he said, we are sinners, we have so violated the holiness of God, we are like sinners hanging on to a spider thread hovering over hell. People cried out in their views, God have mercy, God have mercy. Why would there be a hell? I'll tell you why, because God is holy And sin is so sinful, it's the only just compensation. Nobody, nobody would suggest that a man that executes, who was it, 20, 30 children, should just walk away from that. Justice demands retribution. And yet our sin is equally offensive to a holy God. And it demands retribution. Hell is real. There's a reason there's a place called hell. My last thought is this: who are the residents of hell? Who is it that goes to hell? Well, Matthew 25, 41, we read there. 2 Peter 2, verse 4, and other passages tell us that Satan It's his abode, his ultimate destiny in the lake of fire. There are fallen angels, and I don't understand all those Layout of this, but there are certain fallen angels who now are bound in hell, awaiting the coming judgment. If you would, take your Bible and turn to Revelation chapter 21 with me. There are others in hell. Revelation tells us a bit of it. Now this is at the point where hell has been gathered up in the residents of hell and they're being cast to the lake of fire. But look at verse Chapter 21 and verse number 8. Revelation says this: But the fearful and unbelieving and the abominable And murderers. Alright, we've touched on a few of folks like that. And you say, yeah, I can see why someone like that would go to hell. But look, look. And whoremongers. And sorcerers, and idolaters, and all liars, shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone, which is the second death. Now here's what we think. We think telling a lie, alright, teachers want to lie. It's not right to teach our children to tell the truth. Do you see the categories that that's put in with? Murders. Abominable. That's what I was saying. Our sin is so offensive. And this is a description of the characters that are in hell. The people that are in hell. Come back with me to chapter number. 20 and just a few verses earlier, verse number 15. And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. If a person's name is not found written in the book of life, they're cast in the lake of fire. Now, John chapter 3 and verse 18 and John chapter 3 and verse 30 tell us that unbelievers Are the ones whose names are not written in the book of life. In other words, any person That dies in their sin, that dies with their sins unforgiven, without having trusted Christ and being washed in the blood of Jesus, as we sang. Any person that dies in that condition, the Bible says They end up in hell in the lake of fire for all eternity. I was preaching, I was with Brother Grant and Krista coming on staff, I've been my mind's been going back to when I was youth pastor. And the very first sermon I preached at Thompson Road Baptist Church in Indianapolis was a Sunday night, and I preached on hell. And I referenced this passage here in Revelation 21 in all liars. And I didn't know hardly know anybody there. I've just been there a short time and preached. And there was two little young girls that had ridden a Sunday school bus. And they came back that Sunday and they were all in the youth for they're probably seventh, eighth grade and Point. And they came back Sunday night to hear the new youth pastor preach. And I made that one little reference, and all lies so had their part, the lake was burns with fire and brigson. I'll tell you what, the Holy Spirit of God convicted those little girls. They've been lying. And God convicted them and they came forward, I can still see them online. They came forward over on this side and they were sobbing and And broken, the counselor came up and they said, we don't want to go to hell. We don't want to go to hell. We've lied and said, we don't want to go to hell. These girls got saved and were two of the most faithful kids in our youth group our whole time there. It is possible to escape hell through accepting Jesus Christ as Savior. Now this is a Sunday night. Look at the crowd. Most of us profess to know Christ as Savior. Amen? So there's two responses. One is if I'm not saved, I need to get saved. If a person is not saved and they die in that condition, they go to hell. No hope, no mercy, no escape ever. Now most of us here, I trust, trust and credit. If not, you need to settle that. But here's the second response to it. First of all, um make sure we're safe. God in his love provided salvation. Here's the second. God in his wisdom has given you and I responsibility There are people within several hundred yards of where I'm standing right now. Within a quarter mile at least, that if they died in the condition they're in tonight, they will go to this place called They need Christ. Within five miles, within ten miles, there are people that need to hear the message of Christ. That stirs my heart beaking the truth. There are people in Burma that have got to get these New Testaments. They will die and spend eternity in hell without Christ. And God has given you and I the responsibility, first to make sure we're saved, and then number two, get the gospel out. Listen, if L is real, if L is real, what I can be saying, if that's true, then the most important thing in our lives is to share the gospel with others. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, dear Lord, you'd help me. God, you stirred my heart, you convicted me. Help us as a church to make this a matter of priority of getting the gospel to the lost, sharing the love of God. What a price Christ paid for us. To suffer hell so that all men can be saved. Help us, Lord, to give ourselves to this matter. How many tonight would say, Preacher, preacher with all my heart? I want to be a witness. I want to be a soul winner for Christ. With all my heart, I want God to use me to bring people to Christ. To trust Christ as their Savior. Is there any like that, preacher? That's my heart's desire. God used me to be a witness. Sure, that's our heart's desire. Goodness. Let's ask God to use us. Let's ask God, like they prayed in Acts, God, give me boldness to speak the word as I ought to. God will help us. He surely will. Let's make sure our lives are clean and pure. Let's share this message with others. We're going to have Lord's Supper here in just a moment. I think this thought of what Christ suffered for us is a humbly, convicting thought. Surely we can stop and say, Lord, search our hearts, try us. We want to be pure and clean. He'll help us. He'll help us. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Let's stand