Orange socks. Now I've been going to church since October the second, nineteen sixty-six Only I only purposely missed church one time. I probably told you about that. And um I thought God's gonna kill me. So Um and then and then I've been preaching for over forty five years. So I I've been in hundreds of churches around thousands of Christians and and hundreds and hundreds of pastors and assistant pastors and associate pastors. I've never seen anybody anywhere In our and I I just run with one crowd. I'm an old time independent separated soul without fundamental premillennial missionary minor fried chicken eating peach pie loving coffee drinking badness Now you can't get any more fundamental than that. That's crowded up. I never have seen a pair of orange socks. Is that what you call him? Assistant pet And so I I just got interested in that. I thought, man, with that tie that he's got and that purple shirt and and those uh those orange socks Well, I just tell you, it just overwhelmed me. So so at dinner today, uh this couple uh that's from uh uh all around the world. Um Jackson, were you born in Indiana? In Edinburgh? Okay. So he's a Hoosier. Um we finished dinner and he he's leaving said, Well we've got to go to Walmart. So I said, you get a wear Walmart. See if you can find me a pair of them orange socks. So Tonight, he hands me this Walmart bag and he couldn't find the orange ones But he didn't do too bad. Huh? Now don't you get jealous? You got these for me But then he said this, he said, uh, well you gotta have a tie to go with it, and so he got me this beautiful tie to go with my socks So now all I got to do is find me a purple shirt. I suppose that's what the new breed of fundamentalism is addressing like, I guess. I don't know. He he he did go to Bible college up uh up in uh upstate Michigan And uh I can understand some of that, because anybody that spends more than a year up there, it takes five years for their brain to thaw out I'm telling you, that's cold up there. I I I I preach every year in um Highland, Michigan, that's just west of Pontiac where Dr. Malone had the great work. And and we have all things we have and and they have they had we we have a tent meeting And that's I don't know how many miles south of Gay Gaylord it is, but but he has Jenkins has that tenth meeting in what may Man, there's still eight inches of snow on the ground. That temperature hadn't got above thirty-four yet in in the daytime. Now I think they had to put heaters and all that in there. And uh cost them twenty-seven thousand dollars a year to run that tent meeting in May. So why go to this tent meeting way south there in June and freeze to death? I'm telling you, when the sun goes down in Michigan, brother, you in a deep freeze And I call it a tough so I can kinda understand. So what I'm saying is, just kinda overlook this lad And uh if he comes in in pink socks, just just pat him on the head, understand where he's from, you know. And he'll come around. He'll he'll he'll come around. 'Cause he is a good lad and he's married to a good He's married to a good girl. So so I'm I'm wrestling tonight. I have uh I have three messages on my heart and uh Uh I know that I can only preach one, so um I'll tell you what let's do. Let's um I tell you what, open your Bibles if you would please, the book of Numbers, chapter 16. Numbers, chapter 16. And I tell you what, let's not do that. Let's let's let's do this other one. Have you ever been in a quandary? Hmm? Help me out. Somebody say amen. Or somebody say, preacher, God help you. Do something. Turn to 1 Samuel chapter number 17. I think it's those orange socks that's just got me discabugulated. What do I say? First Samuel. Yeah, okay. I got that other one on my mind, I can't get it out. First Samuel chapter seventeen. Now you know the story, so I'm not gonna I'm not gonna eat up all the time going through this whole business of David uh as a young lad. Uh uh slave that nine and a half foot giant and goliath. But when the boy got there to the camp, he wasn't even in the army, he was just bringing some some things down for his brothers and for the king The Israelites were fighting the Philistines and they had this standoff. They were on opposite hillsides and there's this little this little uh brook called uh I think it was Kibran run between them and and this there's this giant this nine food giants coming out ever twice a day in the morning and the evening. He's the champion warrior Of the Philistines. And he's challenging any any Israelis any Israelite. To come and fight him. Mono e mono, man to man, one-on-one. And whoever is the victor Then that will be considered a victory for the whole army. Oh, he blasphemes God. He he ridicules the king. He he makes fun of those soldiers and every time he comes out there and bellows and all of that, all those uh soldiers, uh Israelite soldiers, they all they all cringe and crawl back in their tents and they're scared to death this big guy. Well, this little lad David gets down there and And uh he he gets there. Now this is the fortieth day that that fella's done that. Twice a day. So I don't know if this was in the morning or evening, so this was either the seventy-ninth or the eightieth time that he's blasphemed God, that he's ridiculed Israel, that he's belittled the king, and he's mocked all of those soldiers of Israel. And this little lad David hears it. And he's he cannot believe that nobody would accept that challenge. And he's running through the camp and he's he's um uh w wondering and he's trying to got some brothers in the army down there and he's disappointed in them and and um Uh but nobody will face this giant one-on-one. And his brother gets after him and and uh gets scolded him a little bit why he's causing so much trouble uh and um In verse number 28 of that chapter, uh Eliab, his eldest brother, heard when he spake unto the men, and Eliab's anger was kindled against David, and he said, Why cameest thou down hither, and with whom hast thou left those few sheep in the wilderness? I know thy pride, the naughtiness of thine heart, for thou art come down that thou mightest see the battle. And notice David's response. In verse number 29. And David said, What have I now done? Is there not a cause? David had cause. And then and then I look and um I see over in, if you would, turn to John chapter number 12 in your New Testament. John chapter 12 and verse number 27. John Twelve Twenty Seven And here's Jesus. He's talking to his father. And he said, now is my soul troubled, and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour. But for this cause came I unto this hour. So we find in Scripture that David, the giant killer, had a cause. We find from the Gospel of John that Jesus Had a cause. Now we'll not look at all of the scriptures uh in in the um New Testament in the Pauline writings, but just let's look at Ephesians chapter 3. Ephesians chapter 3 and verse number 1. For this cause, I, Paul, the prisoner of Jesus Christ for you Gentiles, verse 14. For this cause I bow my knees unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. You would find God having Paul pin these words for this cause in Acts 28. 20, in Philippians 2. 18, Colossians 1. 19, 1 Thessalonians 2. 13. 1 Timothy 1. 16, 2 Timothy 1. 12, Titus 1. 5. He repeats over and over and over again for this cause. David had a cause. Jesus had a cause. The Apostle Paul. Have a cause. Now I'd like for you to turn, if you would please, to the book of Acts. Acts chapter, I think it's Acts chapter number 10. See you stumbling around a lot, I know that. Those orange socks just got me. In Acts chapter number ten, here's Peter. Peter's staying over at uh Simon Tanner's house and he's up on those flat roof of the homes that they had back in the room. He's up there and he's waiting for he's waiting for dinner or supper one to. And uh he falls asleep, and God gives him a threefold vision. So he's meditating upon uh upon the the the vision that God gave him What God of cleans let not man uh uh call unclean or something like that. Well, while he's going through that and there's a There's a man by the name of Cornelius that uh uh has a passion for God and is wanting to know God, and uh an angel directs him to send some men to go find Peter and bring him. uh to the household, which he didn't end up having a bunch of people saved. So while Peter's up there meditating, thinking about this vision that God's given him, uh these men show up At Simon's house. And um so they send word to Peter to come down and meet these men. And notice what Peter says in Acts chapter 10 and verse number 21. Then Peter went down to the men which were sending him from Cornelius and said, Behold, I am he whom you seek. What is the cause? Wherefore? ERCO. Brother Leatherman, I was thinking about that a few years ago. I did a little play on words on that question. Thinking about the fact that David had a cause. Jesus most certainly had cause. The Apostle Paul had cause. And then Peter poses this question. What is the cause What is the cause? Is there not a cause, David said? Is there not an issue that's bigger than life itself? That's more valuable than money? Is there not something that's greater than worldly honor, more satisfying than earthly pleasure? Is there not something that's more important than the problems of life? Is there not something worth giving your life for? Is there not an issue that's sacred enough, yea, to even die for? So I would like to attempt to answer that question: what is the cause? So, a while back, a few years ago, I sat down and I made an acrostic out of the word cause to help us to analyze uh this issue because there is something that's bigger than any one of us It's bigger than than any other any other uh uh uh project and issue in life. There's something much bigger. There is something. There is a cause that is sacred enough to yea even give your life for. We've seen that down through the history of the Old Testament and the prophets and all that and then the the New Testament, the the the martyrs that have given their lives for Christ. I'm thinking tonight for a moment about those five new tribes of missionaries that went into South America, the Auca Indians. And I think at that time, if I remember right, I believe they were still cannibals. And uh uh Jim Elliott and um uh Saint Phil Saint Nate Saint and and uh how that took 'em uh months and months and months to make contact with these Bauka Indians and they were starting to make some progress and for some reason or another uh the five men were there uh and uh the AUKUS uh charged them and and martyred all five of those missionaries. And it was interesting as I read the account, they said that all of those missionaries had rifles for hunting and that that purpose, but they fired, they did not fire one shot. They all allowed themselves to be martyrs, knowing that if they'd killed some of those Indians, that they'd have never, ever been able to penetrate. uh those tribes with the gospel. And uh Jim Elliott, one of the martyrs, said this. He said, he is no fool that gives what he cannot keep to gain what he cannot lose. And they and they lived that out in their life and they gave their life for the cause. It's interesting that years later Those people, those people got saved in great works. And in fact, Jim Elliott's wife led the tribal chief. uh to that particular group that killed her killed her husband that chief killed her husband he led her to Christ she led him to Christ and he became the pastor of the church in his tribe. So what I'm saying is those men gave their lives for a cause What is this cause that's bigger than any other endeavor that we'll ever make in our lives And so I I tried to answer that question with this acrostic on the word cause. And as I thought about this and made some notes, I Oh, for the letter C, I chose the word Christ. He's the person of the cause. Amen Here's what it's all about. What do we do in our songs? Who do who do we sing most about? Uh most of our testimonies, what uh what are what are our testimonies about? Not what, who? Amen It's about Christ. Amen. He is the person of the cause. He's the wheel in the middle of the wheel. He's uh the one that's to have preeminence, not predominant He's to have preeminence. Oh, I'm saying to you, it's all about the Lord Jesus Christ. He's the person of the cause. Amen. The writer says, in him we live and move and have our be. God pity the churches. that will take books that they call the Bible that do damage and injustice to the deity of Christ. Amen God helped the churches so-called that drift away from the gospel and the person of the gospel. And he must always be the preeminent one. He's the pre-eminent one person of the cause. Then I studied on that letter A and I chose the word all. That speaks to me of the parameter of the cause. And it's good to know who it's for. Now, you have to understand I am a Baptist. The Baptist people reached my wife and I for Christ September 29th, 1966, and knocked on our door on Thursday night visitation, led my wife and I to Christ. We went to the church the following Sunday, October the 2nd in 1966. They said, now if you haven't been baptized since you've been saved, you need to get baptized They uh they didn't tell me one thing, uh one uh verse of scripture. I can show you a bunch of them now. They just said that's what what you're supposed to do. We didn't question it, we didn't argue about it, we got baptized And they said now, now we have church tonight. Okay? You know who we did that night? We went to church. They said, now we have a service on Wednesday night. No fuss about it. We were just in the house of God. And so the Baptist people, the fundamental Baptist people reached us. And after all these many years, I'm still a fundamental Baptist. Now you say you babys, you think you're the only ones going to heaven. Oh no, no, oh no, we're worried about half our crowd. But as long as you go and you might as well go first class. Uh I went to Bible College for a while, even long ago, and We had uh some professors I I tell you that I've been to Bible college, if I didn't tell you you'd never be able to figure it out. I told you I've got two doctors from two different Bible colleges. That that makes me a paradox. And uh And we had this we had this professor so-called that tried to that tried to that tried to to to fit us uh in a certain slot theologically. He said now when it comes to the doctrine, now this is this really going to impress you, especially you read next. uh in the class on the doctrine of soteriology. Doesn't that sound high pollutant? It just means the doctrine of salvation. Amen. He said, now there are two camps, you're neither one or the other. He said, you're either a Calvinist or you are an Arminian. So uh I thought I said, well now what's an Arminian? And so he began to describe the teaching of Arminius, and basically what he was saying was that That thing goes a lot of different directions depending upon what kind of our meaning you are. But anyway, basically it's uh they say that they they uh they get saved by receiving the gospel. But from that point on, they have to live a certain way in order to maintain their salvation. In other words, you can get it and lose it. Well, I'm probably there, right? So I say, well, what's a Calvinist? Well, there's somebody that basically believes you get saved in heaven And then you have eternal life. You have everlasting life. And I'll say, well, then that must be what I am. Because I believe in everlasting life. I believe they they these holy disco calls that they say, oh you baptist You believe in that damnable doctrine of one saved, always saved. Well I don't believe, I don't believe it's that kind of a doctrine, but I do believe in one saved, always saved. And I do believe in eternal security. Amen. But then he added something. He said now, in order to be a Calvinist, you'd have to look hey this man Said you you have to understand that Jesus didn't die for everybody. They only died for a certain woman. Well I said no wait a minute. What what what I I said I said it I said what bad is church is Calvin past So I'm gonna go ahead and bring us that on the same man. You know why? We believe in eternal salvation right now. We also believe that when Jesus died on the cross, He died for him to be preserved and is before into the human man as present. Amen. I'm reading the Bible. Or it says he's a propitiation for our sins, but not for our lonely, but of sins of the whole world. Amen. Amen. I'll read where it says to come, become root, that any should perish, but they all should come to repentance The only way that he can have that desire for the human race is when his son died on the cross, he had to pay the sin debt for every single person. And so the A stands for all. That's the parameter of the cause. That means we can go talk to everybody. We didn't go talk today. We'll be talking today about witnessing to a Muslim in two different meetings last year. We saw God save Muslim women And uh God's still, hey, hey, hey, God's still the saving business. Amen. Amen. Whosoever will may come, but who whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Amen. Then I got the look at that letter U. And I come up with this word, understanding. Second Timothy says that he wanted to give understanding to ever man. And that's the paramount of the cause. Well, what is the paramount? The paramount is a supreme issue. Why? Why in many churches, even good churches, why Is there from time to time, Brother Peter, why is there why is there s why is there so much fussing and feuding and fighting? Why is it that people just seem like they've got to have their own way? That it's got to be done their way Or no way. Why is it that people uh can can sow discord uh uh in the churches and and cause people to get to get uh uh disenchanted to get disillusioned to get discouraged and drop out of good churches and go away. I'll tell you why, because people don't understand. What it's all about, right? See, it's not about my preferences. It's not about my desires. And it's not about yours. You know, if you were dealing with somebody in And uh your next door neighbor and the woman would come over and have coffee with the wife and she would say, uh, I'm gonna tell you, that husband of mine He's a ding-alane. He's the dumbest guy I've ever met in my life. I don't know why I ever married him. And starting naming a bunch of stuff that he's done. You know that wouldn't be right. Well he goes down to the shop, he goes down there to work and and somebody says, hey Carl, what you don't seem to we what's the matter? Oh, she said, that's idiot wife of mine. And just go well carry it on and carry it on and carry it on. No, no, no, no, clear thinking husbands and wives don't do that. Or if they have a if they have a child that that gets misled and may maybe get off, you know, uh into the world and all of that They don't they don't go around having them say, oh that that stupid son of mine policies on telling you how we should never be and just but no no you know what we don't do I'm gonna tell you what we don't, we don't hang our dirty laundry out for the community to see and hear. You know why? Because it's a family matter And we're going to deal with it within the framework of our family. Amen. And that's important. But I'm going to tell you an issue that's more important than even our private family's life, and that is the cause. The purpose of the church. Why is it? Why is it, preacher, that you've been here twenty one years, you said, and you probably if you didn't see it here, you I know you saw it over in an app, because who's yours fighting like cats and dogs? And uh I know you've seen it, where people uh would make such an uproar uh and and and and cause such division uh that it would turn people away You know why? They don't understand. That whatever pro hey, hey, hey, I'm gonna let you this gonna knock stripe off your candy. Some of you are not gonna be able to handle this, but I gotta tell you the truth. Now I love your pastor. But he's not perfect. I hate to say that. I know that busts your balloon. I know. And I'm hey, I'm gonna tell you this. If you wanted to, if somehow you could get by with it without getting shot, he carries a he carries a 380 or getting thrown in jail. If you could scrutinize every moment of every day of his life, you know what you're going to find? You'll find it not perfect You will find out that every now and then, not probably not too often, but every now and then he make a mistake. Huh? Yeah But let's sho let's let's turn the spotlight on you. Huh? See? You ever you hey hey hey I'm gonna tell you what'll cure a lot of church problems if we ever get Matthew chapter seven straight, those first few verses, but judge not, be judged you know So when we have problems in the church, we don't have to hang our dirty laundry out here for the community to see. It's nobody's business. It's a family matter. We have the right understanding that's how we're going to operate. Those are the principles we're going to live by. Oh, how we need to have the right understanding about life and death, and about heaven and hell, and about eternity, and about the gospel. The program of the church. So the U stands for understanding. And I come to the letter S. I had a hard time with that one. And I finally chose the word souls. Souls, that's the priority of the cause. That's what's all about Jesus said in that parable, go out into the highways and the hedges and compel them to come in, that my house may be filled. Oh pity the church that loses its passion for souls God help the people that get so twisted that think that you've got to throw your standards of music and your standards of appearance with the exception of Orange Son, uh out in the window in order to be able to reach people. The size of the crowd doesn't necessarily mean it's got the blessings of God. I'm going down to North Carolina here while I'm preaching for a big old tall drunk drink of water. He come come out of New Jersey. Went to Bible college and he's preaching right. I go to a tent meeting out there at one of my friends. I have three friends and I preach for this fellow in his tent meeting every year. At least he has enough sense to have it in July Not the latter part of June. Anyway, he said he was talking about this business. I mean he was I mean he was riding this thing. He's really after this thing about compromise and all that. He said He said, before I took this church, he said I was assistant to Darryl Cox down in North Carolina. Do you know him, Brother Levin? He said, I was asking Brother Cox about this because he said there are all these churches around here that's that's that's making all these concessions. uh about all these things that we've always held dear to us, Bible truths and all that. But they're growing. And so that's their justification for whatever the end justifies and means. And well he said, um let me tell you about that He said the other day, he said, I I drive down the highway and I saw a dead coon laying along the highway. He said I was back that way a couple of days later, and he said that coon was getting bigger He said I was by there a couple days later and said that coon was bigger and bigger. Now he said The truth of the matter is that coon wasn't growing. He said if I'd wanted to, and I didn't want to, but he said if I'd have stopped and if I'd have stuck a knife in that coon poison would have poured out of that body, that dead body. And he said, that's what those churches are He said they're he said that he said they're just swelling up. He said, if you put a knife in them, he said, all you're going to get is poison Because they reject the deity of Christ. They've filled the King James Bible. They've forsaken the old gospel, the hymns and spiritual song. So so what are they filling up with? I'm telling you what they're feeling, they're filling up with wounds and bruises and putrefying souls. Why are you saying all that? Because you need to hear it. That's what I'm saying. I don't get it from a person you don't need to hear. Huh? We've got to get back to this. Well, we want to reach people. We want, all right, now listen. Jesus said this: follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. So in our lives and in our ministries, let's follow Jesus. Well, how am I going to do that? That's what he gives us this book for. Amen. So let's keep Let's keep pulling people out of hell, the priority of souls, they're the priority of the cause. People say, well, you can't this can't. I'm so sick and tired of hearing that. This new generation, all of that. And that's why they start swapping, uh swapping off and embracing some of that stuff. No, no. Uh-uh. No, no, no. The gospel is the power of God and the salvation to everyone that believeth. That is still true today as it was the day God Almighty had it pinned and put in the book of Romans. You believe that? Amen. So let's just keep doing it the Bible way. You'll keep reaching people for Christ. Souls. That's the priority. And then I come to the word, to the letter E, and I'm looking, I'm looking for the word that'll help us best. What I'm trying to do is explain. Answer the question: What is the cause? And I settled On the word eternity. Because that's the purpose of the cause. I'll remind you tonight that life Is merely preparation for eternity, a purpose What is the cause? Well, let me tell you about the cause. It's not just for the preacher, it's for everybody. What is the cause? Oh, it's bigger. It's bigger than my little petty grievances. No, no, no, it's bigger than that. It's for the nursery worker, but it's bigger than that. It's for the Sun School teacher, but it's bigger than that. It's for the bus worker. But the cause is bigger than that. Bigger than our junior churches. Bigger than our deacon board. Bigger. Than our tithers, then our janitors, then our cooks, and our secretaries, and talking to you about the cause Who's it for? Well, years ago when I was pastored up in Covington, Indiana. I passed there till 07 when I'm back on the road. One of my bus workers, usually I wouldn't let anybody talk to me but right before I preach. Because it seemed like, and this is over in Indiana, this is not down here in Maryland or West Virginia, whatever you call this around here. I don't wonder I like it. It seemed like somebody would always want to say this while I'm I got my mind on preaching. And I'd say, now preacher, I don't want to bother you with this. And then it'd bother me. And they'd say something, you know, get my mind off. So I much let I wasn't I wasn't in kind of it. I'd stay all night after the service to talk with people and all that This one this one I'm I'm making my way to the pulpit and we're getting ready, choir's getting ready to sing, we use our choir every service. Well, Sunday morning. And a bus worker stepped out. Well that's so good. She said, preacher, I've got to tell you this. She had had a 12-year-old girl named Girl. Said she was here this morning in junior church and said she came forward in the invitation. She said, uh, said I led her to Christ. And said, when she got done praying and asking Christ to be her Savior, she went on, she kept praying. She said, dear Jesus, I just want to thank you for saving me. And when I get to heaven, I'll pay you back anyway. How about that for gratitude? Just get and say, little twelve-year-old girl. That's who the cause is for. Wonder who the cause is for? Oh it's not a little derelict out there. Doesn't believe anybody in the world even cares about him. Let alone believe in Jesus who died for it. Let me tell you who the cause is for It's for Chubb. Chubb was one of the meanest men in our county. He cussed, he's a little old fella, but he's tougher than a pine knot And uh he uh vile, wicked language, he worked in a factory in Danville, Illinois, and worked with some of the men that were in our church, and they said he's the meanest man And uh and uh just just cuss man I'd try to got his wife was a Christian and sh had some family that was coming to our church and and so I got to go and visit an old chub. drunk and foul mouthed. But his daddy was a Pentecostal preacher. And he'd pull out a mandolin or a banjo or a guitar, and he'd always have to sing me a song every time I went to see him. And I'd listen to it. The truth of the matter is, he's pretty good musician. And um I worked on Chubb and worked on him and worked on him and Finally I was coming back in and soul with him one night and I had a little time and I and I went right by his house and so I just stopped And uh that night didn't even get in the door. Just talked him through the screen door and and uh I said uh I said, Chubb, have you been giving any thought to this business about getting saved? I said, your time may be running out, you know. He said, uh, preacher, he said, I've been studying on that. And he said and made a decision. He said next Sunday, when Joy and I come to church, said, when you get done with that little speech of yours, He said, I'm gonna go down there like US. I'm gonna go down there in front and I'm gonna get saved. I said, did you know that you don't have to wait until Sunday? And I told him about my wife and I, we got safe on Thursday night. And he said, oh no, he said, I want to do it right. But I'll be there Sunday. You get down with that little talk, I'm coming down. There he was Sunday morning. I gave him a little talk. I gave the invitation, and here stepped out Fred Allen, better known as Chubb. He came down that aisle. And I met him. I said, Chubb, what you coming for? He said, I told you. I come to get saved. He got saved. Hey, hey, hey, I'm telling you, the telephone lines lit up that afternoon. They spread that all through western Indiana and the county over to eastern Illinois. Chubb Allen got saved. Chubb got saved. People couldn't believe it. And he got, say, he quit his cussin'. He quit playing music in bars and taverns. And uh he got he came God baptized. And we had another, we had another uh another fella. who was a Korean War vet. This guy's shot up everywhere. He's a walking miracle. He's still alive. And he had his son was in prison, his daughter-in-law was in prison, drugs and all of that. And He and his wife were taking care of they had four kids, five, had five little grandbabies they're taken care of, and and Daniel Illinois, and our bus worker got by there and got to bring in those got to bring in those children uh to Sunday school on the bus back. Even grandma started coming and so we started working on old grandpa. And um Finally got him. His name was Butch. And finally got old Butch to come and when he saw Chubb, he knew Chubb, because he was a Chubb groupie. Chubb would play in different places and sometimes sometimes over there in that part of Indiana, sometimes they'd have uh they'd have uh they'd have music in restaurants On certain nights, you know, just to draw. And uh whether he was playing in the tavern or whether he was playing the old butcher, he'd go and because he loved Chubb. He saw Chubb. in the church house. He sat right behind him. And uh so we're working we're working on old uh on old Butch and some of the little grandkids are getting saved and all of that But he he didn't sit there, he said, here, this is chuck, your butch. Every service, every Sunday morning. Well there's old butch, he's sitting there. I go by After he'd been coming for a while and I said, now butch, don't you think it's about time to get saved? He said, I'm watching Chubb. I said, don't you think it's about time you guess? He said, I'm watching Chubb. You know what he was waiting for? He's waiting to hear old Chubb cuss. He's waiting to find out old Chubb is going to get that band of his and go plant a tavern somewhere. That's what he's waiting on It never happened. And so after a few weeks of that, and I know this is God's truth, man. I'm telling, I'll let you know when I'm not telling the truth. I'm telling the truth. He never took his eyes off Chubb the hole. Every single Sunday he sit right there and never took his eyes off old Chubb. Finally, one Sunday morning Here came Butch. Had to have a cane. I'm not even sure he can walk now. He may be in a wheelchair now. And he come hobbling that old That old curry of morbid He was about 115 then. He's still alive. Barely. He'd come he'd come a hobbling down that aisle. I said, Butch, what'd you come for? He said, I want what Chubb's got. See that's who the cause is for. Two or three weeks after that. We've had the song service to open our service on Sunday morning. We had We had kind of like what you got here. We had the double doors. I I call them swinging doors. It's just a throwback to the old days. But anyway. I I'm over here on on this side of doors over here. There's a bunch of banging going on and uh uh you know we kept singing, but I'm looking back there and Finally some fellows got back there and they opened up the door and here come old Butch pushing a guy in a wheelchair. Didn't have any legs. His leg's been shot off. It was either in Nam or or Korea. Probably Nam because I think he was younger than the butcher. And he brought this he brought this uh uh this old serviceman now parked him right beside him right behind chub and I preached And I gave the invitation and during the invitation, old Butch, he got out of there, he got hold of that wheelchair, and he was wheeling that old veteran down there at the front. He said to me, he said, I think his name was Dick. He said, he wants what Chubb and me have got. And we were born gonna save. That's who the cause of this war. Yes. Amen. David asked the question, is there not a cause? Yeah, there is. Yeah. And it's for everybody. And the truth of the matter is, everybody in the church ought to get involved in it. We ought to dedicate ourselves to the cause. We ought to commit ourselves to the cause. We ought to sacrifice to the cause. Well, I don't like it. Who cares what you don't like? Who cares? There's something bigger than those preferences. There's the cause. The cause. The cause. And I say, get involved in the cause. Amen. Amen. Let's bow our heads, close our eyes. We have a great challenge tonight. You know, if there's some people gonna stay escape hell, then some of us need to start caring more about winning souls than we do about a lot of stuff we care about. If we're going to have revival in our country, Christians got to start caring more about doing right and living for God than we do about having a big time. There is a cause. And it's up to us whether we get involved or not, whether we commit to it. How many tonight would say, preacher, I need to give more attention to my walk with God? I give more attention. to doing what's pleasing to the Lord rather than what's pleasing to myself. You say God spoke to my heart tonight. God has challenged me to live for something bigger than just myself. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand all around? My heart's been stirred I wonder how many tonight would say, preacher, you know, I'm nearly not giving myself to win souls. Just kind of doing my thing, chasing my pleasures. God stir my heart. I want to give my life to win souls to Jesus Christ, to get the gospel to lost people. How many like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, that's my heart's desire. Amen. Amen. Now let me ask this. Is there someone here tonight you don't know for sure that when you die you go to heaven and not to hell? And you'd say, preacher, I'm concerned about that. I don't want to go to hell when I die. I want to know That God has saved me from sin in hell. You're concerned about that. You'd like for me to pray that God would help you settle that. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know I'm going to heaven when I die. I need God to help me with that. Any at all? Any like that? Now Father in heaven, you know our hearts. You've challenged us tonight And Lord, we need this. And we need a stirring of the Holy Spirit in our hearts to give ourselves, to bring others to Christ, to exalt the Lord Jesus, to please Him. With how we live our lives. Help us, I pray. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's not