And verse eleven, the Bible says, seeing then that all these things shall be dissolved. What manner of persons ought ye to be in all in all holy conversation and godliness Seeing that these things shall be dissolved. What kind what manner of person ought we to be? And that's my message tonight. And that's the question I want to ask us from this passage. If what Peter says is true About the future of the world, the future of mankind. If what he says is true, then how should that affect our lives? How should we live if that's the case? Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now our time in your word. I pray that you would use your word to, Lord, I pray you'd use your word to affect our thinking and our perspective on this world and our lives. What is important and what is not important, what is right and what's wrong. I pray your Holy Spirit would give us real clarity in our thinking on this, on these subjects. And Lord, you have to do that. I can't. I don't have the reasoning ability to convince, to change lives and affect people's lives. So, Holy Spirit, I pray that you would fill me And that you would speak through me your word, apply it to our lives. And Lord, help us to ask ourselves very seriously, what kind of person am I? What kind of person should I be in light of the truths that are given here? So again, fill me, I pray, Lord, and speak to our hearts tonight. In Jesus' name. Amen. Peter's giving here, and if you'll remember, we've kind of working our way down through here verse by verse, and in fact we spent several messages on just a couple verses themselves, maybe two, three messages off a verse. But what Peter's doing here is he has given us what is arguably the most detailed account of how this world and the universe is going to end And if you remember, back there in verse number 10, he says, The day of the Lord comes the thief in the night, the heavens shall pass away with a great noise. And the elements shall melt with fervent heat. The earth also, and the works that are therein shall be burned up Verse 11 he says these things shall be dissolved. Look at verse 12. Looking for it, hastening the coming of the day of God Wherein the heavens being on fire shall be dissolved, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat. It's the most detailed description of how this world is going to end. Now I got doing a little research, and I found that there are plenty, there's pretty much universal agreement That this world is going to come to an end at some point. Pretty much everybody acknowledges that. This thing isn't going to last forever. And there's different theories about how the world is going to end. I got looked some of these up. Now all these people acknowledge, almost universally people acknowledge, the world is not going to last forever, at least not as we know it. Some of the theories about how this world is going to end. One of the big ones right now is asteroid impact. If you've been following the news at all or noticing, they have an asteroid out there that is on our Nassau's radar. And they're giving the percentage of a chance that it's going to hit the earth. Anybody know notice anybody see that in the news lately And it's uh it was up to 3% chance the thing's gonna hit the earth. I think they dropped it down to uh 1% now, but it's out there. And so there's a very sincerely held theory that The mankind is going to come to our demise and our world as we know it is going to end because an asteroid hits our planet. Another theory as to the demise of our world, and uh this is uh out there with the physicists and a lot of these uh uh theories they have, but one is that Um how many people are familiar with the laws of thermodynamics? Anybody at all? A little bit They have these laws, and they're indisputable. They're agreed across the line. These are true. The second law of thermodynamics says that everything is running down. The way you illustrate that is if you take a brand new car and you don't maintain it, you just let it go, it will deteriorate. I mean people uh understand that Anything, you just leave it unless you maintain it, and even when you do maintain it, it'll still deteriorate. And that's the way it is with everything. By the way, that law itself disproves evolution You leave something alone, it never improves, it never becomes more complex, it always deteriorates, it always becomes less complex. It's running down And so the theory is this: the way this world's going to end, the way this universe is going to end, at some point, all the energy that makes up our universe is going to be spent It's going to be used up, and all they're going to have left is this cold, dead, dry, lifeless universe Because all the energy is expended. Now I call that the run out of gas theory. All the energy in the world is going to be burned up and it's just going to die. Another theory as to how the earth is going to end, and this one's been around for a while, is nuclear war Back when I was young, I think we mentioned this pre uh not too long ago, but back when I was young, they used to have uh alerts go off. Anybody remember them? Nuclear war and have these nuclear hide out things and there's still that idea out there. In fact I was listening to a fella, a physicist, he's kind of interesting fellow. He's not a believer, but he they asked him point blank, how do you think humanity's going to end He said, we're going to destroy ourselves with nuclear war. So that's a that's another theory. Uh another theory is artificial intelligence is going to take over mankind, destroy us, and run everything. That's a real threat. Elon Musk talks about that, the threat of artificial intelligence. I'm just trying to find actual intelligence somewhere in the universe. Another one isn't as popular, but they say there's a super volcano that the Earth's core is very volatile. And at some point this supervolcano will erupt and destroy our atmosphere and all life is going to die. Another one that is Hollywood-like, I think, is uh the aliens are going to invade And destroy, and we're just gonna be like uh we're gonna be like groundhogs and they're just gonna come and shoot us and for fun until there's none of us left How many people are finding these interesting? Anybody at all? Two people. The Hindus Their religion tells them that the earth will become more and more chaotic. Well, so far, they're on track, until it becomes so chaotic. That there's no organization, it's just total chaos, and then mankind will be reincarnated into a higher level. of of uh experience and will a will introduce this new age of mankind However, the Bible is very clear how this world ends. All these theories out there, the Bible, there's no question Concerning the Bible as to how this world ends. Here, let me give you a little synopsis, just a little summary of what the Bible says, how this world's going to end. Jesus is going to come back He's going to judge the world, and then this world's going to be burned up, and he's going to make a new heaven and new earth. Now, I don't know about you, and I said this last week, I think, but I don't know about you, but I'm going to stick with the Bible And what the world what the Bible says this world is facing and what's coming. Now I want to give you three observations. I've got a few minutes here from verse number 11. The first thing I notice Is the conclusion of the world. That's what we're talking about. That's what Pierce on how this world concludes, how it all comes to an end. And notice how he starts verse 11 He says, seeing then that all these things shall be dissolved Now these things that he's talking about is what he just laid out. The world being destroyed, the world burning up, the elements melting. And he said, seeing then that this is going to happen. And that phrase seeing then, he uses that term, and that caught my attention. And what he's saying is this Therefore, because this truth has been established, there ought to be some consequences. You see, Peter, under the inspiration of God, is presenting this destruction of the world as we know it. He's presenting it as a matter of fact. It's not open for debate. He's laying out this is how it's going to play out. This is what's going to happen. This is what this world and this universe is facing And it's not something they're supposing. It's not a theory he's presenting. He's saying, seeing then that these things are so It's an established fact in Peter's mind. Now the world thinks we're ridiculous, looking for the second coming of Jesus Christ. The world thinks we're we're crazy, we're extremists, we're fanatics, because we believe Jesus is coming back again. I was talking to a fellow not too long ago. And he just in so many words said, listen, I don't believe anything that Bible says. I don't have any time for it. I'm not interested in it at all. And the world thinks we're loony, the world thinks we're nuts. But the fact of the matter is, our confidence is not in man's reasoning. Our confidence is in the Word of God. I put this down. The world has been consistently wrong. In spiritual and biblical matters. They've been wrong every time. For over a hundred years. The world laughed and mocked at the idea That somehow this world was going to be flooded with a universal flood, and only the people that get on Noah's Ark are going to survive And that was considered ridiculous by the world. That was considered foolish. That was considered nonsense. But the world was wrong. And the flood came. And only the people in the ark are the only ones that survived. Every one of us here. Do you ever notice a lot of folks in Garrett County are related. Everyone, hey see, do you know so and so? Oh yeah, that's my cousin. Huh? You know every fact of the matter is, all y'all, all uh all us all We're all related, and Noah and Ms. Noah are are are we're the offspring of them. My point is this: the world was wrong And I don't no pun intended, they were dead wrong. They were dead wrong. The Jewish leadership, the Pharisees, the respected experts On spiritual truth and the things of God, ridiculed the idea that Jesus Christ would rise from the dead. It was a joke, it was an imposter. The Roman government, the authorities, the government authorities of the Jesus dead, never even gave it a thought that Jesus Christ would or could. Rise from the dead. And they buried him and they put the seal on the tomb, not to keep him in, but in their minds to keep the disciples out from stealing the body. Because there is no way. It's ridiculous to think a man that has been dead for three days and three nights is ever going to come back out of the grave. That was the most ridiculous thing in the world And they put guards there and sealed it, not because they were worried that Jesus was going to rise from the dead. They were worried the body the disciples were going to come and steal it. But hey, the religious leaders, the spiritual experts on God were wrong. The government, get this, this is going to blow your mind. The government was wrong. By the way, the government's wrong 99% of the time, in my opinion. And without fail, God's word has been right. God's word has been correct. So let this world come up with their theories. Let this world ridicule us. Let this world laugh at us. Let this world think we're nuts. That's just fine. Their history is they've been wrong. Oh consistently, they've been wrong. And the Bible is right. So Peter says, listen, seeing the that these things that This is established. This is going to happen. This planet that we're living on is going to be burned up. It's going to melt. This universe that we observe with our telescopes and our spaceships is going to be burned up. It's going to melt. And if that is true, now this is the mess, this is the truth of verse 11. If that is true, what kind of people should we be? What kind of lives should we be living? If what God says is true. I was talking to a fellow this week, a Christian man, he's not in our church, but a Christian man, good man, I appreciate him. He's a friend And uh he was talking, he was witnessing to somebody, an atheist, and he was trying to talk to him about the Lord and and you know, conv and you know, giving them scripture and different things. He said, We he said it wasn't really an argument, but it was a pretty heated debate. And we got talking and and we came to this conclusion, and uh uh uh it's nothing profound, we all understand this. Well we came to this conclusion, if that Bible is true And if things are going to happen the way the Bible says they're going to happen, and if things are the way the Bible says they are, heaven, hell, spirit, world, coming judgment, if that's all true then that has profound consequences, right or wrong. Think about that However, if the Bible's not true, if it's mistaken, if it's just a book, stories, if it's not true Would you agree with me? That has profound consequences. I'm convinced the Bible's true. And because it's true, it should have a profound effect upon the kind of people we are and the type of lives we live. Are you with me? So the conclusion of this world, Peter says, listen, this should ha this should affect us. If Jesus Christ is coming back again, we don't know when, and if that's going to lead to the judgment of mankind, which leads to the ultimate destruction and doom of this world, it ought to affect how we live. It ought to have a profound effect. And it leads me to my second thought: is this the consideration of the believer. Look what he says. Seeing then that these all these things shall be dissolved. With that being established, that being true. What manner of persons ought you to be? What manner of persons? In other words, he's saying, listen, you need to stop and think. What kind of person are you? What kind of person should you be? If this is all true, what kind of person should you be? I think what he's saying to us, I think what God is saying to us through the pages of Peter's scripture here is we need to stop. And take a hard look at ourselves. And do some self-evaluation. What kind of person am I and what kind of sh person should I be in light of the fact of what my future holds? In light of the fact what's coming, what manner of persons ought you to be? If this is true, how should we live What kind of person should I be? Ezekiel asked a very similar question in Ezekiel 33, 10, and he's preaching the judgment of God coming on the nation of Israel. And he's telling them over and over and over, he says, you need to straighten up. And I'm putting this in my own words, obviously, but he's teaching them, you need to straighten up. You need to get right. You need to quit playing with God and with your soul And then he asks, then he tells Israel this question: in light of the fact that judgment is coming on the nation of Israel, Ezekiel's saying this, he says, he asks this question: how should we then live? If judgment is actually coming, how should we be living our lives? That's what he said to Israel. That's what Peter is saying here, basically, to you and I, and to the people he's writing. How should these truths affect our lives? What kind of person should I be? How should I be living my life? I'm convinced that God gives us truth in Scripture, not just to satisfy our curiosity. He gives us events in the future. And by the way, I don't know about you, I find prophetic truths fascinating Everybody wants to know what tomorrow holds, right? We look at our phone, what's the weather going to be? We wanna know, you know, people scam, make millions and millions of dollars scamming people fortune telling, telling them what their future is gonna be. And so there is a natural curiosity that comes along with the Bible telling us future events. But God never tells us what the future holds just to satisfy our curiosity. He tells us what the future holds so that we can consider ourselves, evaluate ourselves, and make sure we are living our lives in preparation of what he says is coming. Are you with me? So what what what manner of men should we be if this is true? The Titanic, we're familiar with the Titanic. Oh, God can't sink the Titanic. Lo and behold, it's not the first or the last time man had to eat his own words. And so they hit the iceberg, you know the story. And it wasn't long, it was pretty quick after they hit that, it became terrifyingly everybody became terrifyingly aware of the fact that that this ship is going down. And as I was reading about the Titanic some time ago, I watched a little documentary. I was doing some reading on it. It's been a little while ago When they came to the conclusion this ship is sinking, this ship is going to be destroyed, it changed the way everybody on that ship behaved. You with me? Completely just partying up, uh having going on, you know, not a care in the world. All of a sudden, wait a minute, there's doom coming And it changed everything. The orchestra started playing hymns. The Christians on there started witnessing to people that they never said a word to about Christ, but doom is coming. The fact that the ship was going to sink affected the way they lived. What they did, it affected their behavior. I'm here to tell you, Peter's telling us that the fact that Jesus Christ is coming back again ought to affect the way we live. What kind of people should we be if these events are true? And not if these events are true. What kind of people should we be? We need to consider I worked with for a number of years and I I hope you don't misunderstand. I don't mean it to sound morbid, but I worked with a hospice for four years. And to be very honest with you, I found that ministry tremendously fulfilling. And Helen helped with hospice. And when Sue Tegarden, she's with the Lord, she worked for years with hospice. And you know, people on hospice, they're going to die and they know it. Their time is limited. Now nobody knows exactly and But I tell you, I I'm I'm probably with maybe a hundred patients in four years, probably more than that maybe. I don't know. I didn't count And you know when they found out when that diagnosis was given, when that verdict was announced, you you have terminal cancer or whatever, you have six months to live or less For many of them, it affected the way they saw themselves, their priorities changed. It affected them. It affected them. And I had the phenomenal privilege by God, and I consider this very humbling and a phenomenal privilege to be able to lead many, many, many people to Christ. Before they passed away, they knew they were dying. I was able to lead them and many family members to Christ. One of my statements to them was this, when it would say stuff like, you know Oh, I don't know, I'm worried. I'd say, listen, God is showing you tremendous mercy in that He's giving you an opportunity to make things right and get your souls settled and right with God before you pass away. A lot of people, their lives are taken like that. They never have opportunity to pray. Prepare it. You follow what I'm saying? And so many, many people. But what the point I'm trying to make, and I think this is what Peter's saying, listen, seeing that these things are so, we need to consider how we're living our lives. We need to consider what our values are and what our priorities are, what's right and wrong, and what do we how do I want to live my life in light of this fact? God gives us prophetic truth not to satisfy our curiosity but to motivate us to establish godly values and establish eternal principles. And eternal priorities. And then the last thing I notice here He says, What manner of persons ought ye to be? And then he makes this statement at the end, in all holy conversation and godliness, he tells us how we ought to be He tells us what kind of persons we ought to be. Are you listening, girls? And he tells us, he says we ought to have holy conversation and godliness. A word that word holy conversation kind of goes along with what we preached this morning. It means a a life that is set apart to the Lord. A holy conversation. The word conversation Although it includes us talking, if Evan and I were talking, we'd have a conversation. It would include that. But the term conversation used here in other places in the Bible is talking about not just my talking with somebody, but my lifestyle. How I live my life communicates what my values are, what my priorities are, what I consider right and wrong, what I consider important and not important. How I live my life communicates my values. And he says, seeing that the Lord's coming back, and this everything we can see, everything that's material is temporal We ought to live our lives. We ought to communicate the fact that our values are not on this world and temporal things of this world. I hope I'm communicating here what he's trying to tell us. Come back, if you would, real quickly, to 1 Peter chapter 1. He touched on this in his first chapter. And verse number 15. Look what he says. But he which hath called you is holy. Look at this So be ye holy in all manner of what? Conversation. That's what he says at the end of chapter of 2 Peter. Seeing these things are so all this future, what the future holds, we ought to have a holy conversation, a life dedicated. What he's saying is a life dedicated to the Lord Jesus Christ, a life dedicated to that which outlives the temporal world. Then he says in all godliness, back here in 2 Peter, Holy conversation and godliness. The word godliness is kind of redundant, has the idea of living a life in respect for God. Living a life that reflects God's holiness. In other words Peter's, God, through Peter, is giving us this information about what the future of our world holds and how it comes to an end. Not just so we can think, oh, that's amazing, oh that's scary, oh, but so that has a profound effect Upon our values, upon how we live our lives, upon what our priorities are. Because we're we're on a sinking ship, right? It's gone down. And that's made very, very clear. On August 25th, 1985, and I've used this many times, a personal illustration But God stirred my heart. I was trying to live for God. I was wanting to live for God. Preacher preached a message, I don't remember what it was, down Highland Park, Baptist Church. Big church, six thousand people. And I was sitting back in the middle and God stirred my heart. And I made a decision. And I'd kind of been doing this, but I made I come to a point I was going to make a conscious decision. And I wanted to give my life. However long it is, whatever it entails, I wanted to give my life. To the Lord Jesus Christ, to live for Him and serve Him. Whether it was preaching or being a schoolteacher, whatever it was. I was working in the operating room of a hospital at the time, and I didn't know what, but I wanted to give my life to Jesus Christ. God stirred my heart. That's what Peter's saying I'm afraid we have a lot of Christians. Let me just bring this home now. I'm afraid we have a lot of Christians that are investing their lives in something that's going to burn up here eventually. Our time and our treasures were invested. Jesus said, lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven. Where moth and uh rust doesn't consume. And Peter says, listen, it's all going to be consumed. Stop and think about it What should your priorities be? What should be important? And I'm never, I'm never for one day have I regretted giving my life to Jesus Christ. Can I testify tonight? I highly recommend it. Whether in the ministry or whatever it is, working in a prison, driving trucks, uh working at a restaurant. Um not working at all, just hanging around the house. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I just that was bad. I'm sorry. A little bit. But um Give my life to Jesus Christ, because one of these days, all this is going to be gone. I I I've used this illustration before, but it's it it it I think it illustrates what Peter's saying. I read about some fellas. They were just they were just being naughty. Some young fellas just being naughty. And they they snuck in, they got after hours, they got in the back of a hardware store. Somehow got through. I don't think they broke in, somehow they got in. And they didn't steal a thing. Didn't steal a thing. They just were naughty. They went in and took the price tags and mixed them all up. And so the next day the owners come in, turn the lights on, open up, open for business, customers start coming in. That guy comes over, he's going to buy a box of nails. Normally what, eight bucks for a box of nails? It has the price on there, fifteen hundred and ninety-five dollars. Another guy's looking at a chainsaw, it's twelve hundred bucks, it looks 75 cents And all the values on everything was mixed up. And things that were worth almost nothing, they put a very high price tag on. And things that were of incredible value, they put a little low price tag on. And I'm telling you, that is exactly what the devil has done in this old world. Things that as far as eternity are concerned, this world thinks is so important. Oh, it's so valuable that I be popular. Oh, that I get all the pleasure. Oh, that I had this, and oh, I had that. And Peter says, you know, all that's going to be burned up. And the things that are of tremendous value, eternal value, the condition of my soul pleasing my Creator, doing right Loving God, winning others. A lower low price. And I hate to say it, even in a lot of our churches. Can I just illustrate one that we've tried to emphasize here? This matter of winning souls in a lot of churches is just way down here, right or wrong. Missions God says that that's of great value importance to the Lord. And we go on, what manner of people are we to be? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to take these thoughts and challenge us. I pray you'd help myself and all of us just to stop and look at ourselves in the mirror of your word and say, where am I at spiritually? What am I? What kind of person am I? What kind of Christian am I? Where am I at? When this is all said and done, am I going to have anything of eternal value or burn it all up here on earth Their heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many tonight would say, you know, I just I just want to stop and ask God to do an evaluation on me. I want God to audit me spiritually. How about let's put it that way. God audit me spiritually. Where I'm at. Is there any like that? Be willing to say, preacher, I'm willing to pray that prayer. And ask God, just search me and try me. And see where I'm at spiritually. Any like that? God bless you. Hands all around. God bless you. I wonder if there's some, say, preacher, I already know some areas that are out of whack. I got some price tags out of on the wrong stuff. I got the wrong price tags on stuff. We already know that. God's dealt with you about it. You say, preacher, I need to get these price tags back where they're supposed to be. Anyone like that? Anybody, God bless you. Already know it. God's dealt with us. It's not between you and me. It's not between you and the church. It's between you and God. I want to get these right. I want to get these back where they should be By chance, somebody tonight said, Preacher, I don't even know if I'm saved. I don't know if I'm going to heaven or hell when I die. I tell you, it's awfully late to wait until you can't do anything about it. Tonight you say, preacher, pray for me. I need to get that settled about where I'm spending eternity. Any like that, any at all like that. Any? Father bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen