Answering said unto them, Have faith in God. And that simple statement has carried me through so many difficult times and challenging times. And uh and that God has used that that verse in a great way. But this morning, I want us to look at verse number 24. Verse 24. And I would like for us to read this together in unison. We just read it with Pastor Grant a little bit ago, but let's read it together here in unison, would you? With me, verse 24. Here we go. Therefore I say unto you, What things soever ye desire when ye pray, believe that ye shall receive them, and ye shall have them. What a great, great prayer promise in that verse. Let's pray, and then we're going to pull this verse apart here and try and apply it to our lives. Let's ask the Lord to help us. So let's pray. Father, I thank you, Lord, for good service this morning. What a blessing it has been for me to be in the house of God It's just a joy to be around God's people and sing these songs. And Lord, it's just a blessing. Now, as we look into your word, God, we need you To open our hearts and minds to what this truth has here. And Lord, I pray that your Holy Spirit, through me, filling me and speaking through me, would apply these truths to our lives. And that uh we could be the people you intend for us to be, that our our lives would be uh uh a little more effective, more fulfilled uh for the glory of God. I yield myself to you. I present my body again, Lord, as just a simple tool in your hand. And fill me and speak through me, I pray, with your spirit. In Jesus' name, amen I'll be very honest with you. This message this morning comes out of a heart that has been getting hungrier and hungrier and hungrier. To have uh to be an effective man of prayer. The longer I'm saved, the longer I'm in the ministry, the more I am challenged by God's word. To be a man of prayer. To be a man of effective prayer. And I mean when we pray, I'm not just saying words. But it is actually moving the hand of God and seeing God do some great things. There's one thing, this is what I'm trying to say, there's one thing in my Christian life I long to master, and that is this matter of prayer. I was thinking this week and last night in particular. I woke up several times during the night, I don't know why, but I was just laying there and just kind of meditating on today and thinking over things I was going to say, and I got thinking last night Would I prefer, now this is me individually, would I prefer to be a great preacher or to be a great prayer warrior Of course, being a preacher, the Word of God is a tremendous privilege. Don't take that lightly for God to speak through me as I Teach and preach the word of God and affect lives and change lives and all that, boy, what an honor, what a privilege that is. But I'll be very honest with you. I think if I had to make the choice between the two I would ask God to make me a great prayer, a prayer, a great prayer warrior. And this is my thinking. God can use anything or anyone to declare his word. I thought of Psalms 19. The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth his handiwork. You know what that verse is saying? God can use inanimate objects to declare, to communicate his presence and communicate a little bit what he's like. It's one place in the Bible, now this is not very flattering, but God used a donkey to communicate to some people, uh Balaam in particular, his message. So to be a great preacher is a tremendous honor, but God can use inanimate objects to communicate. We use them every day of the week with gospel tracts. We hand out the message. So to be a great preacher is a great honor, but only a child of God can pray. The heavens can't pray. Donkeys can't pray. Little pieces of paper can't pray. Only you and I that know Jesus Christ as Savior have access to God's very throne. And that we can touch heaven and we can communicate with God and have God respond to us in prayer. And so, the desire of my heart is to be a man of prayer. A man that knows how to get a hold of God. I like what James chapter 5, verse 16 says. The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man does what? Availeth much. Boy, what a great, great statement. And so I wonder if you feel the way I do. And feel like my prayer life has a lot to be developed still. Can I get a witness? I'm not satisfied with where I'm at in my prayer life. When I look at the Bible's testimony about what prayer is and what prayer accomplishes, Then I look at my own personal prayer life, and I compare my prayer the testimony of my prayer life, and I look at the prayer life of these great men of God in the Bible. You know what my conclusion is? I've got a long way to go. I look at how these men prayed and God did amazing things. I was reading Elijah. uh this morning brother uh chip referenced him I think in Sunny school and I was looking ahead there, wasn't paying attention to Chip and just doing my own thing over there. And uh actually I came up with a message uh had nothing to do with what you were saying, Chip, but um I'm falling apart up here. But anyway, uh I I read there how Elijah Prayed and God stopped the rain in response to Elijah's prayer. Wow, I've never experienced that to that degree You read how men in the Bible prayed and God did amazing things. And then I look at my own prayer. Like, now don't misunderstand, God's answered prayer in some wonderful ways for me personally. And many of you testify to the same. When I look at the Bible, I realize I've got a long way to go I have not arrived in my prayer life. And I'm trusting that this verse, number 24, in Mark chapter 11, that God can use this verse to help us make some progress in our prayer life. And that we, as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, can see God meet some needs that we desperately need met. That we can see God do some things for us that we cannot do ourselves that we really need to happen. And if we can learn to pray, One of the great lessons I've always said to young people, I think every young person ought to give at least one year uh to Bible college. I think you ought to go to off to a good Bible college. Just one year. Give God a year of your life. And so much that happens and so many opportunities. that we can't offer here at Mountain Lake can be offered at a at a good Bible college. And I'm thrilled. One of the greatest decisions ever made was to go off to Bible college as a 20-year-old young man And one of the things that God taught me in Bible college that I carry with me today is this: God answers prayer. God answers prayer. And I learned that. Not in a class, not in a set seminar. But in trying to desperately get through Bible college. And uh you'd be very impressed. I got a four-year degree, did it in only six years. And uh that's the truth And God used this passage to help me. Let's break it down now. Enough of that. Let's break it down. Look at verse 24. The first thing I notice, well, the thing I notice here, I notice several ingredients. If I'm gonna ha that have to be in place if I'm gonna have answered prayer. This one passage we have, I think it's about four necessary ingredients. If I'm going to have God answer my prayers. Now, there's a score of other passages in the Bible we could go to. We could spend months In a series on the conditions for answered prayer. But there's some basic here, and we'll stick with this passage and see if it helps us. Number one, if you're taking notes, write this down To get answered prayer from Mark 11, 24. Write this down. Number one, I must pray for specific requests. If I'm going to get answers to my prayer, I must pray for specific requests. Look what it says here. Therefore I say unto you, this is Jesus speaking. He says, What things soever you desire? What things soever you desire. That word things there. I got looking that up. I found that that word things is used in the New Testament 1,075 times. The word things. And every time it refers to a definite object, maybe more than one. But it always refers to a definite object. It never refers to just a general something. It's always very specific. It's always very definite object. And so when God says to us here, when Jesus says to us here, whatsoever things ye desire, He's talking about some very specific objects or some very specific issues. It's not just a general thing. This is what I'm trying to say. Effective prayers. Do not just ramble on about nothing. I I've heard, you know, I've been in this uh in the ministry since 1985. That's uh that's a fair bit of time. I've heard, prayed, and I've prayed myself some very strange prayers. You know, you just kind of Uh you ramble on and it's just nothing in specific, nothing uh uh in sp specifically, and it's like, all right, what did I just ask God for? And the answer is nothing And listen, if I ask for nothing, what am I going to get? Nothing. Jesus said, what so what things? So ever, what exactly is it that you want me to do? What exactly is it do you need? What are you asking me for? You've had people do this, they come up. Uh how many people know what I mean when I use the phrase beating around the bush? And somebody comes up and they're kind of hee-hauling here and this, that, and the other, and they're kind of suggesting this and suggesting that. And finally, in exasperation, you say, listen, what do you want? Uh you get the phone calls, don't you? It's always at supper time. Oh, and we uh and how are you? And they go on and on and on, and you know there's a sales pitch coming. And they just put it off and put it off, and then finally it's like, why did you call me? Well, we want you to buy this. Um that's not the way to pray. I'm telling you, if we can just get this one aspect of prayer down, it could transform our prayer lines. When we come to God in prayer, have something that you want from Him. Come to him with a specific request. It's kind of like going to Walmart, sort of. Not exactly, but vaguely. Um like going to Walmart. It's uh anybody uh anybody here ever go to Walmart and before you go or any store really, but before you go, you write out a list. of things that you want at Walmart. Anybody, can I get a witness? This is profound. Just right, you write out a list and you go into Walmart. And what always happens? You come out with twenty-five times the number of items that were on the list when you went in. Very few, very seldom Have I gone into Walmart without something specifically I'm going after? Uh now I'll be honest with you, I have, and Kathy and I have on occasion, particularly in winter time Got a handful of tracks or a handful of flyers of an upcoming event, and I said, you know, it's really miserable out. Let's go visiting Ed Walmart. And inevitably we get there and we see half the church, you know, and people that have been here at some point or other, and we'll just spend the time visiting. But guess what we always come out with? Something. But it's far better when we go shopping to have that list and say, alright, what do you need at Walmart? Alright, I need this, I need this, I need this, and I need this. And that's what Jesus is telling us here, our prayer list prayer life ought to be. Coming to God and asking Him for very specific things. I want to ask you a question, and I do not want you to answer it out loud. I want you to answer this question in your own heart and mind. Maybe you and your spouse, your husband and wife might want to later on get together and discuss this. But here's the question. What is it exactly You want or need God to do for you. What is it that comes to your mind when I ask that question? I guarantee for the overwhelming majority, if not everybody, when I ask that question, Something comes to your mind, this is what I need God to do for me. This is what I want God to do for me. This is my need in my life. Now, for some of us, there may be more than one. Now, God is saying, take that very specific thing, and you come to me with it. You ask me for that. Uh I have uh on my phone I was showing Pastor Grant last night, a couple different people. I got uh boy look at that fancy phone. Ooh la la. And I found an application on my phone. It was free. And uh it's called Prayer List. And that thing has been a blessing. I can set a little timer, and uh each morning a certain time that a little timer goes off, I get my phone, prayer time, oh, and uh then I pray down through that list. A lot of you are on this list here. And uh I pray, and I've got very specific things. And there's a place on here you can check if it's answered or not answered. And this thing has helped me. Now you could put it on a notepad, you could put it on a fly leaf of your Bible. You don't have to have it on a on a uh a phone or anything like that, but it goes down through here and I've got names. I'm looking at names here that I'm praying that God saves that person. I'm praying for their salvation. Well, what do you want for so-and-so here? God, I'm asking you to save his soul from sin in hell. I ask God every day for that. I've got a name here. I'm going to embarrass him a little bit, but I've got a name on here. I've got um Uh down here, it is Ken and Megan that they would come to church today. I've been praying every day that Ken and Megan would come to church today. And lo and behold, here's Ken and Megan in church today. Amen. God answers prayer. You know what God wants? God wants you to ask him specific days. That's my point I'm trying to make. Oh, I'm praying for preacher. Good, I'm glad. What are you asking God for? What are you praying for me? Tell say something specific. Don't tell me. I might not like to hear what it is, but uh um but uh uh pray specifically. Oh God bless the missionaries. I can hear God up in heaven. I'm not I don't want to be irreverent in any way, but I can kind of hear God up in heaven. Alright, what exactly do you want me to do for the missionaries? And uh God, he's saying, What things soever ye desire? Be simple, be direct. When you pray, tell God what you want. Listen, we're not afraid of that. We're not afraid to be specific. Listen, if I'm not asking for anything specific, how in the world do I know if God is answering it or not? So ask God specific. So the one lesson that Jesus teaches us here about prayer, if it's going to be answered, is we must be specific. Ask God for specific things. Number two, I noticed something else in this passage if I'm going to get my prayers answered, and that is this. Not only should I pray with specific requests, but I should pray with an earnest desire. Look again at the passage. What things soever ye what? Desire. Are you looking at it there? What things soever ye desire? That word has the idea of an intense longing for What is it you really, really need God to do in your life? And get an intense desire for that. Old-timer preachers years ago used to make this statement, cold prayers get clear denials. In other words, if I don't care about it, God is not going to answer it. I have got to care Whether this happens or not. Turn with me if you would. Keep your place here. We're going to dissect this verse a little more. But turn over to the next book in your Bible, Luke. The third gospel. And Luke chapter 18, Jesus takes about seven, eight verses here, and again he teaches us about prayer. And he illustrates this matter of coming to God with a real desire, what I want him to do. Luke chapter 18. I'm going to begin reading in verse number one, and this is where the Lord Jesus is Setting the stage for the disciples. And he says this, Luke 18, 1, and he spake a parable unto them to this end. Now, this is the subject of the lesson That men ought always to what? Pray and not to faint. So the subject is prayer here and not quitting. Now look what he says: there was in a city a judge. Which fear not God, neither regarded man. This guy is a cold-hearted judge, is what the Lord said. He doesn't care nothing about God. He didn't care nothing about what people think or how they feel or what his uh decisions affect them in any way. He just doesn't care about none of that. He's cold-hearted But look what happens. There was also, and there was a widow in that city, and she came to him, this judge. Saying, Avenge me of mine adversary. Now we don't know what the situation is, but this widow comes to this cold-hearted judge and makes a request. Look what happens. And he would not for a while. In other words, he doesn't do what she asks. He just doesn't pay attention to her. He don't care. Don't care about her. Don't care about her adversary. Don't care what what the deal is. He would not for a while. But Afterward, he said within himself, Though I fear not God, nor regard man, look at this, yet because this widow troubleth me I will avenge her. In other words, I'll do what she's asking. I'm going to give her her request. Why? Lest by her continual coming she weary me. What's he what's the judge saying? This gal won't let me alone. She, you can get this out of the Greek. She's driving me nuts. She is just there and intense. You've got to avenge me of my adversary. Judge, you've got to avenge me of my adversary. The whole idea here is this dear w widow Wanted the judge to do this more than anything. And she just came to him and came to him and came to him. She had To have her adversary avenged. She had to have this. This was an intense desire on her part. Now look what the Lord says in verse number 6. And the Lord said, Hear what the unjust judge saith. And shall not God avenge his own elect? Which cry day and night unto him, though he bear long with them, I tell you that he will avenge them speedily. What does God say? He's saying this. Listen, if you don't care whether that prayer is answered or not, then it's not going to be answered. You and I have got to get to the point on the subject we are praying about that it becomes an intense desire. We have to have this. God, I need you to do this for me. God, I cannot do this myself. I am in over my head. This problem is bigger than I am. God, I'm begging you. God, I am pleading with you. God, more than anything else in the world, I need you to do this for me. And when we get to the point in our lives, when we have these requests, very specific requests, and we we are intense. In our desire for God to answer them, boy, we get God's attention. We get God's attention. I remember in January of 1991. It was a Wednesday night. I was teaching teens, uh, we called it Teens Alive in Indianapolis. I was youth pastor. We were down in the little building. We had a teen building, uh just a little uh shed basically is what it was, but we had the teens in there. I was just starting uh the lesson for that evening. We got everybody signed in and checked in. I was just starting the lesson And uh the gal, her name was Vicky, she came in, she was our piano player, uh, she came in just before and she said, Pastor Leatherman, have you heard Pastor Dennis, they call me, have you heard the news? And I said, no, I'm a little bit busy. She said, they announced that we have just started bombing and the Persian Gulf War. Anybody remember that? I just I still remember where I was. January, whatever the date was. It was a winter he knows he was bombing them. And um uh but uh uh that started and boy we were glued to the TV For the next, what was it, 90 days basically, the war lasted one real long. And a scene that has burned in my heart and mind that has helped me in my Christian life so much. Our troops, I believe it was Americans, it was the United Nations, but I think it was American troops were coming up and they had taken a bunch of Iraqi soldiers They had just overwhelmed them. And they were surrendering. And I can still see on that TV screen Those Iraqi soldiers had been hunkered down and under the gun for so long they were absolutely desperate for water. Anybody see that? And they came up and literally fell before the American soldiers, begging and pleading that they would please. Give us just some water. They humiliated themselves before the soldiers and the whole world because they wanted that water so bad. I thought as I looked at this passage, whatsoever things ye desire, when I get to the point where I am willing to humble myself before God. And get to the point, you know, there's a lot of things in life that really don't matter, but this is one thing. God, I need you to do this for me. God, I am hungry for you to answer this prayer and change this situation and meet this need And save my loved one. And God give me victory over sin. When I get to the point where I really care. Then I start seeing God doing some things But if my prayer requests are simply indifferent, they require no effort, I put no intensity into it. I tell you what, at prayer, not a whole lot's going to happen. Not a whole lot's going to happen. There are members of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. That are begging and pleading with God to give them victory over sin. And I'm telling you, when we get to the point Where it is, God, I have to have victory over this besetting sin. God, I'm gonna die if you don't give me victory. God, I am not gonna let you alone. God, I am not I'll I'll go without food. God, I'll go without sleep. I have to have victory. God, I'm pleading with you. When we get that intense Over having a pure heart and God giving us victory over sin. Hey, we'll start seeing God working. Being very specific. There are people in Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, members of this church here this morning, are praying desperately for the salvation of a loved one. Some of our bus kids maybe are praying for mom and dad to get saved. Some of the parents here have children who are unsaved, and you're praying that God would save your child. Maybe there's a husband or a wife praying for your spouse. To be saved or a brother or a sister. I tell you what, when we get to the point in our Christian lives, and I'm talking to folks who are saved this morning, I'm preaching to the saved crowd. When we get to the point where the salvation of our loved one being saved from eternity in hell becomes more important to us than anything else, and we get hold of God and we beg with God and we humble ourselves before God. And God, you have to save my child. God, please do not let my child die and go to hell. Oh God, save their soul. Oh God, help me to say the right words to win them to Christ. Oh God, save my child. We get to that point, then we start getting God's attention. Or we care. Those Iraqi soldiers dropped everything, humiliated themselves before the American soldiers and the TV crews And with tears and humility, they just beg for water. God says, when you want something so bad. I'll pay attention. If you don't care, not a whole lot's going to happen. There's members of our church that are praying that God would use them to advance the gospel. That God would use us. I pray that. Many others pray. God, I want you to use me. God, please use me I pray that my life would make a difference in this old sinful world for the gospel of Jesus Christ. Tell you what, when we get to the point where we are so hungry and desire so deeply that God uses us. Well, we'll get God's attention then. We'll get God's attention. I'm talking to some members of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church this morning who are begging and pleading God to meet a need You have some need in your life. It may be financial, it may be physical, maybe emotional, I don't know what it may be, but you've got a need in your heart and life and you're like and you and when we you and I get to that point where we say God you have to meet this need God, I'm begging you. God, I'm not going to quit. You must meet this need. Maybe there's some There's members of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church that are praying for a healing in the home. Maybe the marriage is damaged. Maybe a parent and child relationship is a damage. A brother or sister relationship is not what it ought to be. This morning your heart is so burdened, your heart is so broken over the condition of your home. I'm telling you, this verse tells us that if we desire that situation to be healed, If it becomes the most important thing in the world to us, oh God, heal my home. God, do in my family what I'm unable to do. We get to that point, we get God's attention. We get God's attention. If our attitude is, Lord, God fix this mess And then walk on. Not a whole lot going to happen there. We get before God. We humble ourselves on a regular basis and we bow ourselves before God. God, I'm trusting you. God, I'm looking to you. You promise me. Then we get God's attention. Number one, be very specific. What is it you want God to do for you? I've said this many times recently, and I hesitated to preach on prayer again this morning because I just preached on a couple weeks ago on a Sunday night. But I really believe God prompting. Because we need to learn to get a hold of God in prayer. Now, what is it you want? I mentioned this the other week. My wife and I have two things. Above everything else. If God would say to me tonight, today, Dennis, I'll answer one prayer and one prayer only, I know immediately what it is. It is there. If God says, I'll give you two prayers and two prayers only, I'll answer. I know what they are. They've written down, I've been telling it to them for years. I told you we'd hear from them. I know how that crowd is. So number one, be very specific in our prayers. Number two, pray with earnest desire. Write this one down, would you? Number three. Now, this one you have to think about a little bit, but pray humbly, understanding the greatness of our God. We have a problem in modern day Christianity. Let me take that back. We got a heap of problems in modern-day Christianity. But one in particular, and that is this. We have gotten into the habit of bringing God down to the level of man In other words, we are minimizing the greatness of God and trying to maximize our imagined greatness of man. Man is not great. God is great. You and I are sinners. You and I are condemned in and of ourselves. We are condemned under the judgment of God. And it is only his grace and mercy that saves us from sin in hell. We are not great. God is great. And he does not answer prayer because you and I are something special. God answers prayer because he is awesome. And when I come to God in prayer, I must never forget that I am bowing before a holy, all powerful, omnipotent Everlasting God that created everything there is, and the only reason I'm not burning in his hell is because he is merciful to me When I forget that, and I come to God and I think I'm something and that He owes me something, brother, I'm in bad shape. I read in my Bible, you know what I found out? That the angels veil their faces before our holy God. Do you got your Bibles with you? Turn with me if you would to the book of Isaiah, Old Testament book. If you go to the middle of your Bible, you'll probably open up in Psalms. You'll flip to the back of the Bible several books. You'll run into Isaiah. Isaiah chapter 6 is an amazing chapter in the Bible. We have a little window that we get a glimpse into the presence of God and just a little glimpse of what it's like. And I tell you, it is all inspiring. Look at verse number one of Isaiah chapter 6. We are going to look through a window in the Bible and see a glimpse of the God with whom we have to do. Verse 1 says, And in the year that King Uzziah died, I, that's Isaiah, saw the Lord Sitting upon a throne. Now picture this in your mind's eye. I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne, high and lifted up And his train filled the temple. And his train has to do with his garments. His train filled the temple. Look at this. And above it stood the seraphim. Each one had six wings. With twain he covered his face. With twain or with two of his wings, he covered his feet. And with twain or two of his wings, he did fly And one of the seraphent cried to the other unto another and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory What a picture of our God. When you and I bow our knees and bow our heads and hearts before God, we are bowing before an awesomely holy God. That is all powerful. That spooked this world into existence. These are pure eyes that he can behold the wickedness of man We must humble ourselves understanding the greatness of our God There is no person or thing on earth that remotely compares to the awesome holiness and almighty power of the true and living God. Nothing. That is one of the reasons God forbids the making of an image. Second command, thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image. Why? Because there is nothing, it is an insult to God to compare him to any physical object. He is so far beyond, he is so far above. Any physical object that is an insult to him to try and portray him in a physical object. Now that's the God we pray to. We get a glimpse of who God is. We humbly understand that. We'll get God's attention I hear some of these preachers on TV. Be honest with you, they get on my nerves. A lot of things get on my nerves. But um these guys on TV acting like God is some sort of puppet. That God is some sort of servant of theirs. And they can just dictate God around and just do all this. Brother, that is not the God of the Bible, and that is not the God of reality. Our God is a holy God. Christianity, if we're going to have God's blessing and we're going to see revival, we need to get back to recognizing God for who and what He is. a thrice-holy, all-powerful, omnipotent God. Even Jesus, the Son of God. When he gave to the disciples the model prayer, a lot of folks call it the Lord's Prayer. It's really a model prayer. How did he begin that prayer? Listen, our Father Which art in heaven, say it with me: hallowed be thy name. Holy is your name. Your very name Is holy. Our Bible says we want to get God's attention. If we want to have answered prayer, we need to recognize God for who and what He is. He's holy, we're not. He's all powerful, we're not. Did you write it down, number one? Be specific. What do you need God to do? What is it you're wanting God to do? If God came to you this morning and and and and said, I'll give you one thing, do you know what it is? Would you have to stop and think? Or do you got it there? Number two, care about it. Hunger for it. You say, well, I know it's important, but I just don't feel that strongly about it. Then I know what your prayer request should be. God make me feel strongly about this. God, make me understand the importance of this. Number three, pray humbly with an understanding of the greatness of God. Number four, last of all, pray with strong faith in God. That's where we come back to Mark chapter 11. Therefore, I say unto you, whatsoever things ye desire, when ye pray, believe. That ye receive them, and ye shall have them. Verse number 22, my life's verse. I've claimed it for years. Jesus answering said unto them, Have faith in God. Believe God. The word believe there in verse 24 has this definition: to be fully persuaded that something is so. It means to be convinced of a truth. Believe. Believe That word believe is used in one form or another in the Gospel of John over 94 times. It is through believing, being fully convinced that Jesus died on that cross for me personally and rose again, it is through believing that my soul is saved. It is through believing that Jesus died for you personally on that cross, was buried, and rose again. Absolutely convinced That that took place, he did that for me to for me to be uh forgiven. That is what saves your soul from sin in hell. This church cannot save you from hell There is nothing you can put in the offering plate that will save you from hell. Lord will in a few moments we'll have baptism Getting baptized does not save a person from hell. It is believing on the Lord Jesus Christ as my personal Savior That takes my sins away, forgives my record in heaven, and saves me from the devil's hell. It is believing. Being fully convinced. That's our message to Garrett County in the world. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. It is believing that God is able to answer prayer That brings answers to my prayers. I put it this way: our answered prayer is conditioned upon our confidence, our belief in the promises of God. What happens if a person does not accept Jesus Christ, does not believe, does not accept Jesus Christ their personal Savior, and they die in that condition? What happens to that person? They die they're separated from God for all eternity in hell. If they're not convinced, fully convinced, that Jesus died for them personally. And have accepted what he's done for them as their own personal savior. If they don't do that and they die in that condition, they're in hell forever. Hey, as a child of God, once I'm saved, If I don't believe that God can or will answer my prayer, guess what? My prayer is not going to be answered If I don't believe it, if I'm not convinced that God can and will answer my prayer, it ain't gonna happen. One of the conditions is I must believe. The issue is not whether God answers prayer or not. He's already promised that. The issue is: do I believe that he can and will? Now, I do have to put a caution here. There are other passages in Scripture that teach on prayer. And simply believing that God will give me whatever I want does not force God to do something that violates his word or his character. In other words, if I am asking for something that violates the holy character of God, or I am asking something that is contrary to the clear teaching of his word, I can believe till the moon turns blue. God is not going to violate his character. God is not going to violate his word. I'm convinced in that word believe in verse 24 includes accepting all that God has taught about prayer. Being fully convinced that what God says about prayer is so. When I am fully convinced that all God has said is so, I can come to Him and I can trust Him to answer my prayer. Believing is accepting as absolute truth all that God has declared concerning prayer, including his conditions and requirements. When I am fully convinced that all that God has declared in his word is absolutely true, I humbly submit to his word and will, I can completely expect him to answer my prayers. If this verse teaches anything, it teaches this. We can expect God to answer our prayers. Now I wonder, don't answer this. Answer it in your heart. I wonder how many of us here really are expecting God to answer our prayers. I mean, really? How many of us are just praying and hoping that maybe somehow, some way, God might answer my prayer? That is not faith believing. I read years ago in India, Andrea goes over there, India a good bit. I read in India where they have all these false gods, just gazillions of them. And this Taurus, this uh I guess it was American Taurus, had come and they were observing this religious ritual that this one sect of Hinduism, I guess uh that uh they they were going through and the this religious ritual they were going through, this is what it consisted of. Taking a piece of paper or some writing instrument, something to write on, and they would write it on their request down. They would fold it up and wad it in a little bit of mud. And they would take that and they would throw it against the statue of the God they were praying to. And if that mud, with the request inside of it, stuck to the statue, well then their prayer would be answered. But if they missed, or if it hit it and slid down and came off, then their prayer would not be answered. That, my friends, is hopeless. That is hit or miss. That is not the Bible teaching of the true and living God's response to prayer We can come to God believing what He has told us about prayer and fully expect that He will answer our prayer. Say, preacher, what if he doesn't? Then God will change our request. God will change our heart. That's a whole nother message. God taught me a powerful lesson about three years into my Bible college experience. I'd finished out the fall semester. I'd just started working a job in the hospital. And I was able to pay my monthly tuition and board and all that. And back in the day then you finished, you you would have your fall semester and you'd go to Christmas break. Then you would come back from Christmas break and take your finals. And then about four or five days later, you would register and begin the spring semester. And so you had at best a week in between the end of the first fall semester and the beginning of spring semester. Well, I was able to keep my payments up. To the end of the fall semester, but I wasn't able, I wasn't making enough money to put anything up to prepare for the spring semester, and I came up short. I saw it a couple months ahead. I thought, I'm not going to have this. I'm not going to have it for spread. And I made a conscious decision I had heard preaching and I had read books that God answered prayer. And I wanted to believe that God could answer prayer. And I made a conscious decision. I decided I wasn't going to tell anybody in the world that I did not have the money for spring semester I wasn't going to tell my daddy. I wasn't going to tell my friends. I wasn't going to tell the school. I wasn't going to tell nobody. Except God. I said, God, I need to know that you can answer prayer. I've heard it preached. I've read George Mueller. I've heard people give testimony. God, I have to know it myself. I know you've called me here. I know you have a plan, that this is part of your plan. There's no doubt about it. I began praying, God, I have to have that money. I think it was something like $525. I began praying. I began praying. And I began begging God. Registration came. I didn't have a dime. Oh, I take it back. I think I had $90. Not enough to get registered. I felled out all the paperwork, turned it in, but I didn't put any money towards it. I said, I gotta know. Finally, the first day of classes came and went. I had no money. I was registered, but I didn't go to class. Second day of classes came and went, I didn't go to class. I didn't have the money. I was praying and begging God. Third day of classes was the last day before you could actually pick up and get involved. After that, then you had to start, you would be charged for whatever. And so it was either I resign Or I started attending classes, pay my bill. I did not have the money to pay the bill. I went down, fixed and go down to the bus station, was going to buy my bus ticket, pack up everything I owned. It fit in a briefcase and one suitcase And um wanna go back to Philadelphia, live with my dad and try and work it out, maybe come back another time So I got my stuff together, went by my post office box and cleaned it out, and there was a little note in there. Said, Mr. Dennis Leatherman, uh, you need to come by the registration office right away. Said all right. Went down there, went up, said I'm Dennis Leatherman. Uh the guy she goes, okay, uh we need you to sign this receipt and and uh I said, no, you're mistaken. I I uh I'm I'm heading downtown, Chattanooga, I'm gonna get my bus ticket, I'm going home. Uh I didn't make any payments. And she goes, well that's not what this is about. This is a receipt for payment that's been made. You need to sign it and accept it so it can be put on your account. I said, You don't understand. I haven't done anything. Uh I I haven't put any money on it. And she goes, Well that's not the point. She says, it's there. You just need to sign it so we can put it to your account. I said, but I didn't pay, I didn't do it. She said, shut up and sign it. Not exactly that way, but um She got a little irritated. I said, What is this all about? She goes, Your bill's been paid, Mr. Leatherman. All you got to do is let us put it on your account. It's been paid. I said, who paid it? She goes, I don't know. Just sign it. All right. You know what God taught me? God taught me that He answers prayer. To this day, I don't know for certain how that came. I got some ideas how God used to get it there, but I can't prove it. I didn't tell anybody. What is it you need God to do? What is it right now? What are you desperate for God to do? I've got two things. I'm begging God. If God doesn't answer it before I die, I'm going to my grave begging that God does that for me. What do you have? Let's pray. If you're here this morning and you're not saved, settle that. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, you'd teach us to pray. Lord, make it a major part of our lives. Every one of us have needs that only you can meet Help us to look to you and trust you. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many this morning say, Preacher, there's at least one thing.