Twenty three and uh we've kicked off. I want to try and get right to the point and uh kind of give you some thoughts tonight. We have uh something secret after the service tonight, is that right, Kabby? So we've got a secret thing. after the service. So I want to um hurry up and reveal that secret Proverbs 23, verse number 7. We've kicked off our great 2014 great scripture memory challenge today. I'm so excited about this And uh people folks this morning were uh uh up there memorizing verses, and uh this evening before the service, folks were memorizing verses and Some of the choir and Sunday school teachers were griping and complaining that they had couldn't say their verses and um uh because of we had the meeting and all that. Not all of them, just Robin. But um So we have to accommodate everybody, you know. But uh I tell you that's a blessing to me. I'm just curious how many folks were able to say at least one verse here on the very first day we started out. Look at that. That's well over half the crowd. And I really hope you'll take this challenge. And we put tried to put some verses in there. These are verses I believe every Christian should know. And some of them are very familiar, no doubt you're you if you don't have them memorized, you know them pretty well. Others maybe are not quite so familiar with you And so I hope you'll make this a year-long endeavor. Really apply yourself. And I believe with all my heart that you'll see changes in your life. And the next couple Sunday nights, I'm going to talk about what the Bible says that memorizing Scripture will do for us, the benefits of it. But I want to introduce it tonight. Look at Proverbs 23, verse number 7. Notice what the Bible says. For as he thinketh in his heart So is he. I'm entitled the message, a little different from what I had in the bulletin. I've entitled this, What were you thinking? Let's pray together. Father in heaven, bless our thoughts tonight from your word. God, I ask that you would stir our hearts, myself and all of us, really stir us. to hide your word in our hearts and minds, to commit the truths of Scripture to memory and be able To enable you to use the Word of God throughout the day and night as it's hidden in our heart to change us and encourage us and direct us and warn us and strengthen us I pray you'd fill me with your spirit as we present this and speak to our hearts. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Did you ever ask your kids, if they're a little older, did you ever ask your kids after they did something dumb, what in the world were you thinking? Anybody ever say something along those lines? Uh yeah, a few. Did you ever ask did you ever do something dumb and you said later on you said, what in the world was I thinking? Can I get a witness there? Anybody? Some of you all say I never did anything dumb. And um uh I can anyway, but uh what in the world were we thinking? Um I want to discuss tonight our thinking. I want us to think about what we think about and how we think. Why would you say, what does that have to do with anything? Because scripture memorization has a lot to do with thinking. It has to do with our mind and the processes of what we do. And believe it or not, the Bible speaks a lot about thinking. So here's my first thought, my first point in the outline tonight, the importance of our thinking. The importance of our thinking. A victorious Christian understands the importance of having correct thinking. If I'm going to live a victorious Christian life, if I'm going to be live a life that is pleasing to the Lord, that uh I overcome sin and the world and myself, my own sinful nature and the world and the devil And I'm living a victorious Christian life. It is very much to do with my thinking process. Listen to what Paul said, of course, under the inspiration of God. In 2 Corinthians chapter 10 and verse 5, he said this. casting down imaginations, and every high thing that exalteth itself against the knowledge of God. Listen to this statement. and bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ Paul was addressing the importance of how you and I think. And the importance of having disciplined thinking. As I read the scriptures, the things that the statements Paul made and different situations, it appears that Paul paid careful attention to how he thought. He paid very careful attention, making sure, and this verse tells us, he's telling us we need to make sure that we pay attention to what we think about and how our mind functions. Because if we just let it go, Proverbs 4 says, keep thy heart with all diligence. Now the Bible, when it talks about our heart, one of the references, one of the applications of the Bible speaking about our heart is our mind, how we think. And the Bible is telling us we need to keep, we need to guard, we need to imprison to some degree our heart, our thinking process. We cannot just let it go. It must be disciplined. It must be brought into captivity to the obedience of Christ And those thoughts, those imaginations that are contrary and exalt themselves against the knowledge of God, what we know is true, those thoughts we need to bring them down. The phrase casting down imaginations. It's a wrestling term. It's the idea of taking down your opponent. Um, it's hard to believe, but when I was in junior high, I was a r I wrestled. And I was amazing. I mean I could just keep that bench so warm And um it it was incredible. But uh uh I was wrestling and they would teach us moves and you get up there in position and there's your opponent and your opponent wants to basically destroy you within the framework of wrestling And one of your first moves was to try and take that guy down, get him in a position where he cannot do you harm. And that's what Paul is saying here. God is saying us through Paul. One of the ways we can keep the devil. Keep our flesh, keep ourselves from destroying ourselves, is to take down these thoughts that are contrary to the Word of God Casting them down. The phrase bringing into captivity, as I mentioned, has the idea of having them under control controlling what I think about, paying attention to my thought processes and bringing them into control, into captivity, into obedience to the Word of God in Christ. So, one of the most important aspects of my Christian life is how I think. One of the most important aspects of my Christian growth. Is how I think. For as he thinketh in his heart, so is he. I'm telling you, our thinking is very, very important. My second thought is this the consequences of our thinking. We think a certain way, it produces certain results. We think this way, we get these consequences. We think this way, we get these consequences There are consequences to how we think. As a man thinketh in his heart, in the way he thinks in his heart, as he thinks in his heart. So is he. There is a consequence to a certain way of thinking. Take your Bible if you would. Now stay here. I think we're coming back to Proverbs here at one point. But go with me to 1 Samuel. Here you have a classic illustration where somebody changed the way they were thinking. They changed their mind, so to speak, and it completely changed everything about their life. It was devastating. Uh first Samuel chapter twenty seven. First Samuel chapter 27 and I want to we're just going to look at verse number one really rather than go through the whole story. 1 Samuel 27. And look at verse number 1. Now I have this underscore and I have some notes in the margin of my Bible in this I think would be helpful. Notice what it said. Now this is the let me let me see let me give you the the the um context here of what's taking place. David has been ordained by God to be the next king. He's not the king. Saul is the king. But David has been ordained of God to be the next king. God told David very, very clearly, in no unmistakable terms. You will be the next king. Right? Now, if he's going to be the next king, he has to be alive. Duh. So now you have Saul, King Saul, out of envy, is chasing David all over the countryside. I mean, Paul, Saul is absolutely committed to killing David. You know, he's throwing javelins at him and all that. I got thinking about that. You know, uh Saul threw those javelins At David, he missed every time. No wonder he was afraid to go out against Goliath. The guy couldn't hit the side of a barn, apparently. But whatever the case, David is running for his life, running for his life, running for his life, near misses, here and there. And that's beginning to wear down on David. It is getting old, this every day looking over your back, running for your life for no reason, unjustly. Now that brings us to chapter 27 of 1 Samuel. Look what the Bible says in verse 1. And David said in his heart, I circled that phrase, said in his heart. What does that mean? What is that telling us is taking place? When he's saying something in his heart, he's doing what? He's thinking. This is going on in his mind. And he begins thinking differently Than he was previously. Let's read the rest of it. And David said in his heart, I shall now perish one day by the hand of Saul. Question, is that a true statement? No, he's not going to perish by the hand of Saul. I put in the margin of my Bible a lie. What he was thinking, what he was saying in his heart and mind was not true We don't see him saying that before up to this point. Up to this point, he's being very gracious. He's very, very humble. He's conducting himself wisely. But now he finally gets to the point, he's worn down, and he changes the way he's thinking, and he begins thinking something that is not true. And it has horrendous consequences. And he goes to the enemies of God's people, and he ends up humiliating himself. He ends up almost losing his family, and just terrible things happen for the next period of time. This is the point I'm trying to make. How we think Has consequences. If the way I am viewing a situation, if the way I am thinking about my circumstances If the way I view another person, if my thinking process is not correct, then I'm going to have incorrect consequences. But if my thought, if my thinking is true, it's in line with the truth of God's word, it's in line with what God has instructed me, then there'll be differing consequences. What if David had said now stop, let's sit let's speculate a little bit What if David had said in his heart, God promised me I'm going to be king someday? There's no way in the world Saul can kill me. I'm just going to keep on trusting God. I'm going to keep on behaving myself wisely. I'm going to keep on humbling myself before the Lord. What different consequences would there have been? We can only speculate. But David thought incorrectly. My point is this: there are consequences of our thinking. Our thinking affects our actions. Somebody said bad thinking never produce uh I'm sorry, let me back up. Good thinking never produces bad actions And bad thinking never produces good actions. Now, I was thinking this and studying this in Scripture. I thought, you know, there's a there's a there's a philosophy out there, there's a way of thinking out there, is that all you have to do is think positive thoughts, and everything will be positive All you have to do is just be happy and don't worry. And everything's just going to be fine. That is not what we're talking about. That is not what the Bible teaches. Just a shallow positive thinking, self-help type thing. That is not what scripture is talking about. I want my thinking to be biblically based. I want the way I think to be in line with what God says David's thinking was bad thinking because it was not in line with what God had told him. And his bad thinking produced bad actions, which produced horrendous consequences. So when I'm talking about Good thinking versus bad thinking, we're not just some shallow, frothy, meaningless, baseless, nothing. No, we're talking about thinking, good thinking, that is based upon the truths of God's word. Listen to uh Philippians chapter four and verse eight. Listen to this. Think on these things. It's a command of God. He's telling me I need to discipline my thinking. Whatsoever things are true Whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure Whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report, if there be any virtue, if there be any praise, think on these things. Twice in one verse, God tells you and I that we are to think a certain way. Why? Because God knows that our thinking has consequences. It will affect our behavior and has consequences. How we think affects how we behave. Classic verse. I'm telling you, this verse has helped me so much over the years. Proverbs 3, 5, and 6. Tell me that isn't a great passage. And all uh trust in the Lord with all thine heart, and what lean not unto thine What's he saying? Don't lean on your own way of thinking Control your thinking. Get it in line with the Word of God. Trust the Lord with all thy heart. Lean not into thine own understanding. Well, preacher, I just think it's like this. Well, if the way you're thinking of it is contrary to the Word of God, your thinking is bad Trust the Lord with all thine heart and lean not into thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy prayers. Number one, how we think is important. Number two, how we think has consequences. It affects how we live, it affects the decisions we make. It affects our interactions with others, our interaction with others. It affects me emotionally how I think. Number three, I put this down. The revelation of our thinking. First of all, the importance. Number two, the consequences. Then the revelation. In Proverbs 23, 7, it said this, as he thinketh in his heart, so is he. And you say, I wonder, do you ever ask yourself this? Don't answer out loud, but I wonder if you ever asked yourself this, I wonder what kind of person I really am. I wonder what I really am. Do I have an accurate view of myself? I I found that men generally think more highly of themselves than probably what we really are. At least this is well, I didn't make any friends on that one. I mean I I I like to say this, but you know, I look in the mirror and I think, yeah, I look pretty good. And Kat Kathy and she goes, You're a mess, you need to do something. I said, What are you talking about? How I think reveals what I really am. You say, I wonder what kind of person I really am. Stop and evaluate how you think. Because as he thinketh in his heart, so is he. That's a revelation of what I am. Proverbs chap let's let's race through Proverbs real quick. Come back to Proverbs with me, will you? Go to chapter 6, and we're just gonna be in a bunch of verses through the book of Proverbs. Proverbs 6 And I'm telling you, there is time. We could take a month and just go through and all the verses that talk about thinking. But I tried to pull some out that show us that how we think reveals what we really are Uh Proverbs six, let me get here, and verse number eighteen Verse 16, it says, get the context here, these six things doth the Lord hate. Yea, seven are abomination unto him. The Bible says there's some things that God just hates. You can't stand them. Verse 17, proud look, a lying tongue, hands that shed innocent blood. All right, look at this. A heart that deviseth wicked imaginations It's talking about it's telling us here that God hates scheming thoughts in my mind If I'm if I m if my thoughts are scheming for something that is forbidden of God That tells me that I am a wicked schemer. Right? That's the way I think. My thoughts are wicked imaginations, and that means the idea of coming up with schemes to accomplish things that God forbids The fact of the matter is, it's not very flattering, it's pretty humbling. That means I'm a wicked schemer. Because as I think in my heart, so am I. It's what I am. Come over to chapter seven with me and look at verse nine and ten. Now chapter seven is a uh young man, he's look uh or the The the the Solomon uh Proverbs Solomon here is looking out of his window, he sees a simple young man on a street corner, and a sensuous woman comes up and she's dressed immodestly and and just all this stuff goes on. And look at verse nine In the twilight, in the evening, in the black and dark night, and behold, there met him a woman with the attire of a harlot. And look at this, subtle of heart. What does that mean she was subtle of heart? Means she was very tricky. She thought up ways she was able to think. Her thinking was very subtle, very deceptive. She had an agenda, and she knew how to pawn that off on someone. What do you have here? This woman, as she thinks in her heart, so is she What do you have here? You have a woman that is sensual and deceptive. And the consequences are tragic. What am I trying to say? I'm trying to say how we think tells us what kind of person I am. What my thinking is tells me what I am. You say, preacher, that's not very uh that's not very flattering, no It isn't. Come with me over to chapter ten and verse number eight. Proverbs ten and verse number eight. Look at this. The wise in heart will receive commandments, but a pratting fool shall fall. Here you have a person, they're thinking, they're wise in their thinking. They're finding out the Word of God, their mind is their thinking is established on the commands of God, their thinking is saturated with the Word of God. They're very wise, they're able to see things and evaluate things in light of God's truth. Which is reality. They're able to see people and circumstances and opportunities. It's all in light of the Word of God. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. And here you have a person That is very wise in their thinking. And that person is, what kind of person would that be? As he thinks in his heart, so is he. So what kind of person is this? It's a wise person. Why? Because of the way he thinks reveals that. Look over at chapter 12 and verse number 20, just a page over. Deceit is in the heart of them that imagine evil. Here's somebody that's thinking on things. And uh their their imagination, uh deceit is in the heart of them that imagine evil, their mind, their thinking is deceptive, it's against the word of God And thus that's what they are. Look at chapter 14 and verse number 30, just a page over again. The sound in heart is the life of the flesh. Here's a person. They're very sound in their thinking. Now what does that mean? They think really loud. I don't know how you have a volume on your thinking. Doesn't mean they think loud. It means healthy. Complete. Their thought life is very healthy. It's grounded in the Word of God. It's Philippians 4. 8. They think well, whatsoever things are true, and whatsoever things are honest, and whatsoever things are just Whatsoever things are pure, and whatsoever things are of good report, and if there's any virtue, if there's any praise, they think on those things. That person is a sound person, because as he thinketh in his heart So is he. He's healthy mentally and spiritually because of how he thinks. Look at uh we got to move along here quickly, but chapter 15, verse 28. Just about the same page here. Look what 1528 says that the heart of the righteous Study it to answer. The thought, the thinking of the righteous. So here you have a righteous person. Look at chapter 18 and verse 12. Come over there, chapter eighteen, verse twelve. Let a bear. Uh chapter that's seventeen. Eighteen verse twelve. Before destruction, the heart of man is what? Haughty. Here you have somebody, their thoughts are very haughty. What does it mean to be haughty? Proud. What? I'm sorry? Arrogant is a good way, very haughty, very arrogant. I just think they're better than everyone else, and I know more than everyone else, and I can do a better job than anyone else, and everyone else is stupid, and everyone else is dumb, and I and I know everything more than anybody else If a person thinks that way, that's what they are. They're haughty. They're arrogant, they're proud. Uh look at chapter twenty-two and verse eleven Chapter 22, 11, you say, Brother Lemon, this is discouraging. I'm telling you, our hearts are deceitful and desperately wicked. There's some good things in here. Look at verse 11. He that loveth pureness of heart Ah! Here's somebody that thinks pure. Their thoughts are pure and they're upright and they're they're clean and they're uh positive in a lot of ways. You've got a person that's you've got a pure person. Chapter 23 and verse 17, we'll end with that one. Notice what it says: Let not thine heart envy sinners. Here's you got a person always thinking that the uns uh uh boy we we ran in this when I was in Indianapolis a little bit, but the whole thing was oh us poor Christians, we can't have no fun All those folks out there, they're they're out drinking and partying and throwing up with headaches and their marriages are falling apart and their disaster and their lives are empty and meaningless and all I have is the blessings of God. Somehow they always saw what appeared to be the good of the world, and they never saw the consequences of the world, and they were always envious of the wicked. That's what they are. They're just envious people. They're not satisfied with what they have. They're not content with what God has given them. They always have to have what even the wicked have. I always have to experience what the wicked are experiencing. So my point is this, and what the verse is telling us here is our lives run in the direction of our thinking. We are Very way we think very much tells us a lot about ourselves what we are. Let me give you the last thought. Now that that one was pretty discouraging. The last thought is the transformation of our thinking. You say, preacher, I don't like the way my mind works. I don't like, I struggle with thoughts I struggle. I tend to be negative in my thinking. I tend to be impure in my thinking. I tend to be deceptive in my thinking. I tend to be selfish in my thinking. I tend to be envious in my I tend to be dishonest in my thinking. My thoughts are that way. I don't want it to be that way. I want to transform it. I want my thinking to be whole. I want it to be sound. I want it to be healthy. I want my mind to be pure. And righteous and wise. How do I change it over to that If I want a better life, I need to think better thoughts. If I want better behavior, I need to think better thoughts. Somebody said the mind is like a garden. And the thoughts that I put in there will grow and blossom into behavior. And if I just let what happens when anybody here have a garden? Anybody here have a garden out back or anything? Anybody here have a flower in the house? Anybody here have a plastic plant somewhere? What happens if you have a little garden and you just let it go? You don't plant any tomatoes, you don't plant any green beans, you don't plant any onions, you don't plant any carrots, you just pfft let it go. What do you get? Meaningless, empty, ugly weeds. That's the way our mind is. If we just let it go, or worse yet, let it feed on the garbage of this world. Man, it's a mess. And we need to change it. What we need to do is plant in their seeds And let them grow and transform us. I want you to go to one more verse, and we're going to end with this. Romans chapter 12. Would you come there with me real quick? This verse tells us directly and specifically how to change our thinking. Romans chapter 12, and come with me to verse number one. Romans 12, 1. A bunch of you know this verse. I beseech you, therefore, brethren. Paul, God through Paul is pleading with these Roman believers. He's begging them, so to speak. That ye present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable unto God. Which is your reasonable service. Now look at this. And be not conformed to this world, but be ye what? Transformed. How? By the renewing of your mind. The word transform literally means to be changed from within. It is used of a butterfly, uh of a little um uh Before it's a butterfly, it's um caterpillar. Now little caterpillar. You ever a kid you catch a caterpillar, you put a little big jar or something that's in there. Anybody ever do that? Big caterpillar. And after a while you look and that thing comes up and lo and behold it's a cocoon. It's amazing. And then it's a what? A butterfly. Now, question. Did you get that little caterpillar and squish out the sides and make wings on it and squish that out and squ Stretch it out and pull little legs out of it. No. If you did that, what would happen? You'd squish it It needs to be changed, not from the outside. You can't conform that thing into being butterfly. It needs to be what? Transformed. It's a process that God put into that little caterpillar where it changes from the inside out And that's what God will do for our lives by the renewing, transformed, by the renewing of our mind. The renewing of our mind. The word renew there means to renovate. How many folks here are saved and you know it? Say amen. Isn't that a great thing to be saved? I want my life to be everything God wants it to be. Amen? Am I the only one? Anybody else feel it way? I want my life to be what God wants it to be Reality is my life isn't what God wants it to be. Not totally. And I want that to change. And so what I need to do is renovate my mind. Get in there, clean that thing up, sweep it out, put new stuff in. And get it fixed up. And then when that happens, then a change in my life starts taking place from within. You see where I'm going with this? What's this have to do with memorizing scripture? Hmm. I get scripture into my heart and mind. And it changes the way I think. And I start thinking the way God thinks. And I start seeing people in situations the way God sees them. And I start seeing myself the way God sees me, the way I really am. And I start seeing my responsibilities and my purpose in life the way God sees it and the world. I see it the way, and it renovates, it renews my mind. And I find my life changing. Here's what I believe is going to happen. If we will take the challenge And apply ourselves to get God's word hidden into our hearts and minds, I believe we will see a change in the way we think I believe we will see a change in the processes going on in our mind. And that is going to produce a change in our life. My daddy is far wiser than he realizes he is. He doesn't think he's much, but he did something when I got saved. Just the whole process of his witnessing to me. My daddy never came to me and beat me over the head with the Bible after I got saved. Now you gotta quit listening to rock and roll music, you knucklehead. Did that hurt? He didn't do that. What's the matter with you? You gotta be in church every Sunday and Wednesday. He didn't do that. You know what he did? Little verses around. He used to write me little letters. Boy, this verse is a blessing to me. You know what he was doing? He's getting God's word into my head. That's Hard. You know what? God started changing my life. Transformed. I want to challenge us. Now, memorizing scripture is part of it. This is big. I'm really pushing this because I'm excited. I think it's going to have a powerful effect. But it also involves reading our Bibles every day. Getting it in there. Involves coming to church and hearing the preaching. Listen, I don't think I don't think the preacher's great or the preaching's great, but I think what's being preached is pretty good. Follow what I'm saying? The word is powerful. Whether it's Grant or myself or some guest preachers coming in, the Word of God's going out. Brother, there's renovation taking place. There's transformation going to take place. So, what in the world are you thinking? Do you ever stop and think about it? It's kind of neat. You get to the point you wake up in the middle of the night, you're laying there, uh Mind starts working You know what I've found been happening the last couple years? Verses start coming to mind. Just passages of scripture. It's the past three weeks. For whatever reason, I've been waking up four o'clock in the morning. I don't know why. Just wake up four o'clock. You know what passage of scripture has been coming to mind? Psalms chapter one. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the godly, nor standeth the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the sea of scornful, but his delight is in the law of the Lord. His wall doth he meditate day and night, and he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water that bringeth forth its fruit and its seeds, and his leaf also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. That is a blessing I challenge you. Read your Bible this coming year. Every single day. Take time. Read that Bible. Be faithful to church. Get in the Sunday school, in the church, and the Wednesday night to studying Jonah. And then work at memorizing us. Put them up on scripture, put them on the mirrors, put them on the door, put them in your car, put them at work. Let's just be ridiculous about it. See, everybody's gonna make fun of me. Praise God, you get more rewards in heaven. Let's pray. Father in heaven, this stirs my heart, Lord. Pray you'd help us. Help us. Change the way we think. Change our behavior from within, God. Help us just to trust you and commit ourselves to memorizing Scripture. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many folks say, preacher, I really want God to change my mind? I want God to renew my mind.