And I got a microphone for you. Can't find my belt. Maybe I'll stick it in my pocket. Here we go. Praise the Lord. Our churches our church building is so small in Norway we don't need one of these, so um but praise the Lord for His goodness to us. The Lord actually worked in my heart about this time of year. About the mission field, I was actually out in the woods deer hunting. And the Lord didn't send any deer along. So he put me down under a rugby hemlock tree, up on the mountain, out in Otter Creek wilderness. And I got my New Testament out and began to read, and the Lord began dealing very specifically with me about my service for him, not that I wasn't serving him, but just uh a change in direction and the mission the mission field and thank the Lord for that and uh for his moving in our my hearts and and for his blessings as he's put us in Norway Um the Lord after that a little a little bit later on dealt us with us about Norway and then as I began to contact uh uh people about the possibility of going to Norway and mission boards, so I kept hearing the The uh exclamation that well Norway's closed, you can't go there. And we were confident the Lord had had uh called us there. And And we took a trip to Norway just to survey and and try to see about the possibilities of getting into the country. And the Lord opened up an opportunity for us to to start a business there. And uh Um we have a private music school and I teach piano lessons and and uh Ruth teaches a few and the Lord has uh put us there and and uh uh here in uh january we'll be eligible to apply for permanent residency and once we have that we're there and uh so do pray for that uh process as we'll be applying in january and uh to for permanent residency in the country, which makes us almost like a citizen. It's like having a permanent green card here in the US. So uh we thank the Lord for his meeting our needs in that way and uh for what the Lord's been doing. The the church is doing well. We work with a veteran missionary that's on the field there that's been in Norway for about forty years. uh with a new church plant that he began just about a year before we arrived on the field and we've been going to language school and improving little by little and um Um the church is running about 25 to 30 average. Sometimes we've had we've had as many as uh thirty-eight, thirty-nine on a Sunday morning service. Just recently we had a uh an international dinner where we invited folk in and had sixty-three. So we're praising the Lord for the opportunity to get the gospel out in the city of Stavanger, Norway. It's on the southwest coast And hope you'll visit our board and see a little bit more about the country as well. And if you have any questions, we'd be glad to answer those questions for you. If you would turn with me to Acts chapter 13 this morning, Acts chapter 13, we'll be reading some verses in that chapter, and then also in chapter 14. We'll actually be reading uh the first four verses of chapter 13. And Pastor started with this in his Sunday school lesson this morning, or used it. I don't know if he started with it, but um and then we'll jump down to Acts chapter 14 and verse 23. Notice in chapter 13, verse 1, the Bible says this. Now there were in the church that was at Antioch certain prophets and teachers, as Barnabas and Simeon, which is called Niger, and Lucius of Cyrene and Menaeon, which had been brought up with Herod the teetrarch and Saul. As they ministered to the Lord and fasted, the Holy Ghost said, Separate me, Barnabas and Saul, for the work whereunto I have called them. And when they had fasted and prayed and laid their hands on them, they sent them away. So they, being sent forth by the Holy Ghost, departed unto Seleucia. And from thence they sailed to Cyprus. Then so this was an account of uh the church there at Antioch sending out uh Paul and Barnabas as missionaries to establish churches to plant churches throughout um Asia and Asia Minor there. Then in Acts chapter fourteen we we see them coming back from their journeys to report to their sending church. Chapter 14, verse 23, it says, And when they had ordained them elders in every church and had prayed with fasting, they commended them to the Lord, on whom they believed And after they had passed through Poseidia and came they came to Pamphylia, and when they had preached the word in Perga, they went down to Atalia, and thence sailed to Antioch, from whence they had been recommended to the grace of God for the work which they fulfill And when they were come and had gathered the church together, they rehearsed all that God had done with them, and how he had opened the door of faith unto the Gentiles, and there they abode long time with the disciples So what we're doing this morning and reporting to you about Norway and what the Lord is doing there and what the Lord has done with with us who have been called to go there is biblical. This is what Paul and Barnabas did. And we are excited about being able to share with you a little more tonight as well about exactly what the Lord has done. But uh the message I want to bring this morning is maybe a little bit different than you would normally hear from a missionary. But uh The Lord laid this on my heart, and the title of the message is this, What Your Missionaries Expect of their Supporting Church. Or their supporting churches. What your missionaries expect of their supporting churches. You, and rightly so, expect certain things of us that you support. Those missionaries that you support around the world, those you send out, uh you ought to expect to do what God has called them to do. And uh You have expectations of us and and uh if we do not meet those expectations, uh you know you might end up uh dropping us for support or uh or uh admonishing us in some way. But but uh you expect things of us, and that's right, you ought to. And that's biblical. But also as we from the other side, as we look back at uh our ascending church, uh Fellowship Baptist Church here in Fairmont, and also our supporting churches around the country, we expect some things of you. We don't expect you necessarily to send your monthly support, although that's a blessing. And uh if if all every church quit doing that then uh we would have trouble staying in in the place the Lord has put us. But uh we expect you to do several things. And we we want to look at those this morning. One missionary I I talked to had come back uh um on on furlough and he had to find the new sending church because the church that had sent him out um had gone out of existence There had been a split, and then both parts of the split just dwindled down to nothing because people were fighting against each other. How sad. Other missionaries I've talked to have told me of their ascending church or the supporting churches have changed doctrinally in their the doctrines of the scriptures and in their standards and things like that and and they don't know what to do. And that's sad as well. But we expect, as the scripture says, better things of you. And this morning I want to look at some of those things. What do we, as your missionaries, expect you of you as a supporting church? And so we want to look at several places in the scripture this morning. The first is Ephesians chapter 6, verse 7. Ephesians chapter 6, verse 7, where the Bible says this, with good will doing service as to the Lord And not to men. Number one this morning, we expect you to keep serving the Lord. Keep serving the Lord. Be involved in service, with goodwill doing service as the Lord and not as a man. When we come back and report to you every four years or so We expect you to still be doing the same thing that you were doing when we were here the first time, and that is serving Christ, doing what God has called you to do here in Mountain Lake Park area of Oakland, Maryland. We expect you to still be here. It would be sad for us to to come back on on furlough and and uh as I tried to do with uh church over Over in uh in uh the panhandle of West Virginia, I tried to call the church and it said this number has been disconnected. And I tried to call the pastor and it said this number has been disconnected. And I called another pastor that supports us over in that area and I asked if he knew anything about the church, and he said, I think it's gone out of existence. And when we were there, it was a good church, a soul-winning church. And so keep serving the Lord. We expect to see you here, and I praise the Lord for so many of you that I met today again, and uh so many familiar faces that I've seen that that um I've either seen here or or over at Wildwood at the men's retreat or a camp or something like that, uh as we were involved at Wildwood for uh many years as well. Um it's exciting to see you still here Still serving, still saying praise the Lord and encouraged about what we're doing and what is happening here at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. But why do you serve the Lord? It says, with good will doing service as to the Lord and not to men. We all can fall into the trap, even a missionary in the mission field can fall into the trap. of serving the Lord simply because it is expected of us. Why are you serving Christ? Is it just because your pastor expects you to? You think it well if I don't show up uh th this Sunday the pastor is going to call me, so I better show up. Well he ought to call you and and you ought to show up and uh he ought to expect you to be here. Uh but is that the only reason you're serving Christ? Is it is it just because the person next to you on the pew expects you to? Is it just because your wife or your husband? That's not a bad reason. That's just doing the duty, though. What did Jesus say about the servant that just does his duty? He's an unprofitable servant. What is our motivation for serving Christ? It ought to be a heart of love that says, the Lord, Lord, I love you and I want to serve you and I want to please you. I want to see your smile. Just as our children Obey us, and we want them to obey us because they love us, not because they're forced to. So keep serving the Lord. Secondly, this morning, Psalm 119, verse 31. David said several things about the word of God and the law of God here, but he says this in Psalm 119 verse 31 I have stuck Unto thy testimonies. I have stuck unto thy testimonies, O Lord. Put me not to shame. Number two, keep sticking to the testimonies. Keep preaching the Word of God. Stick with the old book, the old King James Version of the Bible. Preach the word. And I know your pastor does. He sends me a a C D every once in a while. I get to hear him. Uh and uh we have downloaded a few from Norway, but uh uh but uh not for a while. Sorry about that, I'll have to keep I'll have to catch up. But uh he mentioned that in Sunday school this morning. Um but uh keep keep sticking with the testimonies, keep preaching the word of God Keep reading and not just corporately as a church, but you individually need to keep reading and studying and letting this book become a part of your life. David said, Thy word of I hid in my heart that I might not sin against God. Keep not just reading it and learning it and living it, but uh put it into practice in your life. Make it the guideline of every decision, of every moment, of every of every action. Keep sticking to the testimonies. Another thing this morning that we expect of you, and these are not just things we expect of you, but these are things God expects it all of us as a local church. These are the same things we need to be doing in Norway and and uh in Faith Baptist Church in Stavanger, Norway, is doing these things. And it's really no different than what you're doing. It's just that you uh you have helped send us to another place to establish a church and and uh and other churches in the future we we trust. Um And we just do these things as the Lord has commanded us. Number three this morning, Hebrews chapter 13, verse 7 and verse 17, says these things. It says, Remember them which have the rule over you Who have spoken unto you the Word of God, whose faith follow, considering the end of their conversation. Then it says, Obey them that have the rule over you, and submit yourselves, for they watch for your souls as they that must give account That they may do it with joy and not with grief, for that is unprofitable for you. Number three this morning is this: keep standing behind the man of God. Keep standing behind the man of God. The Lord here says, Remember them that have the rule over you. You need to think of them. And it says, Whose faith follow? Now, is your pastor a perfect man? No. Is any servant of God that we see in Scripture a perfect man other than the Lord Jesus? No. God shows us their faults As well as what they allowed the Lord to do in their lives. None of us sitting in this room this morning are perfect. Yet every one of us, if you're saved this morning, every person that's sitting here that knows Christ can be used of God By the grace of God and by the power of God. And so you need to stand behind your pastor, follow his faith, whose faith follow, considering the end of their conversation. If he strays from the scripture, you don't have to follow. But as long as he's walking by the precepts of God's Word, you follow him. And it also says, obey them that have the rule over you and submit yourselves. Why? Because God has put them God has put your pastor in this position. God has placed him here as your under-shepherd. And as you as a church get behind your pastor and follow him, the Lord can accomplish great things through you and with you as a congregation. In reaching this area for Christ and reaching around the world. 1 Thessalonians 5, verse 12, says, And we beseech you, brethren, to know them which labor among you. You ought to know your pastor as well. Get to know him. And are over you in the Lord and admonish you. Verse 13, and to esteem them very highly for in love for their work's sake. And then it says this. And Be at peace among yourselves. As a church gets behind their pastor and supports him and works together, being at peace among themselves. Then God can accomplish great things through that church. And that's what the Lord wants you to do. So, follow and respect your pastor. Thank God for him and follow him as he follows Christ. The fourth thing this morning we want to look at is in Philippians chapter 1 verse 27, where the Bible says this, only let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel of Christ. That whether I come and see you or else be absent, I may hear of your affairs, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one mind, striving together for the faith of the gospel. Number four this morning is this. Keep striving together for the faith of the gospel. Keep striving together. The key word here is together. If every person will head in the same direction for the Lord, And work as the Lord wants this church to do, it will be accomplished. Now notice it says, not striving with one another That's usually what happens, or not usually, but many times, that's what happens within a church. People start striving with each other, against each other But here it says striving together for the faith of the gospel. We're in a fight. We're in a battle. And we're to strive together to win the victory. Not, if we start striving with each other, we can't strive together We have to strive together. Notice it says also stand fast in one spirit. How can we do that? With our spirits united by the Holy Spirit of God that indwells every believer. As the Holy Spirit guides us, we stand fast in one spirit with one mind. Now my wife and I don't have the same mind. Normally And neither do you but uh uh um I'll never understand hers and she she'll She will never understand mine, I don't suppose. But but if I'm saved and she's saved and you're saved, we have the mind of Christ. And as we have the mind of Christ with one mind and one spirit, striving together for the faith of the gospel And then it says also in Romans chapter 15, verse 6, it says that ye may with one mind and one mouth glorify God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. So together we bring glory to God as we do what God has called us to do. So keep striving together for the faith of the gospel, and that's praying. That brings us to the next point, and that's Proverbs 11, verse 30. I'm sure several of you can quote that verse, which says, the fruit of the righteous. is a tree of life, and he that wineth souls is wise. Number five this morning is this keep seeking the lost. Keep soul winning Keep going after the lost. Keep the main task before us that the Lord has left us with, Acts chapter 1, verse 8, but ye shall receive power. After that the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem and and in Judea and in Samaria and under the uttermost part of the earth. We've been given that great commission of the Lord, but Here it says, ye, that's specifically for each person, shall receive power. Where does the power come from? After that, the Holy Ghost has come upon you. When did that happen? When you got saved. What is the power given for? And ye shall be witnesses unto me. Every person that knows Christ as Savior has been given power to be a witness, to be a soul winner for Jesus Christ. You say, Oh, I'm too shy, I can't talk to people. No, you're not. Well, you may be in your own own nature, but with the power of God, God can open your mouth. God can give you the ability to win souls for Christ, to reach people with the gospel, and there are people that you can reach that nobody else in this congregation can. You have contacts that no one else has. And we must be a witness to the Lord Jesus Christ. Not just on Sunday afternoon soul winning or on Thursday night or whenever you go out or Saturday morning bus visitation. We must be witnesses all the time Opening our mouths as the Lord moves on our hearts as we meet people. Thank the Lord for a soul-winning church. And this church is a soul-winning church. I know that. But are you one of the soul winners? Every person in this church ought to be one of those soul winners. This city and the surrounding areas need to be reached. It's your job. It's our job to reach Stavanger, Norway, and the surrounding areas and the rest of Norway as we continue to try to reach that country. But it's your job to reach Oakland, Maryland. And the surrounding, and in Garrett County. And the Lord wants you to do that. Keep sending the gospel is number six. Keep sending the gospel. We're standing fast in one in one sta uh standing fast striving for the faith of the gospel. We're to personally continue to be witnesses and fulfilling the Great Commission locally, but also keep sending the gospel. Mark chapter 16, verse 15 He said unto them, Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. Matthew twenty eight, nineteen and twenty, go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and the Holy Ghost, and lo I am with you always, even unto the end of the world Amen. And so we've been given the commission as a church to send the gospel to the whole world, to take it to the whole world, and to send it out. And I'm glad to be sent out from a missions-minded church over in Fairmont. I'm glad to be supported by a missions-minded church here in Mountain Lake Park. Um praise the Lord for what he has done through these two churches. But let me ask you this question. I know your emissions mind the church. That's obvious just by walking in the auditorium. But are you a missions-hearted church? Again You can be missions-minded. We read in the scripture, well we just read the verses. Well, yes, we're supposed to do this, so well we have to have this many missionaries, or we we have need to support missions, we just need to do it as a church. We are obedient to the Great Commission, and we ought to be But again, we can just do it mechanically because we're supposed to, but where's our heart? As you consider your faith promise this morning. Where's your heart? Let every missions conference, let this day of missions emphasis be a time when you personally look forward to the Lord working in your heart and increasing your faith. 2 Corinthians chapter 8 verse 5. Let's go to 2 Corinthians 10, verse 15. Paul wrote of the of the uh to the Corinthians about the Macedonian churches, he says, not boasting of things without our measure, that is, of other men's measures, but having hope, when your faith is increased, speaking of the Corinthian church. that uh that ye that we shall be enlarged by you according to our rule abundantly. Paul said, when the Lord increases your faith, we know that we're going to be helped in getting the gospel further than we've been able to so far. When your faith has increased, those that you send out are going to be able to do more for the gospel. And then in in back in chapter 8, what was the secret of that though? In the Macedonian churches that Paul was referring to and using as an example to the Corinthian church there, he says in 2 Corinthians 8. 5, and this they did, speaking of the Macedonian churches, not as we hoped He said they didn't just do what we expected. But what did they do first? But first gave their own selves to the Lord. And unto us by the will of God. It was God's will for them to do this. But they gave their own selves. They said, Lord, here we are. I'm yours. I want you to do through me something something for the gospel. And if you said, Lord, I'm yours, then this is his too. One morning I was I used to live in Mannington, West Virginia. I was teaching at uh Calvary Christian School in Fellowshi uh uh in Fairmont and The day before I'd I'd heard about a uh a family, the boy was in my class, he the boy said something in prayer requests, uh he said, pray for my dad because he doesn't have a job and and we need some money to buy groceries And as I drove to school that morning, the Lord said, You've got $20 in your pocket, you need to give it to that family. And I said, Lord, that's all the money I've got. And the Lord said, I know. I want you to give your twenty dollars to that family. They need to buy groceries. And so I took my twenty dollars into the school office and I said, I want you to give it to this family when the parent comes in today. And I needed to buy some groceries too, but I wasn't out of food. And later on that day I walked into the front vestibule of the church and was looking at the the the track I I guess I went to get some tracks actually and and laying on the little ledge there under the track rack was an envelope that had my name on it. And I opened up the envelope Which had probably been put there the Sunday before. And I opened up the envelope and it said, Dear Brother Talbot, I really appreciate your teaching my child. Here's a little something of appreciation. There's forty dollars in the envelope. Now I think if I hadn't been obedient and given the twenty dollars like the Lord told me to The Lord might have shoved that envelope under the table and I never found it. But we need to be faithful in giving ourselves to the Lord. And then the Lord can use us in sending the gospel. Not just giving, but to allow the Lord to have you. Maybe you would be the next missionary sent out From this church. You say, who, me? Yes. If that's what the Lord wants of you, would you say, Lord, here am I. I belong to you For whatever purpose you have for my life. I'm willing to do anything you want me to do. Anywhere in the world you want me to do it. That's the attitude we need to have. Keep sending the gospel. Number seven this morning is this. Keep separating from the world. Pastor mentioned this in his missions philosophy this morning. Second Corinthians chapter six verse seventeen. It says, Wherefore come out from among them, and be ye separate, saith the Lord, and touch not the unclean thing, and I will receive you. Second Peter chapter 3, verse 11, seeing then that all these things shall be dissolved, what manner of persons ought ye to be in all holy conversation and godliness? So many ch churches and so many Christians are touching the unclean thing. So many so-called fundamental churches have gotten involved in worldly music, practices, activities, dress, and this doesn't please God. Keep separating from the world. It's a command of Scripture. Holiness is positive. It is not negative. It's a joyful thing. We read that verse earlier that says, let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel of Christ. What does that mean? Well, if if one of you ladies gets a new outfit and another somebody looks at you, they might say this. Well that that outfit becomes you What does that mean? That means it makes it enhances the way she looks. It makes her attractive. And as here it says our conversation, our lifestyle ought to become only as it becometh the gospel of Christ My lifestyle and your lifestyle, our testimony before others, the way we live, ought to make the gospel of Christ attractive to people. Do the people that know you think more of Christ? As Pastor was saying in the Sunday school this morning, do they glorify God because your life has glorify Christ and made him look attractive to them? Or are you like someone in Fellowship Baptist Church. I don't know who it was, I don't remember. I was out knocking on doors and I I I said, I'm from Fellowship Baptist Church and and before I could get anything else out of my mouth, the guy said, I know a guy that goes to your church and if if if that's a Christian, I don't want to be one. Whoever that was, his life didn't become the gospel of Christ, and it pushed somebody away from even listening to the gospel. Keep separating from the world. Holiness is positive. It's not negative. Several years ago, I married Ruth Ann down here. And I said I will, and I do, and I praise the Lord for that. But when I said I do to her I separated myself from every other woman in the world. Now is that a negative thing? No, that's a very wonderful thing. I separated myself unto my wife. But by necessity At the same moment, I had to separate myself from every other woman in the world. And that's not a negative thing. That's a very positive thing in my mind. I'm not sorry about that at all. I don't worry about that at all. And Christian, that's what holiness is, is when we say, Lord, I love you. I'm separating myself unto you. But by necessity, if I do that, I must separate myself from the things of the world, from the practices of the world, from the attitudes of the world, from the places of the world. So keep separating from the world. It's a joyful thing. It's a wonderful thing. And we expect you to keep doing that. Number 8 this morning, I'm almost done. 2 Peter 3, verse 18 says this: But grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, to whom we glory both now and forever. Amen. This is a personal command to each of us. It says, but grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Personal growth. Every Christian has a responsibility to grow. To obey this command. Are you willing to do, you say, well, I've been saved for 30 years. There's no age limit set on this command. Age limit in calendar years or age limit in the time you've been saved. Paul wrote in Philippians, that I may know him. Here's the Apostle Paul. He's been serving the Lord for many years now, and he says, that I may know him. Paul, don't you know Jesus already? Yes, but he wanted to know him more. Wanted to know him better. And we're commanded to grow in grace and in knowledge of Jesus Christ here. Personal growth. Does anybody any any fellas maybe some girl ladies too, but any anybody in here work out? Nobody. Okay. Does anybody has anybody ever tried to go on a diet? Yeah. Um any of you deer hunters endure some cold in the last few weeks? Any of you get wet? Any of you climb a mountain? Was that necessarily fun to do those things? Well, yes, because you were deer hunting, but but if you weren't deer hunting, would you have done them? No, probably maybe not. So exercising, keeping this body in shape, we do things that may be difficult or maybe that we don't really want to do to keep in shape physically In Norway, the national sport is is uh is uh cross-country skiing, one of the most physically demanding sports there is, and uh they are good at it. But in Savangra we don't get a lot of snow, but people go to the mountains on a thirty you know a thirty-minute drive and you're in mega snow from from us. We're right on the coast. the Gulf Stream from the Gulf of Mexico comes and warms our coast. We don't get a lot of snow. But um but all summer long uh you see people out on the on the walking paths in Stavanger on roller skis. Now I don't know if you've ever seen roller skis or not. But uh they're got the roller skis and their poles and they're going Why are they doing that? So they can be in shape for the ski season. Is it fun doing that? We we're our our church is up on top of a big hill. And they'll be going up that hill. They're not using their legs at all. I mean they're just pushing with their trunk and their their arms. All the way up that hill. It's amazing. But they do what's difficult and undesirable maybe even. Rain, snow, rain or shine, no matter what what the weather, they're still doing it. By the way, Norwegians have this saying it says, Ikke doli ver barli klair, which means there's no such thing as bad weather, only bad clothing. And they're serious about that. I mean the kids play outside, Eric goes to Barnahaga, they care and and they're outside whether it's this much snow or or it's pouring rain, they're outside playing But keep seeking growth, personal growth. But also, Acts chapter 2, verse 47 says this, praising God and having favor with all the people, and the Lord added to the church daily such as should be saved. Keep seeking growth as a church. Keep going out after the lost. Now, who is it that adds the church? It's the Lord. But we have to be faithful in what the Lord has called us to do. And many times we may go out and knock on fifty doors and none of those people will come, but God sends somebody in anyway. As we're faithful, God is faithful and as the church. We see that in Norway. I mean we knock on doors all the time and and uh um The Lord brings people in. A lot of times it's not somebody we knocked on their door. But praise the Lord. Then numerical growth. The Lord wants personal growth and numerical growth. Keep seeking growth and lastly this morning is this. Hebrews chapter 4, verse 14 to 16 Seeing then that we have a great high priest, that's the Lord Jesus Christ, that has passed into the heavens. I guess Jesus the Son of God was getting to that. Let us hold fast our profession. Verse 15, For we have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities, but was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin. And because we have this great high priest, the Lord Jesus Christ, what can we do? Verse 16, let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. The last thing we want to mention this morning is this: keep stepping before the throne. Keep stepping before the throne. We have a great privilege of doing that through the veil of his flesh. That we can enter into the Holy of Holies and speak with the Lord. But we also have a great responsibility in that area Prayer for one another. James chapter 5, verse 16 says, confess your faults one to another and pray for one another. Pray one for another that ye may be healed. The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. The Lord wants us to pray for one another. Also, prayer for the lost. Romans chapter 10, verse 1. Paul's Shared with the Romans this. He says, Brethren, my heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is that they might be saved. Paul prayed for the lost, those he was working with, the Gentiles, but also the lost sheep of the house of Israel. And then prayer for your missionaries. You really pray for your missionaries? I know many of you do. But I'm guilty as well as as you are sometimes of saying to someone, yes, I'll pray for you, and then forget about it Doesn't come to mind. Prayer for your missionaries. Paul gave this request in 2 Thessalonians 3, verse 1. He said, Finally, brethren, pray for us. And he got more specific with the prayer request. He said that the Word of God may have free course and be glorified, even as it is with you. Paul is expecting the church at Thessalonica for the Word of God to be glorified and have free course in that church. And in their ministry. And the Lord also, and he also said, pray for us as we plant churches, that the Word of God will have free course. And be glorified. And that's our request of you this morning. Would you pray for us and all of your missionaries that the Word of God will have free course And be glorified as we try to reach the lost here and in Norway. Will you accept the challenge this morning? Will you allow the Lord to use you here? At Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, so that this church can meet the expectations of your missionaries. Really the expectations of the missionaries. the Lord. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word to us this morning. Thank you that it always is relevant, that it always goes right to the heart. And may you be glorified in what is done. In hearts this morning, and I pray that we would be obedient to you as you have spoken to us. Thank you for what you'll do in many hearts this morning and in this church. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.