Let me uh just fair share a few thoughts. Uh James, don't go too far. I'm gonna need your help here in just a moment. Uh James chapter six. I just want to read verse number nine. James read James is right there. John chapter number six. Too many Bible names around here. John chapter 6, and notice verse number 9. I think most of us are familiar with this story. Jesus feeds the 5,000 men miraculously. Notice what verse 9 says. There's a lad here. which have five barley loaves and two small fishes, but what are they among so many? I've entitled the message, What God Can Do With a little boy and his little lunch. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to bless. Father, I ask your help now as we look into the Word of God. We are grateful for mothers. God, we're grateful for their influence. And we are today in a very real way the result of the investment of our mothers they put into us. Help us to be honor them and to be a blessing. Lord, as we look into the scriptures, stir our hearts, challenge us This matter of taking the gospel into all the world is heavy on my heart, and it's been a real burden of our church that we carry out this task Lord, we're not much. We just are what we are out here in the hills of Western Maryland. But God, we believe if if you could just take us, if you'd just use us Great things could be accomplished. And so fill me with your spirit, I pray. I present my body and yield myself anew, and uh speak through me as my earnest request, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, I have with me up here somewhere. I have what is that? It's a basketball. A basketball in my hand. Is uh what? Basketball in my hand is not much. You know, I mess more than I had. Uh uh nobody's impressed with my basketball skills. But you take this basketball and you put it in the hands of Michael Jordan, suddenly it becomes very impressive. It's not the object that gives it value, but it's very often the one who possesses it that gives it great value. I have up here, it's a softball. It's not a baseball. I'd like to have a baseball, but if this was a baseball, in my hands really isn't very impressive. But you take this same baseball and put it in uh the hands of um who's that fellow that retired uh Nolan Ryan? Was that great powerful pitcher? Well, you take a baseball and put it in his hands, it's a whole nother story. You follow what I'm saying? Uh James, go down there and get that thing on the front pew over there. I had my wife run over and uh get my bow and arrow. So you no no horsing around today. But uh you take that bow and arrow, you put it in my hands, and the deer are pretty safe The deer in the woods see me walk in with the bow and they say, ah just ignore that guy. When you put this bow in the hands of somebody like Chuck Adams, if you hunters you know who I'm talking about, or Jerry Vogel And uh, brother, it becomes an instrument of death and destruction. The point I'm trying to make by showing those things, the point I'm trying to make Is an object in and of itself may not be that significant, but you put that object in the hands of somebody that knows what they're doing. That object can be something very, very valuable. That's what we have in this story here. We have a little boy that had five barley loaves and two little fish. Probably barely enough to satisfy his hunger. In his hands, he feeds one kid But you take that same lunch and you put it in the hands of the Lord Jesus Christ and 5,000 men. In addition, plus the wives and children that are not numbered, 10,000, maybe 15,000 people are fed when it's in the hands of the Lord Jesus Christ. This event in John chapter six is an actual literal event Now we want that to be clearly understood. This is not just a story. This is not some fit some myth. This is actual event. Jesus actually fed 5,000 men plus all others. With a little boy's lunch that consisted of five barley loaves and two fishes, this is an amazing event. This is the only miracle performed by the Lord Jesus Christ that is recorded in all four Gospels. All his other miracles are either recorded just in the Gospel of John or just in Matthew, Mark, and Luke. This is the only one that's in all four of them. Now that is significant. God doesn't put something in the Bible once, uh, God doesn't put something in the Bible two, three, four times without having a purpose. There's a lesson here that God wants every one of us to learn. It's an important lesson, it's a powerful lesson. And it is simply this: when I put something in God's hands, It changes everything. It changes everything. We're told there's 5,000 men here. We don't know the exact number, but we speculate and we say, all right, 5,000 men, it would be safe to assume that there are at least as many women as there are men. Generally, in just your average crowd, generally, there are more women than men. There's more women than men on the planet And so we would figure there is probably at least 5,000 women. So that gives us 10,000. Safe estimate. We know there's children there because this little lad is there. I have a hard time believing in a crowd of 10,000 people, this is the only kid. It is very possible that there was the same number of kids as there were men. So we have a figure of upwards of 15,000 people here. That is a large crowd by anybody's standard. No matter what the meeting is, 15,000 people is a lot of people. And so we have a very significant crowd. They had been gathering together throughout the day. If you read the context, Brother James read a little bit ago, you find that the day went on, and you kind of get the impression reading here That they lost track of time. And it says there, it says uh uh it came towards evening. Um Uh saw a great crowd, and I guess maybe it's one of the other passages that says it came towards the end of the day. And Jesus saw the crowd, and he said, What are we going to do here? I'm thinking, this is the way I picture it, they are so captivated by the teachings of the Lord Jesus Christ, they are so caught up in the truths that He are given. And we're not when He's giving, and we're not told what He was teaching on. We're not given the message, we're not given the lessons. But the crowd got so caught up in this, there were needs being met There were spiritual means being met in their hearts. There was instruction being given. They were finding direction for their life. They were finding answers for their questions. And they lost track of time. Next thing they knew, it's getting dark. And the Lord says, what are we going to do? Now I have three lessons that I think relate a little bit to mothers and a whole lot to missions And that's what I'll share with you. Number one, my first thought is this. They had to recognize their need. If God was going to perform this miracle, if these people were going to be met, they had to recognize their need. Look at verse 5 with me again. When Jesus then lifted up his eyes and saw a great company come unto him, he said unto Philip, Whence shall we buy bread that these may eat? Now, question: Did Jesus know how they were going to solve this? Sure, the next verse tells us so. Look at verse 6. And he said, and this he said, to prove him. For he himself knew what he would do. Now, just as an aside, I wrote in the March of my Bible: Jesus always knows what he's doing. Mark it down. But what he is doing here in asking Philip, how are we going to feed all these people? He wasn't trying to get information from Philip. He was trying to get Philip to understand and recognize the magnitude of the need they faced. He wanted Philip to recognize the seriousness of the problem that they were dealing with. There's 15,000 people, perhaps, maybe more, that have nothing to eat. Another record of the story in one of the other gospels says we can't send them away, they'll faint on the way. In other words, they'd been there long enough that if they were going to walk back to town to where the markets were and whatnot, there were people going to be seriously ill. So Jesus is wanting them to understand the gravity of the situation. He's wanting them to understand the significance of what they were facing. They there I see here two things that were needed. One is very obvious, but the second one, and I think the one the Lord is trying to get the disciples to see was not so obvious. The first obvious need was what? They needed food. They had to somehow feed these people. Without food, the people were going to be, at worst, die. At best, some would get very sick. So they needed food. Now what does that have to do with our missions? What does that have to do with faith promise? I believe it is important for we as a church, and would to God that all churches recognize this. But then our church recognizes how desperately needy our world is. How desperately needy people in Kazakhstan and in Japan and in Belize and in St. Croix And uh in Russia, and name any country you want to, how desperately hungry people are for spiritual sustenance, whether they recognize it or not Let me ask you a question. I want you to answer this in your mind. What happens to a person if they die without the Lord Jesus Christ as their personal Savior? They go to hell. You say, surely, in the year 2012, you're not so Neanderthal enough to believe that there's still a place called hell. Hey, as long as the Bible teaches that, I'll believe it. The fact of the matter is, whether modern man wants to accept it or not, there is a very real place called hell. There always has been, and there will be, till the Lord comes back and throws hell into the lake of fire. And we need to understand the gravity of the situation of the world we are living in If people do not get the gospel of Jesus Christ before they die, they will go to hell. In fact, their lives here on earth without the gospel will be empty and meaningless and without hope, Ephesians tells us. So we live in a world, just as these disciples were in the midst of 15,000 people who desperately needed food, we live in a world of 7 billion people. Who desperately need the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Since the message began seven minutes ago, thousands of people have died and gone out into eternity all around this world. How many of them? How many of them in their lifetime had the opportunity to accept Jesus Christ as their Savior? One of the purposes of our week of missions is to help our church realize, recognize the need of the gospel, how serious it is. how desperate it is that we get the message of Jesus Christ into all the world. Listen, it is not important whether we have the biggest church or not, but it is important that we do all we can to get the gospel to every lost person. So the first thing that was needed was food. They needed to recognize that. That was pretty obvious. And what we need to recognize, and really, if you're a Bible believer, it's pretty obvious. That if people don't have Jesus Christ as Savior, they have no hope of heaven. They have no purpose in life. They have no victory over sin They are lost without God and without hope in the world. I did a little research. I found that in the last census, there was nearly 30,000 people that lived in Garrett County. If every one of those people in Garrett County died today, God forbid, but if it would happen, how many of them would die with their sins forgiven in a home in heaven? It's a lot of people. We have a responsibility to get the gospel to every one of them. I looked up in Cumberland, the city of Cumberland, the last sentence, the census. 2010, there was a little over 20,000 people in the city of Cumberland. How many of them have trusted Christ as Savior? I asked myself this question: how many Christians in that city are working diligently to try and get the gospel to them? In America, there is a little over 300 million people that need the gospel of Jesus Christ. Let me stop here and say And I I I don't get too political, but I I fe this is something that needs to be addressed. Our president said a blasphemous, ungodly statement this past week When he stated that that he and we should endorse sodomite marriage, homosexual marriages, that is ungodly, that is unscriptural, and he is wrong. I don't care what political party it is, if they endorse and defend sodomy in the United States of America, they are taking this country down a road of judgment. Read Romans chapter one There's no getting around it. Our country needs the gospel of Jesus Christ desperately. Just as those fifteen thousand people on that hillside desperately needed some food, our country desperately needs Christians. Who will die to self and rearrange their priorities and invest their lives and their resources into getting the gospel to every person in the United States of America Every month, Brother Pat does a Kaz report on the country of Kazakhstan, our adopted missions country. There's a little over 16 million people live in that country Who desperately need the gospel of Jesus Christ. A small, small minority of Christians in this world are trying to get the gospel to that country. Now here's the question. Brother Leatherman, we've got 160 people in our church, 170 people in our church. How in the world do we reach a country How in the world do we reach a country that has 16 million people, almost a closed country to foreigners coming in, very difficult at best? How do we reach that? I'm getting a little ahead of myself, but this verse, this passage tells us how we do that. We don't We give what we have to the Lord and the Lord does it. What is this little boy's like among so many? It's nothing. That basketball in my hand is nothing. But you put it in the hand of somebody who knows what they're doing, is able, and it becomes something. You take a little church like ours and the resources we have, a few barley loaves and a few little fish, we put it in the hands of the Lord Jesus Christ, and brother, God can feed a nation with the gospel. So they needed to recognize the need. I did a little study, I found that in the world, seven uh little over seven billion people live on our planet. What are we among so many? There's a second need here. First of all is the need for food. That's the obvious need. Jesus didn't have to work very hard to get the disciples to see that. And really, as us as Christians, if we pay any attention at all, it's not difficult to look around our world and say, yeah, there's a need for the gospel. It's obvious. This world needs Christ. Come on, am I right or wrong? This world needs Christ. Oakland needs Christ. Garrett County needs Christ. Morgantowns needs Christ. Somerset needs Christ. Cumberland needs Christ. It's obvious. But there's another need here that's not so obvious. And that was this. The first one was food. The second one was faith. Those twelve disciples needed to learn if they were going to accomplish anything, they had to learn to trust God If anything was going to happen, if those people, if that impossible need of food was going to be met, they were going to have to learn to have faith in God. That's where verse 6 comes in, where he says he asked this to, what was the reason he asked Philip the question? What's it say? To prove him, to test him To help him learn something that if he would simply take what he has, put it in the hands of the Lord, God could do something incredible. That is called faith. Faith. Now, it's true for us. How do we reach a world? How does a church, our size, reach the world with the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ? Well, obviously, we can't. So we need to exercise faith in God. And we take what we have, whether it's our lives Our future, our time, our talents, finances, every aspect, we take what we have and we put it in the hands of the Lord and say, Lord, I trust you. To use this to meet the need. And I'm telling you, God can do some great things. God can do some great things. Now, I'm talking about missions. That's on my heart now. That's where our church's head is at, so to speak, this week. But this principle applies in each of our personal lives also. You say, Brother Letterman, you don't know what needs I have in my life. You don't know the you don't know the mess I've made. You don't know the hole I've dug You don't know how bad it in my situation is. You're right, I don't know, and I don't know that I could do much in and of myself to help you, but I do know this if you'll take what you have and put it in the hands of the Lord, he can turn that thing around and meet that need. There's not a need that you or I have that God cannot meet. He said, Well, I don't have much to give him. Neither did that little boy. So there's a principle here of faith, trusting God, putting it in his hands, and letting him work it out. They needed to learn that they could trust God with what they had. They needed to learn to trust God and follow his directions, do what he says. There was no way these disciples could effectively meet this need in and of themselves. They needed to trust God And I'm talking to some folks. You're in a situation now. There is no way in the world you can change your situation. You've tried and tried and tried and tried, and it just gets worse. You know what this passage teaches us? Let's take that whole situation. Lord, here I give it to you. You show me what to do. You lead me, direct me. I just trust you. I have faith in you. God turned that whole thing around. So the first thing they needed to learn was this. They needed to recognize the magnitude of the need. Of food and of their own faith. The second thing they had to do, and the Lord instructed them to do here if this need was going to be met, they had to inventory their resources. He says, What are we going to do here? Well, they got looking around, they did an inventory, so to speak, and they came to three conclusions. They looked at what they had, and they said, There's one of three, there's three possible Ways we can take care of this situation. The first one suggested was this: send the people away. Now that's not in our passage here, but in Mark chapter 6, you have Mark's record of this event. And in verse 36, they said, just send the people home. So one of the solutions to the problem, they did inventory, they looked around what they had, what their resources were, and they said, all right, the first conclusion the disciples came to is listen uh send them home. You know what they were saying? You know, you know, Lord, you know, preacher, Jesus, this really isn't our problem. Let them solve the problem themselves. They're the ones that are hungry. Let them work it out I hate to say this, and I don't think people would say it this way, would be so brazen to say it this way, but I'm afraid the majority of our churches have that same attitude towards world missions Could basically care less about whether people in India die without Christ or not. That's their problem. That's their situation. Let them figure out how to get saved. Now I doubt surely there's not a church in the world that would verbalize that, but their actions betray them. They do little or nothing to try and get the message of salvation to the lost. Let them worry about it. Why should we invest any of our time or money in Kazakhstan? Why should we bother sending uh doing what we can to send someone to Belarus? That's their problem. Then figure it out. So that's one solution. As I said, probably the majority of Christians won't say that, but they view that way. They spend their time. They invest their abilities and talents and their finances in everything but souls, in everything but missions. And again, please don't misunderstand. I'm challenging us, so don't get upset. But I wonder how many Christians could drive a nicer car. If they want to give so much to getting the gospel to all the lost people. How many Christians could live in a little nicer house if they want to invest so much in the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ? Wonder how many Christians could be back in the States here. Making a nice living and living a comfortable life if they hadn't gone off to Ahmadi with their family. Minority minority. Our actions betray us. Why is that 15,000 people hungry, Lord Jesus? Why is that our problem? Why should that affect anything I do? Why should that affect my lifestyle anyway? Let them go and find their own food. So that was one solution. They did an inventory, they came up with another solution. They said, the problem is we don't have enough money. We had 200 penny worth. We couldn't buy enough food for this. Isn't that the way we think a lot of times? When there's a need in the church, our first thought goes, we need more money. We need no more money. Am I right or wrong? It's our first thought. Oh money. Where are we going to get the money? Where's the uh there's we don't have enough money. We can't do that. We don't take a misstrip to Kazakhstan, we can do that. We don't have to money. We need more money. Uh there's not enough money for that. Buses we have but we there's not enough money for that. There's mu money, money, money, money, m Money, money, money. Anything too for God, it all money Right? Now the fact of the matter is money is a factor. Am I right or wrong? Sure. This little boy had his lunch. Somebody bought that lar barley loaves. Somebody had to pay for that. Somebody had to go pay to catch that fish. So money is a factor. But it's not where we begin. It's funny, they said, Lord, if we had 200 pennyworth, we couldn't buy enough food. Lord just ignored him. He didn't even respond to that. He just. Now, as I said, yes, money is a factor. It requires money, and we'll talk about that. But it's not the solution to getting the gospel into all the world. Uh Jesus said the harvest is great, the labors are few, we need to raise more money. No. What did he say? The harvest is great, the labors are few. Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he would send forth laborers. You know what the Lord was trying to teach those disciples? Quit looking in your wallet and look to me. Quit looking at your bank account and you look to me to meet the need. You trust me to take care of that. You follow my leadership. You follow my instructions. You trust me. Have faith in me. Not in the George Washington bill in your pocket. Trust me. So one of their solutions was, hey, this isn't our problem. Just send the people home, let them take care of themselves. Let the world uh ah the people in Russia, that's their problem. I'm not gonna Why should I do anything to try and get the gospel to them? We don't have enough money to send out sixty-five missionaries. Good, great. The third solution, and the one that they ultimately took, was found is found in verse 8 and 9, and that was this: let's take what we do have. And let's give it to the Lord. We don't have much. We don't have enough to meet this need, obviously. But somebody's got to do something. And let's take what we do have. Let's give that to the Lord. See what happens. Look at verse number. Look at verse number. One of the disciples, Andrew, I like Andrew. Well, you ought to do a study on Andrew. Every time Andrew's name is mentioned in the Gospels, you know what he's doing? He's bringing something to Jesus. Every single time, without exception, he's bringing a person, he's bringing his brother, he's bringing some Greeks, he's bringing a little boy with a lunch, he's bringing stuff to Jesus. Andrew is my kind of guy And so he says, There's a little lad here. One of his brothers Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, said to him, Here's a lad, a little boy. He has a little lunch, five large barley loaves, and two small fishes. But what are they among so many? I think now this is leatherman isn't specul how many folks are okay this morning? Everybody alright? Amen. Guys put sleep and medicine in that breakfast back there this morning. Everybody happy? Praise the Lord. Everybody smile. That's on three. Say amen. One, two, three. There we go. Life This is Leathermanism. This is just my thinking. But I see Andrew, he's got this little boy. Don't you just love little kids? He's got this little boy. Little boy has a little lunch in a Superman lunch pail as Superman on the front. He's walking up there. And uh Andrew and he said, Lord, here's a little boy. He's got uh little five barley loaves and two fish. But what is that among so many, Lord? I get the impression that Andrew knew it wasn't much, but the one he's given it to is something else. I I just I I see it that way. I get to heaven, maybe I'll talk to Andrew because no, it's not the way it was at all. But um that's the way I see it now. Lord, what is that among so many Let's take what we have and give it to the This is interesting. I I got doing a little research on f barley loaves. Do you know what barley is used for? To feed horses. And the word loaves is more like, we think of a loaf, you think of a loaf of bread. That is not what this was. This was kind of like a Ritz cracker. Those little round Ritz crackers, I love them. That's basically the size. Basically, he had five barley crackers. And the word small fishes, little fish, you know what that's talking about? At the biggest, it was a sardine. This was not big five big fish sandwiches from McDonald's. This was a little kid that had five basically crackers made of barley of all things, and a couple dried-out sardines. It was nothing. In fact, every Bible book that I read here and scholar wrote about this, every one of them said that this was without a doubt a poor man's lunch. This lunch came from a home in deep poverty. So, well, this is all we got. But let's take everything we have and give it to Jesus, see what happens. Andrews, yeah. Now, here's where Mother's Day comes in. I got thinking about this little boy, and I got thinking about his mother. We learn, I learned three things about his mother from this little event. Now remember, they got on to the end of the day, and it's you get the impression in reading all four of these, the day got away from them. They didn't plan on being here all day. Obviously, no one else packed a lunch. So when they got together early in the day, nobody was expecting to be there all day. Nobody had anticipated needing the food that day. They all expected they'd be done and home before noon and uh they'd easily get to the restaurants before the Methodists got there and uh they weren't planning on being there all day. Right? But Jesus, like all great preachers, preached a long time. Unlike those Kentucky preachers that we've had recently. And so, but this boy's prepared. Out of 15,000 people, they find one kid that packed the lunch. You know what that tells me about his mother? She thought ahead. I can see him. Where are you going today, Bobby? I'm gonna go hear Jesus, mommy. Really? I better pack you a lunch. That guy preaches till the middle of the afternoon. And she cared about them. She prepared for them and planned for them. Thank God for mothers who say, Hold it! You make sure you've got clothes, warm clothes on before you go out there. How long you gonna be gone? I don't know. Well you better take this here with you. So one thing I learned about his mother, she cared for him and uh was had him prepared. She packed a little lunch for him. Good mom Something else I learned about his mother, she taught him to share. That little kid could have said, I ain't giving you my lunch, homie. Get your room. Anybody got any lunch here? But he doesn't do that. He goes, sir, I got a little lunch. I'll share it's fifteen thousand people, kid. Well, I can get what I have. Where'd he learn that from? I'll bet you his mother. I mean I won't bet you, but I think his mother. I believe he had a mother that shared. He had a mother that wasn't selfish. Are your friends here? Yeah, tell them to stay. We'll just add a little water to the soup. Yeah, they can stay. I'll just take a little smaller piece. How many mothers have passed up the last slice of whatever so that others can have it? So I learned from this little boy number one, his mother cared for him and prepared ahead of time. That sounds just like Proverbs 31 to me. She was unselfish and taught her child to be selfish. There's something else I learned from his mother here, and that's this. The little boy wasn't timid. A lot of your average kids would have been scared to death to get up in front of that crowd. They would have, anybody got a lunch? Little boy, you got a lunch? But not this guy. His mother had instilled in him confidence. He was secure in who and what he was. Can I tell you how that doesn't happen? That doesn't happen by a mother or a parent that berates their child. That child, if a child is berated, you're stupid. How dumb are you? What kind of idiot does that? What do you what do you what do you pronounce? You know what that says to the kid? I'm an idiot. I can't do nothing. I don't have anything to offer. But this little boy felt like, even though it was a couple barley loaves and a little sardines, hey, I got something to offer. There's something of value here. You know what that comes from? That's from a mother parent that loves their child and instills them worth and value and dignity and confidence. So this little boy, they their third solution is well, one is send everybody home, that's their problem. The other is good night, we've got to have a fundraiser somehow. The third one is, let's take what we have and give it to the Lord. And so they do that. And the last, and I end with this, because they did that, every one of those disciples, that little boy, had a role. In a tremendous miracle. Here we are, 2,000 years later, talking about these people. Learning lessons from a little boy and a couple disciples, a handful of disciples, that decided to trust Jesus. And Jesus did a miraculous thing. 2,000 years later, we're learning from that on how to take the gospel to all the world. They had a role in that. The little boy didn't multiply the bread. The disciples didn't multiply the bread. All they did was took what they had and trusted it with Jesus. And Jesus did the miracle. The significance is not in the boy or in the bread or in the disciples. It's in who and what Jesus is. That's what makes the difference. And when I take my faith promise and I take what abilities God has given me, and I take my life and I put it in the hands of the Lord Jesus Christ. To meet the needs of the gospel around the world. It's not how great I am. It's not what I have to offer. It's what God does through what I give to Him. Just gave what they had to Jesus. They just did what Jesus told them to do, and a miraculous event took place. An overwhelming need was met 15,000 people, maybe more, are fed and refreshed because a little boy gave what he had, a little lunch, to Jesus. This week in Faith Promise, we do talk about giving our faith promise. That's between you and God. But I know this: God's not asking one of us to give a million dollars to missions. God's not asking us to give a house to a missionary. You know what God's asking us to do? You just trust me with what I lay on your heart. You just do what I say. Just do what I tell you to do. How many times people said to me, Preacher, if I won the lottery, a million bucks, I'd give 50% to the Lord. I'll believe that when they start giving 50% of what they already have to the Lord. It's easy to give what I have no chance of getting to the Lord. Huh? Just trust God. And here's the great thing. I was talking to a missionary just in the last couple months. Just about all of us know him. He said, preacher Leatherman, I was doing our taxes. He said, I sat down with the accountant and I showed him all our income. This is a missionary. Showed him all my income. Showed him all my expenses. And my expenses, far what I spent, far exceeded what I brought in. He said, How did you do that? He goes, God. Tax count the count and said, What are you talking about? He goes, I don't know. This is what God gave us. This is what we did for God. It doesn't match up, but every bill's paid. To me, that's just as miraculous as a little boy giving a lunch to Jesus and feeding 15,000. Just putting in God's hands God does amazing things, amazing things. Listen, when we get involved in missions, when we simply do what God tells us to do, we just do our part, give what we have. When souls get saved in other countries around the world, you know what? We have a part in that. We have a role. Just like this little boy played a role. Now it's God does the saving, but we have a part in it. We get to heaven and look and say, Good night, look at all those folks from Uganda here in heaven. How in the world did uh they get here and they come up and said, You helped. You helped, you sent that missionary or told us how to be saved. They had a part. They had a part. We give our heart. We give our talents. We give finances. We exercise faith in the Lord. It might not be much. But like the old song says, little is much when God is in it. I read years ago, we used to tell when I traveled in Bible time, we used an illustration, that a little boy was taking piano lessons. Kind of reminds me of the little Austin up here in plays. And a little boy learned to play chopsticks. And he wasn't even very good at that. Chat chopsticks? Close. My little boy was me I think this is a true story as I understand it. And uh his parents thought there's a great concert pianist in town, famous world from Russia. Uh we'll take our little boy and he'll hear him play and he'll be inspired to be a great pianist. Yay Little boy's like four or five years old. They got there and they're talking and place exciting, good concert hall, and everything's first class tuxedos and everything's all formal and they're there and mother to her horror looks around and the boy's gone. Where's Bobby? I don't know. I can't find him. Did he go to the bathroom? I don't know. Well, go look, okay Now run around Fred. She comes, I can't find him. About that time they look up on the stage. The big piano, concert pianist, the big grand piano is there, and little Bobby's walking across the stage. He sees that piano And they're trying to get And he walks over and sits down and he starts going And the whole place gets quiet. People start snickering and that. The pianist, the grand famous, world famous pianist is in the back and he hears, what in the world? He looks out the curtain, there's that little boy, and everybody's like And the guard says, I'll go get him. He says, no, no, no. And he quietly walks out and he leans down behind a boy. He said, keep doing what you're doing. Just keep playing that. And he reaches around the boy. And he begins filling that thing in. And suddenly the place got silent. And he just kept saying, just keep doing what you're doing. Just trust me. And as that boy would poke at that thing, he would fill that thing in. And when he was done, standing ovation. That is exactly what took place. That little boy brought his little lunch. It won much. The Lord says, I'll take that and I'll make something great out of it. This coming week, we're going to pray and ask the Lord, Lord, what do you want me to bring? Do you want me to give my whole life to go to a foreign mission field? Lord, I give it to you. It's not much. I can't do much. I I can't fix engines and I can't fly airplanes and I'm not a great physicist. I can give out gospel tracts. I can teach a Sunday school class. Do you want me to go to some country and do that, Lord? You just do what I tell you to do. Something great will happen. Well, I don't make a lot of money. I'm not a millionaire. Well, you just you just give what I touch your heart about. And I'll make it. I'll make it into something. I don't know what your problem is. No doubt. Crowdless size, there's problems. Guarantee it. Why you take that problem, put it in the hands of the Lord. Let God take that thing. Turn that around. Oh, my marriage is a disaster. Put it in the hands of the Lord. Do what he says. Trust him. You turn that, make that a million-dollar marriage. Huh? My testimony is shot, preacher. I destroyed my testimony on the job. Well, you just come give yourself the Lord. Do what he says. Trust him. He can turn that testament around, make you powerful influence for the gospel. Amen? Father, help us to trust you. Help us take what we have, take our situation, our needs, our resources. Just give it to you and trust you. Let you see, let you do great things. We can have a part. I pray as we go into missions conference this week, our hearts will be stirred. That we would see the magnitude of the need and invest ourselves, our time this week, our effort, to be in the services and let you lead us and direct us. And next Sunday we'll bring our little lunches. God, we're asking you to make meet a great need through the little effort we bring. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, I want God's will to be done in my life in every way? I hate to say it, but sometimes I find myself fighting what I know God's will is. And this morning I want to stop fighting God. I just want to yield to Him. I want to do what I know God wants me to do. And you're being very specific, and you say preach or pray with me. God is dealing with my heart in some way that I know it's what He wants me to do. And this morning I just yield. I put it in his hands and I trust him. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand, preacher? Now this is between you and God. I don't know what it is. But I say put in the Lord's hand. God bless you. Hands all around. Many, many hands. I wonder if there's something this week say, preacher, I'm going to ask God to really impress on my heart the magnitude of the need of missions around the world. Maybe you've never really given it thought. But this week you say, Preacher, I want God to teach me how great this need really is. And I want to learn to trust Him in this matter. And you'd say, Preacher, I'm going to the missions conference, really praying. That God will lead and direct and teach and help me understand what this is all about. Is there any like that by the off-lifted hand, preacher, pray as we go into this missions conference? God bless you, several hands around. And one last, and then we give the invitation. How many would say, preacher, I've got a situation I can't solve? I've got a need in my life that I can't meet. And I really need God to help me. I really need the Lord Jesus to take who and what I am and make something significant out of it And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God would help me. Is there any like that by the uplift hand? God bless you, hands all around. Hands all around. Lord, you know our hearts. You know where we're at. You know what our struggles are. You know what our needs are. We feel like the little boy. Lord, we just come to you with our little lunch. And we say, here we are, Lord, take us, and you do with us what you see fit. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together, our heads are bowed, eyes are