Chapter number twenty-nine, I just want to read five verses here, the first five verses. The Bible says, Now the Philistines gathered together all their armies to Aphak. And the Israelites pitched by a fountain which is in Jezreel, and the lords of the Philistines passed on by hundreds and by thousands. But David and his men passed on in the re-reward with Akish. Then said the princes of the Philistines. Now I underlined this question here. This is a significant question. What do these Hebrews hear? In other words, what in the world are they doing here with us? And Ach said unto the princes of the Philistines, Is not this David, the servant of Saul, the king of Israel, which has been with me these days or these years? And I've found no fault in him since he felt unto me unto this day. Now, what's David been doing this whole time? He's been wiping out their little villages. Akish doesn't know it. So he's bragging on David. Oh yeah, he's been with me. He's been great. And little does he realize what David's really been up to. And the princes, verse 4, the princes of the Philistines were wroth with him, and the princes of the Philistines said unto him, Make this fellow return, that he may go again, that he may go again to his place which thou hast appointed him. And let him not go down with us to battle, lest in the battle he be an adversary to us. For wherewith should he recover himself unto his master? Should it not be with the heads of these men? Is not this David, of whom they sang one to another in dances, saying, Saul slew his thousands, and David his ten thousands? I've entitled the message. I got it from verse 3 there, that question the Philistines asked, what is he doing here? Let's pray and we'll look at this passage. Father in heaven, Lord, I thank you for the Bible, what it means to us. And I pray now as we look at this A short little event in David's life that I think is full of meaning and illustration and lesson for us. So I pray you'd teach us and help us and challenge us in this old world we live. I ask, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit as I yield my will, present my body anew. And as always, we pray it all the time that you would be the preacher, that you would speak through me to each of our hearts Whether it's here in the pew or at home, wherever it may be, and you would challenge ours, challenge our faith. Lord, I pray that you would challenge our relationship with this world. And our attitude towards this world and help us to be loyal to you, dear Lord, and close to you. So again, fill me and Lord, have your way tonight. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Here we find a good man. How many people agree with me? David's a good man. It's a good man. It's not perfect, but he's a good man. He's a good man, but he's in bad company. He's a good man, but he's gotten himself into a bad situation. And uh I got thinking about this, and this seems obvious. You know, a lot of wise, a lot of wisdom is very simple. It's not very complex. But um I I put this down in my notes. Decisions have consequences Decisions have consequences. Actions have consequences. Now the Bible is very clear, at least in my mind, the Bible is very clear that God has created us with a free will. We can choose to love him or we can choose to not love him. We can choose to trust him or we can choose to trust in ourselves or someone else. We have a free will to decide However, we choose to decide. We can act, we can make decisions and act according to our will So we have a free will. We can choose the decisions we make. We can choose the actions we take. But here's something that we cannot choose. We cannot choose the consequences of the decisions we make We cannot choose the consequences of the actions we take. In fact, much for a lot of people, for many people, their lives consist of trying to regulate, control, and minimize the consequences of decisions they made and trying to deal with it and keep those consequences from bearing fruit But nevertheless, we can't we can choose our decisions. I've said this often over the years, it's true. We can choose our decisions, but we cannot choose the consequences. How many people here ever made a decision and later on the consequences came down? And uh you found you could do nothing about the consequences. Sure. Sure. Um Now, our free will. Take your Bible if you would, and go with me to Proverbs chapter 22. Now keep your place here because I want to look at some of these verses. But we end up in Proverbs so often. I want to go to two Proverbs right now. Proverbs chapter twenty two and verse number three By the way, with this eye surgery, the doctor told me that I cannot lift anything that weighs more than a gallon of milk About fifteen pounds. Don't lift up anything that weighs more than a gallon. Don't bend over. Don't exert yourself. In fact, my impr what I got from him was just lay around on the lounge chair, drink iced tea, and let Kathy do everything for you is what it sounded like to me. And so it's been wonderful the last few days. 22, Proverbs 22. That was a decision I made, and there will be consequences from that statement. Proverbs 22, verse 3. A good verse here to underscore in your Bible, a good verse to pay close attention to. Notice what it says. A prudent man. A man with wisdom, a man with some insight. It's a good thing to be a prudent person. A prudent man, look at this, foreseeth the evil And hideth himself. He responds. He sees what the consequences of that action will be, and he's not going to take that action. Prudent man perceiveth the evil and hideth himself, but the simple does what? It passes right on, uh passes right on and are punished A prudent man, a w or you could put it this way, to reword it a little bit, you could say a wise person Says, you know, if I take this action, if I make this decision, they're able to foresee, they're able to see ahead and say that's this is what they're act able to accurately anticipate what the consequences of that action will be, how that's going to play out in the end or ha this decision I make, how that's going to play out, what the long-term consequences of it are, and they say, no, no, no, no, thank you. I'm not going that way. And they hide herself, they avoid that. They they avoid making that decision. But a simple person At the moment, boy, it seems like, oh, this is great. Yeah, I'll do this. And they never look forward. They never see beyond the here and now And they pass on and they punish. They suffer the consequences. Come over to chapter 27. We probably really don't need to go to this because it's verbatim, repeats what chapter 22 said. But Proverbs 27 And verse number 12, he he uh restates this again. Now, this is Solomon writing under the inspiration of God to his son, and he makes this statement twice to his son. It's pretty important. A prudent man forseeth the evil. He sees where this leads, he sees what this produces, and he hideth himself. But the simple pass on and are punished. I wrote in my margin of my Bible there, pay attention. I wrote under that the importance of foresight. And able to see ahead a little bit. Wisdom, I put this in my notes, I think this is a good statement. Wisdom is the ability to clearly see the consequences of my decisions and my actions David made a decision that he, for whatever reason, he was going to disregard the promise of God, and he was going to step out of the clear, revealed will of God, and he was going to trust in the Philistines to provide him security and safety, which he, for whatever reason, convinced himself God cannot could not or would not provide for him. And he made that decision And now we're seeing the consequences. For a period of time it seemed to be working out. He's staying in in a Gath, he's staying down there in a little town out of the way, and he's attacking all these others. He's got a great little scheme going here. He's kept it from uh Akish, and he's fooled everybody, but now he's in a situation And um uh and he's having to deal with the consequences of it. By the way, this isn't the first time that a good man made a bad decision. Can you think of anyone else in the Bible that was a good guy, good person? But they made a bad decision. Talk to me now. Somebody, who do you think of? Abraham went down to Egypt and boy he paid a price for that, brought Hagar back, and uh that uh was a mess. Somebody over here said, Adam, that's who I thought of Adam was a pretty good guy. He lived in a pretty good situation. But old Satan got in there, and man, he made a bad decision, and boy, the consequences you and I are living with it today. Now don't hold that against Adam. If you and I were there, we'd have probably done the same thing. Anyone else? Can you think of anyone else? That for the most part is a good guy. Huh? Noah, yeah, he got off the boat, made a decision to drink wine, got drunk. You know what I found out? If you never drink any wine, you'll never get drunk. It's amazing how that works. And who else? Jonah, I thought of Jonah, prophet of God and kings. He's highly spoken of. But boy, he made a dumb decision, and that cost him Isaac. Samson made a bunch of dumb decisions. You know, it said of Samson, I believe I'm correct on this, it's said of Samson more than any Old Testament character that the Spirit of God came upon him Spirit of God came upon him. Spirit of God came upon him. But boy, he made some dumb decisions. Anybody in the New Testament? Peter. Yeah, that was Judas. I don't know about he was a good guy there. He was a devil from the beginning. But Peter, I thought of Peter as a pretty good guy. But man, when Jesus was taken in before Pilate, he made some bad decisions. Now, before we look down our long self-righteous nose on these people Uh how many people would say I've I've done my share fair share? Sure. Sure. So David is making a made a decision here, and um And uh a good guy that made a bad decision. I've known personally, I've known some good men. Um good men. But boy, they made some bad decisions and um they suffered for it. Uh preacher friends And uh so it's uh it's it's not David is not alone in this predicament that he finds himself in. Now some of these folks that made a bad decision, good people made a bad decision Some of them, in God's mercy, were able to recover and came back and were very useful. Peter, of course, being one. God restored him. But I'm telling you, that doesn't always happen That doesn't always happen. Brother Chitt works down at Beacon of Truth, dear friend, faithful many, many years. He would give his testimony And one time he was preaching to teens. We had a big teen round. He was talking to him, and he said how in his teen years he got away from the Lord. Anybody ever hear Chip Gives Testament? He had gotten away from the Lord for 10, 12 years And got out in the world. He was saved, but he got away from the Lord. God out in the world. And he said, but God brought him back. And God in his mercy restored him. And he's able to live for the Lord and serve the Lord And he was kind of using that to the young people, and I said, Amen, 100%. But here's the thing about that, is that is the minority That get away from God and then eventually come back. Most of the time a person makes bad decisions and gets out of there, particularly youth youth, they get out and they don't always come back. They don't always get restored. And so it's a it's a dangerous thing to get out of the will of God. It's a dangerous thing to discard, disregard the clear uh word of God and the promises of God. So we have to be very, very careful in our walk with God. We have to be very, very careful that we be wise, that we be prudent, and foresee the evil and hide ourselves from going that way. Now, come back here to 1 Samuel 29. Let's look at these five verses here. I broke it down into three thoughts real quick The first thing I notice is we have an outbreak of war in verse number one. Now the Philistines gathered together all their armies to Aphak And the Israelites pitched by a fountain which is in Jezreel. Brother, they brought the two armies together. They are it war is breaking out here. Now it's impossible to determine exactly what the cause of this w outbreak was. We don't know if somebody said something or we don't know exactly what it was that brought it to a head like this, but they're about to go full-blown war. There had been incessant um skirmishes been going on between the two, in fact almost their whole history The Philistines and the Israelites are just constantly uh a little skirmish here, a little breakout there, a little thing here. But uh for whatever reason, and they had numerous wars, but for whatever reason, uh it has blown up here. And David's over with the Philistines, and he's kind of doing his little sneaky thing there in these isolated villages, and Saul's over here, and he's got his hands full. We'll look at that here in a minute And now it has come to a head, and it is about to be full-blown war. Here's the thing: the Israelites, the Israelites and the Philistines were diametrically opposed. In every aspect of their thinking. They were diametrically, they were incompatible in their worldviews The way the Philistines, their understanding of God was a pagan, false God, these little idols, a perverse type of worship Blasphemous in every way. The Jews, of course, understood the true and living God. He revealed himself to them. They understood God for who he was and what he was So their worldviews were diametrically opposed. Their worldviews were incompatible. Their values The values that the Philistines held to and the values that the Jews held to were incompatible. They were exact opposites, the polar opposites, uh their priorities. Uh and so you had these two You have these two philosophies, you have these two lifestyles, you have these two worldviews that are incompatible, that there is no way these two are going to be able to dwell together in peace And as I was thinking about the Jews, they had very high standards, at least what God had revealed to them, they had very moral A very um um uh uh central worship of the true God. Um And then you had the pa the Philistines over here, very perverse, very violent, a false God, a satanic worship. And these are at a loggerhead. These are incompatible. And as I thought about those two worldviews, I thought about the church and the world that we live in. And biblical Christianity and the world have two incompatible views, world views. The world's values and the biblical Christians' values are diametrically opposed. The world's priorities The principles that the world lives by, and the principles and the priorities that the biblical Christian lives by are diametrically opposed to each other. Diametrically opposed. And I'll tell you, Christians, you and I and all any Christian, we know the Lord, we believe the Bible, we try and live by the Bible, we make compromises with the world. We try to sign peace treaties, so to speak With the world's values and the world's priorities and the world's pleasures and the worldview that the unsafe has and that we have. And you know who always ends up compromising? It's always the Christian It's always the Christian. It's incompatible. Now question, should we love the people of the world? Yes, absolutely. We ought to love the people of the world. We ought to seek to reach them with the gospel, but we should never, ever love the values of the world. We should never ever try and compromise or cooperate with the principles that this world lives by. They are diametrically opposed to the holiness of our God. We live in a fallen world with fallen values, fallen principles, fallen priorities. And so we have this war, this Constant warfare between God's people and the Philistines, the people of the world, constant war. Now we're not in a physical war with the world, but we are in a spiritual combat a war of ideas, a war of values, a war of principles. And so they're diametrically opposed. It's impossible. So we don't know what it was that sparked this outbreak of war, other than the fact that they were they were very, very they were they were two, I keep saying the same word over and over, but they were diametrically opposed to each other in so many important aspects. And so we don't know what caused it, what sparked it, uh, but we do know this. We know that Saul was in a mess at this time. Um God had rejected him as king. Now put yourself in Saul's shoes, if you would, just his thinking. God anointed him to be king. How many folks would agree with me on this? If you knew that God had anointed you a king, God had anointed you as king, there would be a little bit of confidence that comes with that, right? Yeah, sure, I'd be pretty confident God called me to this. God anointed me to be this. And then you take that for granted and you squander that away. And you abuse that privilege of being anointed of God to be king, and God says, All right, I've rejected you as king through Saul's rebellion and his disobedience. And God says, I've rejected you. What do you think that would do to your confidence? In the back of your mind, you know the God of heaven rejected my position as king. Oh my word. That would be devastating. So tall Saul's trying to hold on to this, and uh I think he's putting on this facade that he's got his act together that Oh yeah, I can do this. And in the back of his mind, he knows the voice of Samuel ringing in his ears, the Lord hath rejected thee. That's in the back of his mind this whole time. So he has been rejected by God as king. If you would come over back to chapter 28. I skipped chapter 28 because it's about Saul's situation here. And uh but look at verse 5 and 6. By the way, verse 1 of chapter 20 uh 28 brings out the fact that they're in full-blown war. When you get down to verse 5, it says, when Saul saw the host of the Philistines, he was what? He was afraid. And look at the next statement. And his heart greatly trembled. Does that remind you of any other event where Saul was trembled and was afraid? Remember when he faced Goliath? Almost the exact same words. Saul in the back of his mind, the voice of Samuel is ringing. God has rejected you as king. God has rejected you as king And now he's facing this foe on his own. Now look what happens in verse number 6. And when Saul inquired of the Lord, what's Saul doing? He's inquiring of the Lord. What's it? He's praying. He's scared. Oh God. The Lord, what? Look at it. Answered him not, neither by dreams, nor by Uram, nor by prophets. It is silent. Nothing. Saul is in a mess. Now we don't we're not going to take time to look at what he did, but he uh other than to say this, that he went to a He went to a what we might call a fortune teller or a um uh uh uh is it necromancer, I think is the term, where they contact the dead, and he says, if God won't answer me, I'll go to this witch. And she'll contact Samuel for me. And he goes to her and conversation there, he talks her into doing what he wants and Oh and behold, quote-unquote Samuel appears. And he asks Samuel. And Samuel says basically the same thing: God's rejected you. Now, here's the question. I don't really, that's a whole nother message, but who was the Samuel that the witch brought up from the dead? To contact and communicate with King Saul. Was that actually Samuel's spirit come back from the dead? That contradicts almost all of Scripture. I don't believe this was Samuel. I don't believe this was Samuel that came back from the dead. I think it contradicts too much scripture. Now other men You know, great men would maybe take issue with me. And um I always felt like if they don't agree with me, they're probably wrong. But um uh But I don't believe it was Samuel. Whether it was Satan impersonating Samuel or whether this woman was a scam artist, a ventriloquist of sorts, I don't know. But what's this this is the point I want to make here. They're about to go to war, and their king is a mess, and he's he's his prayers are not answered, and it's an amazing thing when someone rejects the authority of God over their life. When someone turns their back on God, it's amazing what they'll end up doing. I have seen it so many times. Somebody serving God, faithful to God, they appear to be a good, strong Christian, and for whatever reason, something comes along, something gets under their crawl. And they get out of sorts with God and God's people. And brother, you never know the things they end up doing. You thought, I never dreamed she would ever do that. I never dreamed he would ever do something like that. And here we have Saul. Sitting down at the feet of a witch. So Saul's a mess, rejected by God as king. God refuses to answer prayer. He's desperate. And then not only this, he's about to go to war with the Philistines, and he has run his best warrior off. David's the best guy he had. David's the they every time David was fighting for Israel, Israel won. Hands down The hand of God was on David. The power of God was on David. And Saul's run him off And so now he stands. He's about to go to this war with Philistines, and he's a mess. He's in a mess. I put this down: rebellion against God never turns out well. Mark it down. We rebel against the will of God. It never turns out well. So number one, I see the outbreak of war. Let me go quickly here. Second of all, I see there's an obstacle for David. Look with me, come back here. Chapter 28, 29, verse 2, and the lords of the Philistines passed on by hundreds and by thousands. I mean they've got the army out. They're putting on their military parade And uh there's hundreds and thousands. But David and his men, about six hundred or so, passed on in the re-reward with Akish. I don't think David had it planned. When he said in his heart, I'll now one day perish by the hand of Saul, I'm going over to the Philistines. I don't think he saw it panning out quite this way. That here he is, surrounded by hundreds and thousands of the Philistines' best warriors. I don't think he planned it that way. He didn't foresee that. He's outmanned And he's outmaneuvered. I mean he's right in there. He's right in the middle of their military thing. And I put this down compromise with the world will always challenge my convictions. What's David going to do? Is he going to go to war with the Philistines? and fight against the people of God, which he said earlier that he would not raise his hand against God's anointed Or is he going to take a stand here and be slaughtered? He has no chance here. What's he going to do? I tell you, when we disregard, when we compromise with the world, we always end up challenging our convictions. And by the way That phrase there, it says, um, David and his men passed on in the re-reward. What in the world does that mean? The re-reward. Anyone want to take a guess? The re-reward. It's not just the back of the crowd, it's way back behind the crowd. David is hanging back, though they're marching out to go to war, hundreds and thousands of these Philistine soldiers. And David's there. This is the way I picture it in my mind. David's like this. Walking real slow in the back. Stay low. And we're part of this. We're going out there, but he doesn't want to be noticed. He doesn't want to be seen. I'm telling you, it's better to trust in God than put your trust in man. David decided he's going to trust the Philistines. Now he's in a situation, a bad spot. He is in a bad spot. Take your Bible, if you would, and turn with me to Isaiah chapter 46, real quick. I started to make this statement: it's better to trust in God than to trust in my own understanding. And here is why. God knows the beginning from the end. God knows if I take this action, make this decision, God knows exactly what the consequences are going to be. Here's the problem. God's understanding of the consequences is unlimited. My understanding of my decisions and consequences is very limited. So it's better to trust God. Isaiah 46, look at verse number 9. Remember the former things of old, for I am God and there is none else. I am God and there is none like me. Now look at this. Declaring the what? End from the beginning. And from ancient times. That word ancient times has the idea of pre-history. Before there was even any history being made. God understood and knew what would happen. And from ancient times, the things that are not yet done, saying, My counsel shall stand, and I will do all my pleasure. David leaned on his own understanding. He said in his own heart, but he had a very limited understanding. He never anticipated this. God knew the whole time, you make this decision, David, that is exactly where you're going to end up And my statement again is this: it's better to trust in God than in our own understanding. I'm telling you, doing what we think is right, disregarding what God says at the moment can seem so right Boy, this is the wise thing to do. I know the Bible says that, but man, right now this seems so right I'm telling you, our understanding is limited. Our foresight is limited. God's is unlimited. Let's put aside our own understanding and let's trust in the Lord. And so David's seeing this. And last of all, I notice the outrage of the Philistines. Come back here to 1 Samuel real quick. Verse 29 and verse 3 down through verse 5. Then said the princes of the Philistines, what do these Hebrews hear? What in the world are these Hebrews here? I think that's a pretty good question. What is God's man doing in the devil's crowd? What is God's man doing fighting God's people? What is God's man doing fighting God's cause? I've had over the years Christians say and do things, and it's like, man, what are you doing? What are you thinking? You're fighting God They're fighting the cause of Christ. Why would why what's the deal? What are these Hebrews doing here? What in the world are they doing with us? You know the interesting thing is their logic, there was logic in their reasoning. Look what they said. Isn't not this David? servant of the king of Saul. And they say we get down into battle, he's going to turn on us, and that's how he'll win himself back to I Israel. That's how he'll gain uh his good favors of Saul again. We get into battle, we're distracted. He's behind us, man, he'll turn on us. And they're exactly right. And I kind of I have a sneaking suspicion that might be what David had in mind while this is taking place. And so these Philistines weren't stupid. And by the way, a lot of times the world sees the hypocrisy in a Christian before a Christian sees the hypocrisy in a Christian. I remember when I worked at the meat packing plant. Well, before I go there, as pastor I've had people talk a little bit and they'll they'll mention somebody, I'll say, oh yeah, he's he's a member of our church. And they'll look and they'll go, huh? I said, I think he is. Maybe not. Maybe it's someone else. You mean a Christian does that? Anybody ever hear an unsaved person say something like that? What a Christian does something like that? You know, a lot of times the unsaved world sees our uh our hypocrisy and we don't. There was a guy when I worked at the Meepin plant Nicest guy in the world, short little guy. He was then the age I am now about. And um so he wasn't that old. But um And I was like nineteen, twenty, I just got saved. And he was a nice guy and he had a Christian testimony. And he's just kind of quiet, minding his own business, but you know, he would pray at lunch. You know, we knew him to be a Christian. He talked a lot about it. But man, sometimes he would let language fly And words would come out of his mouth. And you know, those old dope heads, drunkards, fornicators that were all just the whole place is full of them. You know who they'd go to about that? Leatherman. Leatherman. Hey, I thought so-and-so was a Christian. Is that how Christians talk? What do I say? I say, no. It's not how Christians talk. Wait, that's not well you didn't think so You know what that told me early on? That showed me a lot of times the world knows what a Christian should do when the Christian either doesn't care or isn't even aware of it Those Philistines knew, hey, this guy should not be here with us. And I'm saying this, the Christians, we are in the world, but we should never be of the world. Should never be like the world. We need to be clear and distinct. There ought to be a fundamental distinction between the child of God and the people of the world. Amen or not? There's no mixing. Like oil and water, there's no mixing. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us To be very careful, to not lean on our own understanding. Help us to be careful and to foresee the consequences of actions we take and decisions we make. And Lord, help us to love this world to Christ, help us to share the gospel, but Lord help us to never, ever be at peace with this world or compromise with the world values. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, I need to pay more attention to my behavior in the world? Be a little more careful. About my testimony in this world. Any like that by the uplifted hand, preach or pray with me. Sure. It's ongoing. It's always. We've got to watch. We've got to be careful. We want to be distinctively Christian in everything we say and do in our home, out in the workplace, everywhere Father in heaven, please bless our meditation. Help us to learn from this in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.