Thank you. Somebody took notes. Amen. Thank you. I said I didn't like black licorice Now they did get the Twizzler strawberry red licorice. Cherry doesn't work. Strawberry. That's what my grandpa used to get me at the five and dime. And that's good. That's what you got. I got are you the one that got it? Oh okay. And um that's my love offering. Oh okay. Well hey, my grandchildren will be happy, amen. So that's good I tell you what I like it here. I just like I like the setting, I like everything about it, I like the people, like the emphasis around the church Uh I like the reminders about missions and boy. I tell you you got things right. You have got things right. I like the way you listen You seem to listen on purpose. That tells me you're used to getting good preaching all the time here. Which really puts the pressure on a visiting preacher 'Cause you're already getting great preaching and praise the Lord for that. You know, when I went to Bible college several years many years ago now, um one of the things that we learned is that when If you're a pastor, you need to kind of get in with your people and get to know them a little bit and and do things with them, things like that. Now do you have any hunters and fishermen here Okay, there's a few of you. Well, uh my dad took me hunting and fishing, but it never caught with me. I mean I was a ball player, like I said in the message yesterday, last night Uh if you could run with it, hit it, kick it, throw it, that's what I like to do. I was a ball player. And the first church that I pastored after I left college was Tennessee Ridge Baptist Church in the middle of Houston County, which is all woods, no ball fields. Everybody in the church was a hunter and a fisherman. Now the thing I remembered about like going here deer hunting with my dad was we'd have to get up at two o'clock in the morning in Michigan. It'd be cold. We'd drive a couple hours, get to the woods, go back in the woods, still dark, and have to sit there and freeze until it got just a little bit light where we could see the deer. Now, although I went deer hunting with my dad, the only thing I ever shot was a rabbit. I and I knew the difference. It wasn't a jack-alope or anything like that. I was just disgusted that I hadn't shot anything, and so I took took a rabbit out. That's what I did. Well when I got to uh when I got to Tessie Ridge, everybody there was a hunter. And they tried to get me to go duck hunting with 'em. Now I knew it'd be a disaster. I mean it's hard enough just to shoot something on the ground, but to shoot something in midair And I knew I was going to make a fool of myself. So I kept trying to put it off. If I said, No, preacher, we're gonna a few of us are gonna go up to land between the lakes outside of Paris, Tennessee, and uh and we're gonna go duck hunting And so I said, Well, okay. And so I had to get up at two o'clock in the morning. We had to drive up to land between the lakes. We had to make our way out to the blinds. And then we just had to sit there and wait. You know, it's funny, it was just like deer hunting with my dad, uh except it wasn't quite as cold. And so uh I'm sitting there waiting, I've got my rifle, man, I'm ready to go, and finally we begin to hear, I don't know if they were ducks or geese. I can't tell the difference between the two, but we heard them in the distance and they uh they were coming toward us and they were saying, get quiet. Don't say anything. And in a moment we're gonna have some fun. And so they got close enough where finally the blinds came down, and man, everybody came up and blam, blam, blam. And you know, if you're not used to that, it sounded like World War III. But and and I didn't hit anything. I knew I didn't hit anything. Nothing I aimed at fell anyway, you know. So uh I I was embarrassed about that, but I figured they were busy and I noticed the dogs were going out there and man they were they were getting the ducks like crazy. And it looked kind of strange to me. It looked like perhaps there were more ducks than what there were shots that had gone up into the air. And I thought these guys are you know, Davy Crockett, Daniel Boone, these guys are good hunters And so I figured the next time of the next group that came over, I wasn't going to shoot. I was just going to watch them. And maybe I'd pick up a pointer or two. And so when the next time the blinds went down, they stood up, man, they're shooting like crazy. But Again, it seemed like, man, so many ducks were falling. It just seemed like I turned around to one of my deacons and I said, um, are you guys that good? Because it seemed to me that a whole lot more ducks are falling than shots are going up. And he says, no, preacher, he says, it's true. It's true. He said, but all of us don't shoot. He said, he said, personally, he said, I don't shoot He said, what I do is he's just he said, I just ugly him down. All right, young preacher boy, I've been snipe hunting before too, and You know, I figured he's pulling my leg. And I I said, come on, man. I uh there's no way I believe that. He said, No, preachers, I'm being serious with you. When I hear those ducks start coming, he says, I sit back here And I get my face all scrunched up, I get up ready to go, and the blinds come down, ugly, and I ugly them down I said, Man, that's the most amazing thing I ever heard. He said, Yeah, I said, I used to bring my wife, but she'd tear 'em up so bad we couldn't eat them. Well if you'd have seen his wife you'd understood that. I was lying about that last part, but anyway. Good way to start a message, right? Uh turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 16. We're gonna get real serious. I mean we're gonna get real, real serious. Maybe not. I got busy talking about licorice and forgot to turn it on. Thank you. Alright. One verse. Written to a church. Verse 22. He makes a statement. He says, If any man Love not the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be anathema, Marinatha. Now Maranatha means the Lord is coming. And that almost seems out of place with what he just said. But if any man love not the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be Anathema. If I was the title of the message, it would be When God Curses Believers. Now, just the very thought of that statement we kind of back off at. Yet I would definitely say that whereas the Bible says the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge, if there's one major problem going on in a lot of churches today, there's no fear of God. It appeared that the church at Corinth didn't have a whole lot of fear of God. You remember he wrote the entire book to rebuke the church In the first four chapters they had division over there who their favorite preachers were. He says to them in chapter three, he says, I have fed you with milk and not with meat, for hitherto ye were not able to bear it Neither yet now are ye able, for ye are yet carnal. For whereas there is among you envying and strife and division, are ye not carnal and walk as men And then you get to Chapter five, he has to rebuke them because they had a man in the church that was committing immorality with his father's wife He said, this is something even the Gentiles don't do, and the church, instead of mourning over it or doing something about it, we're puffed off. Look how broad-minded we are And so he tells them the next time they were to get together, they were to turn such a one over to Satan for the destruction of the flesh, that the Spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord Jesus You get to chapter 6, and he's got another problem. People were going to law one against another. They were suing one another in a court of law, and he has to rebuke them about that. You get to the end of chapter 6, and then chapter 7. And he has to straighten them up on purity, talking to them about fleeing fornication, talking to them about having the right relationship, the physical relationship with one another in chapter 7. Then in chapters 8 through 10, these people were eating meat that was offered in sacrifice to idols. And they were thinking they were spiritual Because they were so broad-minded to do the very thing that Daniel would not do. And the New Testament church had already spoken about this. In Acts chapter 15, you've got the Jerusalem Council, where they met together about the Gentile churches, and one of the things that they wrote back to the churches under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, by the way, that they were to do these necessary things, and one was not to eat meat offered in sacrifice to idols. So in chapter 8 he starts out where they thought they were at. He treats them like they were strong. He even calls himself weak in another place while they're strong. And that truly wasn't the case. They were the weak ones, he was the strong one And he says, If you're so strong, you ought to be willing not to eat the meat for the sake of the weaker brethren. And then in chapter nine, he tells them three different things that Paul himself would not do, not because they were wrong, but because of the effect that it might have upon them. And then in chapter ten, he strictly forbids them from eating meat offered in sacrifice to idols. What fellowship hath Christ with Belial? What Christ has, or what fellowship hath the table of the Lord with the table of devils? And he says, I'm not saying that what you're what's being sacrificed is being sacrificed to God, but it's being sacrificed to devils, and you're not to have fellowship with devils Now that whole subject seems foreign to us today, but you can go to places like Costco and a number of other grocery stores today, and in the meat section you'll find meats that are labeled halal meats. Halal meats are meats that have been dedicated to the God of Islam, to Allah, and God's people are not to eat it. It's forbidden in the Word of God. Then you get to chapter eleven and he has to straighten them out on the fact that just the very appearance of men and women from the neck up when they pray does make a difference to God when they pray, and they are to look different. And then in chapter and then beginning in the latter part of the chapter, he deals with them abusing the Lord's supper. And even says that this cause many are weak and sickly among you And many sleep. Many of them had died. He gets to chapters 12 through 14. In chapters 12 through 14, they were proud about their spiritual gifts So much so that their pride was causing division. And we know the scripture says that God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace unto the humble. And then chapter 15, he has to straighten them up on the resurrection. Hey, this is the church he started And then after fifteen chapters of rebuke, he takes up an offering in chapter sixteen. How about that? That's how we know it was a Baptist church. Amen And it's in chapter 16, as he gets to the end of the letter, that he makes this statement if any man love not the Lord Jesus Christ. Let him be accursed. Now I've talked to some people about that. They don't like the idea that any of God's people could ever be under a curse. And yet we can go back in the Old Testament in Malachi chapter 3 and verse 9 when he says you're cursed with a curse. You've robbed God. Wherein have we robbed thee? Tithes and offerings. Said you're cursed with a curse. In Psalm 106 and verse 40, because of his people's disobedience, the scripture says this. Therefore was the wrath of the Lord kindled against His people, insomuch that he abhorred his own inheritance Amazing how many times in the scripture the Lord got angry at his own people. In the book of Judges, God is found raising up people like the Philistines. and the Midianites and the Amalekites to fight against his own people and to put them under subject subjection because of their sin. And then we come to the New Testament. Well, what about the believers there? Well, I get to Acts chapter 5, and you've got a couple by the name of Ananias and Zephia. Safira, who get excited about the giving program of the church and they go out and sell some of their property. But when they bring the money in for it, they don't bring it all in. They didn't have to bring it all in God does not kill them because they didn't bring it all in. It's because they lied about what they were given. And God killed His own people, Ananias and Sapphira, in the New Testament church. And then of course, as I already mentioned in 1 Corinthians chapter 11 When there were many who slept, many who had died in the church of Corinth because they had partaken of the Lord's Supper unworthily. So here's Paul writing to the Church of God. People that he had personally won to Christ, a church that he had personally started, a church that in just three short years had so many things wrong with it. So he writes this total letter of rebuke, and then he closes with this final warning: if any man love not the Lord Jesus Christ, Let him be accursed. A woman said to John Newton, the author of Amazing Grace, when she was dying. She said, you often spoke to me of Christ, but you did not tell me enough of the danger. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. Now, first of all, let's just take that word anathema, because obviously this is the Greek word appearing as the Greek word. It's not the only time that this word appears in our New Testament. In other times, it is either it is either translated accursed, Or curse, for instance. In Acts 23, 14, remember those people that wanted to kill Paul after he'd been arrested? It says we abound ourselves under a great curse. And that word is the word anathema. In Romans 9. 3, Paul said, I could wish myself were accursed from Christ. For my brethren, my kinsmen according to the flesh. And again the word there is anathema. In 1 Corinthians chapter 12 and verse 3 He says, Wherefore I give you to understand that no man speaking by the Spirit of God calleth Jesus accursed. Again, the word anathema. The other two times that it's used is found in 1 Corinthians 1, verses 8 and 9. When he says in verse 8, if we or an angel from heaven preach any other gospel unto you Then that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed. And then he basically repeats that again in verse nine. So in the other five times we have it translated force, and here we have it given just exactly as the word is itself. Anathema. Of course, all that, I don't have any doubt, is under the leadership and moving of the Holy Spirit of God. Accursed things in the Old Testament were very serious You remember when Achan at the battle in Jericho, he took of the accursed thing. He took of the wedges of gold and the silver and the Babylonian garment. And fortaking of the accursed thing that he was not to partake of, nor any of the Israelites were, he and his wife and his children and all that he had were buried with stones thrown at them by all the Israelite people. Because God hates sin. When we read a verse like this: if any man love not the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be accursed. This is one of the most serious verses. In the Word of God. And it is written to believers. Now, what's the deciding object of this old thing And it's this, the Lord Jesus Christ. He doesn't say, if any man love not his mother, let him be accursed He doesn't say, if any man love not his children, let him be accursed. As a matter of fact, we find in Luke chapter 14 that except a man hate his father and mother and wife and children and brethren He cannot be my disciple. So, but here, he's not saying except a man loves his mother, he cannot, or he'll be accursed. He doesn't say that. Or children or neighbor. He doesn't say it about the church. He doesn't say it about religion. He doesn't say it about his fellow man. He doesn't sell it say it about being good and moral and all of that. And by the way, the golden rule is not the great commandment. The golden rule, you know, uh do unto others before they did No, that's not it, that's the Western rule. Do unto others as you'd have them do unto you. Uh that's not the golden rule. Matter of fact, it's not even worded that way in our Bible, but um But the great commandment is thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. You know, God takes pretty seriously this matter about whether or not we love Him. In this case, he says, the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, a lot of people, if you were to say, what's the Savior's name? The Lord Jesus Christ. Well, part of that's his name. He is, first of all, the Lord, that is his title, and that is his person. He is God. That's who he is. Isaiah 43, verses 10 to 11, Hear my witnesses, saith the Lord, and my servant whom I have chosen, that he may understand that I am he. Before me there was no God formed, neither shall there be after me. I even I am the Lord. And that word Lord throughout that verse is in all capitals in our Old Testament, and that's always the word Jehovah. I even I am the Lord and beside me there is no Savior There's no Savior but Jehovah. Hey, listen to the scripture, Titus 2. 13, looking for the blessed hope and the glorious appearing of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ. That's who He is. Jesus is God. And we can take a lot of time and go through all the Bible verses proving that. And then Jesus is his name. It means Jehovah saves. It means Savior. It means deliverer. If you were to pronounce it in Hebrew, it'd be Joshua. That's what Joshua's name means. Now you look at this, the Lord Jesus, and then he says Christ. That's not his last name. It's the Greek form of the word Messiah. He is the anointed one of God. He is the promised one from the very beginning of Genesis chapter 3 and verse 15. That seed of woman that would come and crush the serpent's head. Man, right from the fall of man, we've got the promise of a coming Savior, thank God. And he says, if any man love not the Lord Jesus Christ. Let him be accursed. Jesus said in John 6, 46, Why call ye me Lord, Lord? If you do not do the things I say, it's an interesting question. A lot of people never even contemplate it. We think it's all right to disobey Jesus in a number of areas and we're fine. No, we're not. Why call ye me Lord, Lord? The hypocrisy, so many times of our speech, there's a lot of songs we sing we don't mean. Even at invitation time, often we'll sing, Have thine own way, Lord, have thine own way. Thou art the potter, I am the clay. Mold me and make me after thy will, while I am waiting, yielded, and still. We sing it, it's a great song, it's a prayer. And we're saying, Lord, we're surrendered. Mold me and make me whatever you want me to be. Man, when we come to church to hear the preaching of the Word of God, On our lips ought to be, Lord, change me to what you want me to be. And if you hear something that calls for something different in your life, man, do what you say you're going to do in the song. Or don't sing it. Just compounding the lie. Now your eternity is decided by what you've done with Jesus. You know, I thank God. I I didn't know a lot about Jesus when I got saved. I was ignorant. I I I learned so much after I got saved, and that's really when I fell in love with him. I didn't trust Jesus because I loved him. I trusted Jesus because I didn't want to go to hell. I didn't know a whole lot about it. But after I got saved, the Holy Spirit of God came to live within, and I had new life, and I read the scripture. Man, his word just flooded my soul. I love him with all of my heart today. He's my Savior. I can't wait to see him. And you know it could be tonight. That'd be fine. Jesus said, He that believeth on him hath everlasting life Man, what a marvelous promise. To believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, you have everlasting life. So the deciding factor here If any man love not, you'll notice what it is not. It is not he that hateth the Lord Jesus Christ. That's not what it says. It says, if any man love not, See, we're talking about, let's say, on a scale, here's love, here's ambivalence, and here is hate. This curse is not over here with hate. The curse has to do with any who are not over here. In love with the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, when we get a hold of that, we need to understand then also what are some of the evidences of love. Well, obviously, time in the Bible. Jeremiah said, Thy words were found, and I did eat them, and thy word was unto me, the joy and rejoicing of my heart. Job said, I esteem the words of thy mouth more than my necessary food. The psalmist spoke of his love for the Word of God and how he looked at the Word of God. In Psalm 119, 128, which is my life verse, Therefore I esteem all thy precepts concerning all things to be right, and I hate every false way. I don't care what society thinks about something or even what I thought about something before. God is right about everything that He says anything about in His Word. His word absolutely is supreme. I'm going to stand with him. The way I know that uh that God is on my side is when I'm on his side. And to take his side, I'm going to agree with his word about everything. Not only that, I'm going to talk to him in prayer. And I'm going to want to talk to them in prayer. I mean, it's amazing the believers that can go day after day and never have a time set aside to pray. Now, you know, it's fine. It's fine to be in your car and pray while you're going to work. I know around our place you better pray with your eyes open. It's pretty dangerous. But You know, you look at the saints of the past, they had other things to do as well, but they took time out to pray, them and the Lord. Do you set aside time for just you and the Lord together? Nothing else to do. The psalmist said, Early will I seek thee many times. Some of the old divines would get up at 3 and 4 o'clock in the morning and pray for two hours before they ever started the day. One preacher, he was told by another one, he said, Well, I I I've got too much to do to pray two hours a day And the other man said, Well, I've got too much to do not to pray two hours a day. Of course, some of them were praying four and five hours a day. Prayer. But what we do is we pray while we drive, we pray while we watch the TV, we pray while we talk on the phone, we pray while we're doing everything, but just being alone and talking with Him. Well the young couples in love, they like to talk to one another. And they look for opportunities to talk to one another. I was with a preacher, we were going to a preacher's meeting over in uh South Carolina. And his two boys were with us. And they were single young men who had surrendered to preach. And they both had young ladies that they were they were planning on getting married to. And it's funny, the preacher and I'd be talking in the front seat, and uh we thought sometimes they were in the conversation, then we'd hear one say in his phone, Yeah, we're a mile marker 172 A little while later, the other one would say to his girl on the board, we're at mile marker 184. I mean, here we are in the car and we're thinking, hey, just give it a rest for a while, fellas. Do some of you remember what it was like when you were in love and you couldn't wait, you looked for opportunities just to just to talk with the one that you were in love with? Well man, if you're in love with Jesus, you're gonna want to spend time talking with him. I'd love to talk to the Lord. I I walk around the auditorium of our church and That's my prayer closet. I love it. I love it. Because while I'm walking around talking and praying, talking to the Lord, of course most people normally sit in the same places And so when I go to praying for our people, well, as I walk by a few, I'll pray for this family and I'll pray for that family. And there are times when I'm especially burdened. And I'm I'm well I'm not going to be embarrassed to say this, but when I do, and there's a pew right down at the front, right there. I mean where I'm just burdened. And I just say, Lord. Can I just sit in your lap and let's just love for a while? Those are some of the most precious times in my prayer life. Now he may not be seated there, but then he is too. He's real. He's alive. I love him. I love to talk to him. I love to hear what he has to say from the word of God. Also by your serving. In your giving. We covered last night, I don't need to cover it tonight, in your obedience to his word. Because if you don't obey his word, you don't love it. You may be saved, you go into heaven, praise the Lord for it, but if you're not obedient to his word, you don't love him. Do you love him? He says, if any man love not the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be accursed. Now I know what some people are thinking, but preacher, man, I I do serve the Lord. I I I maybe I sing in the choir, I go at soul winning, I help with the bus ministry I'll clean up things around the church. I'll give extra demissions. I'll do all these things because uh isn't that enough? Well, was it enough for the church at Ephesus? I want you to turn over there. Turn to Revelation chapter 2. In the first letter to the seven churches of Asia Minor. Notice he starts it out unto the angel of the church of Ephesus, right? These things saith he that holdeth the seven stars in his right hand, who walketh in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks. Now, if you read chapter 1 of the book of Revelation, you know that that's describing Jesus Christ because he walks in the midst of the church. He says, I know thy works. Now notice what he says about this church. They're all good. And he said, I know thy works and thy labor and thy patience. And how thou canst not bear them which are evil, and and thou hast tried them which say they are apostles, and are not, and hast found them liars, and hast borne, and hast patience. And for my namesake has labored and has not fainted. I read all that and I think, who wouldn't like to pastor a church exactly like this? These people were workers. They were hard workers. They couldn't bear evil. They hated sin. They took a stand against sin. And when a creature came in, they demanded that that preacher preach the truth of the Word of God and not to make things up. Man, these people were salad He says he's borne you patience and for my name's sake you've labored and you've not fainted. You stuck by it. You weren't a morning glory. You have been there week after week after week and thinking This is a great church, but then you read the next verse. He says in the next verse: nevertheless, I have somewhat against thee, because thou hast left. Thy first love. I believe I pastor a great church. I have a lot of great people. Didn't I? Somebody put coloring on top of my twisters, and that's why I've got all this green over my hand. I thought a fungus was growing. There you go. I look That's amaz Can't say I don't have a green thumb though, you know what I mean? I look at my people and I see a hardworking people. I mean I see a people that go out soul winning, that knock on doors. They'll work on things around the building. They'll come in extra for different ministries of the church. We have a B Sunday school. We have people that are there most of Sunday afternoon taking care of some of the kids that we bring in on the bus to get them special training and so on. I have a great church, but you know, all I can see is their service. I can't see their hearts, but Jesus does. He says, I have somewhat against thee. Now we know his testimony is true. If it was just the pastor saying this, come on, preacher, you can't see my heart. But it's not the pastor, it's Jesus. You have left your first love. Now, how serious is that? Look at what he says. Remember, therefore, from whence thou art fallen, and repent and do thy first works. Or else, or else I will come unto thee quickly, and will remove thy candlestick out of his place, except thou repent. Now, what does that mean that he'd remove the candlestick out of its place? Go back to chapter 1 and verse 20. He says, the mystery of the seven stars which thou sawest in thy right hand and the seven golden candlesticks The seven stars are the angels of the seven churches, and the seven candlesticks which thou sawst are the seven churches. Jesus says, you remember from whence you've fallen. Repent and do your first works or else. I'll come unto thee quickly and remove thy candlestick. He says, I'll take your church out of there. Man, but Lord, you need a church like this. You need a church that's fervent in serving you. You need a church that's fervent in sound doctrine. You need a church that'll keep working and not stop. Or, Lord, how could you possibly take us out? God says, I want a church that loves me first. And if they're not going to love me. I'm willing to get them out of there. That's New Testament. That's Jesus speaking to a church that any one of us would like to be in. But they hadn't guarded their heart. Proverbs chapter 4 and verse 23 says, Keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. The first thing he says is, put away from you a froward mouth. If you want to keep your heart for God, you've got to be careful what you allow to come out of your mouth. There are a lot of Christians, we have taken up the spirit of CNN and NBC and ABC News. We have gotten the spirit of the political times where we complain and gripe about everything that we just don't like about what's going on at church I got news for you. If you've got three Baptists together, you've got four different opinions on how you ought to do things. But God doesn't give you ten pastors. He gives you a pastor to lead the sheep. And it's God's people's job to follow him. And watch their mouth while they're doing it. So he says, keep your heart with all diligence, put away from your forward mouth. Then he says, Let your eyes Look right on. Do you realize there are things we're not supposed to look at? And I'm not just talking about the TV, and I'm not just talking about the internet, and I'm not just talking about the books that you read. Let your eyes look right on. You need to be careful what you see. If you're not, you will lose your heart. There are a whole lot of preachers, deacons, Sunday school teachers, what were considered good church members Who are totally out of any ministry today and they've lost their families because they weren't careful about what they let their eyes see on the internet. Let your eyes look around, you lose your heart. And you lose your heart, God says, you either repent and do your first works, or else I'll take your church out. This is serious. Do you realize how much he wants you to love him? 2 Chronicles 16 He says to the king, he says, the eyes of the Lord run to and fro throughout the whole earth to show himself strong in behalf of those whose hearts are perfect toward him. So where's your heart tonight? If any man love not the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be accursed. If listening to Rush Limbaugh for three hours or Fox News for five hours Playing six hours of video games and you can't spend fifteen minutes alone and reading your Bible in prayer, let me say, you don't love him first. And if any man love not the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be anathema. I read a story about a preacher, an old preacher many, many years ago over in England. He stood before a congregation. He had preached a message from this passage. When he got all done, he looked at the people and he said, How shall I bless this whole assembly? When every person in it who loveth not the Lord Jesus Christ is anathema. Now you can't do anything about your brother or sister next to you. But he's talking to your heart tonight. Do you love him? Not asking what ministry you're involved in. Do you love him? Have you gotten to the place where it's become duty? And duty may be fine for a while, but I'm sorry, that's like running the engine with no oil in it at all. The people that keep going are the ones that love him. If any man love not the Lord Jesus Christ, Let him be anathema. Father, may we allow the Spirit of God to search our hearts tonight. And maybe we be willing to get honest with you. More than all these other things we do, Lord, you want a people that love you. If we lose that, we become in a very dangerous position With our Lord. Oh, our salvation is still good. It's still real. It's still eternal. What a powerful and mighty God that we have But our place of service could easily be taken away. God, do a work we pray, and we'll thank you for it. In Jesus' name. Amen.