We're challenging as he's gone and he's stepping it up. The t the tempting thing to do, and maybe mum might have something to do with this, the tempting thing to do is just play the easy ones all the time But he's being challenged and playing tougher ones. Good job, Austin. Three passages of scripture, Jonah chapter three. Of course is our study in Jonah, but If you want to go ahead and find and mark Romans chapter 5 and also Ezekiel Chapter 33. And that way if you'll find them now, and then whenever we get to them, you have them right there. And you'll be able to turn right to them. Jonah chapter 3, verse 10 is our text tonight. We're going to turn over to Romans 5 in a little bit, and then we're going to end up in Ezekiel Chapter 33. So if you want to mark them. I'm excited. Anybody ever in this? You just work and work and work and when the day's done you feel like you didn't even accomplish anything. Get a witness, give me a witness there. Good greek. That's kind of what yesterday was. And yes, that was my alt day. And um but uh Today was a very productive day, and I'm excited. Did you realize that this June is the 15th anniversary of us being on the air with FBN? June of nineteen ninety nine. We put that tower up and a Saturday night about ten o'clock. I don't remember the date. We'll have to go back and see if we can find the exact date But it was a Saturday night about ten o'clock we hit the on button on the transmitter and we called out a bunch of people. I remember we called out Stuart Harvey and said tune to 88. 7, see if you hear anything. And lo and behold, they picked it up out there. What was the song playing? Oh say but I'm glad. Oh say but I'm glad was the song playing over the radio And so I'm real excited. So what we're doing the last Sunday of June, the 29th, and I'll say more about it, it'll be in the Bulletin Sunday, but that's going to be FDN Sunday And we got a big day plan, Brother Gerald Miller, who is a representative for them. He's on staff down there now. He's going to be up with us for the day And he's gonna speak and present the ministry and we're just gonna have a big time praising the Lord for fifteen years. I can't believe that. Uh that thing's just been running and doing its job and broadcasting out. That same antenna's been up there all those years. And uh lightning storms and ice and everything else and God's just kept that thing in place. So I'm just excited about that, so we'll say more as that approaches. John chapter 3 verse 10. And God saw their works that they turned from their evil way. Jonah, I'm sorry. Did I say John? You're at Jonah, right? Okay. John's and God saw their works, that they turned from their evil way. And God repented of the evil that he had said he would do unto them, and he did it not. I believe personally that this is probably the most significant verse in this whole book of the Bible. Um the whole book evol revolves around this one event where Jonah where Ninevites repent of their evil and God forgives them and withholds his judgment. Chapter 1, Chapter 2, all of chapter 3 up to verse 9 is leading up to Nineveh's response. To God's judgment and then what God would do. And then chapter four is Jonah's reaction to verse 10 of chapter 3. And so in my mind, this is the the verse of the book. And uh this is what the whole thing is about, and uh everything else revolves around it. So let's have a word of prayer Just three observations from this verse. Father, bless our time in your word. The study of Jonah has just captivated my heart and mind. You've challenged me in preparing these messages. Now, Lord, I feel like we're at the pinnacle of this event as it's recorded here. Fill me with your Spirit. Challenge us, I pray, Lord, and help us to learn a little bit about you. And uh that we can be stronger in our faith and uh a little more Christian in our lives. In Jesus' name, amen. Uh number one, this is my first observation. I put this down, God's awareness. God's awareness. Look at verse 10 with me if you would. and God saw their works. God was paying attention to what was going on. The word saw there has the idea of um uh looking carefully at or taking careful note of. Um the whole thought is this, that God was watching, I put it this way, that this is what God was looking for He saw their works. This is the whole thing that was leading up to God was watching for this. He was uh looking for this. Um he was paying attention to see what was happening. He was paying close attention to see how they would respond to his word. Now, I believe there's a principle throughout Scripture that God pays close attention to how people respond to his word What did Jesus say when he says, Go into all the world, and go ye therefore and teach all nations? I'm teaching them the word of God. Teach all nations, baptize them in the name of the Father, Son, Holy Ghost, and lo I am with you always. Now that's the promise of his presence, but can I suggest that that implies that the Lord is very much concerned, paying close attention to how people respond when we teach them the Word of God? And you see that all through Scripture, God pays close attention to our response to His Word. Now And he's God saw their works, that they turned from the evil. He was watching for this. He was looking for this. He was paying attention to how they responded. And uh I want to suggest to you At what part of a service? At what part of a church service? Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night, what part do we have God's uh most of God's attention. When do we have his attention the most during a a service? Can Okay, when we pray, obviously that's good. Here's my thought. When the message has been preached, the word of God has been given, and then the invitation comes. And God watches the sea. Okay. Now I'm not necessarily just talking about responding physically, but God watches the sea. How are my people going to respond to my word? My word has been given. Here's the truth. Here's the scriptures. Now how are they going to respond? Are we going to trust them and obey them? Are we going to go forward? Are we just going to brush it off? Are we going to try and explain it away? Well, it doesn't apply to me and just walk away from it? Or are we going to respond as Nineveh did And so God's awareness here, he's watching, he's looking, he's watching very, very carefully how Nineveh responds when Jonah shows up, yet 40 days and Nineveh will be destroyed. God's watching. And he sees how they respond. Now notice, look at verse 10 there, real carefully. Look at the wording. It says, and God saw their what? Works. It doesn't say God saw their words. He saw their works. The word works there has the idea of actions and deeds. God really does care very much about what we do and about what we don't do. He saw their works, he saw how they responded, not their words. Did everybody hear this statement? Talk is cheap Right? Talk is cheap. And if you've been in the ministry, some of y'all you've been involved in the ministry at all, uh any length of time, you get people who tell you all kinds of stuff. You talked about the Lord, you talked about the importance of faithfulness, you talked about the importance of obedience to the word of God, talking about the importance of trusting God. And man, you just you I've heard it all. And uh sometimes folks have come in for counsel and Sometimes if it's um a a marriage type thing there's a husband wife, a a lot of times I'll include my wife in on it and let her kinda help the lady. And uh I tell you, sometimes you have uh uh a fellow comes in and they're having a struggle and I'll talk with them and he leaves, and uh I'll think that is the most godly Christian man I've ever met in my life. It's amazing And then you bring the wife in, and you'll see that, and uh he's the most and that wife is the awful, most terrible person that's ever walked the earth. This guy's a saint and she's a demon. And then uh you switch roles and the the wife comes in and you talk to her when it's all said and done. That wife is an angel from heaven And she is the greatest Christian that's ever walked the earth, and he is a demonic maniac of Gadera. You know. And what I'm my point is this. We can say anything. Right? Talk is cheap. And so God's not up there in heaven looking down, boy, what are they talking about? He's looking for their works. He wants to see their action. God is concerned about what we do and don't do, not about uh how good we can spiel a line. Do we really think that we can fool God with empty words? I think sometimes people think that I can somehow bluff God, that I can somehow talk my way through it. God sees all through that. And so I thought it was interesting here. It doesn't say God's uh God heard their words That's meaningless. God saw their works. He saw their actions. And God knows that talk is cheap. So the first thing, as I looked at verse number 10, first thing that caught my attention was the awareness of God. God's paying attention. He's looking to see how do they respond to the Word of God. I want to suggest to you one of the most important times of the day when I have God's attention is in the morning, if that's when it is, or whatever, preferably in the morning, I read my Bible and I'm done reading my Bible and I close my Bible. Alright, now what am I going to do about it? They heard the message in forty days and then it would be destroyed. Then God pays attention. Alright, how are they going to respond to that? I read my Bible, God speaks to my heart. God uh gives me some instructions or whatever, encouragement encourages me in some way, gives me a promise. I close my Bible. I have my time of prayer. Alright, now what's he going to do? And so God is aware. God is aware. He's paying attention. He's watching to see how do we respond to the Word of God. Here's my second observation from this. I see God's compassion. I thought it was interesting here that God didn't just write them off. He sent Jonah and he says, forty days and Nineveh and Nineveh will be destroyed. He doesn't give any options there. He doesn't leave any r no wiggle room. He just lays it out flat. Forty days Nineveh would be destroyed And he doesn't say, unless you do this or don't do that or change this or change that. He doesn't say anything. 40 days you'll be destroyed. Now, God could have just not even sent a messenger He could have just brought destruction down on him. He could have just brought judgment on him. But I see here God's compassion. In fact, this whole series of events shows me the compassion of God in that he's sending Jonah to give them a heads up, to tell them what's coming. He goes through this unbelievable rigmaroe with Jonah just to get him there And then he gives them an opportunity to respond. Here's a question. Why didn't God just judge them immediately? Why did he give them 40 days? Why did he give them a warning? Why did he even go and send somebody to tell them that? I'll tell you why. Because God is compassionate. He knew what he was going to do the whole time. He was giving them opportunity to make things right. God went to great lengths To give the Ninevehites the opportunity to make things right. And you find God doing this all through Scripture. Can you think of anyone in Scripture, any illustrations in Scripture, where God gave someone an opportunity to make things right before he brought judgment down on them? Can you think of anyone in Scripture? Alright, Lot? Yeah, absolutely. Of course Lot was saved, so he couldn't fall under the judgment of God, but God was very patient with him, work him, work him, work him. Can you think of any others? Some stand out in my mind. David, God brought uh Nathan by and and uh and uh confronted David and and uh gave him opportunity to make things right there. Alright, Achan. I like to use that illustration. Why didn't God uh w when they when they uh when Achan took the gold and silver and the Babylonian garment and hid that, why didn't God just kill Achan? That's what he ended up. do it anyway, ended up dying anyway. But never but God went through this long process of the tribe and then the household and the family and then the Head of the household, the man, and brings them through this long process. I'm convinced it's God giving them opportunity to make things right, make things right, make things right. When Adam and Eve ate of the forbidden fruit, why did they just strike them down right there? I tell you why, because God's compassionate. Uh God is uh God is very, very compassionate. And um And uh he's very gracious to them. So we find here God saw their works that they turned from their evil way, and God repented of the evil that he said he would do unto them, and he did it not. I want to throw this suggestion at you. God did not want to kill them. God wanted them to make things right. God wanted to be able to forgive them. It is hard for us to fathom. how wicked the Ninevehites were. Read about them and just the cruelty. And the interesting thing is there's a couple guys on FBN that are preaching from Jonah right now. I think they listen to our website and they're getting um from me. But uh there's uh uh and they're on there and every one of these guys as I'm hearing bits and pieces of it are as the weeks go by They're re-emphasizing how ungodly the Ninevites were. Well, I mean, we can't even fathom the depravity that this culture lived in. And yet, God is looking and waiting and giving opportunity for them to be forgiveness. Everything about God's actions towards Nineveh displays his compassion to them. Let me make this statement. God loves even the most vile of sinners. You find the most wicked, perverse, vile sinner on planet Earth, I can tell you one thing about that person. God loves them. Now, I had you turned to Romans. Would you turn back there with me quick? Romans chapter 5. And this is, most of us are pretty familiar with at least one of these verses I'm going to read, probably all of them. To some degree. Romans chapter 5. I'm going to begin reading in verse number 6. Romans chapter 5 and verse 6. For when we were yet without strength, in due time, look at this, Christ died for who? What kind of people? What are ungodly people like? They're wicked. I mean ungodly. If you see someone and you say, someone says that person is ungodly, what kind of person do you picture in your mind? What kind of character do you think of? What kind of behavior does that person have? That person is ungodly. That's the person the Bible says that Christ died for. I put in the margin of my Bible, is that where it says Christ died for the ungodly? I put a little line and I put me It's us. Now read on, look at this. And he elaborates on this. You say, well, Christ died for the ungodly, but not really, not the really, really bad people. Look what it says. For scarcely for a righteous man will one die. There's some, if the guy's righteous, there might be some would be willing to die for him. Peradventure for a good man some would even dare to die. But God Alright, there's some people that be willing to die for a good man or important person. You know, you got security and these uh Secret Service guys, they'll take a bullet for an important person or a good person But God commended his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Here's the amazing thing. As perverse and defiled as the Ninevehites were, God loved them. He had compassion for them. Now, his compassion, God's compassion, does not overrule his holiness. God's holiness required that they either repent or they be judged. The sin had to be dealt with. It either had to be forsaken or it was going to be dealt with. God's holiness Cannot just blow off sin, it must be addressed. But God's compassion says if there is any way possible I'm gonna avoid uh that judgment. I'm gonna keep man from being judged. And so god the the compassion of God didn't know. But you say, well, if God was compassionate, why do you even bother judging him in the first place? Because God is holy. And his holiness requires justice on sin. But God's compassion uh is the uh there's like a tension there almost if you could say that with God. Now this is interesting. Here you have Ninevehites who are ungodly as can be, just as vile and wicked as can be. God sends Jonah by. He says, 40 days and you're going to be destroyed. And God's paying attention. God saw. He's looking. He's paying attention. To see how they respond. Of course he knew, but he's observing it. They respond in humility, they respond in repentance, they respond in prayer, they seek God's face, they turn from their wicked ways. And uh and uh God shows compassion. And God expresses love. Now, this is what I thought was interesting. Sometimes ungodly people Are we more responsive to the Word of God than God's people are? How many times did God send prophets to Israel? And what did Israel do repeatedly to the prophets of God? They killed them. They rejected them. Jesus said that. Uh uh they killed him over and over, he says, and uh and uh here you have this uh this ungodly nation, this ungodly city, and they respond like that to the Word of God and humble themselves and repent of their sin. And at the same time, you've got prophets back in Israel warning Israel of coming judgment, and they're killing the prophets And how many times have we seen where Christians can get so backslidden, Christians get so hard-hearted, that if the preacher or evangelist comes through, or somebody comes through, or a family member comes and says Hey, you know, this is the word of God, and that's not right. And man, they'll blow up and they'll want to murder, they'll want to uh destroy the messenger. And at the same time you go out in the streets and you go door to door and there's some guy comes to the door and he's got tattoos coming out of his ears and he's got uh everything else all over and he looks like, man, this guy's gonna rip my head off. If I even seize the Bible, he's gonna kill me. And I've had a time and time where I get the Bible out, and man, they humble themselves and trust Christ and respond positively to the Word of God. Why is that? And you see it all through Scripture. Israel responded so negatively to the Word of God, and yet here Nineveh responds so positively. So my first observation, I looked at this verse one, as I studied this, I thought, man, this is a key verse. This is a pivotal point in this whole event. Nineveh repents, they humble themselves, and God repents. And that's my third thought. Number one, God is paying attention. Number two, God is compassionate. Number three, God's repentance. And this is interesting. God saw their works that they turned from their evil way, and that word turn is used in verse 8 and 9 repeatedly, and now again in verse 10. They turned from their evil way, and look at this. And God repented of the evil that he said he would do unto them, and he did it not. Question. What does it mean, and I know we touched on this a couple weeks ago, what does it mean to repent? Somebody help me out. To turn around. That's the most basic definition of the word. I'm born one way, I repent, I turn around, I go back this way. Uh-huh. But there's a little more theological, biblical definition of the word repent is to change one's mind. And that is actually what causes me to turn around. It is the changing of my mind. I like the story I've told it a bunch of times, you know, I remember I was going to Florida, middle of the night, there's a traffic how many people remember that story? Oh good. Nobody remembers that. Uh it was before I was saved, and it was Easter. We were going down to Daytona Beach for spring break, Tom Hershey and I. And so we left Friday after work. We're driving. It's about a twenty-some hour drive from Philly. We're going down there. It's about three, four o'clock in the morning. We're going down uh they didn't have all the same highways. I don't know, somehow we were off the highway, who knows how that happened. But um uh we're going down this two-lane highway and we're out in the middle of fields and nothing And all of a sudden there's a traffic light, a red light. And there's no intersection. There's no road going to the right. There's no road going to the left. It's just a straight road. And there's a traffic light and it's a red light. I'm driving I thought this is what is this? A joke? And so we sat there and sat there and it's not turning yellow. There's the other there's not even a light on the other way. It's just a red traffic light And Tom sound asleep. I said, Billy on this. This is the dumbest thing I've ever seen. I drove down 100 yards. It's dark, of course, the lights. And the road bends and it goes across a river and it's a single lane bridge across the river. And it is a long river across there. And I'm driving across here, I'm thinking, huh, that might this might have something to do with that traffic light back there. And lo and behold, I see headlights coming towards me. So I'm in the middle of the bridge. I'm driving along. There's headlights coming towards me. One lane bridge. Apparently they had a green light when mine was red is I figured that out as it was coming together. And about as soon as I saw the light and figured out what was going on, you know what I did? Before I turned around, I did something else. I changed my mind. I didn't want to go this way anymore. And so because I changed my mind, I changed it into reverse Hit the brakes, put it in reverse, and I started flying backwards. And uh that's the idea of repentance. That's to me in my mind picture of what repentance is. I changed my mind, which produces a change in my behavior. Now, question: God repenting. Let me ask you this question. Does God change? What's Malachi say? You memorized it. I am the Lord thy God, I change not. Say, wait a minute, how can if the Bible says God yesterday, today, forever, Jesus is the same. I am the Lord thy God, I change not, from everlasting to everlasting. God does not change. So how can he repent if God doesn't change? Let me say this: the Bible is very clear. God does not change in his character. God always has been, God always will be holy. Amen? God always has been, God always will be true. He doesn't change in his moral character. God will never be unjust. God will never be unkind. God will never make a mistake. He is unchanging. God does not change in his essence. In other words, he is omnipresent that always has been true, that always will be true, that will not change. He is all-knowing. He is immutable, which is unchanging. He's always been that way. So what does it mean when God says that he repents? How can he repent if he doesn't change? Alright, he's merciful, which prompts the repentance. Let me put it this way: God doesn't change in his character, he doesn't change in his essence. But his interaction with man does change. And that's a result of his unchanging character. Um for instance, and I want you to think a little bit here. Some of y'all are a little slow thinking tonight. I mean more so than usual. But um Think about this. Did God change in his interaction with Adam after Adam and Eve sinned? Did he treat him the same way before they sinned as he did after? No, he treated them very differently. There was a repentance. There was a change, not in God's character, not in God's essence, but his interaction with man. Why did God's interaction with Adam change? Because Adam's behavior changed. Before Adam sinned, he walked with God. There was no separation. God was right there. After Adam sinned, now all of a sudden there's separation. Before Adam sin, he's welcome in the garden, he's given responsibilities in the garden. Before Adam sinned, he has all this blessings and presence and absence of all the sin. After Adam sinned, God changed his behavior, God drives a male. God says no more. God curses the land. So God doesn't change when the Bible says, and by the way, the Bible says God repents more than it talks about man repenting, all through Scripture. It'll reference God repented of the evil that he was going to do. God repented. What he's doing is he's responding to the actions of man. And so, God, when it says God repented, doesn't mean God has changed in any way. What it means is his interaction with man is altered. Nineveh repented, they humbled themselves, they prayed, they sought God's face, they turned from their wicked ways, and God doesn't judge them. He repents of that judgment he was going to bring on them, and he doesn't bring it on them. How many folks here are glad that God changes in his react interaction with man in response to us? Amen. If he didn't, we'd be lost on our way to hell. May 7, 1979, I called on Jesus Christ to be my Savior. And God changed in his behavior. Before that I was under his wrath. Before that, I was under his judgment. But he changed that and forgave me and gave me new life. And so don't let that throw you when the Bible says that God repents. Adam and Eve, you can think of that. You can go all through Scripture, different people That God treated them one way? And by the way, that goes the opposite too, where somebody can you think can you think of anyone in Scripture that did right and then messed up and God changed on his behavior to them in a negative way? Moses, yeah, that Moses won. Moses was, I didn't think of Moses. Moses was on his way into the promised land. He lost his temper repeatedly. And um Samson would be one. What I was thinking of was King Saul. Man alive. When he started out, God's praising him and saying, boy, he's a great man and all this saying all these wonderful things about him. And it all goes to King Saul's head. He gets uh proud and self-righteous. He said, God says, when you thought little of yourself and when you were humble, well you had God's blessing, God's power. Now you've thought highly of yourself. Of course I'm putting this in my own words And uh he lost God's presence. He's lost God's blessings. And so God does change in his behavior for us. Now, there's one other thing I want to point out here. Come back to verse 10 here And this there's a word that stuck out in my mind. And God saw their works, that they turned from their evil way, and God repented of the evil That he had said he would do unto them, and he did it not. Now, what did Jonah say? Yet forty days, and none of us shall be what? Destroyed or overthrown is actually the word there in chapter 3. He says God's going to judge you. God's going to overthrow. You're going to be destroyed. Everyone's going to die. It's going to be terrible. But near in verse 10, God calls it what? Evil that he was going to do God refers, now let's think about this for a moment. God is referring to his judgment on Nineveh's unbelievable sin, unwicked, vile sin. God refers to his judgment that he was going to bring down on them as something that is evil. I thought, how can God's judgment be evil? God's judgment on sin isn't evil. So I looked the word up, I looked how it's used, and the word evil here has this idea. It doesn't mean morally reprehensible or morally unclean, it means unpleasant. Distasteful. This is what I think he's saying here. This is what I take away from it. I think to judge sin is very unpleasant for God. He found he j God would find no pleasure in destroying the Ninevites in spite of how wicked they were. God finds no pleasure in that. That's not something he enjoys doing. Sometimes have you ever had someone you witness someone? I have many times had people say to me, Well, I just don't you repeat give the gospel and you talk about hell and dying and going to hell and somebody says something like this I don't see that a God of love would send someone to hell. Anybody ever hear that? I hear it often over the years. Fact of the matter is, God does not send people to hell. God does everything he can to keep people out of hell. And he leaves it up to them to accept or reject. God does not have pleasure in judging Sinners. Now that's where Ezekiel 33 comes in. Come over there. And what a what a powerful verse this here is. Ezekiel chapter 33. And verse number 11. Now here he's addressing Israel, and they just, you know, they're just being hard-headed, stiff-necked, the exact opposite of what Nineveh Responded. Look at verse 11, Ezekiel chapter 33. I say unto them, as I live, saith the Lord God, look at this. I have no what? Pleasure in the death of the wicked. We could use the word from N Jonah chapter three and verse ten and say it's evil. The death of the wicked, as far as I'm concerned, I have no pleasure in it. It is unpleasurable. It is evil I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked, but that the wicked turn from his way and live. Turn ye, turn ye from your evil way. For why will you die, O house of Israel? God does not enjoy judging the wicked. God does not find pleasure in sending people to hell. Now we as Christians, and me particularly as preachers and others that have given that responsibility and Sunday school teachers whatnot, we have a very sober responsibility to warn people about the God's judgment and hell. But I think we need to be very, very careful about that and when we're witnessing That we don't present it in some sort of way, that it comes across that God is eager to do that. That God is anxious to send people to hell. Boy, that's just what God does. No Think about it, Jesus God would sooner crucify his son than send a sinner to hell. He would rather his son die and suffer hell for that sinner than to send that sinner to hell. And that's exactly what he did. He could have just said, hey, you guys made the choice. You all sinned against my law and just go on to hell. In fact, I'm glad to do it for what you've done But he doesn't. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son, that whosoever believed in him should not perish. Jesus perished so that sinners don't have to Made alive. And so God just compassionately forgives them. God would kill his son before he would bring judgment on a sinner. What an amazing, amazing thing that is. What wondrous love. No wonder great hymn writers sing stuff like the love of God is greater far. Than tongue of man could ever tell. That God would so freely and eagerly forgive, and he doesn't want to send people to hell. Now we have a responsibility to take that message of God's love and forgiveness and get it to people who are on their way to hell so they can make the decision to accept it And trust them. So let's pray. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, for this verse and how it stirred my heart. And the great love you have for us as sinners. And though, Lord, the great responsibility we have to take that message out to others now. I believe, Lord, you do pay close attention to how we respond to your word when you teach us and instruct us. And I pray you'd help us be faithful and humble like the Ninevehit were, and to respond to your word in faith and obedience. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, there's some area in my Christian life that really needs attention, that God's been dealing with me. I'm telling you, he doesn't want to bring chastisement. He doesn't want to do that. He wants to bless us. But we have to humble ourselves. We have to let him have his way. How many say, preacher, there's some area in my life that really needs attention as a Christian? I just need to humble myself before the Lord. Let him have his way. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. God bless you, hands all around. Now the question is, when God speaks to us and the word of God speaks to us God pays attention. What are we going to do? Are we going to humble ourselves and trust him and follow his leadership? Are we going to be like Israel and stiffen our net? Let him have his way. Let me ask this question before we go to imitation. How many here say, preacher, I know someone, and they're lost, and they're under God's judgment. You say, preacher, I'm really burdened for them that they come to Christ and find their forgiveness that God wants to give them so badly And you'd say, preacher, pray for me that God will help me be that witness. God will give me the wisdom and the boldness, the tact to be able to approach them and share the gospel. But I have somebody in particular on my mind. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Sure we do. And maybe we need to just ask God to help us And give us wisdom and tact there in approaching them and compassionately that they can come to Christ. Father, you know our hearts, a lot of hands up. You know my heart. Help us, Father. To uh trust you and respond in faith. In Jesus' name I pray. Let's stand again