I'll be honest with you, I don't I really don't I'm kinda surprised he would say that. I'm a little bit hurt also. I I really don't think I harass him I just tell him what I think he is. Amen. Amen. Good to see everybody here tonight. Amen. Well, if you had your Bibles, turn over to 2 Kings chapter 18. Good to see everybody here. 2 Kings chapter 18. That's in the Old Testament, Jerry. It's it's just a little bit after the book of Genesis. Yeah, just somewhere around there. You'll get to it. His wife's helping him. He's good now. His wife. Uh Jerry, that's a song book. You need to get your Bible. His wife's enjoying this week too. She's Aren't you glad I'm picking on him rather than you? Huh? Amen. That's because he can handle it, amen. He's he's army. Or or rather, who second can his wife just moved about a foot further away from him. I don't I'm not sure what that's 2 Kings chapter 18, verse 1. Now it came to pass in the third year of Hoshea, son of Elah, king of Israel, that Hezekiah, the son of Ahaz, king of Judah. Began to reign. Twenty and five years old was he when he began to reign. And he reigned twenty and nine years to Jer in Jerusalem. His mother's name also was Abbi, the daughter of Zechariah. And he did that which was what? Right. Now get that He did. Did you get that? He did. That's an important word. Sometimes we just look at the right and we forget the dead. We're going to explain that in a minute. He did that which was right in the sight of the Lord according to all that David his father did. He removed the high places and break the images, and cut down the groves, and break in pieces the brazen serpent. That Moses had made, for unto those days the children of Israel did burn incense to it, and he called it Nehustan. He trusted in the Lord God of Israel so that after him, now notice this, so that after him, what's God saying here? After he died. Everybody got that? Because we're going to concentrate on this tonight. So that after him, there was what? None like him. You've got to underline that in your Bible. That is one of the great phrases in the entire Bible. There was none like him among all the kings of Judah. Nor any that were before him. For he claimed the Lord, and departed not from following him, but kept his commandments, which the Lord commanded Moses And the Lord was with him, and he prospered whithersoever he went forth, and he rebelled against the king of Assyria, and served him not. He smote the Philistines, even unto Gaza, and the borders thereof, from the Tower of the Watchman. To the Fen City. I want to bring you a message tonight entitled When God Writes Your Obituary Think about that. Do you believe you're gonna die someday? You are? When God writes your obituary, let's pray, Father. Less the time that we have here tonight, but Lord, I pray right now that in just these few seconds before we start the message. We would do a just a quick flashback over our life since we've been saved. And maybe just right now, in this in the quiet of the moment, try and imagine what God would say about us someday. When our day comes. Lord, we're still alive. That means if we're not doing what we ought to do, We still have a chance to change that obituary. And so, Lord, tonight I pray that we would all evaluate our life, evaluate the road that we're going down tonight. Lord, tonight, if there's some decisions that need to be made, I pray that we'd make them for which in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Y'all know what an obituary is? The older people do, don't they? If you're like my I get my when I'm home, I get my mother in law A newspaper every day. And you know, she's 86. You know the section she turns to first? Yeah, to see how many of her friends have died. An obituary, according to the dictionary, an obituary is the announcement of death But wait a minute, it doesn't stop there, often with a short biography. A lot of times When somebody passes away, friends and neighbors or somebody like that, somebody that's close to them, will often write a short biography, will they not? A short summation of their life. Sometimes, I've seen this, sometimes, if people are thinking ahead, I've seen them write their own obituary. And uh many a times when obituaries are written, be honest here, they're embellished. I've seen guys that were lower than a doll. And when you read their obituary, oh, he was a wonderful this and a great this and a great this and everything else. But I gotta say something to you tonight. What's more important is someday when you die what God thinks about you. You know, when I was thinking about this subject, I I I have a file probably about that thick. Maybe I'm just weird. Thank you for not saying amen. But I got a file of about that thick of of obituary notices. Some of them are pretty interesting. I've got one here not far up the road. It's on a tombstone in a Uniontown, Pennsylvania Cemetery. Here's what it says. Here lies the body of Jonathan Blake. He stepped on the gas instead of the brake. It's a real obituary. Here's another one that I saw out in Silver City, Nevada. Here lies Butch. We planted him raw. Whatever that is. He was quick on the trigger, but slow on the draw. There was a Georgia Cemetery. This is actually on his tombstone. A man by the name of B. P. Roberts. He died in 1974 at the age of 50. If you go by his gravesite on his tombstone, here's his obituary. Here's what it says. I told you I was sick. It's actually on this tombstone. Here's a good one. This is uh this is on a gravestone up in Nantucket, Massachusetts. Under the sod and under the trees lies the body of Jonathan Pease. He is not here, only the pod. He shelled out and went to God. Pretty good one, isn't it? Here's the one I like the best though. I could give you I could read these for an hour. I'll just give you one more. This is uh I've never seen this one, I've just heard about it. But this is in the cemetery in Ind in England On the tombstone it says this: Remember, man, as you walk by, as I am now, so shall you be. Remember this and follow me. Someone wrote right underneath this statement: To follow you, I will not consent until I know which way you went. Huh? Now, let me say it again. We read some of the and these are all, I mean, I've seen some of these. But uh we hear some of these and we chuckle. But can I suggest something to you again tonight? What is more important than what the world thinks about you? What is more important than what your friends or your neighbors or your relatives think about you or say about you someday after you die is what God says about you Because in the end, when it's all said and done with, whatever God says about you is how you really lived your life. Now, in these verses leading up to Second Kings chapter 18 and Hezekiah. If you're familiar at all with your Bible, we see king after king after king involved with sin, idolatry, wickedness. But then all of a sudden we get to chapter 18. We see a change. In verse 3, God records this. We've already read it, but in verse 3, God records this about Hezekiah. He did that which was Right. Which was right. He did. Did. We're getting there. Which was right in the sight of the Lord according to all that David his father did. And then in verse 5 he says this. He trusted in the Lord God of Israel, so that after him, again after he died, after him was none like him. That's his obituary from God. There was none like him among all the kings of Judah, nor any that were before him. Now, let me give you a principle here. It lays the foundation really for the entire message. The Bible, we're going to go back to verse 3 again. The Bible says in verse 3 that he what he did. He did that which was right in the sight of the Lord. Now get a hold of this. Doing right is not always not doing wrong. How many want to hear that one more time? Yeah, I thought so. Let me say that again because I know I confused some of you. Doing right is not always not doing wrong. You see, a lot of Christians today, they have this attitude. Well, you know what Well, you know what, if I'm not doing wrong, then I'm doing right. Isn't that what a lot of people think? And that's wrong. You see, when Hezekiah became the king, he had absolute power, did he not? He had the power over life and death. And so listen, when Hezekiah became king, he didn't stand back. He didn't say this. He didn't sit back and say, Well, you know what? I'm not going to go up to the high places anymore. He didn't say that. Hezekiah didn't say, Well, you know what? I'm not going to bow down to false gods anymore. Hezekiah didn't say, Well, you know what? I'm not going to bow down before false gods. And then Hezekiah sits down and says, Well, you know what? I'm not doing wrong you know because I I'm doing right. Do you understand what I'm saying here? This will confuse you if you don't understand this. You see, here's the thing With Hezekiah, it was within his power to do what was right. It was within his power to use his influence to effect change. If Hezekiah, after he became king, had not used his power, had not used his influence to do what was right, you know what he'd have been doing? He'd have been doing wrong. He'd have been sinning against God. By the way, the Bible also talks about this in the New Testament. James chapter one, verse twenty-two. But be ye doers, not just hearers But be ye doers of the word and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves. James chapter four, verse seventeen. Therefore to him that knoweth To do good and doeth it not, to him it is sin. Now I'm going to say it again. If Hezekiah, after he became the king Just sat back and did, I mean, didn't worship false God, didn't pray to false God, didn't bow down to but if he just sat back and did absolutely nothing. Let me tell you something. We would not tonight have found verse 5 in the Bible. Now, what is the see but what is the practical application for us? Here's what it is. Folks, listen. We can come out to church every service. We can read our Bible every day. That's good, amen. But we can do that. We can pray every day. But here's the question God is interested in. What are you doing tonight for God? You say, well, preacher, I don't swear. And I don't drink and I don't smoke, that's good. But let me ask you again, what are you doing for God? You see, that's what God's interested in. It's like it's like uh It's like I'll use Jerry. It's like Jerry watching a mugger. Rob an 80-year-old woman. Now, Jerry's standing here, he watches this mugger rob an 80-year-old woman. Now here's the question. Can Jerry help? Come on. Can Jerry come to her aid? Can Jerry do something? Yet listen, it is within his power to do something. But he doesn't. But he doesn't. And then Jerry says something like this Well, I'm not the one that munger Yeah, he's right. But it was within his power to help her. And he didn't. Is that right or wrong? It's wrong. Now, get this. That is exactly how God looks at your life. When you're saved, listen to me, when you're saved. God doesn't want you to live your life and say, well, you know what? I'm just not going to do wrong anymore. Listen, you've got to go further than that. Everybody, I mean everybody sitting here tonight, you have it within your power to influence the lives of others. You have it within your life to affect change. And if you don't, then in God's sight, you're doing wrong. And that's why we see in 2 Kings chapter 18 and verse 5. When God think about this, when God writes the obituary of Hezekiah, he says this. There was none like him. You know, whenever I hear that phrase, you know what I think? Wow. Wow You know why the wow? Because that is God's commentary on his life. His life was not wasted for God. Hey, I don't know about you. But if that was the only verse recorded in the Bible. That could be written about Hezekiah's life. That would make Hezekiah's life worth it. It would be worth all the problems, all the battles, all the trials, all the pressures that he ever went through. And can I just suggest this tonight? That is what every one of us tonight ought to strive for. Now, having said that, let me just say this. When we read about men like this, Hezekiah, And we see where God makes that statement, there was none like him. There are reasons. There are reasons. Why people were a success or a failure for God. Now, I don't know about you. But if God says something about a man like this, I want to find out why God said it. How about you? And then when I find out why God shed it, I want to do everything I can do to incorporate what he did. Into my life. I want to show you tonight three things. Three things. Now watch this that Hezekiah did that made him, number one, a spiritual success. Number two, why Hezekiah saw one of the greatest single revivals that the Bible ever records And then, why God gave him this amazing obituary in verse 5, when God said of his life, there was none like him. First of all, I believe this is the first reason why God wrote this obituary. First of all, he had the right priorities. In 2 Chronicles chapter 29, it records the same story, maybe just a little bit more detail. But in 2 Chronicles chapter 29, Hezekiah was 25 years old when he started to reign. The Bible says that he reigned for 29 years, and he died when he was 54 years old. In verse 2 of 2 Chronicles chapter 29, the Bible says this about him. And he did that, it's the same thing again, and he did that which was right. In the sight of the Lord. Then down in verse 3. Now get this. Here's the whole thing. In verse 3, now it says this: In the first year, this is Hezekiah, in the first year of his reign. In the first month. Let me ask you something. Did he waste any time? Man, he didn't waste any time. In the first year of his reign, in the first month. He opened the doors of the house of the Lord and repaired them. Within the first within the first month. The very first thing that he did was he cleaned the filth that was accumulated in the house of God. Then after that, he got the priests and the Levites. Back on track and having a right relationship with God. And then as soon as he got done with that, he re re-established Jehovah God as the God of Israel. You see, folks, what's I I've already said this once this week Success in life is not measured in money. It's not measured in things. It's not measured in what you have. It's not measured in how much your life. Success in life begins by making God number one in your life and serving Him. Faith, listen, is there anything? It's a question you have to answer, but listen, is there anything more important in your life than serving God? What are your priorities tonight? By the way, listen, even listen, even if I wasn't a preacher, I believe this. What are your priorities tonight? What is most important in your life? What gets most of your time? Is it sports? Is it making money? Is it hunting? Is it fishing? Is it something else? You see, folks, listen, we can talk all we want. But how you live shows whether or not God is number one in your life. I'm gonna say it again. Life is short. Life is short. And the only thing that's gonna matter someday is what you've done for God. How old are you? Fifty six. How old? Fifty-six? Oh man, that's You look a lot older than that, but I thought listen, watch it, listen. You're 56, right? Now, listen. Put aside the spiritual, okay? Can you do that? He's getting nervous now. He said, Why didn't he pick one dirty? Put aside the spiritual. If you could have, if you could have anything. Your heart desires. A lot of people would say money because then they could buy anything with am I not right? They'd buy anything with money, you know. So if you could have if you could have any amount of money That you want how much would you take? Well you are a greedy little guy. I mean you are greedy. How much would you want? Give me a give me a figure. Well you're you're your dream's small. That's that's chunk change today, isn't it not? Two million. Come on, get think a little bit bigger. Jerry would. A billion. Now you're being greedy again. Now now watch, listen. You're fifty-six, right? I just give you a billion dollars. Hey, you think that'd make most of the world happy? Come on. Most hey, most people boy, I tell you what, I hey, it would make a lot of Christians happy. Hey, a lot of Christians would sell everything they believe to get a billion dollars. Sorry, but they would. Billion dollar, man, I home man, I gave me I'm gonna do that, I'm gonna now wait a minute. Now Ed, can you add? Yes, sir. Add 100 years to your life. Now what are yet? How many? 156. No, you're not. No, you're you're wrong. How old are you? 56. At a hundred. Say it again. No, you're not. You're dead. Thank you, Jerry. Am I not right? No, listen, listen, we laugh, but there's a great truth here. You're dead! What good is that money doing you now? And and watch and now Only what you've done for Christ that counts. You gotta make a decision. What's important? How important is God in your life? Everything, everything, listen, everything tonight that you can see that you own, someday it is going to become junk. And it's only what you've done for God that's going to count someday. Can I ask you this again? Where is God in your life? You know what's so sad? I'm just I'm just I'm just making a general statement here, but you know what's so sad? I have no doubt about this. I have no doubt about this. Not trying to be mean, not trying to hurt you, but it's just a fact. What's so sad is sitting here tonight, there are people that are wasting their life for God. You say, why? Because God isn't really that important to you. Yeah, how do you know that? Because you're not living like it. And you will never see everything that God can do, you'll never see everything that God wants to do, you'll never see revival until you make God number one in your life. What do you want? What do you want God to say about you someday? I would give anything in the world for God to say about Bill Burton, there was none like him. I don't think he'll say that, by the way. But I'd sure like it, amen. Why was she such a success that God wrote an obituary like this? Number one He had his priorities in order. Number two, he was successful because he established a purging. A purging. First of all, there was his priorities. But then after he got his priorities in order, then there was a there had to be a purging. We see that in 2 Kings chapter 18, verse 4. He removed, what's that word removed? What's another word for that word removed? Purged. He removed the high places and break the images and cut down the groves and break in pieces the brazen serpent. Man, this is a purging, isn't it? That Moses had made. For unto those days the children of Israel did uh did earn incense to it, and he called it Nehushtam. 2 Chronicles chapter 31 verse 1. Now, when all this was finished, all Israel that were present went out to the cities of Judah. And break the images in pieces, and cut down the groves, and threw down the high places and the ulers out of all Judah and Benjamin and Ephraim and also in Manasseh until they had utterly destroyed them all Folks, let me tell you something. You will never see God's blessing in your life. You will never experience revival until, first of all, there is a purging in your life. It's interesting. In 2 Kings chapter 18, verse 4, Hezekiah calls this brazen serpent Nehushton. What that means is this a piece of brass. That's what it means. Hezekiah, get a picture of this. Hezekiah took this brazen serpent that Moses had made many years ago. The people over the years held on to the serpent. And after a period of time, they began to worship it. They burned incense to it. They bowed down to it. They began to pray to it. You see, after a while, it wasn't brass to them anymore, it was a God. And so what Hezekiah did was he took this worthless piece of junk brass He broke it apart and he said, This it is nothing. It is Nahusta. And he broke it. What do we call that? A purging. Can I ask you something? We're a Thursday night, amen. We only got one more night. Can I ask you something? We're in a week of revival meetings. Has there been a purging this week? Has there been a time maybe we have come down to the old fashioned order? And ask God, beg God to forgive us of things in our life that are hindering us, that are destroying us. Has there been that? See, listen, you're never going to see a revival until there's a purging. And I'm beyond I'll be honest. You know what's scared? Me and another uh I was just talking to another of man's was this week. And uh we weren't talking about this church. But do you know what we've noticed over the last couple years? Is that in so many of our churches good people have become strangers at the altar Less and less and less purging You doubt me? That's why we see the unbelievable growth of what we call the marshmallow crowd The power of positive thinking. You know why? Because they don't talk about sin anymore. They don't talk about the fact that if you're going to see revival, if God's going to bless, there has to be a purging. Under King Ahaz, I don't have time to go into it, but under King Ah, things were, I mean, things were hard. This is back over in uh 2 Chronicles chapter 28. But things were horrible. In verse 22 of 2 Chronicles chapter 28, God says this. And in the time of his distress, this is Ahaz, did he trespass yet more against the Lord? This is that King Ahaz. Then in verses 23 through 25, we're not going to cover it because of time, but in verses 23 through 25, God lists all the different types of sins that he committed Now in second in 2 Chronicles chapter 28, now we arrive at 2 Chronicles chapter 29, and uh what did Hezekiah do? First thing he did, what? First thing he did, we've already covered it, he set his priors in order. And then after he set his priorities in order, he purged the idols and the sin out. And as soon as he think about this, as soon as he purged the idols and the sin out of the camp, God sent revival. Wow! You know why I said that? Because tonight this is a condition that any Christian can experience also. If you're just willing to say, God, you're number one. Not just number one, but you're going to see action. You're gonna see me not only stay away from wrong, but you're gonna see me use my influence to do right And then we purge. Hey, Nineveh. Nineveh was an evil, wicked city, was it not? God told Jonah to go and preach to the city of Nineveh. He was to preach a message of doom, judgment, and destruction. Jonah went and preached after going through the school hard knocks. What did Nineveh do? Read the destroyed. First thing they did, they got their priority straightened out. Then they purged themselves. And after they purged themselves, they began to seek God. Holiness in their life became a priority. And what happened? This is a wicked, wicked city. And when they did those two things, what did God do to that? God sent revival. Folks, listen, there are just times in our life we need to do a house cleaning. Have you done that yet this week? Were you still a stranger at the altar? My wife, Marley. I got a nickname for her. Some of you have heard me use it. I call her Museum Woman. My wife is the neatest kneek freak you will ever meet in your life. If I lay a can if I lay a a can of diet Pepsi and I turn my head and turn it back, it's gone. Honey, where where's my drick? Oh, it just bothered me seeing it sitting there. But I I I thought you were I thought you were finished. I kid you not. In our l the one room in a house, one room in a house, we got carpet. It's our living room. That's so the grandbabies can roll all over the place and not kill themselves. Well, we got a carpet. If I walk across that carpet, five minutes later, do you know what I hear? She is vacuuming the footprints You see a woman. Now listen, we might chuckle a little bit. But can I suggest something tonight? That's what God expects us to do in our own lives. Any little thing. God says, purge it. Get rid of the sin. Do a spiritual house cleaning. Don't let things accumulate in your life. Get rid of them before they destroy you. Hey, by the way, can I just say that, and then we'll get to the last point here. You've only got two choices with sin. Confess it, we're covered up. What are you going to do? What you do or what you don't do determines the obituary that God's going to write about you someday. First thing that Hezekiah did is he had the right priorities. The second thing that Hezekiah did, he established a purging. Then here's the third thing. He prayed. He prayed. Hezekiah, if you're not familiar with him, let me I'll tell you something. Hezekiah was a very, very, very unusual man and king. When the king of Syria, Shenachib, shut his army down His army, get a picture of this, his army had already conquered the ten tribes. They had Jerusalem completely surrounded. His commander, whose name was Rab Shekah, sent a message To the people of Jerusalem. In that message that Rab Shekah sent to Jerusalem, he blasphemed God. He told the people of Jerusalem that all the other gods of all the other people of all the other nations couldn't help them, and their God isn't going to help them either. Remember the story? I like the story. Hezekiah gets the letter, blaspheming God. The Bible says he goes to the temple, spreads this letter out. I'm paraphrasing here. This is Barron's commentary. Spreads the letter out and says, God, did you see this? Now wait a minute. When he said that, what is he doing? He is he's praying. Read the story. God, did you see this? Did you see what he said he was going to do to your people? Who knows what else he said? That night, the Bible says an angel of the Lord came and smoked, killed 140,000 of the enemy. The greatest army in the world. Go on, just like that. Now wait a minute. God did that because of Hezekiah's prayer. Let me ask you something. How many people in the world have ever seen a miracle like that? I'm going to tell you something. If I could just ever have one prayer like that answered. I wouldn't I'd make up a sermon on it. And I would never have to preach another sermon but that for the rest of my life. Am I not right? I could get, I could get, man, can you print that one out? I want to hear about that. And what an amazing story that God did through prayer. But wait a minute, it's not done yet. Then Hezekiah gets sick. God sent the prophet Isaiah to let Hezekiah know he's going to die. Isaiah walks in and says, Hezekiah, God told me to tell you, you're going to die. Isaiah starts walking out. It's kind of, you know, don't tell me God doesn't have a sense of humor. Isaiah starts walking out. As soon as he starts walking out, Hezekiah gets down his knees again and he starts praying Oh God, I've been a good king, I've done my I don't want to die, I want to live! He's just like you and me. What's the Bible say about that? Before Hezekiah, excuse me, before Isaiah gets out of the temple. God stops you and says, Isaiah, I have third Hezekiah third. You turn around, go back in there, and tell him I'm going to give a You see, okay. This was no ordinary man. This was a man that understood the importance of prayer in his You see, you know what prayer is? Prayer is the ultimate statement of inability. Prayer says to God, God, I can't do it, but I know you can. Right now tonight, think about this. Right now tonight, all across this nation, it's Church is just like this. There's revival news. And yet there's no revival. It has been over a hundred years since America has seen revival. Look, let me tell you something. That's a shame. Amen. That's a that shouldn't be. But listen to me, do you know why we're not seeing Rhina? Because church dinners and six Are more important than prayer. I'm just telling you, I'm just telling you what I see. You know why we're not seeing relating? Because our hearts aren't broken enough to get down on our knees and pray for our friends and neighbors and relatives that are on their way to hell. You know why there's no revival? Because by and large, the average Christian has become a stranger at the altar. We're too proud to humble ourselves before an Almighty God, an Almighty, all-holy God. And put God back on the throne. Confess and for shake shake in a-that's why we're not shaving the Bible. We've got time for sports, we've got time for recreation, we've got time for entertainment, but we don't have any time for God. Hey, I'll tell you another reason we don't see revival. The average Christian today thinks very, very little. Of someday facing the judgment seat of Christ. I'm going to tell you something, if the judgment seat of Christ was real in your life, we'd see revival to be in there. What did Hezekiah do? Why was Hezekiah so successful? And God blessed him, that he saw one of the great revivals in the Bible. And that God wrote this, I mean, this amazing, astonishing obituary about a man. There was none like him. Why, we're not have the right marriage. He didn't just stay away from sin, but he did that which was right. He used his life, he used his influence to do something for the he wasn't content, listen, he wasn't content to warm a pew. He wanted to make something out of his life. Secondly, there was a person. Anything that hindered him and his people from serving God, he got a good idea. got rid of. Then it break. Why can we do that tonight if we haven't done it? Amen. What is what is your obituary. It'll be someday. Not down here. But up here. Let's bow our head and close your eyes. Every head bow. Every eye closed. Nobody looking around. Let me just say it again. Frank, listen, think about this. You know, you know you're going to die someday. You know this, you're going to die someday. The day you die. What's God's statement on your life going to be? What's it going to be? Life is short. What's it going to be? You know, I don't know about you, but more than anything else in the world, I think this would be a great obituary for you know for me, and this is what I'd love to have God saved to do. I'd like for God someday to look at me, Jesus, my Savior, to look at me, smile on his face. And this would be an obituary for me that I'd be tickled to death, right? Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Oh man. Well done. Could God say that about you tonight? Are you living your life in such a way that God? After looking at Jesus can look at you and say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. And for some of you, maybe would God look at you and say, thou wicked and slothful. You see, you're the one that hedged your obituary. How? By how you live. By how you live. How you live. I'm wondering tonight. Very general question. Your spiritual life is none of my business. Very general question. I'm wondering how many we have here tonight that would say, preacher, you know what? As you preach tonight, God very specifically dealt with my heart. About living closer to God. Maybe purging areas of my life. Maybe having a better prayer life Brother Bears, more than anything else in the world, someday when I die, I would give anything in the world for my Savior to look at me and say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. I want a good obituary someday. I don't want a negative one. Would you pray for me that I live my life in such a way? That I'd be able to hear that from my Savior's lips someday? Would you just slip up your hands, just slip them up, hold them up high, thank you, just wow ain't good. Amen. A lot of hands Probably a greater percentage tonight than the other night. I'm glad to see that. Good number of hands. Anybody else, real quick? Anybody else? Just slip it up, put it back down. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, ma'am. Anybody else? Now's the time to do it. Anybody else? Is God think about it as you sit here? Would get your time? What's most important in your life? Where are your priorities right now? Do you have the right parties? Has there been a purging this week How long has it been since you've been down at the old-fashioned? Have you become a stranger at the older? How long has it been since you've done an old-fashioned purging down here at the old God Forgive me. Oh God, I I'm repenting of my sin. I'm forsaking my God help me in this area. I can't do it. Enable me. Enable me. Give me the strength to to overcome this weak area. This sin area. That's an old-fashioned purging. Then walk out of your night promising God you're going to pray every day that God will use you. That you'll live a useful spiritual life. Anyone else real quick? This is it. Anybody else right now? Slip it up, put it back down, and I'll pray for you. One other question now. You're here tonight and you're You're not saved. You've never trusted Jesus Christ as your Savior. There's never been a time and a place where you bowed your head and asked Jesus in your heart as your Savior. Can I just tell you this right now? I already know what your obituary is. You say, Brother Barron, you know what my obituary? Yes, I do. You're here tonight? And you never asked Jesus in your heart as your Savior? I can tell you what your obituary is. Here it is. Are you ready for it? Here it is. One word, one word. Lost. Lost. You're on your way to hell because you've never trusted Jesus Christ as your Savior. And listen, it doesn't have to be. God did not create hell for you. God doesn't want you to go to hell. God created hell for the devils and his angels. God created heaven for you. That's why he sent Jesus to die on the cross for your sins. So you can gain heaven. It is the Lord's will that you get saved and go to heaven. But you've got a free will. And so if you want to, you can say no, but you're going to pay for it forever in hell. 2 Peter 3:9, the Lord is not willing. There it is, the Lord's will. The Lord is not willing that any should perish, die and go to hell. But that all, that's everybody, but that all should come to repentance. Get saved. Friend, you walk out of here tonight, you die, you go to hell, you have nobody to blame but yourself. Because you could have gotten saved and you didn't And your obituary for eternity will be recorded with this one word, lost. And it doesn't have to be. I'm wondering, listen, I'm wondering if we have somebody here to I won't embarrass you. I will not embarrass you. I want you to, I'm not going to point you out, I'm not going to have you stand up. I'm not going to come back and yank you out of your pew. I'm not going to do it. But would you let me pray for you? I've wondered if we have anybody here tonight to say, preacher, I'm not sure I'm saved. I'm not sure I'm on the way to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. I want to go to heaven. And I worry about that. Would you also tonight, in addition to these many others? Remember me in prayer too? Would you just slip up your hand and put it right back down? Just slip it up high enough so I can see it. Just flip it up high enough so I can see it. And I'll pray for you. Anybody at all? Just high enough so I can see it. I'll acknowledge it, and you can put it right back down. Anybody at all? Father, thank you for the time that we've had here tonight. And Lord, I pray tonight that we'd have some dear, sweet Christians. That would have a longing someday to have an obituary from God. Like Hezekiah did. God, I know I long for the day when maybe you can look at me. I hope so when you can look at me and say, Well done, thou faithful servant. And so, Lord, help us to keep you number one. Not just to go through life and say, I don't do this and I don't do that, but to also go through life and say, I do this for God too. I want to affect change. I want to use my influence to affect others. Help us to remember that's every bit as important as staying away from sin. And then Lord help us tonight, help us tonight, if we need to, not to be a stranger at the altar, but if we need to do an old-fashioned house cleaning. Of purging, of a sin, of a weak area, of something that's hindering us. Help us to quit making excuses. Help us not to let pride get the victory Help us to come down here. Do the purging, but at the same time, pray. Pray. Acknowledge our inability to God. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. With heads bowed, eyes closed. Let's