All right. Thank you, Pastor. Thank you very much. Take your Bible and turn to Mark chapter 2. Mark's Gospel chapter number 2. I'm delighted to see you tonight, even with it being froggy on the outside. Foggy on the outside. Some of you see the fog and get a little jumpy, don't you? But anyway Uh I I was told here just a little bit ago that the weather men are saying the fog is going to clear up sometime in early December, so we'll be all right But uh but uh no they I think they're they may be forecasting that it'll clean up here later tonight and uh hopefully uh not not get in our way all that much, but it does make for a beautiful, beautiful um shroud over the uh over the mountains. We have to say that much about it But it's a delight to be here again this year. I've been privileged to come here, as Pastor just said, through all these years, and and I enjoy coming, thank the Lord for uh the privilege I have to to come and and made friends obviously with a lot of you and uh some of the pastors here that are in this part of the world. I got to know you as well And uh just very, very thankful for that. Glad to have Brother Cooper here. He's gonna preach with us this time and uh and look forward to that. Uh he's he's always a blessing. And uh has preached for us a good bit at the National Sword Conference. And Brother Letterman as well, last couple of years. We've had him there to preach for us and thank you for loaning them to us once in a while, and uh we're we're grateful for that. But let's uh let's get it rolling. Chapter two of Mark Now, whenever you look at this, you're going to say, oh yes, I know that passage. And yes, if you've been a Christian very long, I'm sure that you do know it. And uh, you know, sometimes Sometimes we preachers have a tendency to say, well, people people know a passage, so uh no need for me to deal with it. I'll just you know, go to something else. And we're all tempted to do that. But now I've kind of gotten over that. I've maybe not entirely, but I've kind of gotten over it. Now I wouldn't be if I told you I was totally over it, I wouldn't be explaining this, would I? But anyway, I I've kind of gotten over it because uh because one of the things I've discovered is even if I know a passage really, really well If I dig into it on any given day, there'll be things there for me. Even if I know it well, it'll still feed me. And uh just uh let's see where we are. Uh this is um this is a Monday, I think it was two a week before last, maybe on a I don't know, maybe a Tuesday or Wednesday. I was getting ready as I do the mornings that I'm in town to do staff devotions with our team of workers there at the Sword And uh I landed in this passage and something kinda jumped at me and I talked to them about it a little bit. And uh I preached it one time last week, so I'm gonna run it by you. I I hope I got it warm enough last week that it'll be all right tonight. But let's look at it. Mark chapter two, beginning right at the top of the chapter. And again he, that is Jesus, entered into Capernaum after some days, and it was annoyed that he was in the house And straightway many were gathered together, insomuch that there was no room to receive them, no, not so much as about the door, and he preached the word unto them They came unto him, bringing one sick of the palsy, which was born a four, and when they could not come nigh unto him for the press, They uncovered the roof where he was, and when they had broken it up, they let down the bed wherein the sick of the palsy lay. When Jesus saw their faith, He said unto the sick of the palsy, son, thy sins be forgiven thee. But there were certain of the scribes Sitting there and reasoning in their hearts. Why does this man thus speak blasphemies? Who can forgive sins but God only And immediately when Jesus perceived in his spirit that they so reasoned within themselves, he said unto them, Why reason ye these things in your hearts? Whether is it easier to say to the sick of the false if thy sins be forgiven thee, or to say, Arise and take up thy bed and walk, but that ye may know That the Son of Man hath power on earth to forgive sins, he saith to the sick of the palsy, I say unto thee, arise and take up thy bed and go thy way into thine house. And immediately he arose, took up the bed, and went forth before them all, insomuch that they were all amazed and glorified God, saying, We never saw it on this fashion. Now, this uh this event comes about in a little town called Capernaum. So in those days was a little village on the north shore of the Sea of Galilee. Uh the Galilee is really I mean we look at it and call it a lake. Uh it's it's large, but it's more like a lake to us, uh I think. But it's this this town is on the on the north shore, and if you go there today, there are the ruins of a synagogue. And there's also a place that marks the house of Simon Peter in the ruins. And they've built over it so that it becomes a So it becomes a place where the tourists can go and and see it. Um this was not the native home of Simon Peter, but it was a place where he had a home. And um Jesus came there, not too awfully far from Nazareth, and uh when he showed up, the crowd gathered And he was inside of the house, and uh uh they packed in everybody that they could, but they overflowed, and well, what happens when Jesus comes on the scene? Uh he opened up and began to preach to them Well, there's some guys in town, they have a buddy who's not able to walk, he's crippled, and they said, you know, if we could get him to Jesus, we believe Jesus could help him. And so they brought him to the setting, the to the scene, and here's the crowd. The place is packed out, even on the outside Uh everything stirred up and and so they said uh you know we're we're not gonna be able to get him in. So they so they went up on top houses in that part of the world then and a lot of them now are flat top And uh they said, we'll just we'll just raise the roof. So they took some of the roof off and they let down their buddy right into the middle of the house where Jesus was And Jesus forgave him, and whenever they raised issue about that, he just uh said, well, hey, be healed, get up and walk. And um, even though the critics tore into him Jesus was uh unintimidated, and uh everybody kind of uh their attitude changed a little bit because the paralytic man walked out carrying the bed that had carried him in. And that was uh pretty pretty good. Now, I want to go back to square one at verse one because it says that uh when Jesus got to town, got inside the house. It was noise that he was in the house. Now, the word noise there is uh is a word that from which we get our word acoustic. Uh it's the same same word uh a kuo and it means to uh make a racket Uh have an uproar, uh maybe pandemonium, uh hullabaloo, hubbub, clamor Making loud noises, creating confusion, clamor, um just uh I I mean loud confusing setting It was noise that he was in the house. These people on the outside, they're saying, Is he in there? He's in there. They say he's in there. And they're getting noisy and stirring things. And uh it's it's quite quite an uproar A lot of them on the outside, but he's on the inside, and uh uh, you know, he's preaching to them, and I guess maybe even on the outside they can hear some of it But uh Jesus is unintimidated by this unruly crowd, and he's undeterred by the folks who are criticizing him. And by the end of the event The noisy crowd was amazed. They had become orderly. They glorified God. And they begin to testify and say, What is this we're seeing? We never saw it like this. Now, prior to this day Prior to this day, this place in Capernaum was a nondescript place. Nobody, nobody stopped a tour it Nothing of interest had happened there because it was just a house, a common dwelling, until today. But from this day forward, this little spot in this little village on the north shore of the Galilee is going to be a famous place. It's so famous that literally millions of tourists over hundreds of years have come to visit it. You say, well, why have they done that? Well, very simply, because Jesus passed that way. Jesus came to visit, and he preached there Now, my message tonight, I bill right out of that first verse where it says, it was noise that he was in the house. When Jesus is in the house, well things will not be that day like they were the day before. When Jesus is in the house, things are very likely to be different the next day, even after he's gone. When he's in the house. But anytime that Jesus is in the house, you can count on the fact that the word of his presence will spread very quickly. In this case, it was just a little village, and I'm sure there were people running all over all over town saying, you won't believe who is in town. I was um I flew into Baltimore I don't know a couple of weeks ago, the day that the president came to Baltimore to speak to something. And uh I flew in fairly early in the day, and uh and uh very very quickly it became obvious that uh uh things were different Uh in fact uh I was uh getting a rizzle car and I noticed two black limos coming up behind me and all at once one of them flipped on his blue lights which were not even obvious uh at the outset and a siren flipped on and I I I still don't know what was going on. The one black limo pulled the other black limo over and I went on you know, about my business. But but uh I'm now I mean I know what was happening. Secret Service was there. They were making ready for the arrival of the president And uh I mean any any time he shows up, uh you can just be sure, I mean, ev even if the governor shows up, uh you can be sure that there will be ready arrangements made And uh people will will be paying attention. Uh you could just say, well, uh, you know, the governor's gonna be in downtown Oakland tomorrow, and I guarantee you a bunch in this crowd would say, Well, I'm gonna go down there, I haven't seen that guy, I won't look at him And uh, you know, and Mr. Trump announces a meeting anywhere, and a bunch of folks show up. Now, uh, when Jesus shows up any place, anytime You can be sure that a crowd's going to gather. The word about him is going to spread very quickly. Now, some of the crowd that you draw Are going to be friendly, but some will not be. I've often wondered why doesn't everybody like my church? When I was pastor over here in Westminster, I thought I thought for sure everybody would like my church, but not everybody did. I sat on the lady today beside a lady in the uh in the airplane flying from Nashville to Baltimore. And uh And we had gotten there for one little bit. I was on the aisle seat, she was sitting in the middle, and I said to her, I said, um, I said, Do you live here in Maryland? She said, No, I live in Pennsylvania. I said, where? She said, near Gettysburg She assumed I wouldn't know much about that. And I asked her another question or two and and then I told her, I said, uh I said, when you leave the airport, I said, do you drive through Westminster on your way to Gettysburg? She said, yes I said, you know where that big church is there on the right as you come into Westminster on 140? The church of the and she almost finished it for me. She said, open door. I said, Yeah And uh I said, well I was a pastor there for a long time. She looked at me like I was some kind of a something from outer space. And uh and and she said, I remember when they were building that. I said, yes, we were building that. I said, uh she said, I saw it go up. Now, uh, you know, you you start you start doing things that relate to the Savior. And the crowd comes sometimes. Some of them are friendly, but some of them are not. Some I mean I mean doing the very best that you can do. There'll be folks that I mean they they will not like who you are I was knocking on some doors the other day in our town there in Tennessee, in Murfreesboro, out with our church folks. And uh and and uh guy was with me, we knocked on the door, and uh as soon as I told him we're from Bellwood Baptist Church, he he he said, I don't want anything to do with that place, slam, door was closed So I went ahead and left some stuff on his door. And whenever we got back out to the sidewalk on public property, I said to my soul-winning buddy, I said, uh, I said, tell you what let's do. I said, let's pray for that dude. I said, let's just pray for him. You say, you say, why don't you pray for him? Well, I'm going to pray that the Lord uh gives him an attitude adjustment. You know? And uh not not ever not everybody's warm. We don't have to get we don't have to get cold, sir, and bitter just because not everybody's warm. But when Jesus is in the house, the word will get out. You'll draw a crowd, some will be excited, some won't. Now, the fact is, when Jesus comes, when Jesus is present, The word of God will be preached. It will be preached. It will be. If you and I could if if if I come representing him, Then uh because he is who he is, if I represent him properly, I'll preach the word of God in the house, as as would every preacher. Preaching the Word of God is a big deal. Even the Lord Jesus did that. Word of God's quick and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword. That's been lost in our nation. It's been lost in our society. Our people have uh have cut their teeth on secularism and humanism, materialism, and all kinds of isms that'll uh before you know it be wasms They'll be past tense before they even have a chance to think about it. But the fact of the matter is, the preaching of the Word of God is what our nation needs, it's what Garrett County needs And uh we we do that. Preaching may repel some, but it draws some if we'll preach the word of God. It'll draw some. And uh preaching always feeds the human soul. Uh whenever we dig in and preach a passage like this one, you can be sure that there's things in it that will feed my heart and my spirit. The preaching of the Word of God is always compelling. It's compelling. We talk about conviction. Conviction. We used to talk about conviction a lot, and uh it's almost a missing ingredient in today's religious economy. Everybody's wanting to be entertained, nobody's wanting to get under conviction You know, we've uh mislabeled sin and misidentified it and uh developed a whole new vocabulary and nomenclature in order to explain in polite terms our impolite and immoral behavior And uh as a result of all of that, uh, you know, whenever the preaching uh gets warm, then uh a lot of folks want to head to the lake or somewhere to cool off. Now, preaching, preaching stirs things up It stirs things up. You know, there are churches, and I know you got some of them in Garrett County, they ain't stirred up nothing in so long. And if one of us showed up to preach a little sermonette, uh, well, they they'd probably have us headed somewhere else in a hurry. Because they don't like that. Now, the word of God will be preached when Jesus is in the house, and when we get all that going on, some of the church folks are going to get concerned about getting other people in We've all got friends like the paralytic men. We've all got friends who are on the outside looking in And whenever Jesus is in the house, those of us that know him, we get stirred up about going to work for him. They're people that we all care about. People that maybe in our family, maybe in our friend, maybe our friends And and we have to keep working at going for them. The four guys who brought this paralytic man, you know, the the one thing that defined them, they believed that Jesus could help And so they went to the trouble. They did everything that they could do. I mean, it's expensive to tear a roof off. But they didn't mind that. I mean, sometimes I I've heard people say, oh, it's so expensive if we do things like that. Yeah, I know, but people are lost and dying and going to hell And somebody needs to raise the roof in some places in order to take care of the precious man. Church folks get stirred up when Jesus is in the house. And not only that, but some unusual efforts will likely be made. These four guys got together, they organized themselves. You know, you're gonna let a guy down through the roof. Uh one guy doesn't carry his corner of the pallet, that old boy on the pallet's gonna get hurt. So they got themselves organized and in order to get him to Jesus. I like it when people get stirred up enough and they get concerned enough and caring enough that they will do unusual things to get somebody in. At a family in my church when I was pastor over in Westminster, Al and Dottie They came to me one Sunday after a service, just right at the front here, and they said to me, They said, Pastor, they said uh they said we We would like to have a house dedication service. Now I looked at him and I said, You want to do what? I'd never heard of such a thing. And they said I knew where they lived. I'd been in their home uh I think only once before, but I had been there and uh and they had a beautiful home, probably was Final, like a four bedroom house, probably four bedrooms, three baths, something like that, double car garage, big, nice, beautiful home, and a nice subdivision And uh and and they said, but we have just remodeled our home. We've added some things. And they said, we're going to invite our whole neighborhood on a day And we want you to come out and put up a little portable sound system and sing some of those little songs that you and Sterling do. And uh and she said, then if you if you sing a little bit She said, we want you to talk to them about Jesus and give them the gospel. And she said, we're going to have our whole neighborhood and some of our family there. And I about that time I said, you know, I think I like house dedication services I never heard of it, but Al and Dottie thought of it. And we set it up on the day and went out there and they'd cooked hamburgers and hot dogs and you know I circulated around meeting people while they were eating and Nibbling on a hot dog or something myself. And when the time came, we turned that little sound system on and I got up. We took a little keyboard out there and I took somebody out to play for me. And we started singing, you know, the little songs like we do sometimes. And uh every day with Jesus is sweeter than the day before and other things like that. After a little bit I told them, I said, you know, I said, Alan Dottie, I said, don't you love their home? They'd given us all a tour, walk through and see what they'd done. And I said, but you know, they invited us all here today, not just I just see their home, but I said, they asked me to tell you about something that's happened to them a while back, and they they were hoping that maybe some of you would have some interest. So I said, if you'll give me a few minutes, I'll I'll tell you about it And I began to talk to them and began to talk about Jesus and the gospel. We we wound up getting, if I remember right, I think we got three families. Not immediately. We had a couple people saved that day And then some others, some follow-up. I think we've got three families out of that house dedication service wound up coming to the church and and and joining. Now, you know, I I like I like house dedication services. Somebody Had an unusual idea. And it worked. While I was there, man, our church came by the office one day. He had an adult daughter who was very handicapped. Very, very handicapped. Came in and sat down, chatted with me a little bit, and he said, Pastor, he said, I came by to ask you a question. He said He said, have you ever thought about us doing something for somebody like Renee? That was his daughter. And I knew right where it was headed. Because we we didn't we didn't have anything really for ministering to somebody like Renee. He said, Have you ever thought about us doing something? I said, Well yes, as a matter of fact, I have. You said, well, why would you have thought of it? Well, because I have a brother who's special needs. And you only have to have one person in your family that has special needs. And it'll soften up your old crusty heart about such things. And I said, yes, uh, yes, I have. And he said, well, he said, well, is there something you're waiting on? And I said, yes, there is And he said, Well, what is it? I said, it's this conversation you and I are having. He said, What are you trying to tell me? I said, Cheryl, I said, I don't have anybody to do it until now. He got bug eyed. He said, Are you saying that I ought to head it up? I said, That's exactly what I'm saying. And um I think that's been that's been more than thirty years ago. And that good shepherd department still going strong in it. Still going strong. A couple of wheelchair buses. That uh run every Sunday, going out picking them up all over the place. Social workers heard about it. They bring they bring some of their people, bring them themselves. Some of the social workers have gotten saved. It's just been absolutely amazing. A lot of families, a lot of families, especially, they've been everywhere else and nobody cared. They found a place where somebody cared. Made all the difference. Have to have a lot of help. You have 40, 50, 60 special needs adults in any one place and you've got to have a lot of help to handle that. A lot of caring people, a lot of loving people, a lot of people who just give themselves devotedly Unusual efforts. Unusual efforts will be made when Jesus is in the house. In fact, when Jesus is in the house, impossible things get done You look at this guy, I mean how long he'd been on this crippled bed, I don't know. But obviously he was crippled enough that he wasn't able to walk in on his own, but whenever Jesus touched him, he was able to walk out. Impossible things get done. In fact, the faith of the faithful always flourishes. Whenever Jesus is in the house, this passage says, when Jesus saw their faith, then he was able to do what he did. Had they not brought him, it would not have happened. The fact is, when Jesus is in the house, impossible things get done, even though opposition will surface. Opposition will surface. Problems will come. More people you have, the more problems you'll have. Sometimes you say, well, man, I I I I don't know. I mean everybody's got problems. And after all, we're we're in the problem-solving business. Our message is a problem-solving message. Jesus is a problem solver. Folks with drug and alcohol problems, they don't need rehab. They need redemption. They need regeneration. And uh, you know, if a person says, Well, I you know I got a bottle problem or a needle problem, well uh what what do we do for them? Well we take them and introduce them to Jesus first. You're not gonna you're gonna help them till you till you get them there Get them there, and uh then you got a chance with them. But opposition will come. Uh you know, they got an uproar going on here. Obviously, the paralytic man, he's a problem person. And the solution was not without some expense. But in spite of the opposition, he got what he needed. And you know, the fact is, when Jesus is in the house, The God of heaven always gets the credit. By the time we get down to the end of this event, This whole noisy crowd, they were standing there goggolize. They were amazed. They were glorifying God. Verse 12, they were glorifying God. All at once they stopped criticizing and they began to glorify God and they began to say, we never saw anything like this. I love it when church gets to the place where when folks walk in, they say, you know, that's not like that dead place we went to said it was a church. This is not like that place where nobody ever gets saved. I mean, folks all the time find reason to lift up the name of God and give God the credit whenever God's business is being taken care of, and Jesus is in the house. And you know, Betty and I raised two kids, and they're long since grown to have kids of their own, some of whom are grown. But I'm telling you, it's pretty special when Jesus is in our house. I think if my dear wife was here, she'd tell you. I think she'd tell you that I do not mistreat her. If I thought I was about to, I'd I'd I'd get out of the house if I thought I was about to mistreat her You say, oh, you're such a nice guy. No, I'm going to tell you what makes a difference. Jesus came into my life early on. And the more that I got acquainted with him, and the more I learned about him, the more I listened to him, the more it has made a difference between Betty and me. And we want him in our house. So much so that if somebody misbehaves on television, we we push the button and turn them off in a hurry. We just determine we're not we're not gonna we're not gonna garbage up our house with with things like that because we want we want the Lord's presence in our house Just like we wanted in the schoolhouse. My years being pastor, any number of times I had to say somebody to somebody, we're not going to do that here. We're not going to do that here? No, we're not going to do that here. Why are we not going to do that here? Because I don't think it would honor the Lord. I mean, we're not supposed to compete with everything going on in town. We're supposed to be church. We're supposed to do the kind of things that uh that honor the Lord. And uh and so we we want I mean when church time shows up Just like Pastor said a little bit ago, I mean, we bowed our heads and we said, Dear Lord, we want you here tonight. We want Jesus in the house. I mean, it wouldn't hurt for Jesus to be in the schoolhouse either. Amen. We we did a whole lot better whenever he was there. When I was a little boy going to school, the teacher had a Bible on one corner of the desk that she read every morning. She had a paddle on the other corner that she used anytime she felt like it Bunch of these bunch of these radical liberals decided that using the paddle might warp some little guys, and by not warping them, they've warped them. I always call the paddle the board of education. And it's a board that ought to be applied. The one our principal had had three holes drilled in it. Talk about a stinging rebuke. That'll take care of some things. You visit that one one time, you'll think twice before doing that which wants you to go, it makes you go back again You say, how would you know that? You don't need to know. But I did do a little laboratory work in that regard, I'll fess up to that. Now, I'm just simply saying the schoolhouse would be far better off if Jesus were in the house. It's like my house, just like the church house, the school house. And it wouldn't hurt at all for him to be in the state house down in Annapolis. In the White House in Washington. Wouldn't hurt at all. I like it when Jesus is in the house because there's nothing else that compares to it. Lord Jesus is in the house. The liquor dealer will be out of business soon. We get him in the house, in enough houses. We get enough church houses stirred up with him in the house and the liquor dealers will be looking for other business. And uh and so forth. Nothing quite like when Jesus is in the house They said it was noise that he was there. Creating quite an uproar But oh my. Well the day was done, they said, we never saw anything like this. Never saw anything to compare with this. I look at my grandchildren. I want to be able to say, man, I like the fashion of this. I look at my grown kids and I want to say, I like the fashion of this. I look at my sweet wife that I've been married to for six, seven hundred years. That's funnier when she's here, but anyway. She and I've been married a long time. But I'm gonna tell you, like a little boy said, it just gets tweeter and tweeter as the days go by. All of that can be attributed to the fact that Jesus has been in the Dear Lord, thank you for your blessings. Thank you for hearing us when we pray. Pray that you'll bless Brother Cooper as he comes to preach now. Bless our meetings in the morning and tomorrow night. Bless Brother Leatherman as he leads in the services, the choir and others as they sing. And dear Lord, give us our prayers, give us a fresh touch from heaven in these days. May the sweet Spirit of God work in this place, and may all of us, when these days are finished, May all of us be re-fired for the good things and re-fired for your glory. We'll thank you in Jesus' precious name. Amen.