Um but the the message this morning is when God passes by. When God passes by. And I believe God has passed by Oakland, Maryland. He's he's he's settled in and he's stayed here for a long time And uh we need to thank the Lord for that. But in Exodus chapter number three, uh thirty-three, I'm gonna start reading in verse number twelve uh as Moses speaking. He says, and Moses Just a second, I'm sorry. I forgot to turn this on. And Moses said unto the Lord, see thou sayest unto me, bring up this people. And thou hast not let me know whom thou wilt send with me. Yet thou hast said, I know thee by name, and thou hast also found grace in my sight. Now therefore I pray thee, if I have found grace in thy sight, show me now thy way, that I may know thee, that I may find grace in thy sight, and consider that this nation is thy people. And he said, My presence shall go with thee, and I will give thee rest. And he said unto him, If thy presence go not with me, excuse me Carry us not up hence, for wherein shall it be known here that I and thy people have found grace in thy sight? Is it not in that thou goest with us? So shall we be separated, I and thy people, from all the people that are upon the face of the earth And the Lord said to Moses, I will do this thing also that thou hast spoken, for thou hast found grace in my sight, and I know thee by name. Aren't you glad God knows your name this morning? It would be a sad and uh horrible tragedy if God did not know your name this morning. If you're here this morning, you've never trusted Jesus Christ. As your Lord and Savior, today he can write your name down in the Lamb's Book of Life if you'll but trust him. Verse 18 says, And he said, I beseech thee, show me thy glory It says in verse 19, then he said, I will make all my goodness pass before thee, and I will proclaim the name of the Lord before thee. And will be gracious to whom I will be gracious and will show mercy on whom I will show mercy. And he said, Thou canst not see my face, for there shall no man see me and live And the Lord said, Behold, there is a place by me, and thou shalt stand upon a rock, and it shall come to pass while my glory passeth by. uh that I will put thee in a cliff of the rock and will cover thee with my hand while I pass by. And I will take away mine hand, and thou shalt see my back parts, but my face shall not be seen. Let's pray. Our precious Heavenly Father, we come to you in Jesus' name, just thanking you for another opportunity to meet in your house. Lord, we need to hear from you this morning. I pray, Father, this is your service. This is not mine. I pray that you'll help us to be sensitive to your spirit, that you'll overshadow this place, Lord, with your grace and mercy and your love And Lord, I pray that you'll speak to hearts through the preaching of your word. Father, I pray that you'll give me every word to say. I can't stand here alone, Lord. It's a it's a a terrible place to stand by myself. But Lord, I need your help. I need your unction. And Father, I pray that you'll speak to hearts. Be with Pastor Leatherman and his dear wife while they're away. Give them many souls for their labor there in St. Lucia. And Father, I pray that you'll bring them back safely. And I pray, Father, that if there be one in our midst here this morning that's never trusted as their Lord and Savior, that today would be that day Lord bless the broadcast of FBN, bless this church service now, and we'll thank you for all you do. Pray that you'll receive all honor and glory for it. In Jesus' name. Amen As we look at the Word of God this morning, this is familiar scripture. I'm not going to tell you anything new, anything that you don't know that you've never heard before. But I want to say that that when I got saved, whenever the Lord Jesus Christ came where I was and knocked on my heart's door It seemed like that heaven came down and glory filled my soul. I know that salvation isn't in feelings I heard some some people say, you know, uh uh a bird flew by and I got saved. Uh I took that as a sign from God, or or I felt uh something and I know salvation is not in feelings it's by grace through faith in Jesus Christ and His work on the cross of Calvary But as the hymn writer, the songwriter wrote, uh when when I got saved, it was like heaven came down and glory filled my soul. I I I felt the the release that burden of my sins that were laying heavy on on me being rolled off and being put on Jesus Christ on the cross of Calvary And that he uh uh suffered, he bled and died uh because of my sin, and that he died and he he he he was buried for three days and three nights and And then he rose from the dead victorious over death and hell and the grave and he ascended into heaven. And uh I thank God for salvation. Many of you can can relate to that. When you got saved, you felt that great relief that your sins had been forgiven. And then then we find out, you know, it's not just that our sins are forgiven, but we get to go to heaven uh at the end of our lives. Uh whenever that may be, if we go by the grave or if Jesus Christ comes back and takes us by the rapture, we get to go to heaven and be with him forever He said, if I go away, I will come again and receive you unto myself, that where I am, there you may be also. I'm looking forward to that day. uh as we see different things that take place in our country and in this world uh this world uh you can tell more and more with the spirit of the Holy Spirit of God inside of you You realize that this is not your home. This is not my home. We're just pilgrims and strangers, as Abraham said We're just passing through. We're going to a better place. We're going to go and be with Jesus. We're going to go to his heaven that he's prepared for us. I think about You know, when I got saved, uh, that there was joy in the presence of the angels. There was joy in the presence of the angels. I I went down to the altar in a church in the Independent Baptist Church and I went to the altar and I I I didn't know what to do. I'd been religious all my life and I didn't understand what was taking place. I had a feeling Uh but I I knew that conviction uh all I knew is my heart was about to explode. I was under such conviction. So I went down the altar and nobody came down Nobody came and took the word of God to show me how I could be saved and and that disturbed me and I I just got up. I didn't I I was so confused at the time from the way I'd been brought up and and so I went back to my pew and And uh after the service was over we left and uh we were on the way home and I've given you my testimony before, but I told my wife, I turned to her and we were heading up sixty-four and and said, uh, I I'm under conviction And she said, Well, you better turn this car around and go back. Uh she uh she didn't want to be riding with some lost person, amen. Uh and but we went back to the church and and uh I talked to the pastor. I said, Pastor, I need to be saved and So we went back in in a room and and we bowed there and I trusted Christ as my Savior. There wasn't a whole lot of uh uh fireworks going off on earth uh whenever Gerald Miller got saved. Amen. Uh there was just a couple of us in the room. There was some other preachers in the other room. They were still fellowshipping and a and everything. But uh but there wasn't just a whole lot of shouting or anything like that going on. I was relieved. I was thanking the Lord for saving me But my Bible tells me it doesn't matter if it didn't take place on earth, that there was joy in the presence of the angels over one sinner that repenteth Uh so there was uh excitement there and I got to thinking, well, you know, I probably wasn't the only one that got saved that day on October 11, 1991 Uh there was probably somebody in another country that a missionary had been working on and and uh conviction came to their heart and they trusted Christ, repented of their sins and trusted Christ that day And so there was joy in the presence of the angels just as much over that one as it was when I got saved. And I got to thinking, you know, there's a there's billions of people in the world. There's probably somebody somewhere getting saved this morning And guess what? There is a celebration going on in heaven right now in the presence of the angels. Uh uh I I I think about that and and I've heard it preached, and I probably made the same mistake before and said, Well the angels are celebrating right now. But it says there's joy in the presence of the angels. And that's those, I believe, from Hebrews chapter 11, that gray faith chapter. And they've gone on. That's that great cloud of witnesses that we read about in Hebrews chapter number twelve. uh that they're they're they're celebrating and they're in joy uh it they're in the presence of the angels. You say, well why wouldn't it be the angels? Well they may be celebrating too, but but uh you know first Peter one twelve Um tells me something there. It says, unto whom it was revealed, talking about the gospel, that not unto themselves, but unto as uh unto us They did minister the things, which are now reported unto you by them that have preached the gospel unto you with the Holy Ghost sent down from heaven, which things the angels desire to look into. They don't understand salvation by the blood of Christ. They're created beings. They are messengers of God. They're sent to do God's will, to send messages to to look after us, our guardian angels so to speak, as we're traveling. Uh I I've told my wife probably we've probably had three or four different guardian angels because we keep wearing them out. I don't know. But God's been good to us. He protects us as we travel He looks after us. He provides for us. He meets every need that we have. But I want to tell you that when I got saved, there was joy in the presence of the angels Because I got saved. I was a sinner that walked denial, that that went to a place and repented of my sins and received what Jesus Christ did for me. Well, in chapter 32 of Exodus, we were reading in chapter 33. In chapter 32 of Exodus, we all know the record that God has. You know, many times we say this is a book uh uh of Bible stories and everything, but I want to tell you the they're not stories, they're records of how God has dealt with mankind all down through history. These are records, recordings of what actually took place. A story can be true and it can be false, but I want to tell you, every word of God is true. Amen. That we have in the Word of God Uh but in chapter thirty-two of Exodus it's recorded how Moses uh uh communed with God. He went up to the top of the mountain to receive the law, the Ten Commandments, as we say Uh he went up there to receive that. And you know what happened uh while he was up on the mount? Uh everybody down in the camp said, Oh, we don't know what happened to Moses He's been gone a long time. Maybe he's forsook us. He's not coming back. So they go to Aaron and they say, Well, uh, we need a God to worship. So uh Aaron tells them to bring their earrings and their bracelets and all these things together, the gold and And uh, you know, his story, uh, what he actually did and what he told Moses was two different things. Uh he he took a graving tool, he melted the gold down, took a graving tool, made a golden calf and caused them to sin, caused Israel to sin. It was the will of the people. Uh but then uh when Moses come down He came to Aaron and questioned him about it, and Aaron said, Well, uh they they asked for a uh an idol, and I took all the gold, threw it in the fire, and out jumped this calf. Uh is completely different than what you'd think Uh but he he calls them uh calls Israel to sin. So he made an idol and they worshiped it. And then we see in chapter 32, verse 34, well, before that, how Moses prayed for the people. He was a pastor. He loved the people. And then in verse uh let's see 32, uh the Bible says, Yet now if thou wilt forgive their sin, And there's a dash right there, the only place you'll see that dash in the Word of God. So I I can't help but think Moses was thinking, well, what what if God wouldn't forgive him What if God will not forgive them for this trespass they've made against him? But then he goes on and says, And if not, block me, I pray thee, out of thy book which thou hast written. And the Lord said to Moses, Whosoever hath sinned against me, him will I blot out of my book. Therefore now go, lead the people unto the place of which I have spoken unto thee Behold, mine angel shall go before thee. Nevertheless, in the day when I visit, I will visit their sin upon them. And the Lord plagued the people because they made the calf which Aaron made Uh right here, God said, I'm not going in the midst of you anymore, Moses. Uh if I come down there, if I get in the midst of Israel right now, I am going to consume them They will be destroyed. And he did make a plague come down upon them, but he said, I'm going to send an angel. I'm going to send an angel. He will guide you over to Israel. He says in chapter 33, he says, And the Lord said to Moses, Depart and go up hence, thou and the people which thou hast brought. up out of the land of Egypt. See, God's not even claiming them now, said the people that thou brought out of Egypt, not my people as he had referred to them before He said, Which I swear unto Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, saying, Unto thy seed will I give it. Verse 2 says, And I will send an angel before thee And I will drive out the Canaanite, the Amorite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the and the Jebuzite. You know, angels are strong beings. We we've got the record in God's word how w just one of them killed over a hundred thousand men. Just one angel. They're powerful. They are the messengers of God. They come to bring messages to us. They brought the message of the virgin birth to Mary uh that she was going to conceive by the power of the Holy Spirit and bring forth the Savior to the Jews first and also to the Greek, that he was coming, the Messiah was coming Uh the angels gave that message. But I tell you what, uh uh whenever God can be in the midst, whenever we can meet with God and God lead us, I'd rather have God leading me than an angel. Amen I'd rather have the presence of God than angels. And that's what Moses is saying right here in chapter number 33. Uh he's saying, If if Lord, if uh you haven't told me who's going to leave us or anything, but I tell you what, if you're not in the midst of us, if your presence is not with us, just don't let us go up his. Don't let us take another step. Moses wanted the presence of God. I want the presence of God in my life. And I know you want the presence of God working in your life and helping you and leading you and guiding you and directing you. We need his presence. Then in chapter um let's see I've got it here. Chapter thirty-three and verse number seven The Bible says, and Moses took the tabernacle and pitched it without the camp, far off from the camp. And called it the tabernacle of the congregation. Now don't get this confused with the tabernacle that that God gives him all the dimensions and the Ark of the Covenant and the The veil of the temple and all that. Don't get that confused with this because they they haven't done that yet. It's coming in just a couple of chapters. But right here they have the congreg the tabernacle of the congregation And it came to pass that every one which sought the Lord went out unto the tabernacle of the congregation which was without the camp. They went out there. In verses 14 and 15 of the same chapter, we'll get back to that in just a minute, but verses 14 and 15 in chapter 33, the Bible says, and he said, My presence shall go with thee. God is going to be in their midst. He is going to be with them, and I will give thee rest. And he said unto him, if thy presence go not with me, carry me not up hence, what we just went over. He said, I don't want to go another step without the presence of God with me. Angels are fine. They do a uh they they have their place. They are ministering spirits. They're uh God's creation, but I want your presence, God, to go with me. And then up here in verse 7, uh this is a picture in type, this is a symbolic of the presence of God uh leaving and judgment falling upon Israel. He said, I'm not even going to be in the midst. Uh uh I'm not take the congregation, take the tent, the tabernacle, and put it apart off outside of the camp You know, sometimes people will come up to us and say, what camp are you with? Well, just tell them you're outside the camp. Amen. You're out there in the presence of God. Uh we don't hold to any uh certain group of people or anything. We just want to follow after God. We want to uh follow after Him and Him be in the midst and Him be in the presence Uh so uh this is a symbolic with them moving the the pitching the tent and the outside, uh far off outside the the campus, a symbolic of the presence of God leaving them and judgment upon Israel You know, sin results in the loss of God's fellowship and presence. Whenever sin comes into a camp, whenever sin comes into our lives, it can't help but break that fellowship that we have with God. The Bible says, if I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear. My prayers become brass. He will not listen to them. uh because I'm regarding and and hiding and and uh holding on to sin in my heart. We've got to keep a short account with God Uh we need to keep sin out of our lives. And and whenever we do fall, whenever we do have sin in our lives, we need to confess it. And the Bible says if we confess our sins, He was faithful and just to forgive us of our sins And to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Let's stay clean before God. Who shall come before his holy heel? He that hath clean hands and a pure heart. We need to keep ourselves without sin, spotless before God, so that we can have His presence and His leading in our lives. So sin results in the loss of God's fellowship and presence. Moving the tent didn't prohibit the people from seeking God. Some of them said, hey The tents are far off, but I'm still going to go out there and I'm going to seek God. Uh whenever uh uh uh they moved that tabernacle, that tent of the congregation afar off, uh it just caused them to seek him more, some of 'em. Some of them said, uh uh I I'm forsaking everything else. I'm going to go out there. I don't care what it cost me. There was wild animals along the way probably But it said, I am going to go and seek the Lord. So moving the ten out there didn't cause them not to go and seek God. Some of 'em said, Yes, we have erred Some of 'em repented and went out there to seek the Lord out there. So it gave 'em a passion for God. And then it it they had to take a public stand Uh people noticed that they went. I guarantee you some of your neighbors when you fired up the car this morning, they said, Hey, there they go again What are they doing? They do this every Sunday morning. They go down there there to that Mountain Lake, Independent Baptist Church, and they go and they see it and they listen to the preaching. Uh uh why do they do that? Uh why would they uh there they go again, Sunday night, there they go again to hear the preaching of God's Word. And to fellowship one with another. Then Wednesday night comes, there they go again. They're just foolish people. Foolish people. I'll be a fool for Christ. Amen I love to be in this in the house of God. And and some of these people, they had to take a public stand. People noticed when they left the camp and went out there afar off to the tent of the congregation to to seek God And then they had to uh to be personally separated. Some of them uh had to separate themselves maybe from family. Some of the family didn't want to search after God. They said, I'm going back to Egypt. But they said, No, well, we're going to go and serve the Lord And then it was a some of them had to endure painful scorn, some of them were mocked, some of them were made fun of because they went out to the tent I can imagine uh that they were mauged fiercely, and that's how we live today in this world. There's people saying, you know, Christianity, there's nothing to that. You know, we're all here because of a Big Bang. We come out of a slime pit, and that's why we don't see life as precious in this country now. It's because there's no sanctity of life. We've got uh it we are here because of intelligent design We're here because we got a creator. We got God. Amen. He created the heaven and the earth and everything. The Bible says the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof And it also says that the heaven and the heaven of heavens cannot contain him. We've got a wonderful God. Sometimes we have to be a separated people. Amen. God wants us to be a separate people. We're going to be a peculiar people because we take a stand for the Lord. You know, I like it when God passes by. When God passes by, an angel just won't do it. When God passes by, we just bask in his presence. And just hold up holy hands to him as Solomon did when he was dedicating the temple, saying, Praise, you are worthy to be praised, O Lord. Then in verse 11, I want you to notice there it says, And the Lord spake unto Moses face to face as a man speaketh unto his friend. And he turned again into the camp. But his servant Joshua, the son of Nun, a young man, departed not out of the tabernacle. I believe Joshua just wanted to stay in the presence of God a little while longer I think he saw what uh that God was speaking to Moses and everything, and he said, God's presence is here. I want to be near God. I want to just stay here a while You know, we don't need to get in a hurry to leave church. We need to be in a hurry to get to church. Amen. Uh I hear about preachers getting speeding tickets because they're late. They should have promoted Prepared a little bit better maybe to get to a service on time, but I wonder if a lot of members don't get a speed and ticket leaving church We need to come to get in. We don't need to come to get out and say, oh, i it's time uh is my my watch not working? Uh it's time to get out But we need to get in. When God passes by, you won't want to rush on out. You'll want to just bask in his presence And just thank him for being such a good God to us. You want to stay a while like Joshua did there. And then in verse number sixteen The Bible says, For wherein shall it be known here that I and thy people have found grace in thy sight? Is it not to uh that thou goest with us? Is it not in that thou goest with us? So shall we be separated, I and thy people, from all the people that are upon the face of the earth. We are a separated people. We were bought with a price. We are not our own. We are servants of the Lord this morning. For us to be in God's presence and to experience His presence, we must be a separated people There's only two kinds of people in the world. There's saved people and there's lost people. We can say, yeah, there's rich people, there's poor people, there's Uh some people that are intelligent, they do these uh highly technical uh jobs, and then there's those that sweep the streets. There's there's just all kinds of people. No, there's only two kinds, the saved and the lost There's only two kinds of people this morning. Which one are you this morning? Which one are you? If you're here and you're not saved, why not get in this morning? Why not receive Christ? You know you need to be saved. God's been working on your heart. He's been convicting you of sin in your life and and that you uh uh that you're far away from him. Hey, come close to him, come near to him and and receive him Receive that precious gift of salvation through his death, burial, and resurrection this morning. When God passes by, you won't want to rush out, an angel won't do. And we'll be a separated people. That's the only ones that God can work through is those that are saved this morning. You're his servant. If you've never trusted Christ. He doesn't may say this in the best way I know how. He doesn't know your name Some of you say, well, I got saved, but I can't remember the date. You know, a lot of people were hung up on dates there for a while. Whenever you got saved, if you can't remember the date, then you didn't get saved. Well, there's that's hogwash. I tell you one thing, you might not know the date uh when you got saved, but there was somebody that wrote it down. You might not have written it down, but it was written down in the Lamb's book of life in heaven. It was written in the blood of Jesus Christ. And it it doesn't matter if you know the day or not, it's just that there was that day that you trusted Christ as your Savior. There's only two kinds of people we see. Romans chapter number twelve and verses one and two. Let me turn there very quickly. I'll hasten on just as quickly as I can. Romans chapter number twelve, verse one and two says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, wholly acceptable unto God. which is your reasonable service. And be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. When you trust Christ And and let allow him to work in your heart and life. You are a separated person. You're not the same. He said, be not conformed to the world You know, there's a lot of people, so-called Christians out here today, conforming to the world. They're conforming to the world's music, they're conforming to the world's entertainment, they're conforming to the world's uh just having to uh to be entertained all the time But be not conformed to the world. Be you transformed by the renewing of your mind. Who does that? The Lord does that. He works that out in your heart and life. He separated Moses for his work. 1 Corinthians 1 18 says, For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness, but unto us Which are saved, it is the power of God. Romans one sixteen says, For I am not ashamed of the power of Christ, uh for the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. I'm not ashamed that we shouldn't be ashamed of Christ whenever we came back uh go into a little farther uh tonight maybe in the testimony I've talked about uh being in Camp Ohio recently. We got back from there and we went to a pro-life rally in Raleigh, North Carolina. We were trying to overturn a veto against babies being allowed to live. uh abortion. And uh we we went down there and and you know we we've heard the statistics. You know, you probably read the sword paper. Sixty one million babies since nineteen seventy three in America have been Aborted never got to take their first breath. Nobody ever got to take 'em and show 'em how to ride a bicycle. Nobody ever got to teach them how to read And then uh we we heard those statistics, and then we see in China where 25 million forced abortions are performed every year in China. Well, since 1980, we learned at this pro-life rally, just since 1980, there have been 1. 5 billion abortions performed worldwide. Just since 1980 That's nearly one-fourth of the world's population have been aborted. Never got. What is going to what's what where are they? They're in heaven. Amen. They're with Jesus. Uh they had a heartbeat and it was snuffed out before they ever got to take their first breath. But they are a were a living soul. Uh they are with him. Uh but We shouldn't be ashamed of the gospel of Christ. It is time that the church stood up and got proactive against this sin that is trying to take over our land. uh this sin that is trying to take over our country. Colossians three, uh verses uh one through four says, if ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God. Set your affection on things above, not on the things of the earth For ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God, even Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory. Uh verse twenty-two and twenty-three right there is reminds me of this very scripture right here, it shall come to pass while my glory passeth by, that I will put thee in the cliff of the rock and will cover thee with my hand while I pass by. Uh we are hidden Christ. Uh that is a picture in the type when God took him and set him in the cliff of the rock, the wound of Jesus Christ. The nail scarred hands, the wounds that were there, uh Moses has put in there a picture and a type of that, and God covers him with his hand as he passes by Because he couldn't look on his face and live. So he puts him in that the cliff of the rock, covers him with his hand. Reminds me of the of another uh scripture also In John chapter number ten, verse twenty seven through twenty-nine, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me, and I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish, neither sh neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. My father which is uh gave them me is greater than all, and no man is able to pluck them out of my father's hand. Moses was in the hand of God. He was in his protection. When God took his hand away, he was able to follow after God. That's why he saw the back parts. He couldn't look at God in the face. If you're staring God in the face, then you're confronting one another. You're not on the right side. We are to be behind him, following along after him, uh following after him through his word. Um s you know, sin in verse twenty three it says, And I will take away mine hand that thou shalt see My back parts, but my face shall no man see. Sin causes us not to see his face. We need Jesus in order to enter heaven and survive. Amen We have to have a glorified body. We cannot see God in the face the way we are. We need Jesus Christ. He's our mediator He brought redemption to us through his death, burial, and resurrection. Uh that's the only way we can go to heaven and survive. We're going to have a glorified body. We'll be in his image We'll be uh made like him. We'll have a body like as unto the Son of God. We don't see him coming. Uh He's already working in our lives, and we feel His presence and follow after Him. Seeing the Back parts, just a glimpse of his glory. Sometimes we get to see a glimpse of his glory every now and then spiritually as he passes through the services. Maybe somebody walks an aisle and gets saved Maybe the Lord speaks to somebody to have them testify of God's goodness, what he's done for them. Maybe God has answered a prayer, somebody was sick. Maybe had cancer, maybe had something uh debilitating to them, and the Lord has answered their prayer, looked after them, gave them grace You know, the flesh of Moses had to be covered if the glory of God was to be fully manifested or revealed. In the same way, the flesh can also stop God's glory from being revealed. If someone gets in the way and says, look at me and not look at God, there's a lot of TV evangelists, there's a lot of people out there just trying to make a name for themselves. Some of 'em are doing a good job and and trying to promote the gospel and exalting and magnifying Jesus Christ, but there's a whole lot of them out there just doing it for the money, made a job out of it. They're they're um hirelings and not preachers. Our flesh can cause God's glory not to be seen or not to be experienced. We grieve the Holy Spirit of God. We quench Him when that happens. God will not share his glory with another, the Bible says. Three things very quickly, and I'm done. We see the three ways in verse 19, what happens when God passes by? When God passes by, he said, and he said, I will make my goodness pass before thee. When God passes by, we see his goodness. We read in Genesis, after He created, He created, He said, and it was good. He created again, He said it was good. When He made man, when He finished His creation, He said, Behold, it is very good. We see God's goodness in everything. We see God's goodness in our lives, how he's looked after us, how he's watched over us. uh one hundred verse five says, For the Lord is good, his mercy is everlasting, and his truth endureth to all generations. Then number two We we see his greatness. Uh it says, And I will proclaim the name of the Lord before thee. Him proclaiming his name glorifies himself. Amen uh the glory of God uh glorif the name of God glorifies God. He said, I am the I am. If we look over in chapter number thirty-four, uh Verse number six, it says, And the Lord passed by before him and proclaimed, the Lord, the Lord God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering and abundant in goodness and truth. Uh that was proclaimed as Moses actually got to be in the presence of God as his glory passed by. He saw his goodness, his greatness And then he saw number three, his grace and mercy. God's grace and mercy shows his glory His grace and mercy to us. Remember what grace and mercy are. Grace is something that we don't deserve from God, but He gives it to us freely. And mercy, mercy is the withholding of judgment that we do deserve. But he keeps it from us by the blood of Jesus Christ. Law heads bowed and all eyes closed this morning I wonder if there would be one in our midst and say, well, I've I've sat in church many years. I sat in church 26 years of my life, trying to be good, trying to think that would get me into heaven. You may be here this morning and say, well, the Lord spoke to my heart this morning and said that you need to be saved. He comes to you gently, softly and gently. Jesus is calling. Is there what if there be one like that in our midst this morning, would you lift up your hand? I just want to pray for you. Is there anyone here this morning? Say I need to be saved. I I want to trust Christ. I just want to pray for you. I'll not embarrass you. I'll not call call you out or anything like that. Is there anyone in our midst? Say I'm not saved, but I want to be. Would you lift up your hand very quickly Let's very quickly raise it and put it back down. Anyone in our midst this morning? And there may be someone here this morning. Um You say, well, you know, uh I I'm saved. I know I'm born again, I know that heaven will be my home, but I I want to be like Moses, I want to be in his presence more. I I want God to be so close to me. It's Just like Moses when he spoke face to face as his friend, as he would his friend, they'd say, I I want that closeness with God. I've gotten away from him, but I I want uh that presence. The altar is open this morning. If that's you this morning, we're going to stand here in just a moment and uh we'll have a song being played. You go ahead and start playing softly if you want. Uh but