We're going to start in the book of Jeremiah in just a moment. I have the privilege of serving the Lord in evangelism. I get to be here, there, and everywhere I was in Washington State a couple weeks ago and uh up in Wisconsin and Indiana and Illinois and I'll be in Kansas uh next weekend actually. Actually if you would pray My father, as I said, was in the military for twenty-something years, and the Lord's opened some doors. We'll see if he continues to. But my father is preaching. He preached last week and this week At the church I grew up in, really as a teenager, we moved a lot, but the church I was a teenager in, he they were with they've been up without a pastor for a year. My dad is candidating to potentially be the pastor there and they'll be voting on him next Sunday. And so if you'd pray about that, we want the Lord's will for all that, but it's just something that is in the back of my mind. And so if you'd pray for Chris McCurry and my mom Ruth And I was blessed to be raised in a Christian home. And I hope you'll do that for the next generation in your life as well. In the book of Jeremiah, it might be good if the preacher finds his place there as well. Jeremiah and chapter number twenty-nine Jeremiah twenty-nine is where we will begin. And I don't know the tradition. But if you don't mind, would you mind standing with me for just a moment while we read just one verse of scripture? I won't have you up all day today. I hope, I hope and pray that you put the crock pot on low and slow today. Now I'm just joking. Normally I I have found I can talk for a little while, but then I preach short, okay? So I'll I'll do that. And I realize it's Easter festivities and probably We're we're trying trying to beat all the other people to the restaurant. You know that goes. Actually Pastor told me our reservations are until one thirty. So I've got plenty of time. I don't know about you, I've got plenty of time And so I can go I can probably go till about new uh about 1 o'clock or so. We'll make it no. Jeremiah chapter 29, verse number 11. The Bible says this For I know the thoughts that I think toward you, saith the Lord, thoughts of peace and not of evil, to give you an expected End. I was thinking last night, wonderful time with the men praying here, right down here. What a blessing it is to have a church. A church has a prayer meeting Uh that that's a blessing. I'd encourage you men to come for that and n I think nine o'clock are most Saturdays. But I was thinking and I even mentioned the prayer last night, I was thinking the difference between Last night's prayer meeting, in anticipation of God doing great things this morning, in a Saturday night, 2,000 years ago, when the disciples were beside themselves. They were distracted, depressed, despondent. They had no idea what was coming. They knew Jesus had said he was going to rise from the dead, but you know by the way they acted when the girls and ladies told him, they weren't really sure. They weren't even sure when they saw the empty tomb what was going on But I saw it last night. What a blessing to be able to kneel with some brothers in Christ in anticipation of what God's going to do. I'm glad for the fact that God always has our best in mind We're going to look at this passage of Scripture. We're going to dive into it. We will get to some Easter-centric passages of Scripture in just a little while. The Lord laid this thought on my heart. When the best, God's best specifically, but when the best isn't good enough When the best isn't good enough, I'd like to for us to unroll that today. While I pray, I'm going to ask you to talk to God as well. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this morning. Thank you for dear folks Lord, I ask you bless you to give clarity of mind, clarity of speech, and that what we talk about this morning would be, yes, edifying, but as necessary, that it would be a conviction as well. We ask all these things in your sons to be pray. Amen. You may be seated there if you would. I realize the context of Jeremiah 29. It was penned under the auspices of the Holy Spirit by the prophet Jeremiah back in around 600 B. C. That was a little while ago. That's the historical setting, but the cultural context, the Jewish exiles, they're living in a foreign land. They're far away from home, under difficult circumstances, they feel abandoned and hopeless. And the purpose of this message of Jeremiah's letter was meant to encourage the exiles by reminding them that despite their current situation, God had not forgotten them. Aren't you glad that God's never once forgotten you or I? And I'm not going to co-opt and take and lift this out of context and claim it for us in such a way that uh we're going to ignore what God meant for his Israelite people But at the same time, I'm glad for the fact that God still knows the thoughts that He thinks toward us I'm glad that he thinks thoughts of peace and not of evil to give you an expected end. All through Scripture, this thought resonates and is repeated. I think of John fourteen, in my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you, I go to prepare a place for you, and if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself, that where I am, there ye may be also Matthew chapter 7, verse 9, the Bible says, Or what man is there of you, whom, if his son asks bread, will he give him a stone? Or if he ask a fish, will he give him a serpent? If ye then being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your father, which is in heaven, give good things to them that ask him? Psalm 84, for the Lord God is a son and shield. The Lord will give grace and glory. And get this: no good thing will he withhold from them that walk uprightly. Sounds like a promise to me. What a blessing that is. God wants the best for us. He truly does. Well, what happens when the best isn't good enough for you and I? I think back. I had an interesting childhood in that I, as I mentioned, my father was in the military. We moved by eight times. My first 18 years, I was born in Texas. If you're thinking of a of a map of a world atlas, I was born in Texas. We moved to California, then to the east coast of Virginia, not too far from here. And Then we moved back to Kansas and uh went to Kansas, then we went to Germany for four years all over Europe, and then we went back to the East Coast, back to the Midwest, went to college out in California I've been everywhere, man, as they say. My father, now my dad was very busy. I hope that church knows what they're getting. If they if they vote my dad in, it's gonna be pedal to the metal all the time. He's fifty-seven, fifty-eight or so, and it's gonna be go, go, go go. He's retired like twice from the military and then worked at a caterpillar dealership for some years after that and now he's going to his third career the ministry's not a career, but he's going to jump headlong into it. My dad though He was always a good steward of what God gave him, and God gave her family. That's a really nice way of saying my dad was a tight one. We never had, you know, the gaming systems. We were, if if we ever got them, we were five to ten years behind. Because you can always buy them used for a lot cheaper, right? I don't I I don't think I'm a little bitter about it. My my brothers, I don't think we got a gaming system of any kind until after I had already left the house. But my dad He was a good steward, truly, and w there was few and far between times that we had time, because of a career in the military, to go on vacation. I don't know about you, but w our family was not the type. We were not able we were we were not gone two and three and four and five weeks every year. It was like one week out of every year that he tried to set aside and we'd go do something. But the way the McCurries did vacation was might not be like how you do vacation. The alarm would go off at like 5 30 in the morning. Because there is a lot to see and so little time to do it, right? We've scheduled this 72 hours and every moment is accounted for. And when we do that, it wasn't like we were staying at swanky re uh staying at swanky resorts and at posh restaurants, all that type of stuff, but there was one time There was one time that we went to, we were I I think we were actually out here on the East Coast somewhere, and I don't recall, I was probably nine years old or so And I realized when the few and far between times that we did go out to eat, when I was a younger child, we only went to places like Wendy's because they had a dollar menu You can get two things off the dollar menu. And then it became three. And then when it became four, so my dad decided that buffets were a better use of his money. fill ourselves up and not tell them we were hungry you know an hour after we walked out of the restaurant. Well we were at this somewhat swanky restaurant. Had a had a really nice or beautiful salad bar. I mean it was very nicely laid out. But you could order your entree there. It wasn't a buffet. But you could order your entree, and my dad looked at me and he said, Words I had never heard before. You can get whatever you want. Now I still knew not to push it. Okay, I was not going to be ridiculous with it. Because he would say, no, you're getting chicken tenders or something like that. But When we would go to places that were anywhere near like that, what I would normally ask for was a half-rack of ribs. Now you've got to understand why. I understand we're getting to know each other way more than you want to know me right now. I realize that, okay? And we're gonna get in the Bible, I promise. I have a lot more scripture to get to. But the reason I do that was because it normally came with two sides. My goal was as many calories as possible. That was my goal. But my dad being, you've got to realize I didn't mention this. Maybe it's genetic that he's a tightwad because my dad is half Jewish by blood. My mom's half Jewish, so I get both sides as well. So I'm half Jewish by blood. And so maybe the Taiwan thing was g genetic. I'm I'm making fun of my own ethnicity. You can do it, you you can laugh. It's all right, but If I chose the half rack, you know, back in the day, the half rack was like $9. 99 or something like that. The full rack was like $12. 99. And I knew better better than even chance my dad was going to look at the menu. And he always there was always the dad tax, right? Where he would take at least one or two bones off of what I had and he would eat them, right? And I think it made him feel better about it. He's like, it's a great deal for only two ninety or three dollars more. get the full slab and I can he can steal two or three bones off of it and I'll still be okay. And so he'd often he said we'll just do the full rack for Micah and he'll take a little bit. And so I'm looking at his menu. He said I can get whatever I want And I look down and I see rib. And all I see is rib. And this one was not measured in half or full rack. It was measured in ounces. I was nine years old. It was prime rib. No, no. My dad said I could get whatever I want. There was like a twelve, a sixteen, and a twenty-four ounce. I was not I was I was wise enough I was not gonna go with the twenty-four ounce because my dad would slap me down immediately. But I thought if I shot towards the middle at sixteen ounce but Understand this, I did not know what I was getting. I saw rib. And when I said prime rib I read a lot as a kid. Prime means awesome. Means great. I thought this is just a swanky version of ribs that I love. And I order it and I'm I'm I go to the salad bar, get a heaping plate, I'm sitting there eating it. It's wonderful. I'm thinking this is going to be awesome. I even asked for barbecue sauce extra barbecue sauce to the side. The server looked at me a little bit weird when I asked for it. And then they bring me the pinkest piece of meat you've ever seen in your life. Now you've got to understand. I I for what I want to understand different areas of the country, prime rib is actually like an Easter thing sometimes. Some you know maybe some places will do prime rib specials for Easter and all that To this point in my life, I had never had prime rib. Today, I love prime rib. I was just up in Lancaster, up in Pennsylvania, went to a place, had some prime rib. It was phenomenal. I love prime rib. But you know that Bible verse about hope deferred? I'm expecting a rack sixteen ounces of ribs. And I get something I was not expecting. Now, you know as well as I, those of you who like prime rib. You know prime rib is it's better than some pork ribs. Prime rib is wonderful. It's often a little horseshoe on the side But my I was I was talking to my mom about this not long ago. She said she still remembers the severe look of disappointment on her little boy's face. And you've got to understand my dad thought I knew what I was getting. When I s just started when I was just picking at it and my dad's looking down at a twenty-seven dollar piece of meat that I'm not actually gonna eat, I can't tell you how ticked my dad was. Because in that moment, for me, the best wasn't good enough. It was the best thing on the menu. It was the most expensive thing on the menu. But the best wasn't good enough. Did you know that God is offering his best to each and every one of us? But there are so many things that we choose instead of God's best. We're going to look at just a few. We won't be long today. I'm going to ask you if you would, if you can tune your ears and tune your mind. I'd like you to look, go to Genesis chapter 3 for just a moment. Genesis chapter 3. We're going to look at maybe the original choice between the best, God's best, and the rest. Genesis chapter number 3. Look at there if you would. Find it in my Bible as well. Genesis chapter 3, verse number 1, the Bible says this Now the serpent was more subtle than any beast of the field, which the Lord God had made, and he said unto the women woman Yea hath God said, Ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden. And the woman said to the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees of the garden, but the fruit of the tree Which is in the midst of the garden, God hath said, Ye shall not eat of it, neither shall ye touch it, lest ye die. And you know what happens next, don't you? She commits what we call original sin. Each and every one of us, today and every day, have a choice between God's Best for sin. Now, I'm not going to make excuses for sin, but at the same time, I can at least understand it. The Bible, a promise of the Bible, we don't think of it as a promise oftentimes, but it is a promise. There is pleasure in sin For a season. Is there not? That's a promise. There is always. Why do we so? Because it's fun for a time. But sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death, does it not? Adam and Eve, they chose, instead of God's best, they chose Sin. Do you remember we won't turn up for sake of time? Remember in the book of Matthew, that rich young ruler that chose his silver, chose his goods, chose the things in his bank account over the best? How many times do we choose our wallet over God's best? It could be coming up in May. I don't know when you precisely do the faith promise commitments, Pastor. I would guess it's around that time. It might be that God has the best laid out for you financially, but you choose to downgrade because you know your budget better than God does, apparently. Can I tell you, friend, God always offers the best. But there's always, we're not automatons, we're not robots. We're not programmed in such a way that we have to do what God wants us to do. We have a choice between the best or sin, the best, or silver. How about the children of Israel in Numbers 13? Don't turn there for sake of time. Remember in numbers thirteen when they were consistently, well, it wasn't just numbers thirteen, but they were consistently doubting What God wanted them to do. They were always thinking, remember the leeks and the garlics and the cucumbers? They sounded like good Baptist people, always thinking about the food, right? Remember what it was like back in Egypt, how good it was? There's always a choice between the best or skepticism. I look in your bulletin, and I see what the Lord's led your pastor, led you folks to do with the nursery project and the office room model, and I see a big number there. But I'm so glad we have a big God that can take care of all that, aren't you? You know what we don't need now that there is a thick black line between faith and foolishness, and sometimes we jump on both sides of it But I'll tell you what, if we know this is the direction God has for Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, can I tell you, if it's his will, it's his bill. He's going to take care of what he wants to take care of, and he's going to take care of his people. Sin. Silver. Maybe skepticism. Remember King Saul Remember how he was given a choice to wait on God's man, Samuel, to come. And he chose out of self-will. Was Saul the king or was he the priest? Saul was the king, wasn't he? He stepped outside the bounds of his responsibility and into the priestly responsibilities and did something he should not have done. He had a choice between the best or self-will. You're in the book of Genesis there. Go to chapter number four for just a moment. Verse number two of chapter four, and she again, meaning Eve, bare his brother Abel and Abel was a keeper of the sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground, so Cain and Abel here, and in the process of time it came to pass that Cain brought of the fruit of the ground an offering unto the Lord, and Abel he also brought of the firstlings of his flock, and of the fat thereof. And the Lord had respect unto Abel unto his offering But unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect, and Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell And the Lord said unto Cain, Why art thou wroth, and why is thy countenance fallen? If thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted. Now pause here just a moment. We know because of what happened as a result of Eve and Adam's sin. It wasn't just Eve, but Adam and Eve's sin. There was a sacrifice, the very first sacrifice had to be made. A blood sacrifice, and they were clothed with the results, the remnants of that blood sacrifice. And so there was already a picture of what sacrifice was supposed to look like, but let's just act like It was not clear what kind of offering Cain was supposed to bring. Let's just assume he didn't know He brought, for lack of a better word, a substitute Now, understand this, friend, because this is where this is one that gets me oftentimes. I look at God's best and what He wants me to do, and I'll often offer up a substitute in my life. Say, hold up a moment. Cain, he was a tiller of the ground. He was a gardener. He was a farmer. If you've ever done any farming, that is hard work. Cain worked hard to produce what he brought. God didn't say he didn't have respect for it because Cain hadn't worked hard. We often work so hard to give something to God, but it's not what God asked for from us. Abel, his brother, I guarantee you Abel had an extra sheep, an extra lamb that he could have given to his brother. That he could have bought from him or whatever it may be to offer what God wanted. But Cain, instead of God's best, he chose to offer a substitute Now we're going to apply this to where you and I live in just a moment. We're going to apply it to what we call the Easter story, the resurrection, the crucifixion. But I'd like to ask you What is it that you're choosing instead of God's best? On one hand, we have a Savior On one hand, we have a sacrifice. On one hand, we have the creator God of the universe, and instead of choosing what he wants as his best for us, sometimes we choose sin. Sometimes we choose doubt and skepticism. Sometimes we just choose silver. Our pocketbook has too much of a hold over us. Well, let's look at one more here, if you would. I'd like you to turn there with me, if you don't mind. Go to 1 Kings 18. First Kings eighteen. It's the second to last scripture we go to. First Kings chapter eighteen. If you're familiar with this passage, you'll remember that a man named Elijah standing up on a mountain. And the people of God are standing all around observing this momentous occasion, this showdown between the false God Baal and Jehovah. The prophets of Baal jump around, cut themselves, trying to call down fire from heaven, and it's crickets, nothing. Then Elijah stands up. Chapter number 18. Look at verse number 20 And so Ahab sent unto all the children of Israel and gathered the prophets together unto Mount Carmel. And Elijah came unto all the people and said, How long halt ye between two opinions? If the Lord be God, follow him, but if Baal, then follow him. And the people answered him not a word. Now later on in Scripture, Elijah prays the 60-something word prayer, and fire comes down. Consumes a sacrifice. I'll be honest with you, this choice may be the most insidious and most dangerous of them all See, God's best or sin, I'm not going to excuse it, but at the same time I can understand. I can understand for myself. I can understand for you when we choose sin over God's best. Because it's fun. Because there's pleasure in it. I get it. We know the commandments, we know what we're not supposed to do, but yeah, we do it anyway. Doubt, skepticism, sure, happens to the best of us. Silver, yeah, love of money gets us sometimes. But this one right here, when God's people, these are God's people here, when instead of choosing God's best, they chose Silence. It's very dangerous when God's people choose silence. And here's why. We think We're making no choice. We think we're just gonna kick the can down the road. Did you know? That no choice is a choice. You see, this is not a good, better, best, opposing, worst. And bad. This is a binary choice. If you do any computer programming, you know about ones and zeros and all that type of stuff. It's either off or it's on It's yes or it's no. It's true or it's false. You ever do a true and a false test at school and you try to color in between the two? Or you make that T, you add a little flag on it, make it a T with a little F like thing right there. You s extend the T across it. And no, you never never cheat it like that at all, but try to make it ride the line between If you ever worked with electricity, you stick those pliers in there and you find out real quick whether it's off or it's on. There is no middle ground. I tell you, silence is an answer. And God offers his best to you and I. And yet we choose close our lips, close our hearts. And maybe we're saying go talk to someone else, or we're saying I'll talk to you next week or come back when I'm feeling more spiritual. But I'll tell you what, friend. God's best is always, very obviously, the best choice. Let's go to one more passage of Scripture, would you? Matthew chapter 26. We'll bring this home to where we are today here at Easter time, Matthew chapter 26, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. We've all had times when our best wasn't good enough. And our our best The best we offer God will never be good enough. We should just give him what he wants. I think back to when my dad, the military man that he was, always had to do PT in the morning and physical training and whatnot. I remember as a little boy We would be down on the coffee table. I have two younger brothers, Caleb and Ethan, and we'd get on one side and we'd all hold on to my dad. We'd try to arm wrestle my dad all at the same time. You ever had fun like that? And he's there playing with us, acting like we're pulling him over, and he's he's there, and then he'd just take us and throw us on the couch and win the match. Our best was not good enough. Can I tell you In an even bigger way, that's what it's like to wrestle with God. You're never gonna win. But I'll tell you what, we tucker ourselves out fighting with him, don't we? The best or you fill in the blank. Matthew chapter number twenty-six You can look at verse number three and four. I see Caiaphas here, and the high priest then assembled together the chief priests, the scribes, the elders of the people under the palace of the high priests, who was called Caiaphas, and consulted that they might take Jesus by subtlety and killed him. They chose this sin. I see in verse number 14 of chapter 26. Then one of the twelve called Judas Iscariot Went unto the chief priests and said unto them, What will ye give me? And I will deliver him unto you. And they covenanted with him for thirty pieces of silver Verse number 33. Remember, Peter, I feel like sometimes I identify with Peter more than any other Bible character, constantly shooting my mouth off, sticking my foot in my mouth, you know? Verse number 33, Peter answered and said unto him, Though all men shall be offended because of thee, yet will I never be offended. Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, that this night before the cock crow thou shalt deny me thrice. Peter said unto him, Though I should die with thee, yet will I not deny thee Sounds like a lot of self-will in Peter. Literally arguing, talking back to Jesus Christ. Remember Pilate, we won't look there, but in chapter 27, remember how he tried to offer a substitute to the people? You understand it was within Pilate's power. It would have been difficult, yes, the cultural thing and all that. But the right thing would have been to release the innocent man. Now, it was all part of God's plan. He even had his wife in his ear saying, Don't mess with this guy. Let him go. And to try to wash the blood off his hands. He said, Barabbas or Jesus. And remember the disciples? The tomb is empty. And in chapter twenty-eight, they meet the God who told them he'd rise again with skepticism. And then to put the icing on the cake, Jesus tells them, Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel. End of Matthew, end of Mark, what we call the Great Commission. What we try to live out through missions. He says this and he ascends. And you know what his followers do? Stand there in silence. My question for you is, what are you choosing over God's best? Maybe, Christian friend, you're here and you know Holy Spirit is Far better preacher than I'll ever be. He is more than capable. I don't need to list off a litany of sins for you to figure out which one's yours. We don't need a bingo card and the preacher just lists off all the things that Though that would be fun, stand up and say, bingo, he got he got me. But all seriousness, Christian friend, maybe this Easter Sunday morning You're choosing something. It doesn't matter what it is. I told you it's off or on. If you're choosing anything else than the best, get this. If there's only two choices And if you choose anything besides the best, you know what you are de facto choosing? The worst. And it'll seem great for a while until it's not. So, Christian friend, maybe you need to give up that which you are choosing instead of his best. Because I know the thoughts that he thinks towards you. Thoughts of peace, thoughts of hope give you an expected end. But maybe you're sitting here today. Whether or not it's been a long while since you stepped foot inside of a church, first time in a long time, maybe not. Maybe you've been here each and every Sunday. But maybe you've been choosing. Maybe it's pride. Maybe it's what will everyone think instead of getting your salvation settled I was preaching, not this message, nothing near this. I was at a church in New York and there was two young men, looked like you not quite like you guys, they were twins. Alright? I could not for the life of me remember their names. The reason I can't remember their names is because of their nicknames. They told me, they introduced themselves to me, and you'll understand, I couldn't remember the names. Their nicknames was red and yellow. They gave them, I don't know how, they gave themselves that name I didn't know you're allowed to just name yourself colors, but they did. I cannot for the life of me remember their names, but red and yellow. They were sitting right down here. Mom was sitting behind them. And they were zoned in the whole time and got to the close of the service, raised their hand. They didn't know they were on the way to heaven. I got to kneel down and a young man from the church came over to talked to them and they accepted Christ. But out of the corner of my eye, as I asked the question, God forbid something were to happen to you. I don't want anything to happen to you, but if it did And you don't know where you would go, would you raise your hand? And these two young men, they they raised their hand, red and yellow did, but out of the corner of my eye, on the back row of this side, a 70-year-old man raised his hand. He said, I've been going to church my entire life, living a lie and playing a game. In that day, his name was Bruce. He wasn't purple or green or anything like that. His name was Bruce. I can remember that. And he said this. In effect, I want to choose God's best. My question for you is on Easter Sunday, I can't think of a better time to get saved. But I can't think of a better time to come back into fellowship. If you're already saved, friend, the relationship is there. I'm asking you, how is your fellowship with him? What we're going to do is this, in just a moment, I'm going to ask you to bow not yet, I'm going to ask you to bow your head and close your eyes. But please, I don't want you to zone out. I want you to think about what's to come. I want you to for just a few moments think about this thought. What are you choosing over God's best? Every head bowed and every eye closed. In effect Caiaphas was standing before the God of all eternity, and he chose. Something besides God's best. Judas literally kissed heaven's door, we say, and went to hell. Because he chose silver over God's best. You can go down the list of all these. But friend, I ask you, in the silence of this moment before the piano starts to play, could I ask you? Don't choose silence over God's best. If you're here today and you know for sure God forbid you were to pass away. I hope that's not the case, but we're not promised tomorrow. If you're here and you know for sure I'm on my way to heaven Bible says in Psalm 107, let the redeemed of the Lord say so. If you're here and you're not ashamed of God, you know where you're going. Would you just by uplift hand raise your hand for just a moment and praise to God? Thank you so much. You can put your hands down. I appreciate that so much. Friend, it could have been good crowd today. Certainly, there might have been some behind someone. Maybe you didn't understand the question, or maybe you just did not raise your hand. I appreciate that. If you can't be honest in the house of God, I'm not sure where you can be. I'm not asking if you've made a false profession before. I'm not asking if you've been baptized. I'm not asking if your daddy's a deacon or your mom is a saint. I'm asking if you know for sure right now Where you go. If you're here and you don't know for sure, if you don't know for sure, if you're not sure, would you lift your hand for a moment so I can pray for you? Thank you, ma'am. I appreciate that. I appreciate that very much. Is there another that would say I don't know? Thank you, sir. Appreciate that. I'd ask you a friend. If you're here and you haven't raised your hand, I will not call you down, I won't call you out, I won't make you stand up. I just want to pray for you. These two, I appreciate so much your honesty. It's not an easy thing. But if you're here and you don't know Just one last opportunity. If you don't know for sure, would you raise your hand for just a moment so I can pray for you? Just a moment, we're going to do this. I'm going to pray. I'll turn it over to Brother Leatherman here in just a moment to conduct the invitation, but I would like to ask this question. If you're here, And you did raise your hand, or maybe you didn't raise your hand, but you should have. I told you I won't make you stand up, I won't embarrass you. But for just a moment, I'd like to speak to you. There is no better decision that you can make. There is nothing you could do now or into eternity. You could live a hundred years. And there'd be no better decision you could make than what is presented to you right now. So I'd like to ask this. I won't make you stand up right like that, but would you mind no one looking around? Would you be willing to just open your eyes and look at me for just a moment? Appreciate that. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Pass this. Just a moment. I'm going to pray. I'm going to turn over to Letman. I would love to, if you don't mind. There'll be a lot of folks coming, kneeling on an altar. I'd love to meet you just for a moment, just talk to you, if that's all right. No pressure whatsoever, but if you would, I'd love to show you from the Bible and maybe a man from the church for the Latherman can help with that. Thank you for that, man. I appreciate that. Now I'm going to pray. Brother Lebanon's going to come. But I'd ask you, Christian friend, do business with God, not because it's Easter. But because he's risen every day, because he lives inside of you. Father, we thank you for this morning. Thank you for Wonderful crowd, wonderful intention, but Lord, as we go forward, where we do something with what we've heard, not because I've said it Because your Bible does. May we choose your best over everything else. We ask all these things, your sons, and we pray. Pastor, you come.