Bibles to Genesis chapter four, if you would. Genesis chapter four. And let's let's start near the beginning, okay? So Genesis chapter four And verse 1, praise God for his blessing. Man, that's a stirring message we've just heard. And a good reminder. That was just solid. That's just solid stuff, man. And we need solid stuff. We need solid food. Saladness I mean sheep need sheep food. Sheep food is the Word of God. Amen. This is key. I want you to notice, beginning in verse 1, and Adam knew Eve his wife, and she conceived and bare Cain and said, I've gotten a man from the Lord. And she again bears brother Abel. And Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground. And in process of time it came to pass that Cain brought for or brought of the fruit of the ground an offering unto the Lord. And Abel he also brought of the first wing of his flock, and of the fat thereof, and the Lord had respect unto Abel unto his offering. But unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell. And the Lord said unto Cain, Why art thou wroth? And why is thy countenance fallen? If thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted? And if thou doest not well, sin lieth at the door, and unto thee shall be his desire. And thou shalt rule over him. Now I want you to notice the text in verse 6, when it says, And the Lord said unto Cain, Why art thou wroth? And why is thy countenance fallen? And I want to talk about when God asks why. Think about it. Let's pray. Father, we come to you in Jesus' name. And I pray, Heavenly Father, that you deal with our hearts today. Challenge us by your word. Thank you that you've already challenged us in your word. And God, I pray that decisions should be made that please you in our lives, and we'll praise you for it all. In Jesus' name we ask it. Amen. Why? Kids love to ask why, don't they? And sometimes, most of the time, they ask why because they want to learn. But there are times they ask why simply to irritate you. That's what kids do. Now we've got a lot of reasons to ask why. Just with our own language, we have a number of things we can ask why about. Like, for instance, why do people drive in the parkway and they park in the driveway? That doesn't make any sense to me. But we have a lot of things like that in English. Why do people play it a recital and recite at a play? Doesn't make a bit of sense. Why is it that when we transport something by car, we call it a shipment? But if we do it by ship, we call it cargo. Why is it that our noses run but our feet smell? It's just I never got a good answer to those questions. Why does that happen? Now, to me, one of the most amazing questions would be: why would God ever ask why? I tell you, although children may ask why, because they want to learn something they don't know, God never asks why to learn something he doesn't know because he knows everything. He's got a reason for every why, and usually the why is to get mankind to stop and think About what you're doing. Now we have a number of teenage boys in our academy, of course, and in our academy we also have elementary, but their answers are always the same. If they do something they shouldn't do. Why did you do that? Oh no. Well, you know why they did it. Why did you ask? I knew you knew the response you were going to get. I don't know. But you asked it to try to get them to think. And God asked mankind several times in the scripture why. As a matter of fact, as I got to thinking about that, just reading this one day, I decided to do a look through the scripture And I found several times where God asked why. Well then that took me over to the New Testament. There's several times Jesus asked people why And so I had the message when God asked why, and then I came up with the message when Jesus asked why. And then a third message, I've never come up with it. But it's when God, when Jesus asked God why. And of course that was on the cross. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? So someday maybe I'll finish the series Who knows? But I just want to talk about when God asks why. The first time that he does it is right here in chapter 4 of the book of Genesis So he asked why concerning the plan of God, because it gets down to God's plan here. In this passage, you understand that I believe that God had already taught them about the necessity of a blood sacrifice for sin. Now I believe he taught Adam and Eve that, of course, after they committed sin, the Garden of Eden He not only slew an animal to make coats of skin for them, but I believe then he taught them about the blood sacrifice And I believe that's plain because when God gets the gift from Cain and gets the gift from Abel, he doesn't receive Cain's sacrifice He doesn't receive it because he knew what he should have brought. Why art thou wroth? And why is thy countenance fallen? You knew better. And he very makes it very simple for him. If you do well, you'll be accepted. If not, sin lieth at the door. Cain wanted to bring his own sacrifice. He wanted to bring his sacrifice of the fruit of the ground. But God requires a blood sacrifice Hebrews chapter 9, verse 22, and almost all things are by the law purged with blood, and without the shedding of blood there is no remission Now, Abel, I doubt that he had to work near as hard as Cain had to work. All he had to do was just bring the blood sacrifice. That was it. But think of what Cain had to do. He had to plow the ground. He had to plant the seed. He had to keep a weeded. He had to do everything to have the right kind. uh uh at least a good crop in order to bring. But that's not the point. The point is this is God's plan. There are a lot of people get mad at the plan of God You tell them about their need for Christ and salvation. Some people think their religion's going to get them to heaven. Some people think their good work's going to get them to heaven. But the Bible says they that are in the flesh cannot please God. Romans chapter 8 and verse 8. Their good works are not going to get in heaven, but it seems right to them And they'll get angry at you for even suggesting that that good church member of another church that They're not going to heaven. Listen, there is only one plan that God has. There is only one gospel. And I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ For it is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. There are people that think that the law ought to take them to heaven. And that was a problem with the Jews They were trying to establish their own righteousness. Paul writes in Romans chapter 10, he says, brethren, my heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is that they might be saved. For I bear them record that they have a zeal of God, but not according to knowledge, that they being ignorant of God's righteousness, and going about to establish their own righteousness, have not submitted themselves to the righteousness of God. For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone that believeth. Hallelujah. That's God's plan. Salvation's wrapped up in Jesus Christ. It's Jesus who said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. You can't come to the Father by religion. You have to come to the Father through Jesus Christ It's not found in a building. It's not found in a church building. It's not found in a denomination. Salvation is only found in Jesus You know, when Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life, no man cometh unto the Father but by me. Man, that divides everybody right there. You're either saved or lost in what you've done with Jesus. Over in 1 John chapter 5, beginning in verse 11, this is the record that God hath given to us eternal life, and this life is in his Son. He that hath the Son hath life. He that hath not the Son of God hath life not life. John 3. 36, he that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life. He that believeth not the Son shall not see life. But the wrath of God abideth on him. John 3. 18, Jesus said, He that believeth on him is not condemned, but he that believeth not is condemned already Because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. It has nothing to do with how many sins you have on your tree. It has nothing to do with how many good works you have done. It has everything to do with do you have the Son? That's it. That's God's plan. There is no other plan but that. As a matter of fact, Paul writes in Galatians chapter 1, verses 8 and 9 He says, If we are an angel from heaven, preach any other gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed Now people want to say, You Baptists, you think you're the only ones going to heaven. No, that's a lie. I'm so narrow-minded I don't believe all the Baptists are going to heaven. I mean Jesus said except the man be born again he cannot see the kingdom of God. He didn't say except the man be a Baptist Baptists have got to be born again just like everybody else. And it's not the Baptist way, it's God's way. He's the one who set up the plan He's the one that settled it for us. And thank God I have life because I have the Son. So don't get mad at that. It's God's plan. Now, today people got all other all kinds of other things that they're wanting to trust and wanting to do, but He is the only way. People want to go to heaven by their own perceived goodness. But there's none good, no, not one. They that are in the flesh cannot please God, sure. The Bible's plain about that. People get mad though about God's plan. Every week, it seems, I get a call from somebody complaining because somebody from Madison Baptist Church knocked on their door and even suggested that they were going to hell when they died. Do you know if you died tonight, you go to heaven? Well, I've been baptized. That's not what we ask. Do you believe if you died tonight, you go to heaven? Are you doubting my salvation? I don't know. What are you trusting? Well, I've been a Baptist for 25 years. Well, then evidently you're not. If you trust in being a Baptist to go to heaven, you're still lost. You're trusting anything other than Jesus, you're still lost. You're trusting the law, you're still lost. What are you trusting? Well, let's see. I I I'm trusting the words that I prayed No. You must still be lost then. Are you trusting Jesus? Salvation's in him. Faith in him. Listen, I'm for praying. And I trusted Christ as Savior at a country western radio station in Otseague, Michigan, in the fall of 1971. I trusted Christ. I didn't trust the words that I prayed. As a matter of fact, I can't even remember the words that I prayed. It didn't matter the words that I prayed. I trusted Jesus. Isn't it interesting that no two people in the Bible prayed the same prayer? And some didn't pray at all. Jesus said to Matthew, Follow me. Matthew got up and followed him. How about that? That's an amazing thing. Now I'm for leading somebody in prayer, but I want them to know ahead of time your prayer is not going to save you. It's putting your trust in Jesus that saves you. Amen. See, it's God's plan. Why would a person get mad at God's plan? After all, he's the one that pr provided for the salvation by putting his son on the cross of Calvary, being buried and raised again the third day. That's God's plan. But now it started with Cain. Why art thou wroth? Why is thy countenance fallen? Dealing with the plan of God. But let's go over to the book of Judges, chapter 2. And we find another time when God asks the question, why? Judges chapter two We're still in the Old Testament. Let's see. Feel like my fingers are turning the pages slowly. We'll get there. Chapter 2, verse 2. And ye shall make no league with the inhabitants of this land. Ye shall throw down their alders, but ye have not obeyed my voice. Why have you done this? You look at all that God had done for Israel. He had defeated the most powerful nation on the planet. And Israel never had to fire a shot. God did all of it. And then he even drowned the Egyptian army in the sea. God did all of that. God got them out of Egypt. He had taken care of them. He finally brought them into the land. And they would have gotten there 40 years earlier if they just would have obeyed God. But they didn't. Finally he gets them in. He had told them ahead of time when they got into the land they were to destroy all the people of the land because their cup of iniquity was full And God made that plan. They were not to make any league with any people of the land. As a matter of fact, some of Joshua's last words to the children of Israel in chapter 24, he tells them to put away their false idols. Israel had taken some false idols. Put away your false idols and serve the Lord. And they said, We'll serve the Lord. He said, You can't serve the Lord. Put away your false idols and serve the Lord. They said, We'll serve the Lord. He said, You're witnesses against yourself. Put away your false idols and serve the Lord. We will serve the Lord. You get to chapter 2, chapter 1 of the book of Judges, and right away they started making leagues with the people. Nobody took out the folks of the land. Nobody. Here they are living among them. He told them that wasn't to take place. Because sure enough, and by the way, you go through the remainder of chapter 2. You find it was a constant pattern on the part of God's people. As long as they were not going to separate themselves from the people of the land, they were going to allow that That mess in their midst, they would continue to follow other gods. You know, when God provided the land, it wasn't that the land was so great It was a special land for them to live for God and serve God. That's what it was about. They ended up losing the land. Because they wouldn't obey God. So God had given them precepts here. They were to take out the people of the land, and this was to be their land where the God of heaven would be worshipped Completely. And boy, in Deuteronomy chapter 11, and again in chapter 28, he promised blessings and cursings. Blessings if they obeyed the Lord God, curses if they didn't obey the Lord God. They get in the land. God's given them the land. He gave them victories in the land. And they started out right at the beginning, not obeying him Oh, they went out and fought some battles, but then they quit. And they allowed the people of the land to stay there. And God says, why have you done this? Why have you done this? Here's what God told them to do. They didn't do it. He says, Why have you done that? You see, God's given us precepts. Believe it or not, there are things that we Christians are supposed to do. For instance, when you get saved, the first thing God commands you to do is to get baptized. Baptism is not for salvation, it's after salvation. Jesus told the disciples, Go ye therefore, and teach all nations Baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit or the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things, whatsoever I have commanded you. So he tells them, you go and you teach them how to be saved, and then baptize them. Matter of fact, you go over to Acts chapter 2, the day of Pentecost, and they that gladly received his word were Baptized. First they received the word of God. Then they were baptized. It's just like Jesus said to do it. You get over to chapter 10, and you find Peter winning the household of Cornelius to the Lord. And they were filled with the Holy Spirit of God. Peter looked around at the Jewish Christians that were with him, and he said, Can any man forbid water that these should not be baptized, which have received the Holy Ghost as well as we? And nobody could say anything against it. And so the Bible then says in verse 47, and he commanded them to be baptized in the name of the Lord. He didn't ask them to pray about it. He commanded them to be baptized. Why did he command them to be baptized? Because that's what Jesus had commanded them to do. That's why When you get saved, you ought to be baptized after you get saved. You say, but I'm afraid of the water. Hey, if you drown obeying God, I think he'll reward you in heaven for it. Now I know that can be a traumatic experience to get baptized, but sprinkling is not baptism. The only type of Bible baptism there is is being put under the water. Because it has to picture the death and the burial of Jesus Christ and his resurrection when you're brought up out of the water. Now you see it's the first thing he commanded to do. He said, Well I just don't see it as being that important if it doesn't save you. What Jesus said to do it, doesn't that make it important? Why would you not obey the precept of God? What about this matter of church attendance? Well, the Bible says, not forsaking the assembling of yourselves together as a matter of summits But exhorting one another so much the more pardon me so much the more as you see the day approaching, he says, we're not to take assembling together. Matter of fact, that very first time on the day of Pentecost After those people were baptized, the Bible says that they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship and breaking of bread and in prayers. How about that? Right at the very beginning. Here they are. They're meeting together. They're growing in the Lord. And according to Ephesians chapter 4, verses 11 through 16 He gave certain gifts to the church for the edifying of the body of Christ till we all come together in the unity of the faith. We're talking about the believers The emphasis in the scripture is not on a universal church. How in the world could you ever have church discipline in a universal church? How are you gonna who are you gonna report to? In the universal church, the emphasis in the scripture is on the local assembly of believers. It pictures the body of Christ. By the way, since it pictures the body of Christ, let's take this finger right here. Now this is kind of this is a wounded finger. It doesn't bend very far. I jammed it back up fifty years ago and never got it fixed. And that's it. And of course, I hit the pulpit quite often and I've done even more damage to it since then. But it's still connected, and I'm glad it's there. If you came up to cut it off, I'd fight you for that little finger right there. Alright? It doesn't do much. It can't do much. It's not able to do much. But it's my finger It's connected to the body. Do you know what gives it life? Do you know what makes it worth anything? The fact that it is connected to the body You can take that, you can cut that finger off, put it over there, say, what's that? I'd say, that's my finger Well, it was my finger. Well what's going to happen to it? It's going to shrivel up. That's what happens when a person's saved and they're not connected to a local church. They shrivel up. By the way, once it's sitting down here, that finger can't do anything. Anything. It's not worth anything. It's done. But connected to the body? Man, it helps me a lot. Helps me eat Helps me preach. Adds emphasis right there, see? But if it's not connected, wouldn't that be gross? Wouldn't that be gross to have your finger in a bottle you pick it out and use it to point at people? Wouldn't that be sick? I just thought of that. I'm just talking about why concerning the precepts of God. God has set up the local church. By the way, in Revelation, it was written to the seven churches of Asia Minor. And in chapter one, when you have that beautiful picture of Jesus Christ, he is in the midst of the seven candlesticks. In chapter one of verse twenty says, and the seven candlesticks are the seven churches, Jesus is in the midst of his church. It's Jesus who said where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst of them. Now we do live streaming like you do live streaming. I thought for years. I told people I'd never do live streaming And then COVID came. And we did it. It wasn't church, but it was as close as we could get without doing it. And so we did the live streaming. I still do the live streaming. Some people can't get out. But I want to tell you something, it's not church because we're not assembling in live streaming. And the church is an assembly. And assembly assembles, and if it doesn't assemble, then it's not an assembly. This is vitally important. One of the things we do at church is we're to exhort one another daily while it is called today. You can't exhort one another if you're all sitting in your own homes. I mean this is vital, man. This is just basic. It's church. Why? Concerning the precepts of God Now we could cover many other things. We'd cover soul winning. We've already heard a good message on that and dealing with that. But we have the command, go into all the world, preach the gospel to every creature. Man, that's our job to get out the gospel And yet very few, unfortunately only a small percentage of our believers ever go out and even pass out a gospel tract. Now, what's wrong with us? We've got a problem. I wonder if he doesn't look down. Why have you done that? Why aren't you going? I told you to go. It's the command. Let me give you a third thing as we hasten along. Why concerning the prohibitions of God? Go over to Jeremiah. Jeremiah chapter 8. There are five different things. We're on the third one already, so we are moving along well. Oh my. You know when that happens in our church I always know who it is because that person starts crying. And one guy one day he came in and uh he he he wasn't very faithful to church, so he had his phone in his pocket. And that thing went off. He jumped up, tried to get it out of his pocket. He ripped his pocket off his shirt. Well we enjoyed the show. All right, chapter eight, verse nineteen. He says Behold, the voice of the cry of the daughter of my people, because of them that dwell in a far country, is not the Lord in Zion, is not her king in her. Why have they provoked me to anger? And with their graven images, and with strange vanities. He says, why? These are the things that he had prohibited Israel to do, and they were doing them. So he says, why? This is why concerning prohibitions. Now, actually, there's two parts to this, because go over to chapter 30. They're going to end up suffering a lot of problems, including exile, because of that very thing. But notice verse fifteen of chapter thirty. He says, Why criest thou for thine affliction? Thy sorrow is incurable for the multitude of thine iniquity. Because thy sins were increased, I have done these things unto you. He's asking him two questions. Why here? He says, number one Why would you do what I told you not to do? Number one. Number two, why would you cry about the punishment you get because you disobeyed me when I told you that's what would happen Oh, woe is me. This is all happening to me. Well, why'd you disobey God? Why cry about it? When God's very clear in his word. God's got a lot of things he's told us not to do. And obviously we don't have time to preach on all those things But in Jeremiah chapter 8 and verse 12, he says, Were they ashamed when they had committed abomination? Nay, they were not at all ashamed, neither could they blush. Therefore they shall fall among them that fall. At the time that I shall visit them, they shall be cast down, saith the Lord. It says the same thing in Jeremiah chapter 6 and verse 15 These people were committing abomination and they couldn't even blush at the abomination. It's absolutely amazing to me that God says about nakedness And unfortunately, there are an awful lot of church get-togethers where people are running around in nakedness. I mean, God talks about modesty and uh he's pretty serious about it. God says an awful lot of things that we just don't think are that important today because the rest of the world does it But I got news for you. Culture never trumps Bible. The Bible always trumps culture. You see, when God writes to the Corinthians, and he gets after the Corinthians, for instance, about this matter of long hair and short hair in 1 Corinthians chapter 11 It is a spiritual matter, number one, not a cultural matter. He's dealing with that. He sets the principle down. He says, For the head of every man is Christ, the head of the woman is the man, and the head of Christ is God. And then because of that, that very basis, here's this, this is the basic principle. Therefore, when you pray, the man is to have his head covered. If he doesn't have his head covered, he dishonors his head, and he had just said that the man's head is Christ. I believe that to dishonor Christ is a serious matter. So the man's head is not to be covered. The woman, when she prays, her head is to be covered. He tells us down in verse 14 that if a woman have long hair, it is a glory to her, for her hair is given her for a what? Covering so that when she prays, her head is covered. But what if she's had cancer and her hair she doesn't have any hair anymore? Then she needs to put something on her head when she prays That's not necessarily in the congregation. That's when she prays. He even says in the passage, because of the angels Now I'm not sure how that affects the angels, but he says it does, and I believe all the scripture. Therefore, for instance, we've got some uh African ladies in our church Uh they need to wear something on their head when they pray. Whether it's at home or someplace else. Their hair is not very long, doesn't cover their head, therefore they put something on their head You remember when women used to wear hats to church all the time? That was the reason. It was from that passage. That was the reason. They did it because they wanted to glorify God. And then some places they'll wear, I don't know another term for it, they'll wear a doily type thing on their head. Okay. Why are they doing it? For a covering Because of the angels to obey God. God gives 16 verses in that passage. 16 verses. An entire passage to explain why. And it even goes all the way back to creation. We said, well, I don't see that as being very important. It's not up to you, it's up to God. Why on earth would you argue with his prohibitions? God said, don't do this or do this. Well, then just do it. Because God said so. Boy, now you know that's one of those places where I could park for just an awful long time. Um But we we want to decide what part of God's Word is important But all of his word is important. His word is quick and powerful and sharper than a two-edged sword. Piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit and of joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. My last verse is Psalm 119, 128. Therefore I esteem all thy precepts concerning all things to be right, and I hate every false way. Not some false ways. Every false way. God gives us a definition of sin in 1 John 3 and verse 4. He said, Whoso committeth sin transgresseth also the law, for sin is The transgression of the law. That was one of the last books of the New Testament to be written. He gives the New Testament church his definition for sin. It's the transgression of God's law. It's what he says. But we want to disobey God and think, well, I'm a good Christian. I love the Lord. I pray. I read my Bible. Well then let's obey it. You see, I I I believe that my King James Bible is the inspired and errant word of the living God He inspired it, he's preserved it for us. I I don't just believe the parts that I like, I believe the parts that really rub me. I believe it all. I believe he wrote the book for us to understand it. By the way, it's not those things we don't understand that trouble us. It's the things that we understand and we just don't want to obey. So he asked, why concerning his plan, why concerning his precepts, why concerning his prohibitions? How about this one? Why concerning the perception of God? Go over to Isaiah chapter 40. Isaiah chapter 40. I'll cover this quickly. Isaiah chapter 40 and verse, let's see, verse 27. Isaiah 14, verse 27, Why sayest thou, O Jacob, and speakest, O Israel, my way is hid from the Lord, and my judgment is passed over from my God. You know, man's always kind of had this idea that God doesn't see everything. He said, Israel, hey, my people who know me, why is it you would think that I don't see that? I mean, why is it there are Christians that think that they can get up at 2 o'clock in the morning and get on pornography on the internet and God doesn't see them? And God says, be sure your sin will find you out. God knows you don't hide anything from Him. They go off to another city. And they get around people they shouldn't be getting around to they get off to another city and go to a bar and do some drinking. And then God doesn't see me in this city. Hey, he's not blind Psalm 139, O Lord, Thou hast searched me and known me. Thou knowest my downsending and my uprising. Thou understandeth my thought afar off. Thou compassest my path and my lying down. And art acquainted with all my ways. There's not a word in my tongue, but thou, O Lord, knowest it altogether. Thou hast beset me behind and before And hast laid thine hand upon me. Such knowledge is too wonderful for me. It is high, I cannot attain unto it. Whither shall I go from thy spirit, and whither shall I flee from thy presence If I ascend up into heaven, thou art there, and if I make my bed in hell, behold, thou art there. If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost part of the sea Even there shall thy hand lead me and thy right hand hold me. If I say, Surely, the darkness shall cover me. Even the night shall be light about me. The darkness hideth not From the God sees you. He sees you in your home when the pastor doesn't see you. He hears the words that are spoken in your home to one another Do you understand? God knows all. Here we're God's people thinking, hey, all right, we're about to get carried off into captivity. God doesn't see, it's got to be somebody else. God doesn't see the fights we have at home. God doesn't see how uh how I treat other people. There's certain things God doesn't know Yes, He knows all of it He gets it all. Several years ago, when I was living in Chattanooga, Tennessee, going to Bible college, I was stopping at a gas station And I filling up my car, and suddenly I heard, run, run, run. Well, that caused me to look up. So I looked up and over at the stoplight, there were these two young fellows in cars And you can see them. They're looking at one another. They're looking at the light, looking at one another, they're revving their engines. Well I looked down the road just about a half a block and there was an alleyway, and parked in that alleyway was a Chattanooga policeman. And I'm thinking this guy has got to be enjoying himself right now. And he he's sitting there waiting. And I I'm watching And look at the policeman, then I look at them. Huron! The light changes. The man they take off down the road. Policeman pulls his car out, light on. Now they knew that was wrong, but they didn't think anybody of authority saw it I guarantee you they wouldn't have done that if they'd known that cop was there. Listen, my friend, God's always there. God's always there. There are a whole lot of Christians, preachers, deacons, Sunday school teachers have lost their families. Have lost their ministries, have lost the power of God, thinking somehow, because it's my house, it's my life, it's my TV, it's my internet, God's not going to see. God cease! A why concerning the perception of God. Let me give you one last thing, and that's a why concerning the proposition of God. Turn over to Ezekiel chapter 38. Ezekiel chapter thirty-eight. Our God is mighty, He is powerful When he said start acting like he is who he says he is. He's definitely not the god of shack By the way, he's not the God of the chosen either, that chosen garbage that's been on TV. That's been put out by the Mormon church, who have a different Jesus. They have a different God. You better be careful. There are an awful lot in there that is not Bible, and some of it that is is perverted Bible. And it's amazing how many Baptists are swallowing that stuff up. You've got to be more discerning than that. Notice in Ezekiel chapter 18, the devil's slick, isn't he? 18, 1831. It says, Cast away from you all your transgressors, whereby ye have transgressed, and make you a new heart and a new spirit. For why will ye die? O house of Israel, go over to chapter 33. Notice he says, why will ye die? You get over to Ezekiel chapter 33 and verse 11. And here he says, Say unto them, as I live, saith the Lord God, I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked. But that the wicked turn from his way and live. Turn ye, turn ye from your evil ways. For why will ye die? O house of Israel, why will you die? God would say to the lost person, why will you die in your sin? Why die and go to hell when you can have heaven? God delights not in the death of the wicked. He wants them to be saved. He's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. But we could turn that over to the saved as well. Why would you die in your sin when you can get right with God I mean, thank God. He's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. You see, here's the thing: we've got to be willing to confess our sin for exactly what God says it is. The Bible says he that covereth the sin shall not prosper, but whoso confesseth and forsaketh it shall have mercy Wow. So when he says in 1 John 1. 9, if we confess our sins, he's faithful and just that confess. By the way, a little Greek language here is That word confess is homo logeo, and homo means the same. Logato means to speak. We need to say the same thing about our sin that God says about it I believe the reason that David got the forgiveness that he got was he said when he was confronted with his sin, I have sinned, and then he wrote his uh Psalm 51, which is a confession about his sin. He calls it exactly what God called it. And he didn't blame Bathsheba. He didn't blame the pressures of being king He called it my sin, my iniquity, my transgression, my wickedness. He called it what God called it. Too many Baptists treat 1 John 1 line like the Catholics treat their confessional booth. I'll go in and I'll say it because I'm planning on doing the same thing again next week And brother, there's no forgiveness in that. God says, why? Why would you suffer? Why would you get the chastening hand of God upon you? You know, if you're under the chastisement of God, the way you end that is by getting right. But don't please don't misunderstand. When you get the chastisement of God and you get right with God, the chastisement ends, but the reaping is still going to come. And what happens with some Christians, they think, okay, I'll confess it to God, I'll get it out. They confess it and they're really broken about it. And then three weeks later, four weeks later, six months later The reaping begins to take place. I don't understand. I confess to why is this happening? Because reaping and chastisement are two totally different things. You commit the sin. Believe me, whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. The reaping's going to come. All you're stopping is the chastisement by getting right with God. But thank God he does forgive. And he will be with you, and he will help you be the testimony you ought to be for his glory. But turn To him. If there's somebody here that's lost, turn to Jesus today and get eternal life. It's found in Christ for every saved person. If your life's not right with God, why would you stay that way? When thank God He's not just the God of the first chance, He's a God of the second chance, and the third chance, and the fourth chance. Thank God He's a merciful God. Our loving God is so powerful. Turn back to him and let God do something with your life. Yeah, when God asks people why, it's not because he's needing to learn something he doesn't know. It's because he's trying to get a message to his people to get back right with him. Father, we come to you in Jesus' name. Burn this lesson, I pray, into our hearts. And God bless the message to follow, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen.