Dan was a single guy, lived at home with his parents, and worked in the family business. One day the sad news came that his father was sick and only had a year to live. And so as the family was dealing with that and uh making arrangements. Father decided to call his son in. Called Dan in. He said, Dan, I only have a year to live. Um actually just lived with his father. He said, I only have a year to live. Um And I want you to know you are the sole heir of all my fortune. He says, when I die, you will inherit $200 million. I put it all up. It's a Well Dan thought about that and he s thought I'm a single fella. I oughta have somebody to share my life with this good fortune with. I don't want to just all spend two million hundred million dollars on myself. So I want to find a wife I can share this uh exciting life with. So he's at a meeting. Several A little bit of time went by. He's at a meeting, and he sees the most beautiful woman he had ever seen in his life. She just captivated him. The meeting goes on, finally works up enough courage, and he approaches her and he says this. He goes, I look like just an ordinary guy. He's an honor of the world's greatest personality. He said, but in about a year's time my father's going to die, and I am going to inherit $200 million. Well, of course the woman was impressed And she said, uh, could I have your business card? And he said, certainly. So he gave her his business card, and um three days later she became his stepmother. And um You can waves as people get it, you know, it goes on. And the moral, the lesson from that story is women are better financial planners than men are So if you're going to inherit $200 million and you're a single man, be very, very careful. Genesis chapter 22, verse 1 and 2, again, as we read a few moments ago The Bible says that it came to pass after these things that God did tempt Abraham and said unto him, Abraham, and he, Abraham, said, Behold, here I am. And he, God, said, Now listen to this: take now thy son, thine only son, Isaac, whom thou lovest, And get thee into the land of Moriah, and offer him there for a burnt offering upon the one of the mountains, which I will tell thee of. Take your son, the son whom you love. Of course, he had a son by Hagar and Ishmael, and he just lost him for all practical purposes. So Isaac was really his only son. Abraham loved him dearly. And God says, I want you to take your son, kill him, and burn him on an altar as a sacrifice to me. I want to speak this morning on the subject when God asks for too much. When God asks for too much, let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask now that you would bless our study of your word. We're grateful for the lessons, the warnings, the promises, the truths you give us in Scripture. And I pray now, as we look at this, unusual event that um there would be some lessons we could apply to our lives. I yield myself to you Lord I know in my mind in my ability In and of myself, I have nothing to offer anybody of spiritual, eternal values. God, I acknowledge that. And so I yield my will to your will, Lord. I present my body anew, and I ask that you would take me and speak through me the truths from this scripture. Open up our hearts and minds. Lord, help us to have faith in you And trust you when you ask of us sometimes that which seems too much. Have your way, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. As a pastor of a church, I'm sure Brother Hummel could uh testify to this, pastored for many, many years. Sometimes you're asked we are I should say this, I am often asked to do many things for other people. And that's fine. And the fact of the matter is, a major aspect of the Christian life, not just for a pastor, but for all Christians, is to help others Major aspect of Christianity as being a Christian is uh to be a blessing to others And let me just throw a word of caution out here. We need to be very, very careful that we don't get the self-centered mindset that we're always worried about whether somebody's a blessing to us. But rather we ought to be focused on whether I can be a blessing and a help to others. And so as a Christian, all of us are to some degree, particularly as a pastor, I am often asked to do things for others. Most of the things that people ask of me are very simple, very basic. I'm glad to do. They're not difficult to do. Other requests are a little more challenging. And um uh but I'm glad to do them and we work at it and try and make it happen. Still other requests are downright bizarre. And I could give you some uh I could take an hour and give stories of things, particularly in relation to funerals and weddings. where people have asked things that were just very, very strange. And if you give me a dollar, I'll tell you some of them afterward. Um just bizarre Some of them done, some of them I didn't do. Then some requests would fall in the category of you're just asking too much. You're asking too much of me. Now, there would be several reasons why a request that someone gives would be too much. For one reason, I may not be able to do it. And over the years people have asked different things. I just I'm not able to do that. It's not physically possible. I'm not able to to do that for you. And we regret that. Sometimes people ask uh for things or ask me to do things that are outside my uh perimeter of principles In other words, it would it would violate a conviction that I have if I would do this for them. I would have to compromise a principle that I've put into my life that I believe is based on scripture. And so they asked me to do something. I say, no, you're asking me too much. You're asking me to step outside of that which I believe God would allow me to do And by the way, all of us, not just the pastor, all of us ought to have script scriptural principles in our lives, scriptural convictions or standards, whatever term we want to use, we ought to have some scriptural principles that uh that uh we must live by and we refuse to compromise. Now whether you've been a Christian for uh just a few days or many decades We need to establish biblical convictions, biblical principles. They say this is what the Bible teaches. I should not do this, I am to do this, and we need to operate within them. And so sometimes And I'm sure this happens to Christians also. Somebody will say, Could you do this for me? But it would violate something God, a principle God has given me. And I say, No, that's too much. I can't do that And then sometimes people ask us me and us to do things that, though we may be able to, we are unwilling to for various reasons. Just to illustrate that uh comes to mind is uh a number of years ago I had a uh fellow call me couple actually and they've never attended our church but I knew them through doing different things for them over the years and whatnot. Never actually been to our church, I don't believe. But um they said, Pastor, we would like to have a new house. And we were asked the church if you guys could buy us a new house. And while I chewed on that for a little bit I was on the phone. Before I could respond, they said we need one with two bedrooms and we'd also like to have a little garage or barn out back where we can keep our lawnmowers and equipment and yard equipment. Would the church do that for us? Now we probably could have got some loans and bought them that house for them. But I wasn't willing to do that. And all God's people said, Amen. People don't give their tithes and offerings to church. We're not here to operate as a reality company. And so you have various requests that people ask. Some are very simple, easy to do. Others a little more challenging. Some are unusual. And some are just too much. I can't or will not do that. It's too much. In many ways, Abraham is an example, or you could say a pattern, of God's dealings with believers. We can look at the life of Abraham and how God worked in his life and some of the things God did and some of the things God did not do. And we can learn from that. We can take those, that pattern we see in Abraham's life, and we can learn in our own lives, many ways, how God deals with us. In fact, the Bible teaches that this is so. In Romans 15, 4, the Bible says this: For whatsoever things were written aforetime were written for our learning. That we through patience and comfort of the scriptures might have hope. So God in the New Testament, Book of Romans, is telling us that the These events in the Old Testament were recorded down so that we can learn from them. So we can find comfort as we go through life and we face different issues and situations and God's working in our lives. We can look back into these Old Testament saints and say, Alright, I see how God worked there. I see how it turned out. I see what and I can apply that to my life. I find comfort. I find hope 1 Corinthians 10 verse 11 says this. Now all these things happen, speaking to the Old Testament events, all these things happen unto them for ensembles. They are written, listen to this, they are written for our admonition. Now, the word admonition there means building up, our growth, our development. And so we look back into the Old Testament and we see men like Abraham. We see how God worked in their life. We see how they responded. In positive ways, and what the results were, we see how they responded in negative ways, and we see what the results were, and we learn from that And we take that and implement it into our lives, and we grow. And our faith gets stronger, and our walk with God gets sweeter, and our influence in the world. Becomes more powerful, more effective. So as we look at Abraham here in Genesis chapter 22, this where God is asking him to sacrifice his son. It's not just a dramatic Bible story to tell little kids, but this is an actual event. God recorded this event by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit so that you and I today on January 31st, 2010. Can grow in our faith. We can develop our faith. We can become stronger by understanding a little bit more what God is like and how He operates. And so we have the story of Abraham being called of God, being asked of God to sacrifice his son as a burnt offering. Now to any reasonable person, to any reasonable person God's instructions here to Abraham to offer up his son as a sacrifice to any reasonable person that would be asking too much. To ask me to kill my son and burn him, God And to be honest with you, on the surface it appears that way. This is over the top. Sometimes God asks us to do things that seem too hard. Can I get a witness? Sometimes God asks us to do things. We say, you know, that's too hard. God, I don't believe that I can do what you are asking me to do. Sometimes God asks us to give things that seems like He's asking us to give too much. Sometimes God instructs us to go places that seems like they're too far. God, that's too far away to go. God, that's too much that you're asking me to give. That is too hard what you're asking me to do. On the surface, some things that God requires of us sometimes seem like it's too much. But As we learn to trust God, as we begin to understand God's wisdom We soon learn that he is constantly working for our good and for his glory. And so when God asked of you and I, things that to our mind, things that on the surface appear over the top, far too much, this is too hard, God. As we get to know God and we understand His goodness and His wisdom, we begin to realize that which God asks of us is actually for our good. And ultimately we'll bring glory to him. Now, if you have a pen and pencil, I want to give you some thoughts here. I think some lessons we can draw from this experience here, and we're not going to be able to develop the whole story. Mm-hmm the majority of us know the story and the outcome here, and if not, you can read this this afternoon. I think it'd be a real blessing to you. But I want to give you a few things to jot down that I believe will be helpful to you that we can extract From this event and apply them to our lives. Number one, first thing I notice here is number one, God is active in our lives. God is active. Actually, write it down this way. Put it down this way. God is active in my life. Now, whether you and I recognize it or not is irrelevant. The fact of the matter is, God is working in your life. God is working in my life. God is active. And so many times we fail to see this truth. That the events that are taking place, the opportunities that present themselves, the obstacles I come up against, the demands that are made of me Are often simply the outward manifestations of something God is trying to do in my heart and behind my life. God is active in our lives. We go out soul winning on a weekly basis, and I urge you to get involved in this. And by the way, just a um a real rebuke to me uh yesterday was um uh I mean it was pouring down snow, it was slighting everything, and uh one of the local cults was out knocking on doors, walking down through the street here, snow pouring down knocking on doors. I thought, man, if nothing else, they're persistent. And so we get out and we try and knock on doors and go soul winning on a weekly basis. And as I have opportunity to speak with people and share the gospel to them. I will occasion and often I should say ask something like this, as I'm going through the plan of salvation with them, I ask something like this. Has God been working in your life lately or has anything been happening in your life lately that has caused you to think about God or to think about eternity, or to think about uh your responsibility uh to your creator. And I'll ask him something along those lines. And it's amazing Almost without fail, they'll say something like this, you know, there have been some things happening lately that made me think about that. There have been. I had a an uncle pass away, or I had this happen, or that happened, or I almost had a wreck, and you know, it really made me think You know what that is? That's God active in people's lives. That's God moving and working. And the fact of the matter is, it's true for all of us, whether we recognize it or not. God is moving. God is working. God has a plan for my life from here on out And God has a plan for your life. A very specific, a good plan for our lives. And He is working to accomplish that. Now we need to cooperate with Him. But the fact is, he's active in our lives. And this is really a wondrous truth: that God Almighty, the creator of heaven and earth. Is not just aware of me, but he is active in my life. He is actually moving and working Directly with and on and through me, God Psalms chapter 8. Keep your place here if you would, but I'd like you to come over there. It's a tremendous passage of scripture in Psalms chapter 8. And there's a number of other scriptures very similar to this that we can go to. And verse number three and four David puts it this way: Psalms eight and verse three. When I consider thy heavens And the interesting thing is that word consider there means give attention to, to look intently at. When I consider the heavens, did anybody notice the moon out last night? That thing was gigantic. The largest moon of the year, I think, is what it's called. And um it's in its orbit. It's the closest to the Earth that it'll be until the next year, I guess. But David said, when I look up at the stars, when I look at creation and the immensity of this place, the complexity of it, the power and wisdom. Behind the one that created this. When I consider the heavens, the work of thy fingers. The moon and the stars which thou hast ordained. Look at his response. What is man? That thou art mindful of him. And the Son of Man that thou visitest him. That word mindful there has the idea of keeping me, keeping in your thoughts David said, I look at the immensity of this place, the complexity of creation, the the uh the awesomeness of what you have made. And I, what am I that you would even have me in your thoughts at all? That thou visitest him. The word visitest there means be involved in. God, you are so great, you are so immense, you are so holy, you are so good, you are so powerful. What in the world am I that you would be involved in my life? It's an amazing thing. That God is active in your life, in my life. You as a young person, senior citizens God is mindful of us. He visits us. He's active in our lives, bringing things together, trying to lead us and direct us. God is working. God is testing us. He is molding us through life's trials. Fact of the matter is, we're precious to him, and thus he works in our lives. The goldsmith. The higher quality metal that the goldsmith comes along, the higher quality is, the more valuable that piece of gold is. the more attention he gives to it. He puts it through repeated refinings He puts it through the hottest fire. If he comes across some what's fool's gold how many people are familiar with fool's gold? Anyway what I'm talking about? It's not real. It just looks like gold, but it's not really gold. He just discards that. He has no intention attention, gives no attention to it He's not involved with it at all. It goes through no processes because it's of little or no value. But when he gets a piece of genuine gold of high quality, Brother, he puts it in the fire and burns the draw salt and he takes it out and he puts it back in again and he melts it down and he s uh cleans it and purges it and refines it and melts it and hardens it and melts it. And the more valuable the gold is to the goldsmith, the more attention, the more fires, the more purgings it goes through. The fact is, you and I are very precious to God. And therefore we have his attention. And he works in our lives and he tries us and he tests us and he proves us. And he puts us through the refining fire, sometimes once, sometimes twice, some over and over and over. Because we're of great value to him. We're of great potential. For his glory. God loved Abraham dearly. Thus, he worked deeply in his life. God cut to Abraham's heart. God loves you and I, and thus He works deeply in our lives. And so, as ridiculous as this sounds. And as impossible as this seems, God says we are to rejoice in the trials that He brings into our lives Rejoice in the difficulties that he allows in us. James puts it this way, my brethren, count it all joy. When you fall into diverse temptations, knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh patience. But let patience have its perfect work that you may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing. You say, preacher God wants me to rejoice in this heartache, in this disappointment, in this failure. You don't know how badly I've been hurt. God is asking too much. God's not asking too much. God is doing a great work in your life. God's trying to accomplish something. God, you want me to give this up? God, you want me to walk away from that? You want me to do what? God says, rejoice it. When you fall into direst temptations, knowing this, the trying of your faith worketh patience. So God is, number one, God is active in our lives. Or God is active in my life. I'm talking to people now. God is working in your life right now. Some of y'all are sitting there and in your mind you're saying boy he sure is. You know he is God's convicting you about some areas of her life that God's saying you need to change this. God's saying, hey, I need you to get involved in this. I want this. God is making demands of you. In your mind, you're saying this is too much I'm not willing to give that up. I'm not willing to get involved in this. I'm not willing to step out in that. I'm not willing to walk away from that But what it is is Almighty God and His goodness and wisdom is molding and working and active in your life. Number two, write this down. God not only is active in our lives, but God authenticates our faith. Now I'll explain what I mean by that God authenticates our faith. Come back to Genesis 22. I hope you kept their place there. But it says in verse number one in Genesis 22, it came to pass after these things That God did, what's that next word? Tempt. God did tempt Abraham. Now that throws some people. I say, what do you mean God tempted him? Well, the word tempt in the Bible, and if you get your concordance out and you read your Bible doing a little bit of studying, it's pretty, it becomes pretty clear. The word tempt in the Bible has three usages. It's used three different ways. One is, and the one we're most familiar with, when somebody or some something tempts us, It is, and here's the big definition for it, a solicitation to do evil. In other words The the word is used sometimes, and I this is the one we're all familiar with, is a temptation to do something wrong. I'm being enticed. To do something that God forbids. Or I'm being enticed to not do something that God asks of me So that's one usage for the word tempt in the Bible. A second usage for the word tempt in the Bible, and this goes to uh James, I made reference to a moment ago, and that is to face a hardship or to go through some type of trial. For instance, um if somebody is diagnosed with cancer That could be used the biblical term temptation. That's a uh they're being tempted, they're going through that trial, that difficulty, they're going through that temptation. Now we don't use that term in that in that context too much, but it's a biblical usage of the word tempt. They're going through a hardship. The third usage for the word tempt in the Bible is to face a test. is to be proven, to have to prove something, or to be tried And that is the word being used here. That's how it's being used here. God is not soliciting Abraham to do something wrong. God does not tempt man to do wrong. God tempth no man, neither is he tempted to do evil. Abraham is not Facing a disease or having something put upon him that he has no control over. This is not something he has no choice in Abraham, hey, get this. Abraham could have said no. Right? He could have said no. This is not a hardship that's being placed on that he has no option in. Somebody's diagnosed with tuberculosis or something. Uh the people down in Haiti face the earthquake and a building collapse on. They can't, they have no option in that. They can't say, no, I'm not, I'm not willing to go through this. So that's that's not what's in place. This is a this is a test that Abraham's being given. He could say no. God is bringing Abraham to a crossroad, and God is testing Abraham To determine the strength of Abraham's faith. God is determining the depth of Abraham's trust in God. God says, Abraham, I want you to sacrifice your only son, whom you love, and burn him on the altar. What are you going to do? Are you going to trust me or not? This is too much, you say, but are you going to obey me? Even though it makes no sense, even though it's over the top, will you still obey me? The truth is God knew exactly what Abraham would do was going to do before he ever tested them. Right? God knew the character of Abraham's faith. God wasn't trying to learn something about Abraham through this. He already knew. The end from the beginning. God knew the integrity of Abraham's faith. And by the way, you and I can't fool God. We can put on the show all we want, but God knows the integrity of our faith. God knows the character of our heart. God was not ignorant of anything about Abraham. This wasn't a learning experience for God. This was for Abraham. This was not for God's benefit, but rather for Abraham and our benefit You see, if we had time, we could go back to the number of previous chapters, and Abraham had been through a series of failures. Abraham had had a number of experiences where rather than trusting and obeying God, he leaned on his own understanding. And he took the situation into his own hands and he listened to others other than God. And boy, he got burned. And by the way, every time we don't obey God, we will get burnt. Amen? Eventually. You can say, God, I don't think you know what you're talking about. I know better in my situation what I should and should not do. I'm really not interested in what you have to say, God. I'm going to go ahead and do my thing. And without fail, without fail It will come back to burn you and me. Be not deceived. God is not mocked. So Abraham had been through a series of failures. He had taken things into his own hands. He did things the way he wanted, and the consequences were horrendous. And even today, the world suffers the consequences for some of Abraham's disobedience. God wanted Abraham to know That he could trust God even in the most unreasonable demands that God was making. He God wanted Abraham to see what Abraham was made of. Abraham, you failed. And you fail, and you fail. Now I'm asking you something that is absolutely unreasonable. I am asking Too much of you now, Abraham. Now here's your opportunity. I want to authenticate your faith. I want you to see that you can trust me, even in the most impossible situations. God was authenticating Abraham's faith. He was saying, listen, it needs to be for real. Prove it. Number three, God He's active in our lives. Number two, He authenticates our faith. Number three, I notice here that God activates our faith. What do you mean by that? What I mean is this. God wants our faith to be more than just words, He wants it to be action. God did not settle for a mere verbal expression of Abraham's faith. Here's what didn't happen. Are you all with me? Everybody with me? Here's what didn't happen. God didn't come to Abraham and say, Abraham, if I would ask you To take your son and kill him and burn him on an altar as a sacrifice to me. If I would ask that of you, would you do it? That's not what happened. You know why? Because Abraham could very easily have said, Oh yeah. Sure, I'd do it in a heartbeat. And you know what that would have meant? Nothing. It's funny. Preacher, you know, if I won that million dollar lottery, I'd give 10%. To the Lord. Great, but you're not giving ten percent of what you do have. Come on now, somebody say amen or o me. If this was true, oh I'd do that. Sure, if that was I'd do that, it's amazing how strong our faith is when all it requires is verbal assent. God's not satisfied with a mere verbal expression of your faith. He wants to see it in action. Let me read to you quickly from James chapter 2 again. And uh some of you are familiar with this and some people struggle with this. Let me say right up front, in James chapter 2 Verse 14, this is not the plan of salvation being given. This is God saying, This is how you express your faith, not just in words, but in your life. Listen to James chapter 2. I'm going to begin reading in verse 14. I hope you're still with me. By the way, this is pretty good stuff, I think. This is helping me. Verse 14, what doth it profit, my brethren, James chapter 2, though a man say he hath faith? And have not works. Can faith save him? If a brother or sister is naked and destitute of daily food, and one of you say unto them, Depart in peace, be ye warmed and filled, notwithstanding ye give them not those things which are needful to the body. What does it profit? What good does it do them? Even so Faith, if it has not works, is dead. If all your faith is, is just you saying words, it's dead. Yea, if a man say, Thou hast faith, and I have worked, show me thy faith without thy works, and I will show thee my faith by my works. Thou believest there is one God, thou doest well. Devils believe and tremble. God wasn't just asking Abraham what he would do in a hypothetical situation. God was saying, I want you to do it. Oh yeah. God called me to Australia. I'd go if he did. And the next missions conference on the door of the heart. Huh? Well, I don't know about that. That says, I don't want to hear you just tell me what you would do, Abraham. I want your faith to be active I want you to actually step out. If you would do that, then step out, take your son, and be active in what you say you believe. Activate that which you say you believe. You know who was notorious for being quick to speak and then not act on it? Peter The Lord says at the Lord's Supper, one of you is going to deny me. Actually, before. Peter says, The whole world denies you. I ain't denying you. Guess who was the one that denied him about the worst besides Judas? Peter You know, sometimes, you know, you know, you know where we express a lot of faith but don't show a whole lot is when we're singing hymns. Did you ever pay attention to what you're saying when you're sing I probably just killed our congregational singing right there All to Jesus I surrender. All? God doesn't want to just hear us say, all to Jesus I surrender. What does he want us to do? Surrender all to Jesus. Well, that's too much. Not you're asking too much. Give everything to it. Just obey you completely. So God is activating his faith. If we were to be honest, when we sang all to Jesus and any number of other songs, we would have to sing. Some of us would have to sing, Song to Jesus I surrender. Right? Some of us, if we're honest. Some of us would have to sing a little bit to Jesus. Uh can you imagine what our congregation would sing would be like if all of us sang honestly? It'd be rough. And I'm including I'm saying us. Alright. So God is activating his faith. God is not too much too concerned about our professions. But rather the reality of our faith, the obedience of our faith. God wanted Abraham to show the world that God could be trusted even when he asked for too much. This is over the top. But God wanted to show the world through Abraham we can trust God even when he asks us for that which is over the top. Number four, jot this down quickly. God adapts his trials for various individuals. God is active in our lives. God authenticates our faith. He activates our faith. And he adapts his trials to the individual's faith Not everyone in the Bible was asked to do what Abraham was asked to do. He was the only one asked to sacrifice his son as a burnt offering. No one else in the Bible was asked to do that. Others were asked to do things that were very difficult for them to do. For instance, Jonah was asked to leave all and go to Nineveh, but Jonah's initial response was what? No, that's too much. You're asking too much of me, God. I'm not going to Nineveh Boy, he paid the price for that, huh? How would you like to spend three days and three nights in the belly of a whale? Kinda reminds me of my son's bedroom a little bit. No. I should not have said that. Not everybody was tested the same way Abraham was tested. Hey, get this. Are you with me? God knows us. He knows what we can and what we cannot handle. And God will take us sometimes to the extreme to enable us to grow and strengthen our faith in Him. To enhance our testimony of His goodness. Now here's the point. God says, I want you to trust me and obey me. And we say, no, I'm not, that's too much. You're asking too much of me. And God says, no, I'm not asking too much of you. I want you to trust me anyway. And see how it turns out. What we see to be too much, God knows to be exactly what we can handle. That's why he says in Proverbs 3, trust in the Lord with all thine heart, and lean not unto thine own understanding. I'm calling some people this morning. I know I'm calling some people this morning. You are living in disobedience to God because you think if you obeyed God in whatever that area is, it would not be best for you. I know I'm right. But God says, wait a minute, I know about this a little bit more than you do Stop operating the way you think you should and start trusting me. Last of all, God awards our obedient faith When we say like Abraham, God, this is too much. This is over the top. But you know, every time I've taken in my own hands before, it's failed. I don't understand this. This is too much. But God, I'm gonna step out and trust you anyway. You've made promises to me that seem to contradict what you're telling me. You said my son, Isaac, would be the one that the promises all come through. And now you're asking me to kill them. God, this doesn't make any sense. It doesn't register in my mind. It's over the top. But you are God. I'm going to trust you in this. And if you have to, you can raise him from the dead. I'm just gonna trust you. And when we get to that point Where we trust God even when it makes no sense to us. God bless us. And God rewards that. In James chapter 2, verse 23, Abraham is given the unbelievable title, the friend of God. How would you like for God to say of you, that man, that woman is a friend of God? Wow. Few men in the Bible have been tested like Abraham was tested. But few men in the Bible have been honored like Abraham was honored. Few men in the Bible have been blessed like Abraham was blessed. Can I tell you what I think? I don't think God was ever going to let Abraham kill Isaac. Never was going to happen. God never intended it for Abraham to kill Isaac. God wanted Abraham to prove to Abraham and to the world that he could trust him no matter. matter what. God was going to intervene. Let me tell you the second thing I think. This is what I think. I think if Abraham would have said no, God I love my son Isaac, and I'm not going to lay a finger on him. I think Abraham would eventually end up hating Isaac. Because that which becomes that which come be that which comes between me and my Savior ends up becoming my enemy. And hurts me. Now, I don't know what it is between you and obedience to God. It may be your own understanding It may be the enormity of what God is asking of you, but I'm here to tell you, based on scriptural principles and the testimony of men of God, If you and I will trust God, even when he asks too much, God will come through every single time. We can trust him. What kind of God would ask such a thing of a man? What kind of God would have so much of a father? I'll tell you what kind of God and all powerful, all-wise, unconditionally loving God that can do the impossible. Would ask that of you and I and then step in and prove that he can bring us through it. Isn't that good? Let's pray. Father in heaven, bless us. Help us. Help us to trust you. Help us to obey you with our time, with our lives, with our future. In our decisions, with our finances. Help us just to obey you, trust you, in our ministries Help us, Lord. With our heads bowed and with our eyes closed, I wonder how many folks this morning would say, Preacher, you know, the Spirit of God's dealt with my heart about some areas where I just need to obey the Lord. I just need to trust Him I I just need a way to quit trying to handle things my own way and just do what God says. Is there any like that, preacher, some specific areas? The Spirit of God has dealt with my heart Would you slip your hand up, preacher, pray with me? The Spirit of God has dealt with my heart in some very specific areas. God bless you. Number of hands all around. The Spirit of God has dealt in my heart some very specific areas. And I'm going to do like every it may seem too much in your mind. And I I have no doubt I'm talking to some folks right now. There's a struggle going on in your heart and mind There is a battle going on there. God is saying, this is what I want you to do. And you're saying, that's too much. That's too much. I suggest to you, like Abraham, step out in faith and see what God does. Let him have his way. Do what he says. As unreasonable as it seems. And see what God won't do through that.