Luke chapter 19. I told you last night I do preach familiar passages, and this is a familiar passage. But I uh I do so with great delight And trust that I can be a blessing to you these next few minutes. In fact, he mentioned food, so I'll be well aware that uh I just cut everything in half here and go with it. But anyway. And Jesus entered, Luke 19, top of the chapter. Jesus entered and passed through Jericho. And behold, there was a man named Zacchaeus, which was the chief among the publicans. Now let me help you. The publicans. That's not Republicans. This crowd of publicans were tax collectors. They were employees of the Roman government who had occupied the land And uh they put these tax collectors out there and they were thugs, crooks, uh they were cheats. And what they would do, they would say, uh, uh, your tax bill is a hundred shekels. That's what the government wants, but you're going to pay me two hundred shekels. Now they were already on payroll, but they were skimming off the top and cheating the people in the process. Now you can imagine how well loved they were among the people The people absolutely despised them, and they had earned that. And consequently, with all that going on, the verse says, and he, Zacchaeus, was rich. He got rich doing those kinds of things, but he sought to see Jesus who he was and could not for the press. Now let me help you again. The press. That's not ABC, NBC, CBS, PBS, and a bunch of others like that that I hope you're not watching. That's not who it is. The press, that's the crowd. They're all pressed in together very tightly, trying to get close to Jesus, and Zacchaeus could not get to see him because of the crowd, because he was little of stature. He was a small man. So what did he do? He ran before and climbed up into a sycamore tree to see him, for he was to pass that way. And when Jesus came to the place, he looked up and saw him and said unto him, Zacchaeus, make haste and come down, for today I must abide at thy house. And he made haste and came down and received him joyfully. And when they saw it now, remember, anytime any time something good's going on, you're going to draw critics. And here they are. When they saw it, they all murmured, saying he was gone to be guests with a man that's a sinner. And Zacchaeus stood and said unto the Lord, Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor. And if I've taken anything from any man by false accusation, I restore him fourfold. And Jesus said unto him, This day is salvation come to this house, for so much as he also is a son of Abraham, for the Son of Man is come to seek and to save that which was lost. Brother, can you give me just a hair more on the monitor? Just a little bit more so I can hear me a little better? Just a little bit. Now you're cooking. Thank you, sir. Verse number one says that Jesus entered in, coming into Jericho, and ultimately passed through the town. Most of you know that prior to going to the sword of the Lord, I was pastor over in Westminster in Maryland. Um I know we're in Maryland now, but Westminster I always said was the epicenter of the universe. And uh I still think it's close to that. But anyway Had you come to see us while we lived there? Had you come for a visit? And had you said to me, uh, why don't you show me around? I would have uh immediately taken you to the church campus. And I would have walked you around, shown you what's there, and introduced you to some of our people, and uh and then I would have said, uh tell you what, let's get let's get in the car. And uh and we're going to uh go down 140 just a little bit, turn up 97, and we're going to go, I don't know, three or four miles or so, maybe five, and there's a little side road off to the left And I'm gonna do that and take you up there and we're gonna go up there to a farm and there's uh there's a house there, a farmhouse And we pull up and you might say to me, Well why wh why are we here? What is this for? And I say, Oh, this is a very famous place. Very famous. It is the farm known as the Whitaker Chambers Farm. Now, Whitaker Chambers, way back, 1950s, he was a compadre. Of another man named Alger Hiss. And the Alger Hiss spy case was one of the most famous spy cases in American history. And uh on a day A young California congressman, whose name you'll recognize when I give it to you. A young California congressman named Richard Nixon Came to town. Came up to the farm. He and his team ransacked the house and found nothing. They were looking for evidence. Found nothing But as we now know, Mr. Nixon was a bit of a stubborn rascal, yes, among other things, and uh he was not to be uh denied, so he went out into the garden And he tinkering around, he found a pumpkin that had been hollowed out, and it was stuffed full of microfilm and other evidence that blew the Algerhis case wide open. And that place, historically, is a very famous place, and in the history books, they refer to his discovery as the pumpkin patch papers. Now, you see, why do you tell us that that place is famous for one reason, one reason only, because there was one man, made one visit, one day, to that place. Now, while I'm giving you that tour around Westminster and Carroll County, I'm going to bring you back into town and we're going to drive down 140 toward Baltimore seven miles and we're going to get off the three or four hundred yards to a little Methodist church. And that little Methodist Church has a fairly good sized cemetery, and that place is a famous place because of one man. Who uh came there as a dead man. He came there and was buried there in that cemetery. You say, who oh, it's somebody else that you know the name, I guarantee you You say, who is he? Well he's he's famously known as Herman Munster. Seriously. When he finished his career in Heliwood, I mean the Hollywood He came to Carroll County. One of my deacons sold him a farm. He lived the rest of his life there. And he's buried at the Sandy Mountain Methodist Church. Now, that little Methodist church has no notoriety. In fact, there's people all over the county doesn't even know it's there But it's somewhat famous now, written up in some of the books, because Herman Munster is buried there. Now, folks, I mentioned that to you because Sometimes a place gets great notoriety because of somebody's visit. I've been to Jericho six different times over the years. In fact, I've got a picture, Betty's got a picture in our living room now, of me riding a camel at Jericho. I mean, I got it on my resume, my one time on a camel. Once and done one and done. Once is enough. Uh at Jericho. But here's something that I did uh several times when we made a stop at Jericho. I'd walk around and talk to some of the local people and uh, you know, just kind of play dumb, which is an easy task for me. And uh and I would say to them, well, I said, well tell me about your town. Now In Jesus' time, Jericho was maybe a village of three or four, five, or six, or seven hundred people. A village. Today it's a town of about twenty thousand. They're in the Jericho uh in the Jordan Valley, about forty miles to the east of Jerusalem. And uh I walk around though and I say to the locals, I say, uh tell me, tell me about uh your town and uh what what's significant about it historically, and they will tell you two things They will say, oh, uh it's famous because of the time when the walls came down. And the second thing they will tell you, there was a day when Jesus came to town. And that's what we just read about when Jesus came to town. Now folks At this time in the life and ministry that Jesus has spent here on this earth, at this point in time, he's already known throughout the region. They they know him pretty well. And uh and when he comes to town, he draws a crowd. The town takes notice. I mean, on this day, I guarantee you Businesses shut down, uh meals went uncooked, uh shops closed, uh All kinds of things just came to a halt, and the people went surging in there to where he was because the word was spreading Jesus was in town, and so the crowd gathered. Now, in the midst of all of that, little old Zacchaeus, the crook, the thug, uh, you know This this hombre that's created such havoc, just being there cheating the people. I mean it's like he gets bug-eyed and he says, I'm gonna go see him It's amazing sometimes, whenever the Lord really gets in town, it's amazing sometimes just who pays attention. And in this case, it was Zacchaeus. Now, when Jesus comes to town, his message, I mean, whether he's talking one-on-one or talking to a crowd, his message never changes. It's always the same. You know, if you go to church saying, oh, I gotta hear something new, you're gonna be disappointed if you're in a good church. Because uh we're we're going to be preaching uh the same kinds of things over and over and over again. We may put a new wrinkle on it, a new twist on it, have a new illustration to go with it, or whatever But uh but the message, the basic message is going to be unchanging. That's exactly what Jesus did, whether talking to one person or talking to a crowd. Whether they were rich or poor, Jew or Gentile, young or old, male or female, religious or not, Jesus' message never changed. And when he comes, when he comes to town, the events that happen are going to be unforgettable. They're going to be unforgettable, I promise you. Things are going to happen, lives are going to be changed. Things are going to happen that will literally change lives. Read through the New Testament. Think about Andrew and Peter, two brothers. They were professional fishermen. And uh uh there came a day when uh uh Andrew heard uh John the Baptist uh announcing the Messiah And uh and he got in, got in with both feet, so to speak, and and introduced uh the Savior to his brother. And and then there was a day when Jesus said to them, guys, hey, come and follow me, and they went with him I mean these guys were making a living fishermen. They folded up their their nets and and and uh put their boats in dry dock and left and went with them. I mean things changed for them Same with the other two brothers, James and John. Think about Saul of Tarsus. I mean, you talk about a guy who was absolutely uh off the rails doing wrong things. Saul of Tarsus, who would have ever dreamed? that he would correct course and become a great advocate for that which he had been attacking. But he did. Saul of Tarsus, think about it. And then these tax collectors like Zacchaeus and Matthew and and others. Folks, I'm telling you, when Jesus comes to town, things are never, ever going to be the same again. And by the way, it's our job to bring him to town. It's our job to introduce him to the people in town. It's our job to make the announcement that he's come to town. And Jesus comes and by the way he never yields to the culture. Never yields to the culture. If the culture is bent wrong, he'll expose it. He'll lay it bare. Jesus brings his own culture You know, we we ought we ought not to hesitate because that we do some things different to what's going on downtown. Uh we ought we ought not to be ashamed of that. We ought to say, hey, listen, the Lord has laid that out. It's in the book It's in the book. And consequently, we take what the book says, we go with that, and whatever, whatever's going on in town, whatever's going on down the street, we go with the book, we'll stick with the book, and uh You know, the result of that is always, always quite good. So yes, things are going to change when Jesus comes to town. Zacchaeus, well, he couldn't get close enough to see what he wanted to see, so uh he strategized a little bit and he went on down the street. He found a tree that he could climb, got up in, and realized this guy's a public official. I don't think you would expect to go downtown Oakland or Some other place where you may live. I don't think you'd expect to go downtown and see the mayor sitting up in a tree. Or a council member sitting up in a tree. But here he is, a known public official parked on a limb, sitting up in a tree. Now Not the most dignified position he ever picked, but uh I suspect not the first time he's been out on a limb, but anyway. He's sitting there, and when Jesus approaches him, I want you to notice what Jesus did not do. Jesus did not turn to somebody on his right or left and say, who's the guy up the tree? He didn't. He didn't have to. He just spoke up and called him by name. You say, Did you ever met him before? No But how did he call him by name? He didn't ask what his name was, because he knows everything about everybody. He knew Zacchaeus, just like he knows me, knows you. And so as he approached him, he said, Zacchaeus Make haste. By the way, you notice he didn't say, how are you feeling today? He didn't say what issues have you got? Is there something I can do to help you? He walked up to him and he said, Zacchaeus, make haste. Come down And I'm going to your house today. Now, so what's that kids do? He shimmy down the tree I mean he got down in a hurry, and the Bible says, and I love this little phrase, that he, Zacchaeus, received him joyfully. Wow. I mean this guy, a thug, a crook, you say, Oh, there's no way, there's no way that guy in just one little tiny encounter, there's no way that uh oh listen, he got it He got it, and I'm telling you, it's pretty obvious here because the passage says that immediately Zacchaeus says, Lord. What's that tell you? He's already committed himself to the Lord. And he says, Lord, the half of my goods, which by the way, he knew he had been a cheat. He said, the half of my goods I give to the poor. Now, I'm telling you, for somebody who's been a gimme, gimme, gimme, gimme guy to be given anything, pretty pretty good indication something good's going on here. The half of my goods, he said, I give to the poor. And watch the next part. This is kind of a back-handed apology, but we'll take it. Backhanded apology, we'll take it. He says, and if I have taken he knew he had, if I've taken anything by false accusation, I will restore it fourfold. That's 400%. I mean this guy, evidently, I mean strongly the evidence is here, this guy has gotten converted. He's got a whole new mindset at this point. And then Jesus gave him the assurance when he said, this day is salvation come to this house. Now, oh, by the way, I want to point out to you too, not only what Jesus did not do, but I want to point out to you what Zacchaeus did not do. When Jesus said, today I'm going to your house, Zacchaeus didn't back up and said, Oh, I wonder how Mrs. Lee will feel about that. He didn't say, I wonder if she's been cooking. I I wonder if the maid came and cleaned the house. None of that No, no, he took him right home with him, and Jesus said, salvation's come to this house today. Now, folks, here's the deal here. You know, Brother Harper gave us a lot of good thoughts about revival. The whole ministry of the Sword of the Lord is built around Us pressing for revival and pressing to win other people to Christ. We put it in a succinct statement and say revival and soul winning. Here Zacchaeus gets saved. And I'm telling you, he's a hard case. He's not some innocent little lamb. He is one more ugly kind of character But on a day when Jesus comes to town, he gets all excited. He's enthused about getting to see Jesus. And when Jesus gives him orders, what does he do? He responds, he listens, and does exactly what Jesus said to do. Jesus said, Zacchaeus, make haste. Hurry up, buddy. Get down. Come down out of the tree. What did he do? He got down out of the tree and he did it in a hurry. Now I'm telling you, the key, the key, we sang a while ago, trust and obey The whole key to getting things done is listening to the Lord and following his directions, doing exactly what he says, however simple it may seem, just simply following his direction gets us where we need to be. So Jesus gave the orders, Zacchaeus listened, and pretty obviously a real, genuine conversion has taken place. You know, we've got uh we've got some people now that have developed a cultural version of Christianity. A they call it contemporary. But it's accommodating the culture. And uh uh we have our our city of Murfreesburg where the sword's located We're in the south, kind of the south perimeter of Nashville, but Murphersburg's a big city, 175,000 people now, and growing rapidly. And we've got churches and some big churches in the area that have gone with this rock and roll culture type thing. And uh the Saturdays when I can do it My travel limits me what I can do in that regard. But but Saturdays, we we have soul winning on Saturday morning uh at our at our church and uh knocking on doors in our city. I've uh I've met people and a good bunch of them who go to some of those uh what I call rock and roll churches And uh and you know we always we knock on doors we got stuff to handle people even if they act like they don't want to talk as hey got something wanna give you and it kind of helps. And um And then sometimes I would just say, so you go to such and such a church, and I say, well, uh, if you got just a minute, could I ask you a couple of questions? And one of the questions I raise with them is uh is about their salvation. Now, I'm sure maybe there's some people that go to some of those churches that are saved, but I've yet to find one who could give me a good testimony of salvation. I'm serious, I mean knocking doors in our city. And and you ask them and it's always, Well, I got baptized Or or they'll say, Well, yeah, yeah, yeah, we uh we we we joined the church and other things like that. But they they they don't seem to understand uh what Jesus explained here uh and what is obviously throughout the Bible But I want you to know God deals with us, whoever we are, wherever we come from, whatever we're into, God deals with us, and He can do so in a powerful way, and even if it's somebody as honry as Zacchaeus. Real salvation is possible, it's doable, the gospel works, and you and I just simply need to work it. Amen. Amen. I have some of my preacher brethren. I I've had it said to me numerous times over the last few years. Well you don't soul wing doesn't work anymore. I guess not if you don't work it. Now, uh ev everybody that I talk to doesn't get saved. But if I just keep knocking doors and keep talking to people, you know, in the in the 30 years, over thirty years that I've been at the sword One of the things that scared me when I when I uh 1995 when I left the church over here to to go to the sword, one of the things that that kind of scared me, I'd I'd been used to going soul wing three, four, five times a a week For years and years and years and had buddies, you know, deacons and staff members and others who were always at my side going with me and we were seeing people saved every week of the world And and I'm saying I'm gonna be I'm gonna be here there too and back home a night or two or three and then gone again to some some other place And I'm saying to myself, what is going to happen here? Am I going to continue to see people saved? I mean, the the burden of that, it hit me. And then I said, there are people who work in these hotels There's somebody's son, somebody's daughter. And you know I haven't tried to keep count, but in the last 30 years in hotel after hotel. Sometimes, you know, I come to a meeting like this. Sometimes they'll give me a little basket of uh fruit, which uh hopefully is mainly chocolate, but anyway. I I can't eat all that stuff. But you know what I do? I get out in the halls. Maybe uh I've been there a day and a night or something, or maybe it's the day I'm leaving. I go out there and I I say to the folks in the that have got the carts and are cleaning the roof, I say that church that I've been with, they they've given me all kinds of stuff. Could you all use these apples? Would you all take this chocolate Blah blah blah. And and then you know it I that I do some money tips as well as you should in the hotels. And uh And then and then I've got stuff in my pocket to give to them. I say, you know, I don't want anybody and here's here's a here's a pitch that I use with people now. I know, I know we've all been taught to say if you die today you know for sure you're going to heaven. There's nothing wrong with that. It's a good pitch except You're going to have a lot of people who are not saying say, Oh yeah, I'm fine. So the pitch, as I say, that I make most of the time to people is, has anybody talked to you about heaven lately? And I'm telling you, ninety-nine point nine percent of the people you you make that pitch to will say, Well no, nobody's talking to me about heaven. Because they have it. And then my next w question my next statement is, I say, well, you got a couple of minutes we could talk about it And uh if they don't want to, they'll tell you. But it opens many doors for me. And in those hotels, uh I've I've been just you know, one one of my goals One of my goals is, when I'm here with Brother Leatherman or wherever I am, when I walk out of the hotel and leave to go home, I don't want to leave one scrap of paper on the floor. Now I'm not gonna make the bed because they're gonna change the sheets and all that, hopefully. But I want to make the kind of an impression by my demeanor, my behavior, my spirit among those people that are there at that hotel, working at that hotel. I want them to get a good impression of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church and this pastor because I've been there. The gal that's working the hotel there where we are right now. I stopped and chatted with her a little bit when we got back from lunch today and gave her something. And uh she wasn't too interested, but but I chatted with her momentarily anyway. Now folks I'm just I'm just telling you, uh don't ever scratch anybody off. The guy the guy who who is so ill behaved, he's mean, he's terrible, I mean all that, don't scratch him off. You never know How close that guy is to really coming across just like Zacchaeus did. A number of years ago we had a case where uh a senior adult man and his wife had gotten saved And they had uh, as I recall, I think it was five grown children and their families all lived in the area. And uh the senior mom and dad had said to me, uh Man, I liked my son to be in they'd brought some of them and then a couple of times the senior dad had asked me to go with him. Well, four of those five, uh second generation families had also gotten saved. And they were all in the church. We'd gotten them all baptized and some of the grandkids as well. But they had one daughter, grown lady Who was not saved? She'd been with them a couple times to church, but she'd let them know she didn't want anything to do with it. But the dad, the granddad, said to me, he said, would you and Mrs. Smith please go see her So we got the address and we went to her home and knocked on the door. She answered the door and uh recognized us whenever she opened the door and invited us in And as soon as we stepped inside, she said, I know why you're here, and I want you to know right now, I'm not getting saved. And I said, Well, uh can can we talk about it a little bit? She said, Well, yeah, we can talk about it, but I'm just telling you, I'm not getting saved, I can't get saved. We went into the living room. Betty sat down in a single chair. The lady sat down on the couch. I sat down on the other edge of the couch. And uh and I turned to her and I said, Well, well, tell me what's going on And she said, I'm just telling you. She said she said, I know mom and dad want me to come and my brothers and sisters but she said I can't be saved and she said I have I have been too bad, I've done too many things, I've been too wicked And she just, I mean, ran the ran the whole gamut of stuff, and she said, There's no way that I can be saved. And I started smiling. And she looked at me with a sternness and her jaw set, and she said, are you making fun of me? And I said, oh no, I'm not making fun of you. I said, I'm smiling because of the news that I've got to tell you. And it I mean it took her back And I said, can I tell you about it? Well, yeah, I guess so. And it wasn't but a little bit until the tears came. Wasn't but a little bit until she was convinced that she wasn't too bad because I told her, I said, nobody, nobody is beyond the boundaries of the grace of God. God's able to handle whatever background you've got, whatever mess you've made of your life God can help you. He can straighten it up. He can clean it up. He can get you where you need to be. Look, I I'm all I'm only the errand boy. I'm only the messenger boy. I'm only the ambassador. I I'm I'm not the guy who can save people. But I sure can tell them about who can. And that that's the thing, you know, uh all all all across uh the the region where you live, uh there there are people right now Uh sitting home watching some stupid thing on the tube or playing with their their uh phone and uh d sipping on beer and uh doing drugs and whatever else uh to keep from dealing with reality and a lot of them a lot of them are heavily heavily burdened it's like they're miserable and they don't know what to do with themselves but you and I have an answer And it's an answer that works anywhere and everywhere. And the deal is you and I just need to announce that Jesus has come to town. And hey, it's even better when he not only comes to town, but he comes to your house. Like he did with Zacchaeus. And whenever we go up and down the streets Telling folks that Jesus has come to town, if they'll open the door and let him in, he will come in. And I'm telling you, some of some of the some of the characters That's you say man I've known that guy I've known that lady for years and years. There's no way, no way. Oh yes, and God's got a way. God's got a way that is the way And it'll get her done. I tell you what, we do need revival, brother Harper's right. We need it, we want it. And we need to pay the price for it. And you and I need to get out and get our get our you know get you a good pair of sketchers. Good walking shoes. These dress shoes like I got on now, they're not good soul winning shoes. Not if you're gonna be doing a bunch of walking. Get you a pair of good, comfortable loafers and go out and wear them out knocking on doors. That'll make the difference in your town. I love it just the concept of when Jesus entered and passed through Jericho. Jesus was coming to town. And in a little bit old Zacchaeus found not only to town, but to his house as well. Dear Lord, thank you for your sweet blessings. You've been good to give these days we've had together here, and I pray, Lord, that every one of us will go out of here with the fire burning With the urge, uh, the the the spirit of encouragement in our soul, in our heart, and and and letting our burden for people, our burden for souls, let it grow, let it be increased And let us have that thirst to get the gospel out so that other people can come to the Savior. Lord, thank you for what you'll do in these moments together. And we receive your blessing tonight with thanksgiving in Jesus' precious name. Stand up with me, please.