I'll give you a warning, um, the message I'm going to give tonight. Man, it was great listening to all the testimonies and everything's been so positive. Um The message will end positive. Let's put it that way. We'll put it that way. It's going to end positively. But Psalm 12, um this thought has been on my mind for the past month or so. I kind of did um a little bit of a lesson. uh to the teens a few weeks ago from this passage and um man something just really stuck out to me so that's what I'm going to share with you guys tonight. I'm going to read uh the first five verses of Psalm 12. It says, Help, Lord, for the godly man ceaseth, for the faithful fail from among the children of men. They speak vanity every one with his neighbor, with flattering lips and with a double heart do they speak. The Lord shall cut off all flattering lips, and the tongue that speaketh proud things. Who have said, With our tongue will we prevail, our lips are our own. Who is Lord over us? For the oppression of the poor, for the sighing of the needy. Now will I arise, saith the Lord, I will set him in safety from him that puffeth at him. And look at verse 8: The wicked walk on every side, when the vileless men are exalted. I'm going to pray and then this message is not on this thought of when the faithful fail. Lord, thank you for this day that you've given us and I thank you for this church. Lord, what a blessing it is just to be here at this church and a privilege just to be part of the family here, Lord. And I thank you for it. I ask that you be with me now as I uh deliver this thought, Lord, and um just give me the words and the thoughts that you'd have me say and bless the message. It's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. So David here is crying out to help. The very first word is help. Help, Lord, for the godly man ceaseth. He's crying out to the Lord for help because of all the things that are going on around him. And if you look verse 2, verse 3, and on down through the chapter, it names some negative things that are happening. We see where there's pride, we see where sp people are speaking vanities and um people are oppressing the poor And David is just at the point where he's saying, help. And we've been there. We've all been at that point. Help Lord. I mean, so how many times do we feel like, man, I'm trying to live for the Lord? I'm trying to do right, but it seems like everyone else around me is not. And we've been there. And I'm thankful that even when it seems like we're on our own, there's someone we can ask for help to. There's someone we can call out to, and I'm thankful for that. But that's the point that David is at here. He's saying, help the Lord. And as sad as it sounds, that's a pretty normal thing for us to be surrounded by sin, to be surrounded by evil. I mean where we live, I mean it's no unusual thing for sin just to be around us. And the things specifically that are mentioned here, pride, vanity, stuff like that. Yeah, I mean we go to to school and it's there. We go to Walmart. Whatever. It's around us. And that's a normal thing. As sad as that is. And and I think you mentioned it the other day. We'll be outnumbered. Well, I mean that's just the way it is. There's more of the world than there is of us. And again, I'm glad that there is someone we can call for help to. But what's sad and what really stuck out to me when I was looking at this is not the fact that people were oppressing the poor in verse 5 or People are pride in verse in verse four and three. But this is what stuck out to me the most. It was right there in verse one. Help, Lord, for the godly man ceaseth. The faithful fail. You see, David's not just asking for help because of the sin that's around him, but because of who's doing it. He's not I mean it'd be one thing if you know he's saying, Lord help the Philistines are acting this way, they're they're you know they're resisting you, they're resisting your authority, they deny you, but no, it's the godly, the faithful. And he's not, I mean it'd be one thing if the Philistines were the ones being prideful and all that, but or or some other nation, but it was the ones that were faithful to God, the ones that were in the temple. They're the ones that were doing these things. You know, it'd be one thing. We look at verse um 4, with our tongue will we prevail whose Lord over us? It'd be one thing if it was The world, the lost people that were saying, you know, I'm my own person, no one can tell me what to do, but no, it was God's people. It was God's people. And that's what's sad, and that's what really sticks out to me here, is it's the godly man, and and I believe this. I believe that You know, it's not just the world that's full of pride, and it's not just the world that that's evil, and it's not just, you know, we name all these things, TV, Hollywood, whatever. But our our churches are full are full of godly, faithful people that are failing. And that are just ceasing, as it says, a godly man cease to quit, to fail. So that's what we're gonna look at tonight. And David, again, he's asking for help. It's just bec not because of what's happening, but because of who's doing it. So what happens when the faithful fail, and how can you tell if you are one of the faithful that are about to fail? Verse 2, they're double-hearted. If you're taking notes, they're double-hearted. They speak vanity, every one with his neighbor, with flattering lips, and with a double heart. Do they speak? They say one thing and do another. And here's the thing. When you have a double hearted, that means you're double desired, right? And I believe that churches are filled with people who who honestly have a heart for the Lord. They do. But they have a heart for something else as well. And I I believe that there's people that come here and they honestly, honestly love the Lord. They love the ministry they're in. They have a heart for him. They want to serve the Lord But also, the rest of the week, they have a heart for other things, maybe themselves, maybe someone else, and they're torn They have a heart for the Lord, and I believe it's genuine. But there's something else they're desiring as well I mean, and how again, how many of us have been there? And again, let me remind you: James says a double-minded man is unstable, right? In all his ways. How can you be successful and not fail if you're unstable, double minded, double hearted? And now let me say this. I don't care how faithful you are, how godly you are, and I mean that respectfully. And teams, listen to me. I don't care if you're here for every activity, every service But if you have a double heart, double desire, you love the Lord, yeah, but you love something else as well You're set up for failure. You're going to fail. I mean, and we see examples of this throughout the Bible. One person I thought of was Lot. He's referred to as a righteous man, a just man, right? And I believe, I mean, obviously he probably had some sort of heart for the Lord, maybe. I mean, I would assume. But obviously, he had a desire for some things as well. And again, we don't know what every specific thing is. But that ended up being his downfall. And it set him up for failure. He probably honestly loved the Lord. I mean, probably did. But he loves some other things as well. Now that's when we fail. That's when even the godly man will give up, will quit. You want to serve the Lord, but there's something else you want as well. I'm not just talking to young people either. I mean if you've been saved longer than I've been alive, it doesn't matter. There's I mean I think of Solomon. He he had a successful life in his younger years, sure. But that double heart, two desires, it caused him to fail at some things later on, didn't it? Now you might say, well now how do you keep from having this double heart? How do you keep from desiring one thing and the Lord? Well God said you can't. You can't serve God and man, and you can't do it. You can't serve both. Tell me I'm on the challenge, you pick one. I mean i i if if you love the lord serve him. If you're torn between the two, pick. And of course I would encourage you to pick loving the Lord and serving him. You say, how do I do that? First Corinthians fifteen fifty-eight, I was thinking about this. It says to be steadfast, unmovable, always Always abounding in the work of the Lord. You know, the reason that you would all be always abounding is because you all always have a heart for the Lord, right? And I think one reason maybe we're so torn that we have a double heart is because we abound in his work sometime and abound in some other stuff some other times. Abound in his work all the time, not just while you're here. That will give you a constant desire or a constant heart. To be like to serve him all the time. And that will become your one desire. Your whole life will be consumed with with the things of the Lord. You'll want to serve him, you'll love him and That's the way it should be. That is successful Christian living. The opposite of a faithful Christian that fails. None of us want to fail, right? We all want to be noted successful. If you're double-hearted, you can't be. And again, I think I've already said it, but it doesn't matter how faithful of a Christian you are, how godly you are If you get to this point where you allow yourself to have a double heart, double desires, You're setting yourself up to fail. And even the most godly Christian can fail. Can fail. Again, James 1. 8, a double-minded man is unstable. You can't have a successful Christian life if you're not even stable. You can't even stand. Also, look at this. Verse 4. Who have said, With our tongue will we prevail, our lips are our own. Who is Lord over us? Who is Lord over us? Again, who is he talking about here? He's not talking about, you know, the Philistines or some other nation or something. He's talking about The Lord's people that are saying who is Lord over us? Well you would think the obvious answer should be Lord, right? But what's going on is they're making Lord fit them, right? And the godly man is saying, no, no, no, I'm in control. Yeah, I like God, it that's convenient, but I'm going to make it fit me, right? Who is Lord over me? No, no, no. I'm my own boss. And again, it's the Christian that's saying this. And we're seeing this more and more. And what that is, is rebellion against God. Rebellion against against authority of any kind. You know, let me say this. We get after younger people for, you know, resisting authority. And sometimes they do, sure. But all people resist authority in one way or another. Now I'm young, right? I'm 26. I'm going to be 27 this month. I remember when I turned twenty-five it hit me, oh no, I'm closer to thirty. And someone said, Yeah, once you hit thirty then you'll really feel old. But then you know what? Never mind. Never mind. I'm young is the point. But I mean within just the past few years even I mean so much rebellion. So many people resisting authority. Why are police officers treated the way they are? It just blows my mind. Blows my mind. A and again we expect that from lost people sometimes, sure, but it's people who claim to be Christians. It's crazy stuff. Resisting authority. Who's Lord over me? No, with my tongue I'll prevail. Yeah. My lips I can say what I want and do what I want. That's that's rebellion. And first Samuel that's compared to the sin of witchcraft. Again, mankind's always been rebellious, but uh it's he's saying help because even the godly man is the one who's acting this way. Maybe a a Christian teen who's been raised in a a good church or or something like that, even now they're saying, you know, you can't tell me what to do. Well, who put your parents there? Who put the pastor there? I mean God's God set these things up. God put the authority there. And when you resist any kind of authority that God put there, you're resisting God. You're resisting God's authority. Who is the Lord? Over us. Rebellion. Now let me say this. If you are a godly Christian, you might be thinking, that's not me, I'm godly. I'm I'm I'm a faithful person. Well, if you get to where you resist this authority that God's put there, again you're setting yourself up to fail. One thing I think we need to remember. Is we are just as capable of any of these sins mentioned as any lost person. I mean there is no good thing about me without Christ. And there's no good thing about any of us In and of ourselves. And in and of ourselves, we can mess up just as bad as any lost person. That's why we set up standards. We were talking about standards this morning in Sunday school and the importance of them. That's why we set up standards because we know, hey, I can mess up. And now if we get to the point. Where we let these standards go or whatever, and then anything goes, and then before you know it, you'll set start to set your desires on other things, and you'll start to resist authorities that God has put there. And before you know it, man, the most faithful of us. Washed up No good anymore. We failed. We failed. Now, rebellion is a very dangerous thing. And we're seeing so much of it. And again, not just from young people. But from all people. I mean, I've never seen so much of it, and it's from God's people. And if you allow yourself to get to this point where you go against authority that God has put there. You'll fail. You'll fail. Even if you're the most faithful, you'll fail. Um next thing I want you to notice is in verse eight Says the wicked walk on every side when the vilest of men are exalted. You know what happens? Whether from a double heart or for or from resisting authority or or whatever, the faithful person fails. Now we fail all the time, every day, right? We're sinners, okay? But what happens, the faithful person, the godly man, ceases and fails. And you know what ends up happening? The Christian starts to praise the vile man. It's amazing. I mean, the vilest of men are exalted. And how many times the vile men are exalted by us? It's amazing. Exalt means to glorify, to praise, or or to lift up. How many times do we lift up the people that have done the vile things? I mean there's no reason anybody should be listening to some of these filthy I don't even want to call them musicians. I mean, it's just filthy. And we quote them, we praise them. And godly people do. The faithful do. What's up with that? For lack of a better phrase, what's up with that? I mean, I don't get it. And not just that, but we st even get to the point where we'll admire The vile things that they do, right? And I don't have to name specific things. I mean, there's no need to do that. Not right now, anyway. After the service we're going to Pizza Hut, so no need to go too much longer than necessary. But um we we praise the things they do. I heard one person say one time To to a a young girl that was involved in something wicked. Just something wicked. And she made the statement, well if that's you, then you just be you. Supposed to be a godly person. And we do that. That's the point we're at. I was saying earlier, you know, all these encouraging testimonies and everything, and now I'm saying we're at the point where man, all the faithful are failing. But here's the good news. Not all the faithful fail. Right? And I'm convinced that I'm surrounded by a lot of people tonight. You're not double hearted. You love the Lord. You seek to serve Him 24-7. Praise the Lord for that. You're not rebellious. I haven't seen anyone try to overthrow Pastor yet. That's good. Good job. Not that I know of anyway. But here is something I'll let you know. Yeah, yeah. But it's uh not all the faithful are failing. I was talking with someone, I don't remember who it was. But um Shadrach, Meshach, and Abendago, man, all these people snealing, and they're the only ones standing. They're all alone. Well they're not. There's two others standing with each one of them, right? It's a good thought. That's a good thought. And the very first two words of this chapter help Lord. And he can help you. When it i it sometimes you're just gonna get I mean it's it's human. You're just gonna get to the point where you feel like, man, I'm all wow. I'm the only one trying to do right. Even all these Christians around me. Man, look at them, they're all failing. Just remember, the Lord's there. He's always there and he wants to help you. And he wants to help you. Well you all know that I I usually go pretty short and Pastor said that would be an asset, so But if I could have everyone heads bowed and eyes closed. Maybe you're saying, you know what, Pastor Matt, there's something that was mentioned in that in that chapter tonight. And and and the Lord spoke to my heart about it. Why don't you come up here and tell the Lord about it? Maybe you say, you know what, Lord, I don't I don't want to I don't want to fail. I want to set these standards up so I won't be a failure of a Christian. We all want to be successful. Lord, thank you for this day you've given us, and I thank you for the word that you've given us in this morning. Of it how even godly people and even faithful people can fail. Lord, I ask that you would bless the invitation now, and it's in Jesus' name I pray.