I don't know if you noticed, but all of our uh flower beds have been completely dug up, redone, new trim around there, and uh it this absolutely looks fantastic, about finished, and I know Brother Jerry headed that up Billy was involved with it a good bit. James and a bunch of the team fellas worked really hard. And so we really appreciate uh the good job they did there and uh looks very, very nice and we appreciate that. And one other word I wanted to mention um We have emphasized for a long time the importance of giving out gospel tracts, distributing gospel tracts. We encourage our folks to do it on a regular, consistent basis very generously. Of course we have our great track month every spring, give out thousands and thousands of tracks. I got a letter, I think it was yesterday, Friday or Saturday in the mail from our missionary to Mexico City, uh the Estep, brother, uh Estep, and he said this, and I just wanted to share this with the church as a whole. He said in June we baptized three new believers. One of those who were baptized was Joel Joel was a Mormon that started to come to church from a tract that my oldest son gave him. He attended the church with us for about three months before he finally understood and was saved. The following week, he followed the Lord in Believers' baptism. It's a huge step for him because most of his family are either Catholics or Mormons. And then he asked us to pray for him as he's uh coming out of this false doctrine and learning the scripture. I tell you what, one little boy giving out a gospel tract brought the salvation to a Mormon fellow Isn't that something? And so I want to encourage you. It's not a waste of time. I had a fellow say a couple years ago, not in our church, outside of church, a professing Christian, uh said about us giving out tracts. He said it's a waste of time, it's a waste of money, and it's a waste of paper. People don't read 'em. I don't believe that for one minute. And uh right there is some evidence of the fact that uh God uses these gospel tracts. Look at verse 18 with me, if you would, in Isaiah chapter 30 I'm just going to read the first phrase. It says, Therefore will the Lord wait that he may be gracious unto you. I've entitled the message, When God Waits on Man. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, thank you for a good day and good services this morning so far. We have our Bibles open in front of us, Father. We believe with all our hearts that this is your word on our laps and in front of us. We believe that it is a living, powerful book And that these truths can help us and impact our lives. We pray, Father, that you would. I ask, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit God, I yield myself, present my body anew, speak through me, open our hearts and minds. Bless the young people that are here in the service with us. We're glad to have the king's kids up And uh Lord, just have your way and help help us in Jesus' name. Amen. I did want to mention that also. We're glad to have the King's kids up in the service. And um they are keeping Ronnie busy back there, praise the Lord. And um but uh it's good to have the king say I think it's good uh to have the children from children's church up in the service every now and then just get them to see what goes on up here and get a feel for uh regular church service and all of that. So Young people, be sure and make sure mom and dad sits up straight and listens carefully. And uh if they start texting, you wave your hand to me and point it out, and I'll I'll get them on them for that You often hear y you read in the Bible often and you hear preachers say often that it's important for us as Christians to wait on God. Anybody ever hear that? Need to wait on God. Wait on the Lord. Some of the areas we preach on and you read about in the Bible that we're supposed to wait on God. We're supposed to wait on God in the matter of answered prayers. How many folks ever found how many folks in your Christian life you found that God doesn't always answer your prayers when you think he should? Anyone here? And so what do we do? We wait on God. I have some prayers that I've been praying for a long time. I'm waiting on God to answer those prayers. I believe He will. But he just hasn't done it in my timing yet. So we're instructed to wait on God. You and I, just wait on God. Be patient. Just wait on God. He'll come through. Sometimes in the matter of the salvation of a loved one. How many folks here you have someone that's dear to you? You love them dearly. They're important in your life. You want them to know the Lord Jesus Christ as their Savior in the way that you do. And you're praying for them to be saved. Can we get a witness? Look at that. All around. Of course we do. We all have folks like that And what do we say? We say, you just wait. God's working in their heart. You be a faithful witness. You share the gospel. You pray. And just wait on God. Wait on God. George Mueller prayed for 20 years for a fellow to be saved. He died without that fellow being saved. But 15 years after his funeral, that fellow trusted the Lord as Savior. So we're taught we're taught to wait on God. Don't be impatient with God. You just trust him. He's not answering your prayer right now. Just be tight. Sit still. You're you're wanting uh that loved one to be saved, just be tight, be faithful, be a witness, pray, be gracious, uh let God do his work. He's he's alive, he's working On this matter of the second coming of Jesus Christ, we're told to wait on the Lord. Last month, remember we memorize 2 Peter 3:9? The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness. What's that promise? It's the promise of his coming. And so he's saying, listen, you just be patient. God has his timing. God has his purpose. Can I be very honest with you right now? I thought the Lord would have been back by now I really did. Back in the 90s, I was I I I would never have dreamed we'd still be here in 2012. I thought by now the Lord would have come. Now, just because I was wrong on my timing, just because I was wrong in my thinking, doesn't mean he's not coming. It means I just need to be patient Follow what I'm saying? Wait on the Lord. Wait on the Lord. We're told to wait on the Lord in the matter of answer prayer and the slavation of loved ones, return of the Lord. We're told to wait on the Lord in this matter of getting wisdom and knowing what to do. I don't know about you, but I'm sure you're much like I am. There's different situations where I prayed for wisdom. I didn't know exactly what to do. I didn't know what the ri right response would be. I don't know I didn't know what the right uh um action to take would be. And so I prayed, God show me what to do. God help me. And I'm uh situations like that now. And you know what I found out? God often doesn't direct me on what I should do until I almost absolutely have to do it. Then he comes through at the last minute and gives me leadership and direction. Can I get a witness Very seldom, long in advance, do I know what, in some of these situations, what to do. Sometimes I come right up to it, and then God comes in and it becomes clear. So It's not unusual for us to read in the Bible or hear a preacher say, wait on the Lord. You just wait on God. We're used to hearing that Let me tell you something we're not used to hearing. Something we don't hear talked about, or we don't even read about it a whole lot in the Bible, and that is this. God waiting on man. God waiting on you and I. Well, I thought God would have come back by now. Well, I don't know. I've been praying all this time. He's not answering my prayer. Well, wait on God. Wait on God. Wait a minute. What about God waiting on you for something? The Bible says in Psalm, in Isaiah chapter 30, verse 18, we just read a few moments ago, that God waits on man. Do I have your attention? God waits on man. I want to encourage you. We were at my son's graduation last month up in Pennsylvania. Dan graduated and um they started the service off. I thought this was interesting. They started the graduation, before we do anything, before the students march down, we're going to ask everybody to turn your phones, put your phones up, put them away, and uh because what's going to take place here is very important in the lives of these graduates. And I'll tell you, what happened there was important. I think the preaching of the Word of God is even more important. And so let's be sure we uh give our attention up here, if you would, please. Waiting on God. And God waiting on us. Look what he says here in verse 18. Let's read it again. And therefore will the Lord wait. That he may be gracious unto you. God, we find here God waiting on man. Now let me give you a little bit of background. This verse, just there the way it is, doesn't tell us a whole lot. We need to know a little bit of what the context here is. What is he talking about? Well, Israel, as you probably many of you are aware, was divided. There was a civil war, so to speak. There wasn't a whole lot of war involved with it, but After Solomon, the nation of Israel divided. At the northern kingdom, the southern kingdom. The northern kingdom was Israel. That consisted of most of the tribes of Israel, those ten. The southern kingdom was Judah For the most part, the northern kingdom was ungodly. They did their own thing, they completely ignored scripture, they had very little interest in God and the things of the Lord, and uh they just uh were the what they were The southern kingdom, on the other hand, was pretty good. Their kings, for the most part, sought the Lord. There were some exceptions And for the most part, they had God's blessing, but nevertheless, they both deteriorated in their spiritual life, so to speak. North quicker and more severe than the South. The northern kingdom, Israel, at this time had gone into total apostasy. They had completely denied God. They wanted nothing to do with him. want him telling them what to do, how to live their lives. They wanted nothing to do with God. And as a result of that, God sent judgment. And they were taken captive by Assyria. Assyria came in and invaded the northern kingdom and took their rich and their educated and politicians and leaders and all that. took them back to Assyria, left the poor and and just a few folks there, and they brought their own people in and took over the land. And that was the case. Now here you have the southern kingdom. And uh the southern kingdom, Judah, they saw all that happening up in the north. They saw how devastated it was. They saw the thousand hundreds of thousands of people slaughtered. The uh just the the horrible conditions their northern uh brothers and sisters were in. And the southern kingdom scared to death We're next. Ah, they're gonna come down here and take us away. The northern kingdom's bigger than us. They had a stronger army than we have, and they were just decimated by the Assyrians. We're right next door. We're dead meat. We have got to do something. And so they began to plan and scheme. One of their ideas was we'll go down to Egypt. Egypt was a big nation. Very powerful, very wealthy, and we'll buy their protection and we'll bring Egypt up and they'll protect us from the Assyrians, and it won't happen to us what happened to our northern kingdom, uh brethren And so that's the whole issue that's being addressed here by Isaiah, God through Isaiah. They're posturing politically for help from Egypt. Now here was their problem. Is everybody everybody doing good? Yeah. Are you glad you came to church? Say amen. Even if you aren't, say amen. Amen. Just help me out. Here's their problem in trying to deal with their situation The southern kingdom completely left God out of the equation. It never entered their mind. Maybe we should pray about this. It never entered their mind. Maybe we should look to the Lord and find out how to deal with this. Maybe we should look to our Creator, God, Jehovah, and get His input on what we should do. Never entered their minds. Their whole solution to the situation was we gotta come up with something. We've got Egypt has to help us, we've got a scheme, we've gotta make these uh political uh deals and Somehow we've got to do something. And I wish we had time, which we don't, but verse 1 through 17 of this chapter is God rebuking them very severely. For leaving him out. He could solve their problem like this. He could, with just one word from his mouth, change everything. But they never looked to him. They never thought that. He says to them, look at verse 1 there, real quick. Look, he says, uh, woe to the, what's that next word there? Rebellious! He says, you are rebelling against me. You are living your life, you're dealing with your situations, you're trying to handle your circumstances without me. And that is nothing but rebellion. He goes on later in other places. He says, I'm your creator. I'm the one that gives you life. I'm the one that gives you the ability to think and scheme. I'm the one that provides for you. I'm the one that gives you breath on a daily basis. And you completely leave me out of your circumstances. You completely leave me out of your thinking. And that is rebellion in its rawest form. He goes down several times and severely confronts his people. He confronts them for their neglect of his word. Uh uh he doesn't listen. You're not looking to what I have to say here. You are trying to live your life You're trying to deal with life circumstances independent of my word. And he says, it's not going to work. It's not going to work. You're going to fail every time. He rebukes them for their rebellion, for their neglect of the Word of God, their neglect of prayer, their neglect of prayer. Judah wanted to be delivered. They didn't want to be captives. Eventually, because of the decisions they make and because of their rebellion against God, they do become captives. But at this point, they don't have to. They want it to be protected, and they want it to be protected now. They wanted to be protected their way. They were unwilling to operate on God's timing. They were unwilling to operate on God's direction. And so God says, all right, verse 18, I'm going to wait. You don't want me helping you? Do you want me guiding you and directing you? And you don't want to trust me? You don't want to obey me in this matter? Alright, I'll wait. Not asking you to wait on me. He says, I'm going to wait on you now. Now my first thought this morning is I get from that first word in chapter in verse 18. uh he says there uh uh the second word and therefore and this is my first thought the principles Of God's actions. Anytime the word therefore is, you read the anytime you read the word therefore in the Bible, you want to look and find out what it's there for. What is God saying? I think this is one implication from him saying, all right, he goes down through verse 17, 1 through 17. He goes, You're rebellious, you're not listening to me, I do these things, this is what you're doing, you're not doing that. And he rebukes him, rebukes him, rebukes him, and he says, Now, therefore, because of your actions, there will be consequences. This is what I took away from that. God does not operate haphazardly. God, I like this statement. As I was preparing this message, I just thought this was really great. God does not wing it. Anybody know what I mean by winging it? Anybody here, can I get a witness? Anybody here ever wing it? What does it mean? What does it mean when you're winging it? It means you didn't prepare a thing, you have no idea what you're doing, but you're putting on a show like it looks like you do You're winging it. God does not uh work, here's another, this is maybe a little data, but God does not work off the cuff You know what I mean by that? God's not haphazard in his actions. Our God is very deliberate. Our God operates by principles. And when he says, therefore He's saying, listen, your actions have kicked in some eternal principles that have very certain results. The Bible is very clear. You and I have a free will. Do you know what I mean by that? God has given us the ability to decide for ourselves what we think, what we don't think, how we act. We have that free ability. The Calvinists are wrong when they say We are simply uh, and I'm putting this in my words, obviously, we are just pawns of God's sovereignty. That is not scriptural. Amen. Help me here. Where God just we just have no say. God has given us a free will. I can choose to accept Jesus Christ as my Savior or reject Him. God has given me that ability. I can choose to obey God's instructions of Scripture or disobey it. God has given me that ability. But with ability With privilege comes responsibility. And so I can choose Judah had the Freedom to choose to obey God or reject them. They could trust God or they could trust Egypt. They could follow God's instructions or they could lean on their own understanding. They had a free will. But they could not choose the consequences of their decision. If they were going to choose to trust God, then the principles would fall in that they would get If they would do what God says, then they will get what God promises. But if they lean on their own understanding and do it their way, then there's going to be certain consequences. The free will of man does not negate the fact that God is still in control. Listen, you can raise your fist to God, so to speak, in her manner of speaking. You can raise your fist to God. You have that choice. But there's going to be consequences from that. You can say no, even as a Christian, you and I can say no. I'm not going to do what the Bible says. I'm not going to follow the Holy Spirit. leading from the word of God in my life. I'm not going to follow the principles and instructions of God's word. I'm going to do it my way. And then you and I will get the consequences of doing it our way. Or I can choose to trust God. I can choose to follow his scripture, and then I get the consequences God says are a result of doing that. You follow what I'm saying? It's not a difficult concept when I'm giving to you here, it's very basic. Galatians chapter 6 puts it this way: Be not deceived. God is not mocked, for whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap. For he that soweth to his flesh shall the flesh reap corruption. But he that soweth to the spirit shall the spirit reap everlasting life. You know what he's saying? He's saying, listen. Whatever decisions you make and the actions you take, there are going to be consequences Israel had made their decision. They were not going to trust God. Israel had acted in a very deliberate manner. Therefore Verse 18, certain things would be in the way. Would happen. I've witnessed to people over the years, as many of you have. I've shared the gospel with folks who were lost and they knew it. I'm thinking of a person in particular right now as I speak that I shared the gospel with and went over and over. And every time they would say, no, for various reasons, they would give, I'm not going to accept Christ as my Savior. I'm not going to trust Jesus Christ as my personality. I will not accept what he has done for me, invite him in my life. And several, one I'm thinking of in particular, have died in their sins. Therefore. There's a consequence of that. I don't know. Somebody may be listening in some uh through the internet, or somebody under the sound of my voice may be saying, you know, I'm not saved. I know I'm not saved. I should be saved. I should accept Christ as my Savior. I've sinned against God. I've broken his law. I've done things my way and haven't given God a whole lot of thought. I know But I'll not trust Christ. Listen, I'm just here as a spokesman to tell you, the Bible says, therefore You die in your sins. Therefore, separated from God for all eternity. Now we can ignore that, we can just put it out our mind, we can deny it all we want, but That is a fact. So there's a principle at play here. Israel made their decisions and took their actions, and therefore God says. Certain principles are going to apply. So I looked at this verse here, it stuck out in my mind. Therefore will the Lord wait. Therefore, all right, they made some decisions. There's consequences. God operates by principles Second thing I noticed here is in that next few statements, I see the patience of God. Therefore will the Lord wait And again, that's what that phrase is what prompted this whole message. I was reading it in my devotions, and I thought, God waiting? That doesn't, there we go. I warned you. Actually, Jamie, let's try and time this about every 15 minutes. It'll wake people up and get their attention. I thought, waiting, I'm used to God telling us to wait on him, but I haven't read very often where God waits on me. What's he waiting for? I looked up the word wait. I thought, well let's uh I have my little process I go through. I get the meaning of the word and I look at the context and I look for other passages in scripture how it's used and try and come to understanding So I began the first step in my process of studying. I got my dictionary out and started looking up the word wait. And it means what you and I would think it would mean In fact, uh, it's translated other places in our scripture, same word is translated to tarry. To tarry. Sometimes you hear preachers, especially the old-time preachers, would say something about the Lord, if the Lord tarry his coming Anybody ever hear that? Means the if the Lord doesn't come beyond that, He He waits till after that point to come. That's the idea to tarry. But I found that in Hosea chapter 6 and verse 9, this word is used in an interesting way that gives a little insight Into what I believe God is telling Judah here. In Hosea chapter 6 and verse 9, it references bandits. That are waiting by a highway, and they are waiting for travelers to go by. To that they can counsel them and rob them and and go about their way. You remember the story of the Good Samaritan? The bandits, the highwaymen they're called sometimes, jumped in. Beat him, left him for dead, took his possessions. That's the idea in the word Hosea chapter 6 verse 9, where these highwaymen, these bandits, are waiting Travelers are coming along the uh uh the mountain road, there's nobody else around, they are in the uh they're concealed, and uh the travelers are coming along and they are waiting. And the idea is this. They are waiting for the exact right time and the exact right circumstances For them to act. If they jump too soon, they'll be seen and uh travelers will escape, run away If they wait too long, there'll be too much distance and the uh the traveler the folks that they're wanting to rob will be gone. If it's not the right circumstances, if there's more of them than there is of the bandits, well then they can't jump either. They are waiting. Get this. They are waiting for just the right time, just the right circumstances. God is saying, because of your decisions, because of the actions you are taking, I'm stepping back. And I'm waiting for the exact perfect time. I'm waiting for those circumstances that you've chosen, the decisions you've made, till they develop and uh become a certain point. Then I'm going to step in. God's being patient. I made the statement: God has given us a free will. I can choose to obey God or disobey God. I can choose to trust Him or trust myself. I can choose to follow his direction or lean on my own understanding. If I choose to lean on my own understanding If I choose to handle things the way I think rather than the way God says, God does not immediately step in and deal with it. Now, rare occasions he does. But this verse is telling me God waits. Alright? That's what you're going to do? I'm gonna wait for the exact time, exact circumstances, where I'm gonna step in and deal with it. Ecclesiastes says, just, and I'm putting this in my own words, just because judgment doesn't fall on a deed at the moment it happened doesn't mean judgment isn't coming. I heard an old preacher out in the Midwest said God doesn't always pay his bills on Friday. Kind of a corny way of saying God takes care of things in his timing at his way, in his way. So we have the patience of God. Israel says, Nah, we're going to trust Egypt. Judah says that. We're going to do it our way, God. We're not interested. God says, all right, let's see how that works out for you. Let's see how that plays out. And God, in his mind, knows that when he gets to a certain point, then he's going to step in. Then he's going to step in. So we have the principles of God's actions, therefore. We have the patience of God's waiting. Then, last of all, I want us to notice the purpose. Why would God do it that way? What's the purpose of his waiting on us? Why does he let this thing go? Well, the next phrase tells us. And therefore will the Lord wait, why, that he may be gracious unto you God doesn't, hey, a person hears the gospel. They hear they need to be saved. Down in their heart, they know they need Jesus Christ as Savior. They know that's true. But they say no. No God doesn't immediately send them to hell. God waits. God waits. Why? So that he can be gracious. I doubt there's one person. How many folks here you're saved and you know it? Say amen. It's the majority of us, no doubt. I doubt there's one person here that got saved the first time you heard the gospel. Possible there's some, but I doubt it. Not many. You know what? God didn't send you to hell the moment you rejected Christ. He waited. And he may be gracious The verse we memorized last month, the Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness, but he is long-suffering to usward. He waits on us Not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. He waits for just the exact right time. Why does God wait? I put down A couple of reasons God would wait and not step in and act right away. First of all, so that we can understand the gravity of our sin. Sometimes a Christian, did you know this? Hey, did you know this? Did you hear? Christians can sin. How many how many people are shocked? I heard one Baptist preacher in Texas years ago, he was in a message, he said He said he was witness to a Pentecostal and they said, um, oh, you're a Baptist, how you don't believe in backsliding. And the preacher said, oh yeah, we believe in backsliding. In fact, we practice it. Well, that's a truth. A Christian can sin, disobey God, do wrong. And God doesn't bring the hammer down right away. Why is that? Hey, this is what I'm trying to say. I think sometimes God just waits, lets us go on in that sin until we realize how bad it really is. You know, the Bible says there's pleasure in sin for a season. Boy, that first time to get out rocking and rolling and dancing and drinking and woo boy that was fun Five years down the road when they're an alcoholic and drug addict and lost their purity, it's not quite as fun as it was. Why does God let someone go on like that? So they can realize the gravity of their sin. David, King David, the man after God's own heart, the sweet psalmist of Israel, committed adultery With another man's wife. He killed that man. And God came down and confronted him that next day. No. Do you know God waited a whole year before God sent Nathan to confront David about that sin? Here is my question: why would God wait that long? Why would he let David get away with it for a whole year? I'll tell you why. David needed to learn how serious his sin really was. And I'll say this: David learned that lesson. Did you ever read Psalm 51? The most heart-wrenching confession of sin in all of history. When David got to the point of Psalm 51, he knew and understood how horrible his sin was. He understood how devastating his disobedience to God was. He understood how his His sin had ruined his life. And he desperately needed God's mercy. Sometimes God waits to let us realize how awful that sin was. We first, when David first committed adultery, he thought, I can get away with this. It's not that big a deal. I'll just. And he went through his little process. Read Psalms 32. Read Psalms 38. Those are two Psalms written after David committed adultery, and they are heart-wrenching. He talks about the conviction of God in his heart and life. He said, My bones are dried up. There's no spirit in me. Day after day, the conviction of God was upon me. God waited. Alright, do you want to sin? You want to do that? Alright, I'm just going to step back and let it take its course, and let's see how that works out. After a year, David was devastated. And Nathan comes up, thou art the man. And David broke. Why does God wait? So He can be gracious. We can learn the awfulness of our sin. Remember the story of the prodigal son? The youngest son says, I want my inheritance. And the father, for whatever reason. Gave him all his inheritance. In fact, my understanding, the way it looks to me, gave him more than his inheritance. He gave him all his savings. And that son, the first thing he did was took off and went to a far country. And man, he's partying and he's living in riot, he's living it up in riotous living, the Bible says. That only lasts for so long. Finally, he's living. He's in a, you know the story, he's in a um a pig pen. And all he has to eat is the leftovers from the pigs. I got thinking, why didn't the father, when the boy took off, why didn't daddy go running out after him? Why did he chase him down? I think the father had a reason. He needed that boy to learn that sin has horrible consequences. Hey, we're not uh I want to be careful how I say this because I don't want to be misunderstood. But you know, we're not always helping our children when we bail them out every time they do wrong. Sometimes they need to learn Dr. Lee Robertson, that when I was at down at Pennsee Temple, there was some young fellas that were students, lived in the dorms. They had gone out and they robbed the place at the mall or somewhere. They just stole some stuff and they got caught. They were down at the police station and everyone in Chattanooga back in those days knew Dr. Robertson. He was incredibly respected. And the policeman called Dr. Robertson at his house and said, Dr. Robertson, I got some of your students from Tennessee Temple down here. We've arrested them for stealing. He says they're guilty. We got it. Here. He says, uh do you want us just to let them come up there under your um uh what do you call it? Let them out under their um supervision. He says, you want us to let him out? You know what Dr. Robertson said? He said, throw the book at him. You know what he's saying? They need to learn. And that's what God does sometimes. We need to learn. Sometimes we need to get to the end of ourselves in the Big Bang before we finally say, you know what, this I'm a stupid idiot. You can't live like this. So God, sometimes the purpose of his waiting is so that we can understand the gravity of our sin. Sometimes the purpose of his waiting is to give us an opportunity to deal with our sins ourselves. Listen to 1 Corinthians 11:31. If we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged. Now let me speak to an unsaved person. As an unsaved person, uh, if you have a person that's never been saved, never been born again, they're unsaved. The Bible says they are under the judgment of God, John 3. 18, John 3. 30. They are under the wrath of God for their sins. Now they can do one of two things. They can judge themselves and say, you know what, I'm a sinner. I have no hope of escaping hell. I have no hope of being right with God. I'm going to trust Jesus To cleanse me of my sin. I'm going to accept what He did for me on the cross and get my sins forgiven. I can judge them myself as a sinner, or I can wait until God judges it Now if that unsaved person decides to wait until God judges it, it's too late. Hebrews. This point a man wants to die, and after this the judgment. So you're here this morning, you're listening to me, and you say, you know, I'm not saved, I know I need to be saved, whatever. Listen, you can either judge your sin yourself as guilty and trust Christ, or you can let God deal with it. But the Bible says if you judge it yourself, then God won't have to judge it. By the way, that's true for the Christian. A Christian goes out and lives in sin and does wrong and gets away from the God, God, and they backslide. They don't lose their salvation, but they are headed for the chastening hand of God, Hebrews chapter 12. Now I can say, wait a minute, I'm not right, I'm not doing right. God, this is wrong. I confess it, I forsake it, and I'll find mercy. Or I can say, nope, I'm just going to let God deal with it and wham Anybody here ever experienced the chastening hand of God? I have. You know what? I don't like it. It's horrible. Horrible. So I can confess, face fess up, confront my sin, deal with it, or let God deal with it. Sometimes God just waits just so we have the opportunity, so we can deal with it, so he doesn't have to. Are you with me? We could go through examples. What about Adam? Adam and Eve disobeyed God. Adam was held responsible And uh as soon as he ate, he realized that he had sinned, and they made themselves fig leaves, and they hid themselves. And the Bible says God approached Adam in the cool of the day. Now why would it say that? The cool of the day is a reference to just before dark And that sun goes over the horizon and the temperatures cool down. You know what that's telling us? God gave Adam all day long to come and confess his sin, and Adam didn't do it. He spent the whole day hiding. I don't know the answer to this question, but I wonder how differently things would have turned out if Adam, as soon as he sinned Had to call it out, God, God, I've done wrong, show me what to do, God. Wonder how differently it would be. But he didn't. He tried to hide from God. God had to come and approach him. Same thing with Achan. Remember the story of Achan? They uh invaded Jericho. God said, Don't take the gold or silver or anything, leave it all, it's all the Lord's. Achan took some gold, silver, he found a nice dress out of Paris, I mean Babylon, and uh he took that uh dress and he hid it The next battle, they're wiped out. Joshua says, God, well you promised we'd we wouldn't lose any men. Why'd we lose? Because there's sin in the camp. Needs to be dealt with. Why didn't God just say, Joshua, it's Achan? God didn't do that. If you read chapter 7 of Joshua, he goes through this lengthy process. Took at least a day, may have taken several days. Oh the tribes and then the households and then the families and then the I mean the families then the households and then the heads and finally this lengthy process, Achan is discovered You know what I think God was doing? God was giving Achan a chance to come clean at any point there. At any point, Achan could have stepped up and said, wait a minute, I'm guilty. I sinned. But he didn't. God was being gracious. I wonder, you know, as a result because God had to judge Achans sin, his whole family was killed. He and all his kids were killed. I wonder how differently that had been if Achan would have come clean right away. He said, this is wrong. This is wrong. God forgive me. We mentioned David one whole year. How much better it is to deal with our sins right away. How much better it is for an unsaved person to get saved right away. I'm talking to someone, I have no doubt in my mind. I'm talking to some Christians this morning. You've got sin in your life and you know it. The Spirit of God's been dealing with your heart about it. You know it's not right. You know it grieves God. Say, well, God hasn't done anything yet. He's waiting He's waiting. Giving you and I an opportunity. Make that thing right. Come clean. Sometimes God gives us weights to give us a greater appreciation for His mercy. The more we understand the gravity of our sin, the more we appreciate the greatness of His forgiveness. I heard a preacher preach this week, a powerful message. I was listening to it on the computer. He pointed something out that I thought was interesting, tied in with my message. He said, he pointed out that most of the psalms written by David were written after. He committed adultery and murder. After he'd experienced the great, great forgiveness of God And those psalms that you and I read when our heart is broken, and those psalms that you and I find strength from when we're struggling. And we feel like we're at the bottom of the barrel. They were written by a man who had failed grievously, but understood the tremendous mercy of God. God waited, let him go the whole, let it play it again, play it out, let it go the whole gamut. Then God stepped in. And David came out of that saying, God's mercy is amazing. He would forgive someone like me Sing praises. Praise him, O ye Israel. His mercy endureth forever. His mercy Endureth forever and over and over and over and over through the Psalms, David cries out after he had sinned, his mercy is beyond understanding. God waited. Let him realize the gravity of his sin. Let him come to the point where he finally uh uh uh deals with and understands how serious it is. Then God was gracious to him. And he came out of their understanding how merciful God is. Fourth reason I put down why God the purpose for God's waiting So that we can understand how powerless we are without Him. There's a principle given to us in the New Testament that God wants us to understand. It's given in John chapter 15 and verse 5. Jesus put it this way: Without me, ye can do nothing. We need the Lord. You can go ahead. Hey, you think you can live your life independent of God, but you can't. You think you've got your act together and you put on a big show like everything's okay, that everything's fine, you're living in disobedience to God, and I'm telling you, I know something, everything is not fine. Because you can't live your life without the Lord. You can go through the motions, you can put on shows, but in your heart and soul there's an empty vacuum that only Jesus Christ can fill. He wants us to learn that. And us as Christians, sometimes we think, oh, I'm a Christian. I've been in the ministry for years. I've got a handle on this. Listen to me. I learned some time ago there's nothing in me or you as Christians that's of any eternal value to anyone else, just in and of ourselves. Anything in me that helps anyone, it is the Lord in me. And anything in you, Sunday school teacher and bus worker and choir member, anything in you and I that is of any benefit to anyone as far as their spiritual life is concerned. It is the presence of God in our lives. We need to learn that. God says, all right, you want to try and do the ministry in your own strength? Go ahead. I'll wait. When you fall flat on your face, then you'll realize you can't do anything without me. I read a sad article, I got it here somewhere yesterday. I think it was Fox News reported it. There was a party bus. Did you see that? A double-decker bus. They had rented the bus out for a party for a kid for his 16th birthday, New Jersey. Apparently there's music and rock and roll and party going on on this double-decker bus it's driving around going somewhere. There were 65 kids on the bus. The bus has a emergency hatch on the roof in case it would fall over so people can get out. Our buses have them. Well these kids are getting wild. I don't know if they were drinking or smoking dope or what. But they're getting wild. There was security on the bus and this one 16-year-old boy, and if I understood the story, right, it's the kids whose birthday it was, then I'm not sure He kept opening that hatch while the bus was driving down the road. The security on the bus had threatened him, said, listen, you need to do, you need to operate by the standards that are established on this bus. You can't take this situation into your own hands. You can't just do whatever you want. It is dangerous. And the kid kept pressing it and pressing it and pressing it. Doing what he wanted to do, not following instructions. Finally, it got to the point where the security guard he realized this is getting dangerous. He went down to the first story of the bus to get the bus driver and tell him he need to pull over that it's getting out of hand up here. While he was down there, the bus is traveling down. The report says he heard screaming and yelling from upstop. The article I read, they were screaming, Oh my god, oh my god, oh my god Quickly pulled over. He went running up. That boy had threw the top off. Jumped up there right as they were heading under underpass. Severed them in two. Listen, you can go out into eternity your way, or you can do it the way God says, but there's going to be consequences. I don't need Christ. I don't need God in my life. Alright, go ahead and open that hatch if you want to. The best thing to do is trust God. Live according to His instructions. You say, but that's not as much fun. I've found that having my body in one piece is more fun than having it split in two. Can I get a witness? Anybody agree with me? I'll be patient. I'll wait. So I can be gracious. God's given you an opportunity. God's given me an opportunity to make things right, to trust him. Follow his leadership. Do what he says. Let's not neglect that. Israel did, and they were destroyed. Let's not you and I do that. Father, bless us and help us, I pray. Lord, you love us dearly. There's no doubt about it. You give us instructions, directions in your word, how to go about and how to deal with things. Lord, we just need to learn to trust you. We just need to do what you say. I pray, Holy Spirit of God, you wouldn't let any of us leave here without getting everything completely right with you. Please help us. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are