Psalm 121, and I just want us to notice, in fact, let's read together verse number two. Psalm 121 and verse number two. That's right. Ready? Let's read it together. My help cometh from the Lord, which made heaven and earth. I'm entitled The Message, Where to Find Help. Where to Find Help. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for the opportunity we have to assemble together here this morning in your name. Lord, it's a blessing to be with your people, but also to know that your presence is here in our midst, just as you promised. God, I thank you for the music, the singings just blessed me and stirred my heart. And now as we look into your word, particularly this little chapter here in the book of Psalms and I ask that you would use these statements that you've given to us, this information you've given to us in your word I ask that your Holy Spirit would use it to help us to trust you and Lord help us to live for you and that our lives would please you. Lord, I pray that our lives and our church would count for Jesus, that we would have purpose and meaning and have a positive influence in this world for the gospel. So I yield myself anew, again, this hour. I pray that you would please fill me with your Spirit. Lord, I ask that you would speak through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Uh I Lord's blessed me. I have what I would consider a pretty good-sized library over the years. I've been able to put together books and uh I love books. I love to read And I use them. The vast majority in the library I have, they're not just for show or collector's items. I actually use them like much like a mechanic would use his tools And uh Builder would use his tools. The books are tools for me to help me understand the Word of God and be able to pass through the church and provide leadership. So I have a good number of books, but uh well what I want to say is there's only one book that has ever been authored by God, and that's the Word of God. There is no other book that has ever been penned, ever been produced, ever been written that comes even close to the Word of God. God is the author. What I'm trying to say is this. The Bible is the greatest book ever. The greatest book ever And uh it's given to us by God. As I said, he is the author. There's no other book that's been authored by God. No doubt he stirred people to write some things and helped people write, but God authored this book The subject of the Bible is the Lord Jesus Christ. From Genesis to Revelation, the Bible points us to Jesus Christ. You cannot preach the Bible without preaching Christ. That's what the book is about. That's what it's about, about the Lord Jesus Christ. The purpose of the Bible, there's various purposes. The primary purpose is number one, to reveal to us God. We want to know who God is, we need to read the Bible. We can look at creation, we can see the evidence of God, we can see the fingerprints of God all around us, but if we want to know who God is We come to the Bible and we're told who God is. The Bible tells us what God is like. The Bible tells us what God's purpose is for our existence, where we came from, why we're here The Bible reveals to us our Lord, our Creator, who He is and what He's like. The Bible tells us how to be saved. There is no salvation outside of Bible salvation. The Bible tells us how to be saved. If we're going to ever make it to heaven, if we're ever going to be accepted by God, when we come to the end of our life here on earth, if we're ever going to make it, we have to come the Bible way, what the Bible says. And so the importance of the Word of God, the Bible tells us not only the way of salvation, but the Bible tells us what the will of God is for our lives. Uh you say uh if somebody says, well, uh I want to know God's will, then you need to open up God's Word, because God's will is revealed to us in the Word of God. This past week I was reading my Bible each morning. I'd try to read some in the morning without fail. I'll read the Bible in the morning and then at night before I go to bed. I'd like to just take a few moments and read some more scripture before I go to bed Usually, when preparing messages, particularly for Sunday morning, I'll usually know a week or so ahead of time, I kind of have a sense of the direction God's wanting me to preach. I believe, I think I have an idea what God wants me to preach next Sunday. I've been kind of cooking on that a little bit this week. But this past week, um I got Monday and I thought, Lord, what do you have for me Sunday morning? And um, you know, when a preacher finishes preaching Sunday night, his very next thought is, what's um what am I preaching next Sunday And so Monday came by and Lord I just wasn't clear in my heart what the Lord would have for this morning. Tuesday went by and uh still nothing real clear and praying and asking Lord, Lord, what Uh, you know, they're gonna expect something Sunday morning. And um and uh so nothing Wednesday, I think it may have been Wednesday morning, Wednesday night. I was reading my scripture just for my own personal well-being And I come across Psalm 121. And I've read this thing scores and scores of times, probably hundreds of times, read Psalm 21. And um I think, uh I I believe God touched my heart. And had me pr had for me to preach on this passage this morning. I really believe that. And so Psalm 121 is one of those great encouragement chapters of the Bible. I will often, if I'm visiting in the hospital or if tragedy or something comes to someone's life, or maybe I'm visiting in a home and they're going through a particular difficult time. Psalm 121 is a passage I'll often go to. Just kind of read and reassure and try and find some encouragement from Psalm 121. It's one of the great encouragement chapters of the Bible. You ought to be familiar with Psalm 121. You really should. It's a great, great passage. Well study look at Psalms 121. We'd have no, we're not given any penman names for uh uh who penned this book. If you'll notice there above verse number one It says a psalm of degrees. There's no name given there, but we are told that this is a psalm of degrees. There's actually several psalms Psalm 120 through 134, we are told that these are Psalms of Degrees. It's a collection of Psalms, and they were used by uh by the the Hebrews as they would come to the temple there in Jerusalem as they would come in maybe for the Passover There was often throughout the year special feasts and special sacrifices where the Jews would gather together there at the temple. And they would use these Psalms of Degrees, these Psalms of Degrees, and they would sing them as they're approaching the temple. Some Jewish historians uh suggest that the priests, as they would go up the steps of the temple to offer the sacrifices, they would sing these psalms, Psalm 121 being one of them. And so that's where they get the idea of the song of degrees as they're making their way to the temple. Now, there's a lot of lessons in that. What I take away from that is the importance of music in our worship of the Lord. I believe the song service, we sing Sunday mornings, we open up with the choir choir singing. We sing congregational songs, choir sings, we have specials. That is not just to fill time. That is an important part of our worship of the Lord. of praising God for who he is and what he's done for us and how good he's been to us. And we sing praise to our Lord and Savior. And so as they would assemble to worship God, they would sing these great psalms, Psalm 121 and others all up to As I said, through uh verse one thirty chapter one hundred thirty-four, they would sing these songs of the Lord. And so s music is an important part of our worship of the Lord. And by the way, it needs to be the right kind of music The content needs to be scriptural. They didn't come and sing the pagan songs as they came to worship God They sang scriptural songs. They sang songs that lined up with the character and holiness of God. And so the importance of music uh in our in our worship of the Lord and the importance of music in our service to the Lord. God would have all of us serve Him in one way or another. Young people serving God. I'm grateful for a good percentage of our young people that are involved in Sunday school and the bus ministry Tell you, bless my heart, we send those buses out and the number of young people working on it, serving God, uh senior citizens serving God, and all of it, and our service I believe is more pleasing to the Lord when it's saturated with scriptural songs. Singing while we work, singing while we serve. And so this is a song of degrees, a song that was used by Israel in part of their worship of God, and part of their service to God as they would sing to the Lord. These Psalms here, these Psalms of Degrees that are given in Psalms here, they're designed to prepare our heart to serve God. Prepare our hearts Singing unto the Lord. I'm grateful for our music. The Heinball sang here a little bit ago. I'm grateful that our folks, when they get up and sing, we're not singing to put on a show. We're not singing to draw attention to ourselves. We're singing to glorify the Lord. And it prepares our hearts. It stirs our hearts There's been many times, I'll uh just tell you numerous times over the 32 plus years I've been here. I'm on the platform and I'm thinking, Lord, I don't know if this message is anything. God, I need you to get in this. Lord, I I'm sitting there taking this. And then somebody will get up and sing a song and sing a special and man my heart will be stirred. And a choir will sing something, my heart will be stirred And it'll be like, okay, God, I'm ready now. I'm ready now. So if I say, uh if I tell the choir, keep on singing, that means I'm not ready yet, huh? But the song of degrees, where Israel would come and sing to the Lord in their service and in their worship. I got reading this, as I said, early this week, and by the way, when it gets Wednesday and Thursday and I'm not sure what the Lord's uh has for me to preach, I start getting a little anxious, you know But God uh God laid this on my heart, I believe. And I got I noticed in Psalm 121, I noticed three thoughts kind of came to my attention as I read through this. The first thing I notice is the search for help. In verse number one, he says, I will lift up thine eyes unto the hills. From whence cometh my help? He's looking for help, the search for help. Then I noticed in verse number two the source of his help. We don't know who the penman is. But whoever it was, he found help. He found the source of his help. Look at verse 2. My help cometh from who? The Lord. Which made heaven and earth. So he has this search for help. I looked up my eyes into the hills from whence cometh my help? My help cometh from the Lord. I found the source of help for me in my life. And then I noticed the certainty of this help. And that's verse 3, all the way down through the end. He says, He will not suffer thy foot to be moved, speaking of the Lord. God will help you. He that keepeth thee will not slumber. He'll help you. He's not going to fall asleep. Behold, he that keepeth Israel neither sleepeth nor slumbereth. How many people are glad that God doesn't sleep Are you very glad you can get up, you wake up two in the morning worried about everything in the world, sick to your stomach, and you can come and God's wide awake and I can come and talk to the Lord? He says, I'll help you. You can be sure. You're not going to catch me sleeping and slumbering. I'll help you. I'll help you. Notice he goes on. Verse 5: The Lord is thy keeper The Lord is thy shade upon thy right hand. The sun shall not smite thee by day, the moon by night. I'll help you. Be sure, you can be certain. I will help you, whatever the circumstances are, whatever the situation is, whatever the weather is. I'll help you. I'll help you. Look at verse 7. The Lord shall preserve thee from all evil. He shall preserve thy soul. I wrote in the margin of my Bible, eternal security. Preached on that last week. That word, he shall preserve thysul. That word preserves the same word he uses about preserving the Word of God Let me ask you a question. Can the word of God ever be destroyed? No. Heaven and earth will pass away. God's word is preserved. He uses the same word for our soul. How many folks this morning you're saved and you know it? Say amen That verse there tells me that God will keep me, He's preserved me, I cannot lose my salvation. And so He helps us, the certainty of it. He helps us. Verse 8, the Lord shall preserve thy going out, thy coming in, from this time forth even forevermore. So I notice three things. The search for help, whence cometh my help. The source of help, my help is from the Lord The certainty of this help, I will help you. And he goes down through six, eight verses there. I'll help you, I'll help you, I'll preserve you, I'll keep you, I'm not going to fall asleep on you. God's good. We have some tremendous, tremendous assurance here. First thing I want us to notice is this search for help. Search for help. Whoever it is that pins Psalm 121. was a man who was aware of the fact that he needed help. He needed help. Some people have a hard time admitting they need help. The fact of the matter is we do need help. All of us. All of us. Would you agree with me? King David was a great man. Anyone? Can I get a consensus on that? Anybody? Man alive. A powerful King of Israel, one of the greatest kings of Israel in their history. The throne of Jesus Christ, the throne that Jesus Christ is going to sit on the millennium is named after King David. Wealthy, powerful, a man after God's own heart. Perhaps one of the most spiritual, not perfect, not perfect, even remotely. Or perhaps one of the most spiritual men that ever sat in the throne of Israel. Yet in Psalm 40, verse 17, and we're preaching through that on Sunday nights, verse 17, David said this: I am poor. And needy. David said, I need God to help me. I can't be the man God intends for me to be without God's help I need him to help me. I need him to help me. King of Israel needed God to help him. Powerful, wealthy, a spiritual giant. Yet he said, I'm needy. I need God to help me. I don't know. If David needed God to help him, Lord knows I need God to help me. I need God to help me live for him. Like all of us, at one time or another, this fellow here, he re- he was aware of the fact he needed help. Well, how do we need help? What ways do we need help in our Christian life? Well, I put a few down. I put this down. In the matter of salvation, we need help. We need God to help us know what salvation is. We need God to help us be aware of our need of salvation. Now keep your place here. If you have something, stick it. Stick it in there and at Psalm 121. Go with me to the book of Romans. And we're going to look at a few passages this morning. How many people brought your Bibles with you? Anybody bring a Bible with you? Good. All right. About eight or ten people out there. Praise the Lord Well, like I always say, if we brought it, we might as well use it. Amen? Go with me to Romans chapter 10. Why not? Romans chapter 10. Look with me at verse 13. Verse 13 is a very familiar passage. Verse 13 of Romans 10 is a powerful passage in my life. It's Romans 10. 13, where I got assurance that God had actually saved me and I was safe and secure in the hands of Jesus Christ. It says Romans 10:13, for whosoever, anybody in the world, anybody, whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord might be saved. Right or wrong? Wrong. Could be saved. But shall be saved. Promise of God. God that cannot lie says, whoever calls on me shall be saved Now look what he says in the next verse. He goes, How then can they call in him of whom they have not believed? Right? If somebody unbelieved in Christ, they're not going to call on them, right? How can they call on him in whom they have not believed? Then he takes another step. How shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard? If somebody never heard of Jesus Christ, if somebody never heard of the Savior, how are they going to trust him? Notice what it says. And how shall they hear without a what? Preacher. Now that word preacher there isn't necessarily talking about an official position. I'm a preacher. People call me, hey, preacher. I'm a preacher. But what he's talking about here is anybody that will go and give the information of the gospel and the Lord Jesus Christ to other people. In other words Unless somebody comes and tells people about salvation, they're not going to know of Christ. They're not going to know how to be saved. All the world needs help when it comes to this matter of salvation. They need somebody to come to them and tell them of Christ. How shall they hear without a preacher? How are they going to know? How are they going to get saved? That's one of the reasons World Missions is such an important part of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. In fact, I suggest to you it is the core of our very existence. World missions, taking the gospel around the world and around the neighborhood into our community, telling people, helping people understand who Jesus is, how to be saved. And so we need help. This whole world needs help. This whole world needs you and I, who know Christ as Savior, to help them. know of Christ and what they need to do to trust Him and be saved. And so we need help. We need help. Only God can save And people need help hearing and understanding how to be saved. I'm grateful when I was a small boy, probably uh I'm I'm guessing and Uh it just gets farther away, uh, remembering back when I was young. And I'm I'm guessing I was about third grade Our folks took us to church. Our family was still together at the time. My parents were still together. And we were going pretty faithfully to church. We had Sunday school. And I was in the third grade class. It wasn't a big class. If I remember, it was 10 or 12 kids in the class, something like that. And we had a Sunday school teacher. Her name was Thelma Felton. She's been with the Lord many, many years It's a different, it wasn't independent Baptist, it's a different group. But every Sunday morning, as as I remember it She would tell the class, you need to trust Jesus as your Savior. She'd use different terminology sometimes, but she communicated to us very, very clearly That we needed a savior. Just young third-grade kids, that we needed a savior, and that savior was Jesus Christ, and we needed to trust him Now, I don't remember that she ever pressed us to make a decision right then and there, but I'll tell you, she helped me as a young boy to understand. That I was a sinner and I needed a savior. Now I didn't trust Christ then, but I am absolutely convinced she planted a seed in my heart and mind that 15 years later bore fruit in my life I tell you, these little children, we bring them in on our buses, thank God for our buses, pray for our bus ministry. So vital. We can go out and help people come and learn of the Lord Jesus Christ. The search for help, this world needs help. I am absolutely convinced there are people in our community that are wanting to know the Lord. They just need somebody to come by. And sit down with an open Bible and show them from the Bible how to be saved, I believe they'll be saved. I had the opportunity to preach wild game dinner yesterday down in Virginia And um I did the best I could just to tell those fellows, it was all men, I just did the best I could to tell them men, as clearly, as simply as I could, how to be saved. We're all sinners. Jesus died for our sins, buried, rose again And um and uh we call on him, trust him, he'll come in our heart and life, forgive us our saying. I did the best I could with God's help, help those men understand That they're sinners, they needed to be saved, and Jesus was their only hope. I'm so glad that when I gave the invitation, seven of those men trusted Christ, or six, six of those men trusted Christ as Savior. They just needed somebody to come and tell them. They were glued to me the whole time. I mean glued. Just needed somebody to help them. Just needed someone to you know what missionaries are? They're just helpers. Helping people know the Lord. You know, we go out Thursdays, we go out Saturdays to try and witness during the week you've got God. You know what we are? We're just helpers trying to help people know Jesus as Savior. That's all we're doing. We preach Christ, just helping people know Christ. Amen. And so the search for help. Well, we need help on salvation. I'm glad God sent a Sunday school teacher. I'm glad God Gave me a good daddy that loved me and lived for uh for the Lord in front of me, had a testimony, he talked to me about the Lord, and he helped me Understand who Jesus was and that it was a savior. I needed a Savior. And so in the matter of salvation, I put it this way, also we need help in this matter of spiritual success We can't live the Christian life without God's help. I've mentioned this many times. I've had people, preacher, I would get saved, but I just can't, I couldn't live it. Every time someone says that to me, I say, Well, join the club. I can't either. I need God to help me live the Christian life. You see somebody that's living a good, strong Christian life, they got a godly testimony, they have a powerful testimony. I'll tell you somebody who God is helping them be that. It's not in their own power. We need God to help us. Turn over to chapter number seven in Romans. You're in 10. Come back to chapter 7. By the way, on this matter of help for salvation, in Acts chapter 8, we had the Ethiopian eunuch. He's down in Jerusalem. He got some part of scripture. He's reading it, but he doesn't understand it. He says, I need someone to help me understand and guide me on how to be saved. So unsaved, we need help in salvation. We need help in success in the Christian life. Look at Romans chapter 7. I want to begin reading in verse 18. Now this is the Apostle Paul. Question. Apostle Paul, good guy or bad guy? He is a great guy. I mean, tremendous, as far as I can tell, he's perhaps the greatest Christian that has ever lived. The guy's amazing. But look what he says here in verse 18. This is Paul's testimony. He says, For I know that in me that is in my flesh. Well, with no good thing. Now the wording is a little different here. You've got to pay attention, what he says. Look, but look, I'll try to explain it. He says, For to will is present with me. But how to perform that which is good, I find not. For the good that I would, I do not. But the evil which I would not, that I do. Now, if I do that I would not, in other words, he's saying, if I'm doing that which I really don't want to do, It is no more I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me. I find then a law that when I would do good, evil is present with me I delight in the law of God after the inward man, but I see another law in my members, warring against the law of my mind. Bringing me into captivity to the law of sin, which is in my members. Look at verse 24. Oh, wretched man that I am. Who shall deliver me from the body of this death? Do you sense the struggle going on in Paul's life What he's saying here is, and again, it's uh the wording's uh a a little different, and some it might be hard to catch exactly what he's saying, but this is what he's saying. He says, there are as a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ I'm born again, I'm saved. Jesus is my savior. I'm securing Christ. But living this Christian life, I find myself over and over and over doing things that I really don't want to do. I know they're not right. And there's things that are right. I know it's God's will. And I want to do that. And I find myself not doing it. And he expresses his frustration there in verse, I think it's 24. He says, Oh wretched man that I am I can't do this. I want to do right, and I end up doing wrong, and I want to I don't want to do wrong and I and I end up doing it You know what he says? He says, I need help. Look what he says there. Who shall deliver me from this body of the body of this death? I need help, he's saying. He says, I need who can help me? Look at the next verse. I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord. So in the law, so then with the mind, I myself serve the law of God, but with the flesh, the law of sin. He said, I need God to help me live for Him. I need God to help me have victory in my life. Paul struggled and he needed the Lord to help. Now we're not told what he struggled with. I think it's interesting. He doesn't say, I end up doing, and he doesn't say what it is that he did that he knew was wrong. He just says, there's a law in me, there's a force in me, there's a part of my nature that is bent towards doing wrong, and it gets the best of me. I don't know what it was. I don't know what the particular sin was that he was struggling with. He says in Hebrews chapter 12 that we all have besetting sins. We all have our own sins that we're vulnerable to, that we have a tendency to give in to, and they're different for everybody. What I may be susceptible to, a weakness in my Christian character, might not be the same for you. What your weak weakness or besetting sin might be not might not be someone over here. But we all have it. It all had this old sinful nature and this war, this battle, this struggle within the very heart of man. For living the Christian life is true for all of us. If it was true for Paul, it's true for all of us. Can I get a witness? Anybody here know what in the world I'm talking about? We've been there. On a daily basis, sometimes we struggle with this. I would venture to say every one of us at some point, maybe over and over and over, we'll say, What in the world was I thinking? Well, why would I Man, I know I should have done that. Paul says I need help. And what I'm trying to say is this. Just like the psalmist in one Psalm 121, from whence cometh my help. You and I need God to help us live for Him. We are besetting sins. Now, like I said, it may be different for all of us. And I could go down, in fact, I started to write just a list of sins That maybe we struggle with. We can't seem to lick. We can't beat it on our own. I did away with the list because it doesn't matter what it is. We need God to help us live for Him. Not one of us are able within our own abilities, our own strength, our own no matter how great our character may be, it will never enable us to live The Christian life, as God intends it, without the help of God. Jesus promised his disciples that when he ascends to heaven, he would send a helper. Anybody know who that helper is? Holy Spirit of God. Every one of us that know Jesus Christ as Savior, you and I have within our very bodies at this very moment the person of God, the presence of God and the person of the Holy Spirit, and one of his primary ministries And my life and my body is to help me live for God. When I mess up, he convicts me. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Man, it just pierces. You know what he's doing? He's helping me. He's bringing me back. Helping me get back up on my feet. Get back and do right. Proverbs says, the just man falleth seven times and what? Rises up again. Messed up? Holy Spirit helps me get back up. Paul says, I do that which I would not. Holy Spirit, through the person of the Lord Jesus Christ, through the person of the Holy Spirit helps me have victory over that. Have victory over that. And so we need help. The search for help. This matter of salvation. This matter of spiritual success. Living a successful Christian life is not easy. We are in a spiritual battleground between good and evil, right and wrong, heaven and hell, the devil and God. If we're going to defeat this whole world, if we're going to keep this flesh at bay, if we're going to resist the devil, we need God's help. And He's given us help in the person of the Holy Spirit. None of us can live a victorious Christian life without God's help. Without God's help. Somebody put it this way: I can't brag on how great a Christian I am. But I can brag on how gracious God is on helping me live for Him. So we need help in this matter of salvation, to know who Christ is, that we need to be saved, how to trust Him. That's our job, to help people, to come to Christ. And then we need help living for God and having spiritual victory and living out the will of God in my life. And that's where the Holy Spirit comes in to help us. John chapter 15, verse 5, Jesus made a profound statement. It's so simple, but if we can get a hold of this, he says: without me, ye can do nothing. You and I can't live for God. Listen, God, we we've seen God do great things here at Mountain Lake. God has blessed us. Amen or not Now we have needs and we're far from perfect, but I'm here to tell you nothing that has been accomplished at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church has been because you and I are great. It's because God has helped us. Because God is good to us. Amen or not. Came here in 93. There were eight members. Now we have 92 missionaries. How about that? You know what that is? That's God. God helped us. God helped us. And so help in this matter of salvation, help in this matter of spiritual success. I got one more I put down. Help. We need help in this matter of serenity. Now there's a word for you, serenity. What do we mean by that? Simply means peace of mind. Having peace of mind. I wish I could tell you I never worried about it I never worry about anything, but I I can't say that honestly. I tend to worry. I I know none of y'all do, but um In fact, if I'm not worrying about something, I get worried that I'm not worrying about something. And I'm not proud of that. And I need God to help me have peace of mind. Not worry about the church, and not worry about an assistant pastor, and not worry about our teens, how well they're doing, they're living for God or not. Not worry about whatever. Just have peace of mind, have serenity. God can help us have peace of mind. I got a passage for this. Well, let me quote to you. Psalms 119, verse 65. It says, Great peace have they, peace of mind. Great peace have they which love thy law and nothing shall offend them. We can have peace of mind Turn with me if you would. We're in Romans. Come over to Philippians. Just turn back there a little ways. Verse and 2 Corinthians, Galatians, Ephesians. Philippians. Chapter Number Four The last chapter of Philippians, and come down to verse 6. Many of us are familiar with this, but we need to be reminded. We need God to help us. Have peace of mind. Says verse 6, he says, be careful for nothing. The word careful there means to be anxious or worried, worked up, fret. Be careful for nothing, but in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your request be made known unto God. Look at this next verse. And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and what? Minds through Christ Jesus. You know we say and we we worry, we get careful about stuff, we get anxious about things. He says, but you come and you pray And you remember all I've done for you, you be grateful for what I've done for you. You come and pray, and you look to me, I'll help you. I'll give you peace of mind. And I'll help you deal with that anxiety and a and worry. I'll give you peace of mind. We need God to help us. Need God to help us. We tend I don't know how you are, I tend to try and figure things out for myself. Anyone know what I'm talking about? I got a situation I need, okay, well I gotta do this, I gotta do that. And um Uh I thought about becoming a banker, but I lost interest in that. And um I'm trying to milk that joke here as much as I can. But um uh you know and I try to work things out I came across a verse years ago in Proverbs. Listen to what it says. Actually, it's stated twice, verbatim, in Proverbs, in chapter 14, verse 12, and chapter 16, verse 25, it says this There is a way which seemeth right unto a man, but the end thereof the ways of death You know what? You know what he's saying? We need God to help us because we could go down the wrong road. We could make some bad decisions and get hurt really, really bad, and we need God to help us. Amen. If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God. God will help you. God will help you. God will give you wisdom. Our young people need wisdom, don't they? How many people here pray for our young people that they'll make wise decisions, not ruin their lives, not end up messed up? Our middle-aged folk need wisdom raising our children. We need God to help us raise our children, amen or not. I tell you the the people the best people raising kids that I've ever met that the uh that gave me the most advice on raising children are people that don't have any children. They're all experts Right. Or they have, you know, a little twelve four month old. Oh yeah, this this is how you raise kids. Yeah, wait until they're fourteen years old. We'll see how you're doing then What I'm trying to say is we need God's help. We all do. We all do. Um, I had a fella When I first got saved the meat pack and plant, they they just I mean they just gave me fits when I got saved. My life was so changed. They could not figure it out. They got mad, they just There was one fellow there, he said, Leatherman, you're just this Jesus stuff is just a crutch for you to lean on. Now this guy's a drug addict, you know. He's telling me about a crutch He says, it's just a crutch for you to lean on. I said, his name was Bob. I said, Bob, you're wrong. It's not a crutch for me to lean on. It is a stretcher. That I'm laying on, and God's carrying it. I'm not leaning on it. He's doing it all. Amen. You follow what I'm saying? The search for help. Whence cometh my help? Whence cometh my help, I need help. Whoever this guy was, I don't know what his circumstance was. But he was aware of the fact he needed help, and you and I need help also. I thought about the uh prodigal son. He got all that money, his daddy's inheritance. He got it all and he went and lived up, went to the far country. Doesn't say he invested it wisely. Doesn't say he used it for the good of the community or helped the cause of God, but he wasted it on riotous living, ended up with nothing. He came back to his daddy. And in so many words, he said this, Daddy, I need your help. Just let me be a servant. I don't have anything to eat. I don't have any place to live. I don't have anything. Daddy, I need you to help me. I'll just be a servant. Daddy helped him. You and I are that prodigal son. We need God to help us. Without him, we can't do it. We need God to help us in our church. We need God to help us in our Sunday school classes, our bus routes, our choir. We need God to help us So the search for help. Number two, quickly, the source of help. Come back here to Psalm 121, if you would. Notice verse number two. Verse 1, he says, I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills, from whence cometh my help? Then verse 2, he says, My help cometh from the Lord, which made heaven and earth. Now I got looking at that and I'm figuring out what he's saying here. I think this is what he's saying. Whoever this fellow is, he sees his situation. He sees himself and says, I need help. And often the distance he sees these great mountains there in Israel. And those mountains are strong and they're immovable and unmovable and they're they're stable. And he says, those mountains could help me. I lift up my eyes unto the hills. From whence cometh my help? And I think what happens is he thinks for a moment. No. My help comes from the Lord, which made those mountains. The Lord that made this heaven and the earth. That's my help. And he finds the source of his help is not anything on this planet. It's not anything material. It's not mountains. It's not hills. It's the Lord that made all of it. That's his help. We must never ever forget that you and I have a creator. It's all through Scripture, our Creator, our Maker, know ye that the Lord, He is God, and it is He that hath made us, and not we ourselves And that creator is also our helper. Our helper. The Lord. He's the helper. He's the helper. He looks beyond the mountains. He sees the one who made them and says, That's where my help is. Our help is in the person of the Lord, not in a place. Not in the mountains, not in the valleys, not on the plains, not in the desert, not on the ocean. Our help is in the Lord that made all of that I thought two thoughts about the source of our help. Our help is our Creator. Our Lord God is all-powerful. We look at creation and we see the power of God in unimaginable degrees. The stars. I was w uh on this trip down New Zealand the other week, uh we dropped a fellow off way out in the country. He had gone to we had picked him up for one of the meetings I was preaching and he had just newly gotten saved. I mean he lived way out in the country on a farm out there. And there's no lights. This is the southern hemisphere. And I got out of the van to open the door for him and his wife to get out, and I just happened to glance up, and there's no city lights. It's just dark And I'm telling you, you could see the Milky Way as clear. If you've ever seen pictures, it was as clear as could be just right there. And I had to stop. And I thought, what a God. That just spoke this into existence. The power of this God that you and I have that made us I'm here to tell you, as our Creator, God is able to help us. There's not a situation, there's not a need, there's not a circumstance, there's not uh uh a hard heart there's not a uh uh uh uh an uh situation we find ourselves in that our God is not able to help us he is able To do abundantly above all that we could ever ask for it. Don't ever think God can't help me in this situation. Yes, He can. He's able. So I look at creation, I see the power of God, and I say, oh yeah, God can help me. There's no doubt about it. He's got the ability. The question is, is he willing? I know he's able, but is God willing to help me? Is he willing to step down from his majestic throne into my life and help me? In this situation, in this heartache, and this need that it for me is overwhelming, for him it's nothing So drop in the bucket, is he willing to come and help me? What is man that thou art mindful of him? That you would come and help me. I'm here to tell you, as my creator, as our creator, he is able to help us. And as our Redeemer, He is willing to help us. Let me show you a verse that blesses my heart. Come back to Romans again. I know we're jumping around here a bit. Come to Romans. What a tremendous verse. Romans chapter 8. And verse 32. I don't know if you're in the habit of underscoring verses in your Bible or highlighting, but I highly recommend this one, along with about 793 others. Romans chapter eight, verse thirty-two. Look at this. He that spared not his own son. But delivered him up for us all. Look at this. How shall he not with him also freely give us all things? You know what he's saying? If God is willing to sacrifice his son for your sins and my sins, surely He is willing to help us in our areas of need. Amen or not? Yes, God is able. He's the creator. He's all powerful. He's almighty God. But he loves me. And while I was yet a sinner, Christ died for me. And if he was willing to do that Pay for my sins, surely. He'll help me in my needs. He'll help me in my needs. So the search for help, once cometh my help. Oh, my help comes from the hills. No, no. My help comes from the Lord, which made heaven and earth. He's able to. I know he's willing to. Let me end with this real quickly. I noticed the certainty of help. Brother, you could do a whole series. We're back in 121 here, Psalm 121 again. We could do a whole series on these next verses for months. Believe me, I could. But I won't. But if we go down through there, if you pay close attention, he uses some words over and over and over. Will not. I will not sleep. Shall not. I won't fail you. I shall, I shall, I shall. These are all certainty words. These are all assurance words. I, and can I just summarize it in one statement, those next six verses, I will help you. I'm not going to fall asleep. I'm not going to abandon you. I'm not going to disown you. I will help you. I will help you. I will help you. The same God that got the Hebrews out of Egypt and saw them safely through the Red Sea miraculously, that same God is the God that will help you and me. The same God that provided manna and security and provisions for Israel in a wilderness for 40 years. That's the same God that will help you and me. The same God that restored David after he fell horrendously in blant and open adultery and murder. God helped him back on his feet. You and I mess up. I'm here to tell you, God will help us. Same God that helped David will help us. The same God that restored Peter after he denied the Lord, God said, Lovest thou me, Peter, feed my sheep. He helped them get back in the ministry. He helped him get back serving God. The same God that kept Daniel safe in the lion's den will keep you and I safe. The same God that quenched the fire and the fiery furnace, so Shadrach, Mesha, and Abednego was right there with them in that fire. He'll help you and me. We can be certain of that. We can be certain of that. Now, he may not do it the way we anticipate. He may not do it on our timing. But I'm here to tell you, I've been knowing the Lord now for going on over 47 years. Coming up on 47 years, I've learned something. God's smarter than I am. God's a whole lot wiser than I am, and his timing is better than my timing, and his ways are better than my ways. And if I'll just trust him, and if I'll just wait on him, if I'll just do what he says He'll help me. He'll help me. He'll help me. He said in Isaiah 41, verse 13, he says, For I, the Lord thy God, will hold thy right hand. Saying unto thee, Fear not, I will help thee. The next verse he says, I will help thee, saith the Lord thy Redeemer. Jesus Christ was willing to die for you. He absolutely, certainly will help you To live for him and serve him. Say, preacher, I messed up this week. God will help you get back on your feet if you'll just trust him. Just let him do what he says Say, preacher, I've got needs that are over my head. I don't see any way out of it. I'm drowning. I'm here to tell you: God was able to get Israel through that Red Sea. He can get you through this. Just trust him, do what he says. Say, preacher, I've got a loved one that's unsaved, or they're away from God, their heart's so hard, and they're so cold, and they're so far away. I'm here to tell you, if God bring that prodigal son back, he can bring your loved one back. Certainty of God's help. I was reading about a fellow a hundred some years ago. He bought a Model T4. I believe he was up in Michigan, Dearborn, somewhere up around there. And he's driving that Model T4 and he's going down the road, and it says, suddenly the car sputtered and coughed and rolled to a stop. He climbed out, he lifted the hood. He began doing his best to fix the problem. He was ratcheting this and tightening wires and doing all this stuff. And uh he could not get that thing back running again. So finally as he was working on this, an hour or so went by. All right. God bless you. Maybe somebody can help there with the doors and stuff. Thank you, Derek. All right. Thank you. God bless you, ladies He was there for about an hour or so working on that thing, getting frustrated. And soon a car, another Model T pulled up and saw he's having trouble, pulled over, and the fellow stopped out. He said very nicely, he said, Can I help you? And the fellow working on the car, this broken car, was pretty frustrating. He goes, now I think I can manage this. The guy says, I really think I could help you with this. He goes, now I'm good, thanks The guy pressed on a little bit. He said there he says, you know, I can help you. Finally the guy threw the tools down and says, You think you can help me? All right. The guy went up and twiddled a little bit here and tinkered a little there and boom. Fellow said, what's your name? So my name's Henry Ford. I'm the one that designed this and built it. I can help you. You and I are tinkering with our lives and we're messing around, playing with this and doing that, and we wonder why we're so frustrated and we have no peace of mind. So worried all the time, and our light my light's turning into a mess. God comes down and says, You know, I can help you. I can help you. I'm good, God, thank you. It just gets a bigger mess and bigger mess, and finally we say, God, can you help me? Yeah, I can help you. God steps in, fixes things, gets us back on our feet, gets some peace of mind, gets some purpose. Get back in the will of God. He helps us. But we've got to do what he says. We've got to follow his instructions. We've got to trust him He'll come and help us. You're here and you're not saved. You don't know for sure your sins are forgiven. When you die, you're going to heaven. I'm here to tell you, God can help you. He can take all your sins away. He can give you a new life and secure your soul for all eternity and end up in the presence of God. But you got to trust him. You've got to call on him. Do what he says. Amen. Father in heaven, I pray you'd help us now. We do need you, Lord. Every day. We need you every hour. Father, I pray you would help us now make right decisions. Some of us need to make some adjustments in our lives. Some of us need to agree with you and yield our will to your will. We've been bucking you, your Holy Spirit's working in our heart, convicting us, and we hold on to our self-will. Lord, I ask you'd help us to die to self. Conquer this old flesh. Now you can fill us with your spirit and the peace of God and use us to make a difference in other people's lives. That our lives would count for Jesus. You'd be glorified, but we need your help. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder with some say, preacher, like that psalmist, I am very much aware of the fact I need God to help me Maybe it's some specific area that you're thinking of right now that I need God to help me in this specific issue. Is there any like that by the uplifting hand? Preacher, pray with me. I'm thinking of a very specific issue. I need God to help me. God bless you. God bless you. Wonder how many say, preacher, I know someone They need God to help them get saved. They need God to help them understand their need of a savior. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God maybe can use me. To help them come to Christ. Any like that, you're thinking of someone right now. God bless you. Hands all around. God will help us, help them Whatever your need is, I pray this morning you'll just bring it to the Lord and like the psalmist say, Lord, I'm I'm looking to you, trusting you. Father, bless our invitation now in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, I