2 Samuel 16, if you would, keep your place there and also find Psalms forty-three. Psalm 43. I should have had you find that first, because we're going to come to that in a couple minutes. Psalm 43, I want to start off in 2 Samuel 16. I'm going to read an extended portion of scripture Because I want to keep this whole event together. We're not going to get it all tonight, but uh I want to read it all together so we have the context. We know what's happening. So Psalm 43, put a marker there, then come back to 2 Samuel 16. Alright? Everybody got that figured out? Alright, we should be at 2 Samuel 16, and we should have a marker or something in Psalm 43. Alright, 2 Samuel 16. I'm going to begin reading in verse 15. I'm going to read into the next chapter, so bear with me It's a good number of verses here. Verse 15, 2 Samuel 16, and Absalom and all the people of men of Is and all the people, the men of Israel, came to Jerusalem And Ahithophel with him. Who was Ahithophel? Anybody remember? He was David's counselor under David's administration before the coup d'etat. He was his counselor, so we'll talk about him. And Ahithaphel with him. And it came to pass, verse 16, when Hushei the Architec David's friend, he was also a counselor for David also. David's friend was come to unto Absalom that Hushei said unto Absalom, God save the king. God save the king. And Absalom said unto Hushei, Is this thy kindness to thy friend? Why wentest thou not with thy friend? Now you remember the background to this, right? Absalom had stolen the hearts of Israel. And he had this insurrection. And David, rather than fighting Absalom, he f he abandoned the city. He left the palace. He got out of the city. across the river. David's on out in the wilderness. He's fleeing out to the wilderness. Remember he sent Hushei, his friend and counselor, back to be a what? A spy, a mole, in uh Abs in Absalom's administration. So that's what's happening here. So Hushai comes back Absalom says, Is this the kindness they've shown to thy friend? Why wentest thou not with thy friend? And Hushai said unto Absalom, Nay, but whom the Lord in his this But whom the Lord and this people and all the men of Israel choose, his will I be, and with him will I abide. And again, whom should I serve? Should I not serve in the presence of his son As I have served in thy father's presence, so will I be in thy presence. Then said Absalom unto Ahithophel, give counsel among you what we shall do. And Ahithophel said unto Absalom, Go in unto thy father's concubines, which he left to keep the house, and all Israel shall hear that thou art abhorred of thy father. Then shall all the hands of all that are with thee be strong. So they spread Absalom a ten upon the top of the house, and Absalom went in unto his father's concubines in the sight of all of Israel. And the counsel of Hithophel, which he counseled in those days, was as if a man had inquired at the oracle of God. And so it was all the counsel of Ahithophel, both with David and with Absalom. Now verse 17. Moreover, Ahithophel said unto Absalom, Let me now choose out twelve thousand men, and I will arise and pursue after David this night, and I will come upon him while he was weary and weak-handed. And I'll make them afraid, and all the people that are with him shall flee, and I will smite the king only, and I will bring back all the people unto thee, the man whom thou seekest, as if is as if all return, so all the people shall be in peace. And the saying pleased Absalom well, and all the elders of Israel Then said Absalom, Call now Hushei the Archite also, and let us hear likewise what he saith. And when Hushei was come to Absalom, Absalom spake unto him, saying, Ahithophel has spoken after this manner. And what shall shall we do after his saying? If not, speak thou. And Hushai said unto Absalom, the counsel that Hithophel hath given is not good at this time. For, said Heshei, thou knowest thy father and his men, that they be mighty men, and they be chaffed in their minds as a bear robbed of her whelps in the field And thy father is a man of war, and he will not la and will not lodge with the people. Behold, he is hid now in some pit or in some other place. And it will come to pass that when some of them be overthrown at the first That whosoever heareth it will say there is a slaughter among the people that follow Absalom, and he also that is valiant, whose heart is as the heart of a lion, shall utterly melt, for all Israel knoweth that thy father is a mighty man. And they which be with him are valiant men. Wherefore I counsel that all Israel be generally gathered unto thee, from Dan even unto Beersheba As the sand is by the sea for multitude, and that thou go to battle in thine own person And so shall we come upon him in some place where he shall be found, and we will light upon him as the dew falleth on the ground, and of him and of all the men that are with him, there shall not be left so much as one Moreover, if he be gotten into a city, then shall all Israel bring ropes to that city, and we will draw it into the river until there be not one small stone found there. And Absalom and all the men of Israel said, the council of Hushai, the Archites, is better than the council of Ahithophel. Look at this. For the Lord had appointed to defeat The good counsel of Ahithephel to the intent that the Lord might bring evil upon Absalom Isn't that fascinating? I've entitled the message, and you'll understand the title here in a moment, I think. I've entitled the message, Where is Thy God? Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now our study of this event in David's life. You've preserved it for us Lord, by inspiration, you gave it to us and you preserved it for us, and so you have something for us to learn from this. We can profit in some way or another. And so I ask that you, your Holy Spirit, would take your word and speak through me, my lips, and apply it to our hearts and lives as you know we have need. And I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. And Lord, with all my heart, I ask that you would fill me with your Spirit. God, I ask that you would speak through me and help us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Most of us here have been saved for some period of time, I believe. And there are times in the Christian life, and I think you'll I think you'll agree with me on this. There are times in the Christian life where it just seems like God is silent. Does anybody know what I'm talking about? You're praying. Maybe you have a situation I mean you're praying and you're pleading with God and it's like God doesn't even hear. Does anybody know what I'm talking about? And you think, where in the world is God? I'm praying, praying, praying. God, it's it's like your prayers don't get through the roof. Sometimes, maybe there's a real situation I need God to help me. Or maybe you're fearful of something or whatever, and it just seems like God isn't around. It's like we get the idea that we we think sometimes, man, it seems like God's abandoned me. God, where are you? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Ever been there? I've been there There's seasons in our Christian life, these times that we go through and and for reasons that God only knows many times, he's silent. He doesn't answer us And uh he it's like though he doesn't actually do this, it seems like he's removed his presence from us And we're alone, and many times we're scared. It's like God has gone EWA. Anybody what AWA? Anybody know what Ewa means? Absent without leave. It's like God, where are you? In those periods of time, if we can learn, now this is what I want you to get out of the introduction here, if we can learn to be faithful to God. Even when it seems like God is silent, even when it seems like God's nowhere to be found, nevertheless we stay faithful, we stay the Course, we stay true to the Lord, we do what we know we're supposed to do. I tell you, it's during those times that our faith really grows. And then God comes through, and then God answers. And if we if we can learn to be faithful in those times, that's what tests our faith. And I think many times, you know, God has his reasons, but I think many times God Is quiet, is silent because he wants us to trust him and to learn to trust him even when we can't see him. Even when it seems like he's not there, we still trust him. And that's a tough lesson to learn. David, now this is what I'm getting at. David is at no doubt the lowest point of his life. Just in the last couple years he's had a baby die. His oldest son has rise up against him, lying about him, and wins the Israel over his uh has taken his throne, has run him out of the city. He's after, he's about to pursue him, and he wants to kill him. His family is in shambles, his testimony has been stained. His uh administration is in shambles. This is no doubt one of the lowest times in David's life And now he's out in the wilderness. Now, this is what I want us to try and picture here, what's leading up to what's happening here. We are, God tells us here what's happening in Jerusalem. He's showing us here what's happening in the palace. But David is not here. David is where? He's out in the wilderness. In other words, David knows nothing. About what's taking place here in the palace. What we just read, he doesn't know anything about that. At this point in time, all David knows is I've been run out of the city, uh, my son is out to kill me I've lost everything I've invested my life in. And I'm out here in the woods. That's all he knows. And I'm wondering if it isn't going through David's mind this question, God, where are you? Now, where in the world are you? He's uh in the wilderness. Now that's where Psalm 43 comes in. Now keep your place here. We're gonna get as far as we can into this. event here. But let's come back to 43. Psalm 43. And it says this: My tears have been my meat day and night. While they continually say unto me, Where is thy God? Now this is not a psalm penned by David, but I'm wondering if that thought isn't going through the mind of David I wonder if his family around him isn't saying, David, where's this God that we've served? How can this happen? Where is thy God? It looks like God's silent. It looks like God may have abandoned David. He may be thinking that out in the dark side of a mountain in the wilderness But the fact of the matter is, our text reveals to us that God is still working, that God is still active on David's behalf, even though he doesn't see it, even though he doesn't know it. God is still active. And I want to suggest to you and I, as we study this, those periods of time when we get where it seems like God is silent, it seems like God's abandoned us I want to remind you, just because we don't see God's activity doesn't mean that God is not active. And we've got to trust them that He is working. Even though it's unseen to us, God is active, God is working on our behalf. And I think that's what's taking place here. When we can learn to trust God even when He's unseen, if we can learn to be at peace in our heart even when God seems to be quiet, silent, just be at peace. All right, I trust them. And if we can even get to the point where we can rejoice in the Lord Even when we're in the midst of a storm or in a valley, God seems unseen, but I'm still going to trust God. I'm still going to rejoice. I tell you, that's when we got a strong, growing faith. That's when we got a strong growing faith. There's three individuals coming back to our text now. Now that's David's situation out there. He's in the dark. He doesn't know what's happening. Now we come back to what's taking place in the palace, and we set have three individuals here. The first one is Hushei. He's David's friend. He'd been a counselor to David for many, many years. The second one is we have Hushai, and then we have Ahithophel. Don't you love these names? These Hebrew names. Ahithophel has been a faithful, and we're going to see here if we have time to get to it. Ahithophel has been a very, very faithful counselor to David. In fact He has been a phenomenal counselor to David. To the point where when Ahithophel gave counsel, it was so solid, it was so wise. That people would think, man, that counsel comes from God. We're going to see that here in a little bit. So we got Hushei, David's dear friend. He's called David's friend at least three times, just in the opening verses here. He's a counselor to David, has been for years. He left the city with David when David left, but David said, no, I need you back there to be that spy. So he sends him back. Ahithophel, he sided with Absalom right from the get-go. As soon as Absalom started uh his insurrection, uh Ahithophel was right there with him. In fact Some suggest that Ahithophel was advising Absalom how to overthrow his father. Very, very likely. But he's loyal to Absalom. And then, of course, we have Absalom, David's son, who is the rebel in all of this. So look at verse 15. Come back there, chapter 16, verse 15. It says, and Absalom and all the people, the men, the men of Israel, came to Jerusalem and Ahitha fell with them. So David has abandoned the palace He's fled the city. The palace is sitting there empty. Now I don't know. I'm picturing this in my mind. Absalom is there. He's got Ahithophel. He's his right-hand man, his counselor. They've got troops, no doubt. They've got uh Secret Service uh guarding uh Absalom. They know David is pretty tricky. He knows his warfare. He's a soldier of soldiers And so I picture them coming back into the palace very cautiously. And I see these guards and his personal uh security fellows. They're going in ahead of them and they're going into the rooms with their swords and looking around. Clear and they're going over here Clear and they're clearing out the palace and making sure there's no booby traps or anybody hiding there to jump. And finally they come out and say, Okay, uh King uh Absalom, it's all clear, you can come on in So he gets in there. Now this is the middle of the night. They have all fled. And they get in there, and the very first thing Absalom does, he calls his counselor and says, All right, what do we do now? David's on the run, my dad's on the run. We've got the palace, we've got the city. What do we do? What do we do? And so he seeks for this council. He brings this council together. And um He brings in his counsel and Hushei here the first thing Hushei engages David. He shows up in the palace. I don't know how he gets past the guards You know, and they all know them. Uh Hiphophel and Hoshi know each other very, very well. They've served side by side for many, many years served David as counselors. They've debated issues, no date. They've debated economic strategies and military strategies. No, they've been counselors to the king for many, many years together. So they know each other very, very well And Ohoshiah gets in there, he passes through security, and he engages David. And that's where we want to pick up, and I have one point for tonight's all we're going to get to, but I want us to notice Hushei's clever conversation. I think you'll see what I mean here. Hushai ha has to gain Absalom's confidence. Because Hushai is a what? He's David's what? He's a spy. He's coming in undercover. And he has got to get Absalom to trust him if he's going to do David any good at all. He has got to win his respect. He has got to win his confidence over. So his uh would you ever hear this statement? First impressions are important? So Hushiah, he's thinking this thing through. He's no dummy. And he thinks, you know, how I approach Absalom and my opening statements to him and how I engage him here. That could very well determine whether he's going to take my head off or he's going to accept me into the administration. And so I think he's very clever in the conversation he uses. If you would, look at verse number 16. And uh he uses the words very cleverly, very carefully. Look what he says in verse 16. It came to pass when Hushai the Architect, David's friend, was come unto Absalom That Hushiah said unto Absalom, notice his very first statements, God saved the king. God save the king. Two observations about his first statements to David. First of all, that was very customary to say that when you approached a king That was traditional. You would expect that from somebody that was approaching a king. So what he is saying, it's not out of order. It's what you would expect from a loyal subject. In fact, him saying that communicated several things. Number one, it communicated that he acknowledged, so to speak, Absalom's position. When you said to the king, God save the king, you're acknowledging that they're king. Alright? Now bear with me. When he said that, it's an expression of loyalty. God save the king. He's implying loyalty. And when he says God save the king, it is an expression of submission. You're the king, I'm not. So it was very customary for somebody to approach the king and open the conversation, walk into the king's presence, God save the king. And no doubt he's probably bowing, God save the king, God save the king. He's doing that. So it's customary, but I want to suggest to you it was pretty clever. Notice what he does not say. He does not say, God save Absalom. Who is Hushai's king? David. In fact, when we look down through here, all his statements to Absalom I think have double meaning. He's saying these words to Absalom, but his loyalty, and we're going to look at the words carefully, all of them apply to David. So I'm wondering when Hushia comes into Absalom and he's saying, God saved the king, God saved the king, I wonder if in his heart he's not thinking, God saved King David. His whole point of being there is so that King David would be saved. And so it's a very common thing. So it's not out of place for him to say that, but I think his choice of words there is very, very clever. And right off the bat, Absalom challenges Hushei. Look there at verse number 16. And it came to pass when Hushai the Arkite, David's friend, or verse 17, and Absalom said unto Hushei, Is this thy kindness to thy friend? Why wentest thou not with thy friend? How many people agree with me? That's a pretty reasonable question. He knew that Hushiah and David were dear friends and for many, many years. And right off the bat to Absalom, something doesn't seem right here. There's something fishy about all of this. And he says, why didn't you go with your friend? He questions David's friendship. He questions his friendship with David. He says, thy friend, thy friend, thy friend. What in the world? And then I think there's embedded into this this question in Absalom's mind. Now I'm maybe reading between the lines here a little bit But I think Absalom is wondering, what in the world are you doing with us? Hushei was a godly man. Hoshiah was a dear friend of a man after God's own heart. And there's a lot of things I don't know, but I'm sure of this thing. If you're friends with someone who is a man after God's own heart, you have to have a heart for God. Except two walk together, except two be agreed, they cannot walk together. And I think in the mind, in the back of Absalom's mind, he's thinking Hushai is out of place. Now he doesn't say this, and I'm reading between the lines here, but I wonder if Absalom isn't thinking, man, here's a friend of a man after God's own heart. I am not a man after God's own heart We have rebelled against the man of God. We have rebelled against the anointing and choice of God. We are rebelling against the will, the declared publicly known will of God. We are rebelling against that. And Hushei? You're coming with us? You know, there's some places where God's people are just out of place. Follow what I'm saying? There are some crowds of people where God's people are just out of place in that crowd. You follow what I'm saying? And I can't help but think that Absalom is thinking, I know what I am. I know what I've done. I know where I stand as far as the will of God is concerned. I've rebelled against all of this. Now, why in the world is this man of God, so to speak, what's he doing with our crowd? What's he doing trying to associate with us? I put it this way, there are some situations where Christians are just out of place, and there are some situations that Christians just do not belong, and the world knows it. Christian can walk into some, Christian that has any kind of testament at all, walk into certain settings, and the unsaved people would say, what in the world someone like you doing here? Take your Bible with me if you would. Now keep your place here. Let's go to the New Testament, 2 Corinthians. The same question is asked. Paul presents to the church at Corinth. The same question, what in the world is this type of person doing in this type of setting? We must not forget how rebellious Absalom is. We must not forget how wicked the heart of Absalom is. And here's Hushei, a dear friend of a man of God. And he's hanging, he's coming say, hey, I'm with you, I'm with you. And Absalom picks up on that Emilia says, what in the world are you doing here? Look in 2 Corinthians chapter 6. And look with me at verse number 14. Paul asks some questions here that I think are related to what's going on with Hushiah. Be not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. Now here the questions begin. For what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? And what communion hath light with darkness? And what's the answer to the question? None. Those two don't mix. Righteousness has no fellowship with unrighteousness. Light has no communion with darkness. Look at verse 15. What concord or agreement Hath Christ with Belial? The answer is what? None whatsoever. Christ and Satan? Are you kidding me? Or what part hath he that believeth with an infidel? None And what agreement hath the temple of God with idols? None, none, none. And so Absalom, I think, knows what he is. He knows what his father is, what kind of man his father is. He knows Hushai, what kind of man Hushai is, and he says, what's the deal with your friend? What are you doing here with us? And sometimes I think we have to stop and ask ourselves, what am I doing in this situation? When the unsaved world starts questioning us why a Christian like us is in that situation, we better stop and re-examine. What we're doing. What we're doing. Now, Hushei, coming back to our text here in Samuel, he's not here in rebellion. He's not here uh um you know in neglect of his spiritual responsibilities. He's here on a mission Unbeknownst to Absalom. But Absalom first of all challenges him. Hushai comes in and he displays respect to uh uh uh uh Absalom. Uh God save the king. God saved the king. Now I think he's double meaning there, but he is displaying respect, at least in the eyes of Absalom. Absalom questions that, challenges it right away. What in the world do you think you're doing? But Hushiah continues the conversation. He doesn't answer that. He just kind of goes on. Look with me if you would, at verse 18. And Hushiah said unto Absalom, Nay, but whom the Lord and his people and all the men of Israel choose His will I be, and with him with him will I abide. So first he showed respect. Second of all, he declares his loyalty. Again, notice the wording very carefully, but whom the Lord and his people and all the men of Israel choose. His will I be. Who did the Lord choose? David. The men of Israel back when God anointed them, they chose him. They recognized the anointing of God upon David I think Hushai is undercover. He's declaring his loyalty to David. He's convincing Absalom. Absalom's taking his own. He's being loyal to me. But I don't think I think Hushi is uh is declaring his loyalty to David. He's I believe verse 18 he's re referring to David. Then look at verse 19. And again, whom should I serve? This is Hushai talking to Absalom, countering his his challenge Whom should I serve? Should I not serve in the presence of the Son as I have served in the presence, in thy father's presence? So will I be in thy presence. Let me ask you a question What how did Hushi serve David in his presence? What was his service to David? He was loyal, but what was his service? He was his counselor. He would give him advice. And so verse 19, all he's saying is: listen, just like I gave your father advice, I'm going to give you advice. And boy is he. He's going to give advice all right, but not the way Absalom's anticipating. And so I come back to my statement. He has a very clever, very careful wording, very clever wording. He's winning Absalom over, but yet he's never one time is this denying his loyalty to David. That takes a little bit of uh uh tricky thinking there But he's able to do it. He pulls it off. So the first thing I notice is Hushii's clever conversation. Let me get into the second thought here real quick. Everybody doing okay? We've got a few minutes left. Let me give you the second one. First of all, we have Hushiah's clever conversation. Second of all, in verse 20, then into chapter 17, we have Hushai's courageous advice Now here's where it really gets interesting. Verse 20. Then said Absalom to Hipphophel, so he accepts Hoshiayan. He's won his trust. Alright, come on. Then he calls Ahithophel in. He says, Give counsel among you. So you got these two guys here. Give counsel among you. What shall we do? Well, Ithophel speaks up immediately and gives his advice. But I want you to notice in verse 20. Two thoughts about Absalom's statement there. Number one, he's wise enough to seek counsel. Proverbs chapter 20 and verse 18 says, with good advice make war. Proverbs 11, verse 14 says, In the multitude of counselors there is safety. So would you agree with me? Absalom's being pretty wise here in that he's getting advice on the best way to go. I think it's a good thing to get advice. You know why? Because sometimes someone else may see something that I don't see. They may have a perspective on something that I don't have, and they'll help me get a whole picture here, the best way to approach this. In this regard, Absalom is wise in seeking counsel. However, I think he's foolish in not seeking the Lord. Notice who he goes to immediately for counsel. To men. There's no prayer. There's no seeking the Lord. There's no getting out the Word of God. David, there's almost with I think one exception, David always said, Hey, get the ephod, get the priest in here. Let's see what God says about this. Nathan, here's I got this idea, build a temple. I want your input on this. But Absalom doesn't do that at all. He gets no counsel and perhaps the most important time in his life Now I'm going to suggest to you, it's wise to get counsel, but it's foolish to leave the Lord's counsel out. We need to go to God. We need to go to the Word of God. Let God say, God, I need you to direct me. Now, I think there might be a reason Absalom didn't go to the Lord for counsel He knew what he was doing. He knew where he stood with God. And so he wasn't interested in anything God had to say about this situation. Notice Ahithophel's recommendation Verse 21. This is like I said, it gets interesting. Ahithophel said unto Absom, so he speaks up. Go in unto thy father's concubines, which he has left to keep the house. And all Israel shall hear that thou art abhorred of thy father, then shall the hands of all that are with thee be strong So they spread Absalom a tent upon the top of the house, and Absalom went unto his father's concubines in the sight of all of Israel. Now, Ahitfel is highly respected. He gives solid advice. But in this situation, he's on the wrong side of God's will. And it's amazing to me how foolish a wise man can be. He's a wise man. We're going to see that here in a little bit, probably next week. But it's amazing how foolish a wise man can be. Notice he advises two actions, and the first one seems almost bizarre. First of all, he advises Absalom to publicly violate David's women. Publicly violate David's women. He says, Go in unto thy father's concubines, which he has left to keep the house, all where Israel shall hear that thou abhor to thy father, then shall the hands of all that are with thee be strong. I don't know about you, but this sounds almost bizarre. What in the world? Your father's getting away. We need advice on how do we get him, how do we secure this What we have here and you you're telling me go in and sleep with his concubines? Actually I got studying that and first I thought, what in the world? And I got studying that, and you know and behold, that really was a fairly common practice when an insurgent overthrew a king One of the first things they would do is go into his women publicly. If you would, come back to chapter 3 of 2 Samuel. We ran into this previously. We didn't say much about it. But in 2 Samuel chapter 3 and uh verse number six This is when David is uh for he became king of Judah. They recognized him. Israel did not And then Saul's son set up himself as king, and Abner was loyal to him. And look in verse 6. And it came to pass while there was war between the house of Saul and the house of David. That Adam there made himself strong for the house of Saul. And Saul had a concubine whose name was Rizpah. The daughter of Ai, the Ishpash, and Ishpash, that's Saul's son, who has set himself up as king of Israel, said to Abnor, Abnur, Wherefore hast thou gone in unto my father's concubine? He was accusing Abner of doing what Absalom's about to do. In saying that, he was accusing Abner of Insurrection. You're trying to overthrow my throne. You're going into my father's concubines. You're trying to overthrow my throne. Look how Abner responds. And there was Abner very wroth For the words of Ishbazethan said, Am I a dog's head, which against Judah do show kindness today, to the house of Saul thy father, to his brethren and his friends, and am not delivered in the hands of David, now charges to me today with fault concerning this woman Ish was saying the very same thing that Ahithophel is advising Absalom. Don't you love these names? I'm proud of myself just getting all those names right. But you see what's happening? So this was a fairly common practice when somebody overthrows the throne, first thing they do is they go into their women But there's another reason behind this. It brings Absalom, uh, it accomplishes two things. First of all, there's a permanent division with King David now. Look what he says there in verse 21. So, and all Israel shall hear that thou art abhorred of thy father. I tell you, you go into your father's concubines, your father's going to hate your guts. And all Israel is going to know it. And that is going to put a permanent division between you and King David. That word abhor means to stink, to have a stench. David is going to absolutely abhor you He's going to hate you. And then not only would there be a permanent division, but this is bringing Absalom to a point of no return. Ithophel says if you do that There's no going back. It's life or death at this point. There's no peace treaties with David. There's no compromise now. It is all in. And he says, when your people, your men, hear that, they are going to rally behind you because they know you are 100% committed to overthrowing your father. So there's really a very strategic maneuver on Ahithophel's advice. It's bizarre to us But it's very strategic in the minds. It was a psych warfare there, sort of. And verse 22, Absalom follows his advice. Absalom follows his advice. It's actually a fulfillment of what Nathan said to David in 2 Samuel 12 when he says, others are going to go into your wives, and everybody's going to see it. Is that it was the result, consequence of David's sin with Bathsheba continuing on. It's a fulfillment of that. Absalom is committed to his rebellion. There's no turning back. Absalom is more concerned about getting his own way. than he is about the well-being of these dear women or the nation of Israel. He wants what he wants, whatever it costs, whoever it hurts Whatever has to be done, I'm getting my way. And this is something that has to be done if he's going to get his way. I'll end with this. I put this down. Sin is sin, no matter who promotes it. Or how justified someone may make it seem. Sin is sin. And I thought of this. Absalom is absolutely 100% committed To rebellion against David and against God. He is all in, no turning back. He is rebellion against David and God. And I thought this. I wonder if we could just get Christians as committed and devoted to the Lord Jesus Christ as Absalom was. To his own self, sinful, selfish will. I wonder what a difference we would make in the world. I wonder how many Christians have come to the point where I'm all in I'm all win, regardless of what it costs me. I'm 100% committed to Christ. If we take that same commitment Absalom had to his wickedness, And take that commitment and put it to Christ in righteousness. We might have revival in our homes, our churches. You follow my thinking? Let's pray together. We'll quit there and pick it up next week. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to learn from these horrific events that are recorded for us. And I pray you'd just give us wisdom. And Lord, I pray you'd stir a real commitment on our hearts and minds and our lives to the Lord Jesus Christ. All in, no turning back, out and out for Christ. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many would say, preacher, I need to My walk with God really needs attention. My commitment to Christ really needs a bit of revival. Anybody like that, my commitment to Christ really needs a bit of revival. And maybe God can use this to stir us and help us press forward. Father, bless our invitation. I ask tonight. Help us to learn and grow in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, hands bowed, eyes.