Song I don't know that I've ever heard that before. Has anyone else ever heard that song before? I'm an outcast then. That was a good song. Book of Job, chapter twenty three. Job 23. And hold your place there. In a little bit, we're going to go back and look at chapter 1. But we'll start here in Job twenty-three. We're going to read verse three down through twelve. Did anyone get a nap today? I got like fifteen minutes and it felt like about fifteen hours. It was wonderful. It was wonderful. I got to listen to the the news a little bit this afternoon. Apparently there's this guy, he was half blind. And he was walking around his backyard and he fell into the well. Apparently he didn't see that well. Job twenty-three And uh verse three. It says, Oh, that I knew where I might find him, that I might come even to his seat. I would order my cause before him and fill my mouth with arguments. I would know the words which he would answer me and understand that he what he would say unto me. Will he plead against me with his great power? No, but he would put strength in me. There the righteous might dispute with him, so should I be delivered forever from my judge. Behold, I go forward, but he is not there, and backward, but I cannot perceive him. On the left hand where he doth work, but I cannot behold him, he hideth himself on the right hand. That I cannot see him, but he knoweth the way that I take. When he hath tried me, I shall come forth as gold My foot hath held his steps, his ways have I kept, and not declined. Neither have I gone back from the commandment of his lips I have esteemed the words of his mouth more than my necessary food. We'll go ahead and read the next two verses. But he is one mind, and who can turn him And what his soul desireth even that he doeth. For he performeth a thing that is appointed for me, and many such things are with him. I'm going to pray and then the message tonight that I've just entitled, Where is God? Where is God? Heavenly Father, I thank you for this day that you've given us, Lord. I thank you for giving us This account of Job help us to learn something from this tonight, Lord, but not just to learn something, Lord, but to claim some principles here and some truths here And Lord, help us just to have an open heart tonight, ready for your Holy Spirit to work in us. Lord, I ask that you would teach us tonight, Lord, and I ask that you would uh use me and hide me behind yourself, Lord. And if there's anything that I would say that is a contrary to to your word, Lord, I ask that you would keep me from saying it. And Lord, if there's anything that um you would have me to say, but I don't have maybe in my notes, Lord, bring it to my mind, please. Lord, I thank you for loving us so much. I thank you for dying for us. And I ask that you would bless this service tonight in Jesus' name. Amen. So obviously, we know the story of Job is a very famous story. If you go back to chapter 1, we're going to look at some things just by way of remembrance. The way the book of Job starts out, it describes Job as a upright man, a righteous man. If we were to uh label him, we might say he was like a five-star Christian, okay? If there was such a thing, we would say Job was the guy. Um it said he was perfect, not that he was without sin, but he was in the perfect will of God, and that's a place that all of us should strive to be, and that's where Job uh was. And um we know that there's a conversation that took place, and um And and and basically the devil confronts uh God and um God is the one that brings up Job to Satan Satan does not bring up Job if we look at it. God brings up Job to Satan. He says, Have you considered my servant Job? And it describes them there. And then we see that basically what Satan says, and I'm paraphrasing a lot here. We'll look at the second half of chapter one in just a second. But on basically what Job says is, well the reason that he's so well off or or the reason he respects you so much is because he's so well off Uh he's got all this stuff. You've blessed him, of course he's a righteous man, but you take this from him and he'll curse you. So uh God gives Satan permission to uh take things from him And then in verse 13 of chapter 1, it says, And there were uh was a day when his sons and his daughters were eating and drinking wine in their eldest brother's house And we see in verse 14 that he says, And there came a messenger unto Job and said, The oxen were ploughing, and the asses feeding beside them, and the Sabians fell upon them and took them away. So he lost his livestock there. Then we go down to verse sixteen, and it says that there was a fire that came from heaven, and hath burnt up the sheep and the servants. And he consumed them, and the servant said, I only have escaped to tell thee. In verse 17, where we see where the Chaldeans uh made uh out of three bands fell upon the camels and carried them away, and have slain the servants And I was kind of paraphrasing and skipping through here, but I want you to see, uh just to refresh your memory, uh, what will happen. And then we get to the worst part. Verse 18, while he was yet speaking, there came also another and said Thy sons and daughters were eating and drinking wine in their eldest brother's house, and behold there came a great wind from the wilderness, and smote the four corners of the house, and it fell upon the young men, and they are dead. And I only am escaped alone to tell thee. Then Job arose and rent his mantle and shaved his head and fell down upon the ground and worshipped. That's an amazing thing to be able to worship God through that. Then, of course, I'm going to paraphrase here again. In chapter 2, we see where Satan goes to God again and God brings up Job again. And then Job says, Well, it's because he's healthy. You take his health from him, and uh he'll curse you. So verse seven of chapter two, so went Satan forth from the presence of the Lord and smote Job with sore boils from the soul of his foot unto his crown. And he took him a pot shirt and uh scraped himself withal, and he sat down among the ashes. Verse nine, then said his wife unto him, Dost thou still remain thine integrity, curse God and die? Job had problems. Job had problems. And we can see a list of problems. And this is kind of a person that we owe or a story, I guess you could say, and it was a literal person. We don't know exactly when, but we know uh that he was So we know that this uh actually happened, and I can't fathom all this happening simultaneously like it did to Job. I mean I've had problems, but not all at once like this. This is kind of overwhelming. And a lot of times we'll go to Job when we see when we have problems to get some some answers from the book of Job, and that's good. But if we look at the different types of trials he had, um I think we can relate to those individually Um horrible sickness. I was thinking about this right before the service tonight, Edwin just said, it sounds like everyone's getting sick. Everyone's coughing. We're all getting sick. It's just true. There's a lot of sickness going around. Um and and and that that's a trial. I mean that's rough, but I don't like to Be sick. I I I turn into a little child when I get sick. I moan and cry and everything else. I don't like being sick. Um but this sickness that he had was a little bit worse than a common cold But he had boils covered his whole body and he was sat down among the ashes, took pot pot uh pottery and was scraping his boils off. I can't imagine. But um we can and there's some people that could relate to that. I thought about James, man, not uh uh um so far as like a um uh sickness as in like a cold or something like that, but he went through some serious physical difficulties and he's still going through it trying to get uh his walking back and stuff like that. And I'm glad to see him standing on the promises. That's good stuff. But he had some he had a trial And his wife with him. That's a serious trial. And then we look at some other problems that Job had. It wasn't just the f uh his physical health, it was relationship problems. Understand this, Mrs. Job was not the best of help at this time. I think it's interesting that God took all the family away except for or that the devil took all the family away except for his wife. He left the one that he knew was going to cause Job problems. And um it it's it's we see that he had some serious relationship problems. We can relate to this. There's times when we have relationship problems, not necessarily uh marital relationship problems, maybe son and father or mother-daughter or friendships and things like that. We have there's times when we have struggles and relationships and we can relate with these trials He had the death of his family members. Some of his sons died. That's rough. Um I'm not a father. I can't speak from experience, but I can imagine it's pretty difficult to ha to bury a son Let alone all of them. He was going through some hard times just in that in and of itself. Um I I mean I can't I can't imagine what he what he was going through. He had friend issues. How many of you have had issues with your friends? Had a friend stab you in the back or something like that. Maybe someone lied about you, bear false witness about you, or or you have friend issues Or maybe you have a friend that when you're going through a trial, he comes over to try to encourage you, like Job's friends did, and um they're not so encouraging I've had a little bit of that, not too much. I've been blessed with pretty good friends most of my life, but uh sound that say that like I've been around for so long, right? But um we can relate to some of these individually, but I I don't know of anyone that had all this happen to them at the same time. I'm not saying they don't exist, obviously it happened to Job, but I don't know of Anyone off the top of my head that had all of these problems happened at the same time, lost his children, wife turned against him, friends turned against him, and he was very, very sick and in pain. Not to mention, lost all of his money. He went from being one of the richest men in the world to being broke. That's rough. You all agree that Job's having some problems right now. And um the next few chapters we see uh I mean and obviously we're not going to read the book of Job tonight, but there's a conversation that happens between Job and his friends and Um they said they accuse him of all these things and that's why this has happened and um all this stuff. Again, they're not being the best of friends at this time But then we get over here to chapter 23, and Job is re applying to one of his friends And um we get to uh verse 3 of chapter 23. And Job says, Oh, that I knew where I might find him. Now There's been times when we've had some serious hardships in life, and how many of you have ever made this statement, where's God? Say, well that sounds blasphemous almost. Well out of context, so yeah, I would agree it would, but sometimes we feel alone, don't we? And you remember Jesus even made the comment, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? When God turned his back on our sin. Sometimes we can feel all alone. Now, I don't know what each individual person is going through tonight. I know Job could probably relate to whatever it is. Some of you have got some serious struggles going on at home and no one knows about it. Some of you got some serious financial problems going on, and no one knows about it. You pray and you pray and you're looking for help, you're looking for God to step in, and He's not. Not right now. And you're saying, where is God? And we can be very, very depressed Because of this. And we say, where is God? We can be very, very, if we're not careful, even almost blasphemous towards God, speaking out against him, saying, God, where are you? We've got to be very careful there. But sometimes we can feel alone, and that's what I'm trying to say. Now we know we're not, and we can read scripture, we can get assurance. It's one reason it's good to stay in your Bible because we know That God is with us. We have a friend that sticks closer than the brother, but sometimes we don't get the answers we're looking for, and we can be kind of confused. And we don't know what's going on. Have anyone ever been there before? Yeah. So though this is the state that Job is in, he says, Oh, that I knew where I might find him. Go look go look at verse 8 of chapter 23. He says, Behold, I go forward And then I'm going to paraphrase here. Then he goes to backward, then he says the left hand, then he says the right hand. That's every direction. I might be reading into this a little bit, but Job was an upright and a righteous man. We know that. Because God said he was. So I uh uh he says I go forward, I kind of think that this happens to us sometimes. We are moving forward for God. We are doing what we know is right, we're making Progress spiritually, so it seems. We're going to church, we're reading our Bible, we're soul-winning, we're tithing, we're doing what we know we're supposed to be doing, we're moving forward, and we're still having this problem, whatever it may be. We're trying to do right. We're trying to live for God. We're moving forward and our world still falls apart. Our family still has issues. We still lose our job even though we do what we're supposed to be doing And this is where Job was at. He said, I understand. I'm going forward, but I don't see him. Then he says, I go backward. Sometimes we can get to the point where we give up. You say, you know what? I'm having a hard time. I'm just gonna skip today. By the way, when he went backward, he didn't see him either. Just because God isn't answering your prayer the way you should is no excuse to go backward. But Job said, I'll go backward and I I cannot perceive them on the left hand. The left hand was a a symbol in the Bible of the the weaker side of you. The right hand was the strong side, the left hand was the weak side. Areas where I struggle, areas where I'm weak, and I need God to help me, and I don't see him On the right hand, areas where I think I'm strong, where I think I I God has given me these talents in these certain areas, my strong suits, I guess you could say, and still nothing. This is the point that Job was at. And again, how many of you ever been there? Yes. Where's God? And if we're not careful, that can we can get sinful in our attitude towards God. And Job clarifies it here in a minute. He says, Oh, that I knew where I might find him. I go forward, I go backward, I look on the left, look on the right, and I don't see him. But then Job makes a statement in verse 10, and it changes everything. If we would have looked just at those couple verses, we would have said, Job, you better watch the way you're talking about God. But now he makes this statement. But he knoweth the way that I take. But he knoweth the way that I take. What Job is saying is, I have no clue what God is doing right now, but I know that God knows what he's doing. You know, I thought about the verse, my thoughts are not his thoughts, my ways not his ways. Hey, God's brain is a lot bigger than mine, and I don't mean to sound disrespectful when I say that, but God knows what he's doing. I don't Just because my little finite mind can't wrap my head around what God is doing doesn't mean God doesn't know what he's doing. God is perfectly aware of the circumstance you're in. God is perfectly aware of the fact that you just lost your job. God is perfectly aware of your family and what family He's placed you in. God is perfectly aware of who you're married to, He knows. God is perfectly aware of all these circumstances going on in your life. God is aware of the fact that your family members are lost. God is aware of everything. He never looked down from heaven and said, oops, I didn't know that. God is aware of what's going on. And when Job has no clue what's going on in his life, he does know and he can be assured that God knows. Now that helps me a little bit. To be honest with you, that helps me quite a bit. Because like I said, I uh my my little brain can't wrap my head wrap its head around what God does I don't know, but I know that he knows. And I can get some peace knowing that God is in control. God is aware of what's going on. And we also know that God knows what you're going through. God knows what you're going through, and He knows what it's like to go through it. God created the human emotion. He understood what he created. And then when he came and lived here for 33 and a half years as a man, God as a man, 100% God and 100% man, he experienced the emotions that he had already created. Again, we cannot wrap our head around this. But God knows what you're experiencing. He knows the trial. And so God's aware. God knows what's going on. He knows what it's like, and he's in control. Now we see that God isn't the one that took Job's kids and his family and his livestock and his money or his house and his God's not the one that made him sick, but he allowed it to happen. God did allow this horrible stuff to happen to Job, and God does allow everything that happens. God allows it. The trial that you're going through at the moment, whatever it may be, God is allowing it. And again, I cannot wrap my head around that, but I know he knows what he's doing God is allowing it. Verse 14 of this chapter says, He performeth the thing that is appointed for me, and many such things that are with him. God allows these things to happen. Now the and then um again our small little minds can say, well why? Why is God letting this happen to me? Why is God letting this happen to me? Verse 10, He knoweth the way that I take. When He hath tried me, I shall come forth as gold. When he hath tried me, I shall come forth as gold. The reason that God allows some of these things to happen to us It's because of the end result. Because of what it will make out of us. Now sometimes bad things happen to us because of our own consequences. We do something dumb and then we reap the consequences of it. But sometimes when bad things happen to us, and it's not our fault, as the case with Job, God allows that to happen because of what it'll make out of us Understand this. There's some missionaries in foreign fields right now that had to go through some hardship to learn how to live on a mission field. There's some pastors and preachers and evangelists that had to go through some struggles so they knew how to better relate to someone or better preach to someone. There's some people that had to get a humbling experience so they had more power and less pride when they preached God allows things to happen to people, not because he wants to see us suffer. Of course he does not, but he knows what it will make out of us. He knows what will make it a better vessel for him. Come forth as gold. And the picture here is given. Um he knoweth is in verse 10 he says, knoweth the way that take when he hath tried me I shall come forth as gold. When you would get gold that had impurities in it, you would heat it up It would get hot. You would build a fire under it, and the gold would melt so that all the impurities could be scraped out of it. There's some things that uh me and my wife had gone through and not too too long ago, and we were we were saying, why in the world is this happening? Well now I know It just took us a few years to figure it out. And I'm glad that we went through what we went through. If you want to know about it, I'll talk to you about it later, just not on the air. But there's things that God allows to happen because of what it will make out of us. A preacher with more power, a missionary that knows how to live on the mission field, a youth pastor with more patience and understanding. God is allowing us to go through what we're going through because it will make him uh it will make us Better. More usable for his service, even. So you say, well, that's great So you're telling me the reason I'm going through all this stuff is so that uh something good will come out of it later. Great, well I'm still having a hard time. Right? So sometimes we're like, well, how does that help me now? Oh, that's great. Twenty years from now I'll be able to help someone that had the same problem. And that's true, and you will, but what do we do while we're in the middle of it? Right? How uh uh if you're saying, well, that's not helping me because I'm having a hard time at home now, I'm having a hard time at work now, I'm having these issues with my family now or finance, whatever, health issues now, how is that gonna help me now? Again. Sometimes we might not know right now. And that and God's doing something we can't see. We can't wrap our heads around. But there are a couple little things I want to apply real quick and then we'll be done. How do we make it through this trial that we're going through now? The first thing I want to say is look ahead rather than look at your current circumstances. Look to the future rather than looking at where you're at. Do you understand that some if we're in the middle of a big trial and we look at our circumstances, we can get depressed. Like really quick Look ahead, look forward, dwell on what will be rather than what is. Dwell on what will be rather than what is Verse 10, what he was focusing on is, when he hath tried me, I shall come forth as gold. He's thinking about the future. If we think about the future, it might be a little easier on the current trial. I thought about uh uh Jesus, Hebrews 12, 2, uh says, for the joy that was set before him Understand, Jesus was about to go through trial when he was there in Gethsemane. He was sweating drops of blood, he was thinking about what he was about to go through and all this stuff. But because of the joy that was before him, not the joy of the cross, but the result of the trial he was about to go through. And even though we're in the middle of a storm right now, we can take joy in what will be. If nothing else, what will be as we go to heaven one day, right? Let us look ahead rather than look at our circumstances. If we let our circumstances control whether or not we're happy or sad or whatever, we're going to be a roller coaster our whole life. Because that is life. Ups and downs, trials. But look ahead. Don't look at the current circumstances. Look ahead. Secondly, look to God. Number one, look ahead. Secondly, look to God. Again, verse 10: He knoweth. We can take comfort in knowing that God knows, I don't know what's going on, but I'm going to trust the one that does, and I'm going to look to him. I don't know why God is allowing this to happen to me now, but I know that he knows what he's doing, and I'm going to trust in him, I'm going to look to him. So number one, look ahead. Number two, look to God. Number three, look to your Bible. Read your Bible. We have these calendars that we're given out. I tell you, this was such a great tool. I love this thing I love this thing. Read your Bible. It has the encouragement that you need. It has the wisdom that you need. Maybe you don't have to go through trial quite as long if we get some wisdom out of the Bible. It's God speaking to you through your trial. When I'm going when I when I have a hard day or when I have something that's bothering me, I'll call people that I love and I know love me. I call my wife. I call my dad. I talk to them. This is happening. It's bothering me. I'm having a hard time. And their conversation encourages me. How much more so will God's conversation encourage us? We're in the middle of a storm, we run to everybody, we run to the media, we run to friends, we run to uh psychiatrists, we run to we run to doctors, we run to everything, but we don't run to God. We don't run to his word. Can I tell you, when you're in the middle of a trial, yes, we know why now God is letting it happen, because of the end result, when he hath tried me, I shall come forth as gold. But what do I do now? Look ahead, look to God, and look to your Bible. Read it, read it, read it, read it, read it. This is where the answers are. This is where the comfort is, and this is where the peace is. And you have it. It's the Word of God. And then don't look to the world. Can I tell you when you're in the trial the world has the bad advice? Um If you get advice from worldly friends, worldly entertainment, or and so on, and I don't need to go down the list, but they're gonna give you the wrong advice. It's just gonna make your trial worse. Look to God. Look to your Bible. So, if you're in a trial, and I know a lot of people are, And if you're not, then watch out. Can I tell you the greatest thing you can do is stay in your Bible? And while you're staying in your Bible, make sure you look to God and trust in Him, trust what you're reading. Hang in there, it'll get better one day. Whether in this earth or in heaven, it will get better one day And if you're in a trial and you can honestly say this is not my fault, it's not the consequence of some sin, but I'm going through some sort of test or trial right now. Just hang in there. Look ahead. Look to God and look to your Bible. You may be the great I'm thinking about some of these young people right now. Um The teenagers and and the kids here as well. You might be the greatest missionary this world has ever seen, but sometimes the greatest missionary has to go through the greatest adversity here at home first. You might be the greatest preacher the world's ever seen, but you might have to go through some learning first. And it's hard. You might be the greatest um you fill in the blank. But you might have to go through some trials first to get there. And that's not just for young people. You understand God doesn't just call kids and teenagers, right? So just hang in there. When you're in a trial Look ahead, look to God, look to your Bible. Heads bowed, eyes closed, no one look around for just a moment, please. Actually, if we could stand to our feet. I don't know what everyone's going through. There's some of you I know a little bit about some of the things you're going through. But I I'm not in everyone's home. I don't I don't know the trials that are taking place. I don't know the hardships that are taking place. Some of the things that Job uh went through maybe you can relate to relationship problems, friend problems, money problems. Uh death in the family, health problems. I I don't know. I don't know what you're going through. But I know God does And sometimes we're in these trials and we can go to everyone except for who we need to go to. But if if God's dealt with you uh uh about anything this evening, in just a minute she's gonna play the piano. And when she's she's she does, if God spoke to your heart, why don't you come on forward? If He spoke to your heart about maybe you haven't been looking to him, you haven't been looking to the Bible, why don't you make up your mind this year I'm going to stay in my Bible so that when a trial does come back up, I'm ready for it. If God spoke to your heart, those altars open