Second Peter chapter three, I want to begin reading in verse three. Verse three and four is what we're going to read this evening. 2 Peter chapter 3. The Bible says, knowing this first There shall come in the last days scoffers walking after their own lusts, and saying, Where is the promise of his coming? For since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they were from the beginning of creation I want to talk tonight about that question they asked. Where is his promise? Where is this promise? Let's pray. Ask the Lord to bless us tonight. Father We do ask you, bless now our time in your word. I ask you you would help us to glean from this brief passage here some truths and principles that would help us in our faith Help us in our walk with you. And Lord, I pray your Holy Spirit would help us be a more effective witness in this old sinful world. I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit is my request. I yield my uh my mind and my will to you to you guide my thinking. God I present my body again as I always do for the preaching of your word that you could speak through me, Father. And so With all my heart, I pray that you would fill me and use me now in these next few moments to teach and preach this passage. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Peter has been, as we've noticed, uh uh lengthy time now, uh addressing these false teachers creeping in to the local churches there. And he gave strong warning all through chapter two. Now in chapter three, as we noted last week, he's addressing these scoffers. Now whether these scoffers were one and the same with the false teachers. It could very well be. He may be addressing a different group of folks coming in. And uh nevertheless, these people are mocking This particular teaching on the second coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. The second coming of Christ is one of the clearest teachings throughout all of Scripture. The second coming of Christ and the ultimate judgment of mankind. If the Bible teaches anything, and it teaches a lot, But one thing the Bible clearly teaches is that every person that has ever lived or ever will live will one day stand before God and give an account of ourselves to the Lord. As believers, you say, well, I'm saved. I don't have to face the judgment of God. We do not, as believers, we do not face the judgment of God for our sin But we will face the judgment seat of Christ for how we lived our Christian life. And that's primarily a judgment of rewards for those that serve God and live for the Lord and seek to please Him with our life. For the unsaid, the judgment of the great white throne judgment is the most horrific judgment in all Scripture When every unshaved man and woman stands before God Almighty, it's the Lord Jesus actually, and uh and uh is sentenced by God for their rejection of Christ into the lake of fire. Revelation chapter 20 gives a fairly detailed account of that. So the Bible is very, very clear. Jesus coming back again, and all of us, every one of us, is going to face the judgment of God. We cannot get away from that, and I do not I believe we ought to keep that in the forefront of our minds at all times. That Jesus coming back again, we're going to have to give an account. And so there's these scoffers. And they have gotten into the church here. Again, whether they were one and the same with the false teachers, I don't know. But nevertheless, they were there And they were scoffing or ridiculing or mocking this idea that Jesus would come back again and that we would face judgment. And you know, if someone is going to mock the teaching of the second coming of Christ, if someone is going to mock the teaching of the judgment of God, what they're really doing is they're mocking the Word of God. Because that's where that information comes from. That's where that teaching comes from. It's not from we don't get the the doctrine, the teaching that Jesus is coming back again. We don't get that from denomination some denominational headquarters somewhere. It says, oh, here's what you have to teach. There are some cults that do that. They have a leadership in their cults, and they teach the people what uh they teach their leadership what they're supposed to teach. We get it straight from the Bible. So if someone's going to reject the teaching of the second coming of Christ, if somebody's going to ridicule, mock that, scoff at that, what they're really doing is scoffing at the Word of God. The Word of God. And Peter brings this out. I've got three thoughts I want to share with you. First of all, I notice in verse number three, the very first phrase there, he says, knowing this first And I put it this way, the priority of our understanding, Peter says, listen, you have got to understand this one thing. The word know there, knowing this, that word know has the idea of having an understanding of or perceiving to be true. He's saying this, there's one thing you've got to know, and it's this here, this statement I'm about to make. I noted as I study that word a little bit, and again how it's used, it has the idea of resolving. Knowing this first. In other words, I think he's saying this. You settle this in your mind. You resolve to understand this, that this is a fact That needs to be understood and accepted. And then he says, knowing this first. And of course that means right from the beginning. I think what he's saying here is right off the bat. As you get into this thing called the Christian life, as you try to serve God, you try to live according to the Word of God, and you want to make the Word of God your guidebook for your life. Just know right off the bat there are going to be people who will mock and scoff at you for doing what the Bible says. For holding to the Word of God. There will be people that scoff and ridicule God's word and our faith. And we must never allow ourselves to be fooled into thinking that we're going to get through this Christian life trying to live for God and not have people give us a hard time for it. We are swimming upstream in this river called humanity. And this world is going to mock us. It's been true throughout Scripture We don't not going to take the time, but let me give you some references. In Malachi chapter 2, in verse 17, there was people scoffing. They said this: where is the God of judgment? Malachi was preaching to Israel, and he was warning them they needed to get right and take this thing seriously. They were just going through the outward motions. And their faith in God and their walk their their uh walk with God had just gotten ritualistic and and and it was a facade and and Malachi's preaching I don't say listen, you're going to face God, we're going to face judgment. People said, Oh, where is this judgment you're talking about? In Jeremiah chapter 17 and verse 15, people mock Jeremiah and they said, Oh, where is the word of the Lord? He was preaching God's word. He said, we got God's word. They said, where is that word? In Psalms chapter 42 and verse 3, the psalmist is praising God. And the enemies of God cried out, Where is thy God? You're talking about God. Where is God? Again in Psalm seventy nine ten, they said, Where is this God you're talking about? Listen, you and I are not exempt from the ridicule of the world. They're gonna our young people in schools that determine they're gonna live for God in our schools, you might mark it down. How did Peter say it? He says, knowing this first, you just settle it in your mind. You're going to have kids in school give you a hard time. You're going to live for God. You carry that Bible around. You talk to people about Jesus. Just mark it down. Say, well, if somebody makes fun of me, I'm going to quit. No. You just settle it, resolve in your heart and mind. That's the way it is. I'm going forward with God Out on the workplace. Huh? Come on, guys. Folks, work out in the workplace. People are going to give you a hard time I got saved in that meat pack implant, and I'm telling you, alright from the start, uh these guys uh went off on me When God saved me, changed my life. And that's not unique with me. That has been true throughout the years. Just know this first. This old world's going to scoff at you. This old world's going to mock you. And if you want to avoid that, then you are not going to be able to live for God like you should. But we do live for God. And so he says, knowing this first, this needs to be a priority in your understanding. God's people have always been ridiculed for their faith in God. It's always been that way. And our forefathers, we look back into the Old Testament, we look out back through church history. And as our forefathers who stood for God and believed this book and lived for God, they were mocked and ridiculed, and they were not shaken. They stayed faithful to God. And we need to do the same thing. Some of them were burned at the stakes, some were torn asunder, Psalms or Hebrews chapter 11 tells. Psalm asunder And cruel mockings, we're told in Hebrews chapter 11. Our forefathers, men and women, have been before us, lived for God, and this whole world turned on them. And he says, listen, know this first. You better mark it down. You say, well, I think the world's going to get better and better, and soon people are going to just uh uh this whole world will all turn to the Lord. I'm telling you, that ain't happening He said in the last days, evil men and seducers, well what? It's worse and worse. The opposition's going to intensify. Sometimes I'll hear a preacher or somebody say, Yeah, the devil's on the run. He's about whooped. The devil's been whooped, but he ain't on the run yet. He's a roaring lion walking about seeking whom he may devour. And he has his allies throughout the world who will turn on you and I. And I'm not, you say you're not painting a very pretty picture. I might not be painting a very pretty picture, but I'm telling you it's an accurate one The Bible tells us, Jesus said, don't be surprised. This whole world's going to hate you. This whole world's going to mock you and me. They're going to ridicule us for no other reason than we hold to this old book. And we believe Jesus coming back again. We believe every man, woman, child is going to face the judgment of God someday. And so Peter says, you settle this, you settle this. And by the way, the very fact that they scoff us about the second coming, about the return of Christ and uh the judgment of God. The very fact that they scoff at us is fulfillment of the prophe prophecy that they would We were told that they would, and when they do, then that's just reinforcing the fact that uh we're on the right track And so number one, he has the priority of our understanding. We need to settle it. We're going to face opposition in this world. We're going to be ridiculed. We're going to be called names. We're going to be made fun of. We're going to be mocked. It's going to happen. Just settle in your heart and mind. We're not going to let that deter us. And by the way, any time a church or Christian alters their convictions and modifies their commitment to the Word of God so that they can avoid ridicule of the world is making a terrible, terrible mistake. We stick to the Word of God. We stick to the Word of God. Number two, I notice in verse number three, the purpose of their scoffing. He tells us why They mock us. Why they scoff us. Look at verse 3. Knowing this, that there shall come in the last days, and you and I are living in the last days, scoffers. Look at this next phrase. Walking after their what? Their own lusts. He's telling us why they mock the Bible You're telling us why they ridicule the idea of a judgment, Jesus coming back, ridicule us for living for God. It's because they're walking after their own lust. They want to continue living in their sin. And some have convinced themselves that if I reject the truth of God, if I reject my accountability to my creator, then somehow I'm not accountable. Listen, you can mock it and reject it all you want. We're still accountable to God. But they want to walk in their own lusts. They want to live in their sin. They want to continue on in the lusts of their flesh. Scoffers are generally known for their immoral lifestyles. If you would, look over at chapter 2 and verse number 10. Peter had talked about this previously concerning the false teachers. It says, but chiefly them that walk after the flesh in the lusts of uncleanness He goes on, despise government, presumptuous are they, self-willed. They're not afraid to speak evil of dignities. He's describing folks that reject the Word of God, that mock the teachings of Scripture. Why? Because they want to continue on in their sins They want to continue on in their ungodly lifestyles. Over in Jude, if you turn back there just before Revelation, we're studying the book of Jude that runs parallel to Peter here. And in verse number 18, he says this. He says, how they told you there would be mockers in the last time. Let's get this. Who should walk after their own ungodly lusts. You know why this world mocks the Bible? Not because the Bible's not true, but because they want to live in their sin. They want to live in their immoral, ungodly lifestyles. People do not reject the Bible because it's not true. People reject the Bible because it rebukes their sinful living. I'm convinced, there's no doubt in my mind, that is the basis for the overwhelming majority of evolutionists. That deny God, atheists, deny God, reject God, not because there's no evidence of God. Not because this book has been proven false. This book has never been proven false. There has never been a writing in all of history, literature, that has been attacked and ridiculed and examined and scrutinized as thoroughly as the Word of God, and yet the Bible stands. They don't reject the Bible because it's not true or it can be proven false. I'm convinced they reject God in the Bible because they want to live in their sin. The majority. Now, some that's all they've ever been taught And they need to be exposed to the Word of God, but I'm telling you, I'm convinced of that as sure as can be. They want to live in their sin. If somehow I can convince myself there's no God, then it doesn't matter how I live. And we wonder why our society is acting like animals and barbaric and violent Because they've convinced themselves there is no God, the Bible is not true, and it really doesn't matter what we do. But I'm telling you, this whole world's heading for an awful wake-up And one of these days that trumpet's going to sound. That archangel is going to shout. People of God are going to be raptured up out of here. And that seven-year tribulation period will be the most horrific period of time that ever has been, and there never will be again after it. Better hold to God's word. The basis, the purpose for their rejection of the second coming and their mocking and scoffing it, because they love their sins. They love their sins. I found that people, one of the things that becoming a pastor years ago, when I took that title pastor, man, just having that That title on your name, some people will turn on you. They don't know me from Adam, but if I'm a pastor, man, they hate me And uh I had people I mention um uh if you remember Nina McRoby, some of you all remember Nina, sweetheart, charter member here, and when I came she wanted me to uh witness to her husband was on SAID at the time. And uh I said, sure, I'd be glad you've heard me tell this before. I said, uh sure, I'd be glad to. Uh you've heard this a lot, but I really like telling it, so I'm going to tell it again. But um she uh she goes, now would you go I said, sure, now I know I'll be glad. I've been here maybe a year at the most. She goes, Would you go listen and talk to him, try and get him saved? I said, sure, I'd be glad to And uh we're winding down the conversation. He goes, oh, by the way, he hates preachers. Great. And so I went and lo and behold, he hated me. Just, I'm the preacher But I tell you, old Jim got saved. God worked in his life, and I'm telling you, God turned him around, and he became one of my greatest fans. He just loved me. I loved him And he's been in heaven many, many years now. You know why people hate preachers? You know why people hate the Bible? You know why people hate Christians? They don't want the Bible and they don't want to even want to see it. They don't even be around it. You know why? I'm convinced of this. They want to walk in their own ungodly loss. They want to live in sin. And the light of a believer living for God and the light of the Word of God exposes their sin and they do not want that to happen. Hey, uh I don't uh uh I know what it's like. I was there. Before I was saved, I didn't want nothing to do with Christians. I didn't want nothing to do with church. Church, are you kidding me? A Bible? Why? Because I loved my sin. I loved my sin. I enjoyed indulging the lust of the flesh. But you know that takes its toll after a while. And the emptiness and the sorrow and the grief and the guilt and the shame that comes with living after the flesh will catch up to you. I thank God I had a daddy that shared Christ with me. He could save me. He says, uh, uh knowing this first, you better settle it, this whole world. Going to mock you. They're going to make fun of you. They're going to scoff you. They'll get mad at you. Yell at you. Throw stuff at you. Just settle it. That's the way it's going to be. Number two, the reason they do that is because they love their sin. They love their old sin. It's destroying them. It's eating them alive. But they don't want to give it up. And then last of all, number three, I notice the premise of their scoffing. Look what he says there in verse number four. He says, uh their scoffers walking after their own lust and saying. Now here's their question. Where is the promise of his coming? You're talking about Jesus coming. By the way, that implies to me the church talked a lot about the second coming of Christ. They preached a lot on the second coming of Christ. They told everybody Jesus coming back again. And they mocked that I say you guys have been talking about Jesus coming back. Where is this promise of his coming? And the premise for them saying that was this. For since the fathers fell asleep, passed away, all these generations before us, they've lived and they've died. All things continue as they were from the beginning of creation. Ever since the beginning of creation. Everything continued the same. That teaching is called uniformity. It's taught in schools that from the very beginning of the world, what the uh unsaved, unbelieving world would say from the beginning of the Big Bang. All through time. There's just been a a a uniform continuation of this evolutionary thing and there's nothing been catast no catastrophic events and all that it's just been a uniform evolution till we're at the point we're at today That's the idea. Everything's continued the same from all these generations, from the beginning of time. By the way, they say the Big Bang was back then. Big Bang ain't happened yet. That's coming. We'll see that here in a little bit. There'll be a big bang, all right. Uniformity. Um they were taking a secular approach to history. And to prophecy. Now what do we mean by a secular approach? Somebody says, somebody says, well, I uh I got a secular education. I didn't get a Christian education. I got a secular education. Or they say I work in a secular job It's not related to God. My job doesn't have anything to do with God or the Bible. It's secular. Anybody ever hear those terms familiar with what I'm trying to say? It's secular. All secular means is you kick God out of it. Follow what I'm saying? A secular education is an anti God education. If by all things, if if everything consists by Jesus Christ And you remove Jesus Christ from it and said, we're just going to have a secular approach, then that's an anti-God approach to education and science. You follow what I'm saying? If I have a secular job, I call this a secular job, that means my job has nothing to do with God. I'm here to tell you, God has everything to do with your job. For the Christian, nothing is secular. If you're a mechanic, you're a Christian mechanic, God has you there for a purpose. God has a reason for it. You are operating under the walls that God has established. Mathematics, you kick God out. Then where do the laws of mathematics come from? The fact of the matter is God is behind all mathematics. You follow what I'm saying So secular simply is anti-Christian, anti-God, anti-G-Bible. And that's the way they were approaching history. God doesn't have nothing. We look back, and God doesn't have nothing to do with all history. We look forward, you're talking about his coming. Ain't none of that. It's all just anti-God, anti-God, anti-God Um I hope you don't misunderstand what I'm trying to say there. I'm not saying that somebody's works in a secular job or maybe you go to what we would call a secular uh community college or something. Uh I'm not I'm not saying that's wrong. You're you're living in sin. I'm simply saying the idea that it's not doesn't have anything to God is mistaken. You follow what I'm saying So that was their approach. That was their premise. God doesn't have nothing to do with the past. God doesn't have nothing to do with the future. Everything just comes Follows on uniformity. It just all goes on natural processes, natural things taking place. God doesn't have anything to do with it. I'm telling you, God has everything to do with it They take a secular approach to history and prophecy. Secular means to remove God, remove the supernatural out of it. Remove supernatural revelation. And then there's the scientific approach. Now, I'm going to try and explain my thinking here. Secular says, alright, this is we're going to study history, but we're going to remove all the supernatural, we're going to reject all the supernatural, we're going to reject God out of it, and we just see a natural evolutionary progression all the way through from past to future. A scientific approach, and let me say this, the overwhelming majority of what is called science today is falsely called. Genuine science, legitimate science looks at the evidence, it looks at the facts in an unbiased way. And let the facts, the fossils, the evidence speak for itself without injecting my preconceived decisions and conclusions And let it speak for itself. And I want to suggest to you, we look at this world and we look at all the evidence and the design And the fossil record, the geological record, status of this world, you look at it in an unbiased way, allowing at least for the possibility of a God And you'll come to the conclusion God made this place and he's running it. I'm telling you. You say, well, how do they come up with this evolutionary theory? I tell you how they come up. They begin with a preconceived idea. They begin with a conclusion. The conclusion is there is no God. And so they interpret all the evidence, they interpret all the facts. with their preconceived decision, with their uh um their uh pre um conclusion And so they come up with all these theories. If they would allow for the possibility of a God, I'm convinced everyone would come to the conclusion, yes, there is a God. I was we had the fair uh one year. I down to we had a fair uh the booth at the fair, I talked about it this morning a little bit. Uh one thing I did a couple years there, I had uh anybody here ever been to Bible Time see the magic bag? They put a flag in at certain colors and they put p uh uh a pizza cloth in certain colours and they pull it out and it's a flag Wow, it's amazing. Anybody ever see it? It's amazing. I have I have a magic bag And one year I sat up at the at the uh fair at our booth, I had the letters uh that spelled out evolution. E. B O L B O L U T I O N Evolution You guys don't can't spell anyway, so So I had all the letters there, and um so somebody would come by and I'd say, take all these letters and mix them all up and stick them in my little magic bag. So they said, okay. So they mixed them all up the the all the letters and they put it in there and I did my little woo And I pulled out the word evolution on a string in perfectly spelled. I know it's perfectly spelled. I looked it up in the dictionary. And and they were, oh, it's amazing. And I asked them, how many of you believe that that just somehow happened? Or how many believe that I did something to cause those letters to come out in the exact order they're supposed to. And without a fail, every single one, young and old, said, I don't know what you did, but you did something to make that happen, because there's no way that would just happen. Follow? Why? Because they allowed for the possibility, and it was pretty obvious that somebody did something to make those letters come out in that order. Now, if we're going to be accurate, actually be science, we're going to allow for the possibility that somebody made this. Our DNA, these phenomenal, just the function of the eyeball for crying out loud. Somebody did that. It doesn't just happen. How many letters are in evolution? Nine? Nine? Was that right? If if it's impossible that nine letters would come out in the perfect order without somebody manipulating it How in the world is it possible that my eyeball exists without somebody designing it? Come on. It's science falsely called. It's secular study, ejecting the supernatural, ejecting God from it. And that was the premise of their rejecting of the second coming and the judgment of God. There's no God. That can't happen. There's no way. I'm here to tell you, the Bible is very, very clear, there is a way. God did make this world. And God did, is coming back again, and we are going to stand before Him. Much of what is called scientific study today is actually secular study. Oh, I was I was getting to on the on the the fair booth there, uh some guy, I did that with a guy And he said, of course he was very impressed. He knew I had some trick. And he was, I want to say, a nuclear biologist from Washington, D. C. And he was up here on vacation or whatever, and he came by and talked to me. And he was very respectful. He was very gracious, very respectful. We had a great back and forth a little bit. And um I'm not on the level of nuclear biologist, good grief. But he asked me this question. He says, why do Christians reject science? I said, why do Christians just throw out science and just go by faith? Why can't you I said we don't reject science I said the believer in creation, the b Bible believer that believes God created this world and God uh uh uh everything consists, he keeps this thing together and makes it run. The believer has the exact same fossil and evidence in the world that the unbeliever has, the atheist. I said, we look at the same fossil record you do, and we come to the conclusion God created us You look at that same fossil record. We don't have different evidences, different facts. We have the same facts We look at it and say, good night, God made this and creation and man look at the uh at all of this. God designed us. And you look at it and say, oh, we evolved from amoebas in a slime pit. millions and millions and millions of years. I said, why do we come to two completely different conclusions? I said, my opinion is the reason you come to that conclusion is you exclude the possibility of a God. You begin with a conclusion that there is no God, and so the only option you have is to come up with some evolutionary processes. If you would allow for the fact that maybe the Bible is true and what the Bible says about creation is accurate, I believe you come to the same conclusion we do. See, the difference is the worldview. The difference is the whole approach to what is laid out there. And these sculfers So ejected God from it. Nothing's changed all the way from the beginning, all the way through. It's just man, natural forces, and there's no God. I'm here to tell you there is a God. And you and I live by faith. We have faith in that book. And that book tells us, God's word tells us Of supernatural events that have taken place. Events that only a only God could do. And we believe it. We believe that book. And it doesn't contradict a thing that we see in creation. You with me? I'm telling you, the basis of our Christianity is faith in the Word of God. The basis of everything we believe and hold to. My confidence that I'm going to end up in heaven and not in hell is simply my faith in what God says is so. I trust that. I believe it. And these guys did not. And they just went by naturalistic removing God, removing supernatural. Am I making sense? We believe the Bible. We believe the Bible. It's never been proven wrong. Say, well, why do these scuffers, how come this? Because they begin with a preconceived conclusion. That there is no God, that God's not supernatural, nothing spiritual, nothing supernatural happens. And I'm here to tell you it does. And this world was created by God, and there was a flood. He's going to talk about that in a little bit. There was an actual flood. There was miraculous events all through history that God did, and we believe it. Amen? So let the world mock. Amen. Let them mop. Let them scoff and laugh at us and make fun. Tell you, we're holding to that book. Let me speak as pastor of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. We're not leaving that book. We're holding to it. You say the whole world's against us. Well then we're against the whole world. Because we're sticking to that book. Amen? Father in heaven, I ask you to bless and help us To take you at your word. Help us, Lord, not to scoff and mock. And Lord, help us not to be shaken by those that do. We're going to stick with the old book. We're going to believe what you say. And God, we want to live for you and serve you. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I really need to at least this coming year. I need to get in the Word of God. I know I say this all the time, but I need to get in the Word of God and read it and study it and learn it and know what God says here. Is there any like that? Preach or pray with me. I really need to do that. God bless you. And then let's just believe it and live it. And I know I'm talking to folks, you probably have somebody at work that gives you a hard time for being a Christian. It's kids in school, you kids giving you a hard time because you want to live for God. I'm saying to you, you stay faithful to God. You stay faithful to the Lord. Father, bless now as we give our invitation, help us to commit ourselves this coming week to live for you and trust you in Jesus' name. Let's stand