Isaiah 51. And when you find that, if you would keep your place there, and also find 2 Corinthians chapter 4 and verse 18. We're going to go to that passage. Isaiah fifty one and then second Corinthians chapter four. Preacher was after church, was invited by family to come over and have lunch and uh have dinner together, and they were sitting in the living room with their son. Mom and dad were back in the kitchen putting final things together. So they're making small talk and the preacher says to the boy, so what are we having for lunch today? And the boy said, uh, we're having goat for lunch And he said, goat for lunch. She says, Are you sure? And he said, Yes, I'm sure we're having goat for lunch. She says, How do you what makes you think you're having goat for lunch? She says, Because mom said to dad yesterday Uh, I'd like to have the preacher over and Dad said, Yeah, we might as well have that old goat. And so um we're having goat for lunch. You learn a lot about mom and dad from the kids. That was one of the things I enjoyed about being youth pastor. I learned so much about members. Isaiah 51, notice with me if you would, verse 12. Isaiah 51, verse 12. I, even I, am he that comforteth you. Now listen to the question the Lord asks here. Who art thou that thou shouldest be afraid of a man that shall die? And of the Son of Man Which shall be made as grass, and forgettest that the Lord thy maker, that hath stretched forth the heavens and laid the foundation of the earth And hath feared continually every day because of the fury of the oppressor, as if he were ready to oppress. And where is the fury of the oppressor? I want us to look this morning at that last phrase. Where is the fury of the oppressor? Let's pray. Father in heaven, please bless our study in your word. Lord, I'm grateful for the folks who have been faithful to church today and Lord, we're us uh grateful for folks up here on vacation that are faithful to church on their vacation. I pray you'd bless them for that. It's a good testimony. testimony to our church. And Lord, we ask that you would take each of us, Lord, where we're at, that you would open our hearts and minds to your word. And you would apply your word to our situations as your spirit knows we have need of. God, I publicly and readily acknowledge that I have nothing in and of myself of any spiritual or eternal value to the people here this morning. Lord, if anything helps us, it's going to have to come from you. And so with that in mind, Lord, I yield my will to your will. I present my body anew. I ask you to fill me with your spirit. You would be our preacher this hour in Jesus' name. Amen. Too often I'm afraid We allow the temporary, the visible things around us to influence our thinking and our actions rather than the eternal, the invisible truths that are all about us. Now, think about that statement. We allow the things that are nearby and the visible things to influence us so greatly. And yet the spiritual realities have so little influence Keep your place here in Isaiah. Now I mentioned 2 Corinthians chapter 4. If you would come there right now. Now keep your place in Isaiah. We're coming back. But when I was a 18-year-old boy growing up outside Philly God was dealing with my heart about my need of salvation. I made in 18 years, I had made a colossal mess of my life. And I'd begun reading my Bible almost daily, the beginning of that, 1978. And one verse, and I didn't know my Bible very well at all. I believed it was God's word, as much as I understood that, what that meant But there's one verse that would stand out. Now I don't know if I read this verse over and over. I don't know if I just read it one time and it burned in my mind. But for all these years now, 2 Corinthians chapter 4 and verse 18, I have remembered God using that verse To help me understand clearly some important issues in life. 2 Corinthians chapter 4, look with me at verse 18. While we look not at the things which are seen. But at the things which are not seen. Now look at this. For the things which are seen are what? Temporal. But the things which are not seen are eternal. And God used that verse as a messed up, unsaved selfish, rebellious teenage boy. God used that verse to start my mind of thinking And I began looking at the world and at my life in a completely different light. And I began to realize as God was working in my heart and showing me these things, I began to realize That there is a lot more to life than what we can just see. That there is a realm of reality beyond that which is visible And the things that we see and touch, the things that are around us that influence us so much are temporal. And yet the unseen realities, the spirit world, the spiritual truths are eternal, and yet they have such little influence on our lives. I think people and events influence events that are near us have a greater impact on us than things that are at a distance. And the sad fact is, yet often in our minds, God and the things of God are something that are far away. They're just s out there somewhere, someday, someplace, in a land far away, there's a God. And we don't view them as being real and as being with us like the things we see. For instance, maybe in our place of work, in our employment, maybe in school Maybe in our family. Often there will be a person who is close to us in proximity. They work beside us, or we work together throughout the day, or uh a family member that we are in contact often. And that person is of weak character. They're of weak character. But because they are so close to us, because they're so visible to us, even though we know that they have weak character Because they're so near to us, they have a greater influence on us than maybe someone we only see on occasion who is a man or woman of strong character. Moral, godly. And of course, the the person of moral character, we would want to be influenced by them more than the person of weak character, but because the weak character person is closer to us, were influenced by them more. Does everybody follow what I'm saying? Yeah, you understand what I'm saying? And so too often, the things of lesser value, if you want to use that word, the things of a Things of a more harmful influence because they're nearby and they're so visible, they have a greater influence on it over us Then the things that are important and that are positive influence in our life. We can see that in creation. Which is the greater of the two? The sun or the moon? Which is the greater of the two? The sun. Absolutely. Um the sun is a gazillion times bigger than the moon. Uh could we live on Earth without the moon? Sure, I I think so. I'm not a scientist, but Pat, could we live without the moon? Ah, Pat said it. That settles it. There we go. Could we live without the sun? No, we'd be frozen. We'd be freeze pops. So the sun is the greater of the two. But Of the sun and moon, which one influences more in a visible daily way? It'd be the moon. We see that in the tides. Anybody here ever go to the ocean? You ever go to the ocean? Tides go out. You know what's making that happen? Not the sun, the moon. Uh certain times the moon gets full and people start acting funny Ask school teachers. There's some truth to that. Am I right or wrong, Brother Brian? Our deacons, look at them, you can tell. So because the sun is more powerful than the moon But yet the moon has a more visible influence on us because it's nearer to us. And I'm afraid that has become true. We've allowed that to happen in our lives. For instance, our life after our death Is far more important and significant than our present life. Would you agree with that? It's far more important where I'm going to be after I die than where I am before I die. You agree with me on that? But yet too often because we're living here and now, the fact that we're going to spend eternity in heaven or hell, the fact that we're going to live somewhere after we die. becomes such a small influence on our life because all we can see is what's happening here and now. That's what's close to us. The temporal things of this life too often have a greater influence on our decisions and our actions and our behavior than the eternal things of the afterlife. The fact of the matter is, one of the most important things that any person can come to realize is that they are going to exist forever in one of two places, either heaven or hell. The way we are now, how we live now, is not eternal. It is temporary. It is not always going to be this way. And we have a world full of people who are living as if they're never going to die, as if this is the way it's always going to be, and they're eating and drinking and just living in Mary because they never realize the fact that someday They're going to spend eternity in heaven or hell. So the present, the visible, too often has more of an influence in our behavior and our thinking than the eternal and the things that we don't see. The wrath of God is far more significant than the wrath of man. Do you agree with me on that? It is far more dangerous to have God's wrath on me than it is to have man's wrath on me. But, and this is leading up to our text, too often our fear of man Will influence us in a greater way than fear of God. And too often, our concern about what man thinks of us Has a greater influence on us than what God thinks of us. And because, and listen, whether we want to admit it or not But because of our fear of man, too often we're concerned about pleasing man. We want to be popular. We want man to like us. We want man to imp Joy us, we want man to be pleased with us. And there's nothing wrong with that as far as it goes, but There's something of more significance, there's something of greater value than whether man is pleased with me or not, whether man is uh enjoys me or not, and that is whether God's pleased with me or not. But because we don't see God, because he's not right there present in our presence visibly, we don't give that thought. And it doesn't influence us as much as man's presence does. The issues that come into our lives. The needs that we face in this life, if you take those issues, if you take those needs And you compare them to God, God's ability, and God's power, those needs and those issues become are very insignificant. Do you agree with me? How many folks are glad you came to church? Say amen. Amen. I'm glad you did too. How many folks here have ever had a need in your life? Raise your hand. Ever have a need? Some of y'all didn't never needed anything. Well, praise the Lord. You take that need, whatever it may be, financial, physical, emotional, whatever that need may be And you compare that need to the ability of God to meet that need, and that need suddenly becomes very insignificant. Alright? God's ability to meet that need. Uh you say, well man, you don't know what my mortgage is on my house. You know, I got s got wait a minute, compare that to God's ability to meet needs. Suddenly that mortgage is pretty insignificant. Significant. Right? But yet we see the mortgage. And I'm just using that for an illustration. We see that mortgage, and it's like, man! And we forget to look at God. And we end up not sleeping at night, we end up getting ulcers, we end up compromising our convictions and doing things to try and meet that fearful need That violate biblical principles and we forget all about the fact that there's a God in heaven that could take care of that like that. Are you with me? So the visible immediate issues and needs too often overwhelm us when in reality if you compare them to God they're insignificant. The Bible in Isaiah 51, coming back here now, the Lord speaking to his people through the prophet Isaiah makes reference to these oppressors. Now we I know we already read it twice, but I want to read verse 12 and 13 again a third time. God speaking through Isaiah, and he says this. I, even I am he that comforteth you. That's good. Amen. Who art thou? That thou shouldest be afraid of a man that shall die, and of the Son of Man which shall be made as grass, and forgettest the Lord thy Maker. Now, why would they be afraid of a man that's going to wither like grass, that's going to die, and forget all about the Lord who made them? And uh he says, and has stretched forth the heavens and Lay the foundation of the earth. Because why are you fearing man and forgetting God? You know why? Because they saw man every day. They saw the oppressors. They saw the apparent ability of man to make me unhappy. And because God is a spirit, because God is an unseen God, they forgot all about their God. And God's rebuking them. And he's rebuking them saying you're afraid of a man who at best is physical and temporal In his influence on you, and you're forgetting all about the fact that you've got a God in heaven that stretched forth all of creation. And then he goes on. Forget the Lord thy maker that stretched forth the heavens and laid the foundations of the earth. Look at this And has feared continually every day. Now here's what I'm getting at. Because of the fury of the oppressor, as if he were ready to destroy you. He said, you're afraid of man, you've forgotten all about me, and you're worried about this fury of the oppressor. As if, look what he says, as if he were ready to destroy you. The word oppressor there. As it's used throughout the Bible, makes reference to a person or a thing that to oppress something means to hold it down, to restrict it. Constrain it. It's not free. It's under oppression. And he says, You have allowed things, and you have allowed people. Because you've forgotten me and you're so worried about people, you have allowed yourself to be oppressed, to be constrained, to be so limited in your life. It means something that causes a person or thing that brings distress to my life, to bring anguish to my life, to bring fear into my heart. And he says, you're allowing issues and people and things to upset you so much To take away your joy, to limit your life, your walk with God, to limit your ability to be who I intended you to be. Because of your exaltation of man. And that's what fear of man is: exalting man to a higher position than what he really has. And he was rebuking them. And I'm telling you, we got churches full of people who are intimidated. who are angry, who are frustrated, who are going through life, completely forgot that there's a God in heaven, and are trying to take things in their own hands, or trying, are worrying themselves, sick. cannot and are not the people that God wants them to be because they've forgotten about God in heaven I talk to evangelists that come through and I try and glean from them and different things they're picking up in churches across the country. And I said, and some time ago I asked about three or four evangelism we had in one year, I asked him, I said, what's the what do you think what do you see as the biggest issue with believers in fundamental independent Baptist churches You know what several of them said to me? Two in particular said right away without hesitation, God's people are angry. Just anger They're mad at their families, they're mad at their friends, they're mad at their neighbors, they're mad at their workers, they're mad at their employers, they're mad at their landlords Birds are mad at their preachers, or mad at their Deacons, they're married, they're Sunday school teachers, they're just angry at everybody. You know what that is In their mind, they have exalted man to a position where they have lost their joy. They have lost the blessings of God. They have lost the filling of the Holy Spirit. They have lost the ability to be the person God wants them to be because they've forgotten about God and they're all worked up about man. And God rebukes them for that. What are you so worked up about another person for? Don't you have a God in heaven? Is your is your ability to be happy dependent upon how a man treats you? Is your ability to function as a godly, happy, spirit-filled Christian dependent upon what another person does or does not do? Can you not even be Friendly to other people as a child of God because of what other people do? Do you not have a God in heaven? Do you not have a Savior who loves you and will meet your needs and take care of you? Have you exalted man to such a level that your very happiness is dependent upon another man? That's what God's saying to them. He's saying you're miserable. You're beat down. You're so limited, and I tell you, you get out and you meet people and they claim to be a child of God They claim to be saved from sin in hell on their way to heaven. They claim to be happy about their salvation. And they can't even smile when you look at them. Am I right or wrong? You know what that is? People who exalted man and forgotten God. And what how others treat me Has become the most important factor in my life. And I've completely forgotten about the fact I have a God in heaven. Who loves me? Listen, you say, oh yeah, well you don't know what so-and-so did to me. You're right, but I know what Christ did for you. So God's rebuking them severely. I want you to notice a couple things about these oppressors. A couple things about That we need to get in our heads when we get worked up or we get discouraged or we get or we feel oppressed. Or we become oppressed because of the actions of others, some things we need to keep in mind. Number one, most oppressors are baseless. Most of our idea about what these people are or aren't going to do to me or not do to me, how they're going to influence, most of our concern of that is absolutely baseless. Look at verse 13 again. Forget the Lord thy maker, and has stretched forth the heavens and laid the foundation of the earth, and has feared continually every day because of the fury of the oppressors. Now look at this next statement. As if He were ready to destroy. Now think about what God is implying here Says you're worried about the fury of the oppressor as if he were ready to destroy. What's the implication? As if he were ready to destroy. What the Lord's saying is what? He's not ready to destroy. He can't do this. You're acting as if he can, and he can't. These oppressors that you've allowed to develop in your heart and mind and life, they cannot do to you what you're thinking they can do to you. You think that person can destroy you. You think that person has the power to make you happier say You think that person has the ability to make you succeed or fail in life. You imagine in your mind that this person has abilities they do not have. That is a baseless imagination. I am glad, now I have failed in this as many times as others have, no doubt, but I am glad that my happiness and success in life is not dependent upon someone else. It is dependent solely upon my personal relationship with my God. There's too many Christians who have pitiful testimonies. There's too many Christians who have Horrific testimonies in the world because we've imagined in our mind that our happiness, that our testimony, is dependent upon how others treat us, and God says that is a baseless assumption. As if they would destroy you. I'm never talking to him. What, you're acting as if your happiness is based on him? They feared every day something that never showed up. They feared continually something that did not even exist. And has feared continually every day because of the fury of the oppressor as if he were ready to destroy? Let me give you some oppressors, some fears that are baseless. Number one, the fear of man is a baseless fear. You got your Bibles with you? Everybody out there still? Everybody okay? Turn with me if you would real quickly to Proverbs. I love the book of Proverbs. Proverbs chapter 29. Keep your place in Isaiah. We're gonna end up back here. Proverbs 29, and look with me if you would at verse 25. Proverbs 29, 25, page 693. Proverbs twenty-nine twenty-five. The fear of man bringeth a what? Now, that's not the same word, but would you agree? The definition of oppressor means someone who constrains or holds down. Would you agree that a snare Would be something very similar to an oppressor, at least in its effect on somebody. So you have in fifty Isaiah 51 they had oppressors, people who they were so scared of, so worked up about That they could not function as God intended them to function. They were oppressed. Here you have in Proverbs twenty-five twenty-nine uh twenty-nine twenty-five God says the fear of man brings a snare, and a snare holds you down. A snare limits your potential. The fear of man bringeth a snare, but whoso putteth his trust in the Lord shall be what? Safe. Fearing as if man is actually going to be able to keep me from being what God wants me to be. When in reality, if I just trust Christ, I'm safe. I can be the person God intends for me to be. I can live the joy of the Lord that God intends for me to live. The fear of man is a baseless fear. Because all I gotta do is trust God and man cannot affect my relationship with the Lord. Now, it's true some men are fearful. I mean, let me put it this way. It's true some men are scary. All right. I I'm looking at a few right now. But um by the way, some women are scary too. I'm more scared of women than I am men, to be honest with you. Some folks are scary. But when we compare them to God, there's nothing to be afraid of. Amen. Um too many people will compromise their convictions because they fear man and not God. And they don't say it this way, but this is the effect. If I do what God tells me to do as a Christian, they'll think I'm nuts. I'm here to tell you, all you gotta do is claim to be a Christian, they'll think you're nuts. So you might as well go ahead and obey God. And just accept and adapt biblical convictions that God has given to us, because they're going to think you're nuts anyway. Nobody respects, hey, nobody respects a worldly Christian. The godly Christians don't respect him, and the world doesn't respect them. The godly Christians won't respect them because they're worldly. So if you're going to be a Christian, you might as well go all out, show out, take the convictions of the Bible, and settle it there, because if you fear man, you're going to end up compromising your convictions. Too many refuse to declare the gospel because they fear man and not God. Uh too many people refuse to identify with Christ because they fear man and not God. Too many people never trust Christ as Savior. Because they fear man and not God. Now let me stop there just for a moment. The worst thing in the world that can possibly happen to a person is to never trust Christ as their personal Savior because they're afraid of what other people will think and then die and go to hell and those other people never even see them for the rest of eternity. It is not, listen, there's not a friend in the world worth dying and going to hell for There's not a family member in the world that is worth dying and going to hell for. I had a person years ago back in Indianapolis Their husband had died, and she says, I believe my husband's in hell, and I want to go to hell and be with them. Now that sounds very noble, but it's baseless. You're not going to be with your husband in hell. You're not going to be with your best friend in hell. You will be alone for all eternity. And to die and go to hell because you're afraid of what somebody would say if you trust Christ as Savior is a baseless fear. It is a foolish fear. Fear of man is a baseless fear. Matthew chapter ten and verse twenty-eight. Let me just read this verse to you real quickly. I can probably get there uh quicker maybe not. Matthew chapter ten. Let me read verse twenty-eight to you. Listen to what Jesus says. And fear not them which kill the body. But are not able to kill the soul. But rather fear him which is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. Did you ever see these redneck pickup trucks drive around? Actually we got a few of those in the parking lot, I think. Mike was uh somewhere and the pickup truck with the big stacks. Where was that? Kent Island. How many people know where Kent Island is? Three. Somewhere on the other end of the state, right? Eastern shore. Down there. He's down there, him and his son, just a few weeks ago he's telling me, and there's this big pickup truck has these huge smokestacks coming up. Well, I hope they're not here this morning. Um And uh him and his son was at McDonald's, somewhere sitting in it. Where was it at? Oh, is that a cell phone store? Anyway, they look out, they see this truck, and they get joking around, say, wow, why in the world would somebody do that? A bunch of rednecks. We thought they only had them in Garrett County And uh they're going on so Mike walks out and uh he goes to the guy in the truck and says, I'm not trying to be smart, but why do you have smokestacks on there And he gave him some reason and Mike just laughed a little bit. He says, Yeah, he said, we thought we just had them up in Garrett County. The guy said, Garrett County, I love I live in Crumlin. The guy was from Corn. I hope that nobody ever I'm not making fun of, I'm just saying it. Ah, never get that guy out the church. See they have on the back of their pickup truck they'll have no fear. Anybody ever see that? Now if you have one on, I don't know why you have it on, but I tell you, that's crazy. You better fear God. You better fear God. Now if you don't fear man, whoop he do for you. But you better fear God. The fear of man is a baseless fear. The fear, let me give you another one. The fear of science is a baseless fear. I think, and now it's not as much as it was, but for a long period of time there, Christians were afraid of science. Intimidated by it. There was a guy we were in Colorado. It's a man, good man. Love the Lord godly. I'd I'd love to have him in any church I pastored. A good man. Somehow we got talking about dinosaurs and dinosaur bones. And he immediately got real defensive. And he says, I think God just put them all in the ground just to fool man. They're not even real. God just put them there just to trick the world. How about that's dumb? One, God doesn't trick people. Amen? God straight up. So Christians were afraid. Of what science would discover. As if somehow science would discover something that would discredit our God. I want to remind you, our God is the God of science. Our God is the one that created this place. He is the one that establishes the laws, the irrefutable laws of science. A believer in the Bible has no reason in the world to be afraid of science. People, for years, Christians were afraid of the lie of evolution. And they thought there was no answer to it. And so they, in rather than simply trusting God and taking the Bible for what it says, they came up with theories of theistic evolution. And somehow taking the lie of evolution, the theory of unsaved man, and trying to get it to grasp hand With the book of Genesis and come up with some compromise, listen, you cannot compromise the truth Either we were created as God says we were created, or we evolved as the evolutionist theorizes. They can't both be true. Am I right or wrong? And so you have your Schofield Bible. I use a Schofield Bible. But the notes in Genesis, if you'll look in my Bible, they're all blacked out. Because Schofield bought into a teaching called the gap theory. And on one hand, he heard what the evolutionists, their theory, and they're presented as fact, and it is not fact. And he was scared of that. And so the only way he could come up with these billions of years that the evolutionists suggest. And uh have the book of Genesis and take it literally is there must have been God created some pre-Adamic race and the earth is actually millions of years old, then there was this huge gap and then God created Adam and Eve. Listen, that is unscriptural. I can If you give me a little time after service, I can show you from the Bible how that is dead wrong. And it's rooted in a fear of what scientists conclude. We have no reason to be afraid of science. We have no reason to be afraid of the discoveries of science when you separate the fact of scientific discoveries with the from the opinion of the scientists, there is no threat to God's word. It's their opinions that contradict God's word, not their discoveries. It's their conclusions That contradict God's word, not the facts or the evidence that they base their conclusions on We don't have to be afraid of it. In fact, the more that science discovers, the more difficult it becomes to defend evolution. Darwin thought that single-celled uh amoebas and stuff were very basic and not complex at all. They were just simple little things that are Could very easily have spontaneously developed. You know what? We got more powerful microscopes than he ever dreamed of. You know what we're finding out? They're not so simple after all. They're incredibly complex And the very idea that they can somehow, just spontaneous by chance and chaos, produce this unbelievably complex little soul is ludicrous. So the more that man discovers, the more difficult it becomes to support the lie of evolution. And that's why now you have hundreds and hundreds and hundreds Of highly educated scientists who are not even believers who are saying there is no way this can happen. The way the evolutionists suggest. So now that they come up with other goofy ideas, but we're not afraid of science. The more science discovers, the more the Bible's proven true. We're not afraid of the archaeologists digging in the Middle East and finding artifacts. Everything they find is uh uh collates with the scriptures beautifully. So the fear of man is baseless. The fear of science is baseless. The fear of losing our salvation is baseless. You say, well, you believe once saved, always saved? Yes. Not because we think that, but because the Bible teaches that. You can't get around it. If you start teaching the idea that a man a saved person can lose their salvation, you open up a door of impossibilities and difficulties in who God is and what God's Word is and what happened on the cross when Jesus died for us. We have nothing less than the promises of Almighty God that whosoever believeth in him should not perish. We have nothing less than the promise of Almighty God that whoever God gives eternal life to shall never perish. How is it possible for God to say, if you believe in me, if you trust me as your Savior, I will give you eternal life? And then go out five days, five months, five years later and say I lost that salvation, that life ended. That was not eternal life. You had temporary life. And God does not give a temporary life. So either you never got saved in the first place or you didn't lose it. Because it's impossible For a believer to lose their salvation. That is you lay in bed at night, boy. I'm afraid I'm gonna lose my salvation. I don't We get out knocking on doors just about I won't say every week, but every month We'll have somebody say something to this effect. Wescomb. Do you know for sure if you died right now you go to heaven? They'll say something like this. Well you can't know that Nobody can know for sure you go to heaven. Then you'll find out whether you made it or not. What in the world kind of God is that? He doesn't tell me whether I'm right or wrong until it's too late for me to do anything about it. What kind of God would say, wait until there's nothing you can do, and then you find out you're condemned to hell? Our God is a better God than that. We can know we're saved and know we're saved now by taking God at His Word. So the fear that I'm going to lose my salvation is a baseless fear. A perfect illustration of that is in the Old Testament in 1 Samuel, God, Saul had disobeyed God and was uh and was going to have the kingdom taken from him. God sent Samuel out and he chose David to be the next king. Now David was just a child at the time, and Samuel anointed him to be the next king. God said David was going to be king. If God says David's going to be king, David's going to be king. But as David grew, Saul became threatened by David, and Saul determined he was going to kill David. You know the story chased them all around the place trying to kill David. Finally, David got so tired of it That he made the statement, he says, I shall surely one day die by the hand of Saul. That was his conclusion. He had forgotten God's promise that someday he would be king, and he became afraid Of Saul. And so he compromised his faith in God and he ran to the Philistines, ended up lying, and destroying his testimony. Question, was Saul going to kill David, yes or no? Absolutely not. David was in no danger of being killed by Saul because God promised him he would someday be killed. Hey, how many folks here you're saved to know it? Say amen. If you and I are genuinely saved, genuinely born again. We are in no danger of dying and going to hell because God promised that we have eternal life and we would never perish. It's a promise of God. If our salvation depended upon our works, then we would have a legitimate fear of losing it. Because if we could lose it, we would. But our salvation is dependent upon God's grace, and thus our fear of losing it becomes a baseless. There's not a devil in hell, there's not a sin in the heart of man that can break God's promise. Number four, a fear of death is a baseless fear. For those who have been born again, death is a blessed event. For those who know Jesus Christ as Savior, death is a blessed event You say, what are you talking about? The worst thing in the world that could happen to me is dying. Oh no, it isn't. The worst thing in the world that could happen to you is dying without Christ. But if you have Christ, if you've been saved, death is not a horror, death is not the end, death is not something to be feared. Revelation chapter fo fourteen and verse thirteen, God said, Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord He doesn't say terrified. He doesn't say horrified. He doesn't say it's a terrible event. He says to die as a believer is a blessed event. I don't see it that way. You know why? Because you and I are too influenced by the temporary, visible things of now, and we've completely forgotten by the fact that God has promised eternal life in His presence for all eternity. Now, I'm not suggesting we go out and want to die. Everyone in the Bible wanted to live as long as it was God's will, but not one of them viewed death as a horrible thing. And I think this is interesting, I got looking at that verse. It doesn't say blessed are the believers who are raptured. We say, boy, you know what? And I I and I'll be frank with you, I'd rather go by the uppertaker than the undertaker. Can I get a witness? But I think we're a little out of whack there. Because God said, Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord. I don't see anywhere he talks about the blessedness of being raptured. Now it is a blessed thing, right? But I think God's saying there is a special blessing. That God gives to the believer at the time of death. There's a special joy, there's a special presence What did he say in Psalm 23? Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. For the believer, death is not something to be feared. For the believer, there are no pains in death. Now, there may be the physical pains of dying. But there's no pain in death for the believer. Our faith in Jesus Christ should be so strong, should be such a level that we literally trust Him with our lives. And when we trust God and we get to the point we say, Lord, if this is your time for my death, I embrace it and I accept it from the hands of a loving God. It's a baseless fear. Now, and I'm going to have to end with this. I've got more, but Let me say this. If you're here this morning, or you're under the sound of my voice, and you've never genuinely trusted Jesus Christ as Savior Death is the greatest fear in your life. The worst thing that could possibly happen to a person. Is to die without Christ in your sins. And immediately, Luke 16, find yourself separated from God in a horrible, real place called hell. I was reading through Luke 16 the other week, and there were two words that stood out. I've been praying about, preaching a message on it. Two words about the rich man, and it's this: in hell. In hell, he died without Christ, and now in hell. That was 2,000 years ago the Lord gave us that information. As I stand before you now this morning, this rich man is in hell. And will be for all eternity. If you're here under the sound of my voice, and you are not absolutely, positively certain That Christ has forgiven your sins, and that you have trusted Him as your personal Savior based on the scriptural gospel. The most important thing for you to do today is trust Christ. We're not talking about joining the church. We're not talking about baptism. That all has its place. We're talking about getting my sins forgiven, knowing I'm going to heaven when I die. And then death is no longer fear. Years ago when I grew up as a I made reference to the giving message about an eight as being an 18-year-old boy reading my Bible under conviction. My best friend from ninth grade through till I was saved is a fellow by the name of Denny. We both had the same first name. I got saved at the age of 19, the day after my 19th birthday. God had changed my life so dramatically, and it doesn't happen this way for everybody, but for me it was new person. I mean instant, dramatic change. Next day at work, the guys noticed it immediately. I began trying to witness to my friend. Well my interests now were in another world than what his and all my other buddies were, and just inevitably we went separate ways. I tried and tried and tried to share the gospel with him Years went by, I ended up down in Bible college. Whole time I was in Bible college, I was writing letters back. Every time I go home, I try and find Danny, I try and win him to Christ. Usually he'd make himself scarce and won he never answered my letters. Finally I came home one time, if I remember it was Easter break and I came home for a few days and I got his number through a series of efforts and called him up and said, Danny, I'm in town. I like just come out and see if you're he says, Yeah, come on out. I knew he had gotten arrested for selling drugs and different things. And uh he was under I believe it was house arrest or he was out for physical Condition or something. They told me where I lived. He had a condominium. Got over there. He had a beautiful. Back then they were called Dotson 280Zs. Remember Dotson? That was the car, man. He had a Dotson 280Z Brand new ones sat out there. I went in, vitamin is condominium, many had this huge fish tank, about the size of our baptistry, had all these exotic fish, kind of like Jer Jeremy had or uh um What's your dad's name there? Lonnie has uh and uh uh and it's and stereo and he showed me and I'm there man this is something else Danny this is something else and he says it's all paid for paid cash for everything Well, I knew how he did that. I said, Danny, this is all impressive. I said, but that's not why I'm here. So Danny, let me ask you a question. Do you know for sure if you die now you go to heaven? Well he said stiffened up because it's all taken care of. I said, what do you mean it's all taken care of? He said, God told me everything's cool. I said, what do you mean everything's cool? He said it's just cool. I said, Danny, let me, and I had a little Gideon's Bible with me. I said, Danny, let me take my Bible. Let me show you what God says about how to get our sins forgiven and know we're going to heaven. He stood up, he put his hand right in my face. He says, Good to see you, Danny. Take care. I'm hoping things work out for you. I said, can I just show you? Good to see ya. Take care. Here's the door. As I was leaving, I said, can I at least leave this little Bible with you? Took it, stuck in his pocket, says, good to see you, take care. That was the last I saw Denny. Went back to school summer, I was in a ministry. I may have traveled Bible time, I don't remember. My dad, since 1981, has written me a letter every single week. Since 1981, since I moved out, I get a letter every single week. That fall I got a letter from my dad, and in the letter was a newspaper clipping, one column wide, about six, seven inches long. At the top it said Dennis Wilson. My friend Danny die. Last I saw him, he was telling me everything's okay. He implied to me he had no fear of death. Even though he had not Christ as his Savior, had not trusted Christ as his Savior. As far as I know, as far as I know, My best friend through my teenage years this morning while I'm talking to you is in a devil's head. Never to escape alone, forgotten Now, I hope and pray that maybe he read that little Bible, somehow trusted Christ in that time, but I have no reason to believe that When I got that, I was in the school and I went and found a place. I got alone. I got on my knees and I wept. I told God, I want to give my life. To see other people trust Christ and do everything I can to keep people from dying and going to hell. We know Christ the Savior, there is no reason in the world to fear man. If we don't know Christ as Savior, then death is a terrible, terrible enemy that we need to face. Father, help us. Lord, to not only be sure of our own salvation, but Lord, give us a burden for others' salvation. Father, help us not to fear man. But to boldly, joyfully be who you've created us to be, to boldly, joyfully obey you and trust you. And live in this world as you intend for us to do, not fearful of the oppressors. With our heads bowed and with our eyes closed, how