In the Word of God in First Kings chapter nineteen. First Kings chapter nineteen. Please keep your Bible open because we're going to look at two other passages of scripture. as we look at this message tonight. Let me give you the background once again. In the nation of Israel, remember the nation of Israel was once twelve tribes, and during the reign of King Rehoboam, Solomon's son, the nation split into two nations. the northern kingdom of Israel with the capital city of Samaria, and the southern kingdom of Judah with just the tribes of Judah and Benjamin. with the capital city of Jerusalem. And of course, the nation of Israel oftentimes has gone into idol worship, but it finally got to a king by the name of Amri And Omri the Bible says he did more to provoke the Lord than any of his predecessors. This guy was a mess, this guy was evil, this guy was wicked, and everybody begins to think, boy, it can't get any worse than that until his son Ahab begins to reign. Ahab doesn't just keep the nation in idol worship like almost every other e uh uh king of the northern kingdom has done He actually makes the national religion. He builds idols, he builds altars to Baal. And the nation of Israel, God's chosen people, have now made their national religion Baal worship Not only was Ahab a wicked king, not only does the Bible tell us that blood was running through the streets of the city of Samaria, but it also tells us that Ahab found a wife from another country. Her name was Jezebel. To this day her name is synonymous with a wicked woman. And Jezebel brought with her four hundred prophets of the grove, those Four hundred prophets from her hometown, if you will, that have come in, and now you've got veil worship and you've got Jezebel leading her own worship At the same time, a Bethelhite has finally finished the city of Jericho. Remember, after Jericho fell, God announced a curse on Jericho after Joshua had defeated it He said, if anybody rebuilds this city, he'll lay the foundation in his firstborn, and he'll finish the uh the walls in his lastborn. This man was willing to give up two of his own sons to rebuild this wicked, idolatrous city. The nation of Israel has gone into wickedness like never before. At the same time, though, although we read this from the New Testament You find a man that has been getting alone with God, a man that is a righteous man. He's a fervent righteous man. He's got some effectual fervent praying going on When the New Testament wanted to describe what a good prayer life was going to be, it used a man by the name of Elijah. The effectual perfect prayer of a righteous man availeth much Elias was a man of like passions like as we, and he besought the Lord that it might not reign upon the earth for the space of three years. So Elijah is alone with God on his knees, begging God to do something monumental to stop the rain for three years to get Israel back in line with Jehovah God Finally, he shows up on the scene in 1 Kings chapter 17. He just appears out of nowhere. The Bible describes him this way and Elijah the Tishbite That's it. We don't know anything else. He's just all of a sudden on the scene like we're already supposed to know him. He announces that it will not rain upon the earth for the space of three years Can you imagine what everybody thought when this weird old prophet showed up in his leather girdle and he says it's not going to rain for three years? Everybody thought immediately, well, he's like a typical weather forecaster, he's not going to get it right. After the first year goes by and it doesn't rain, the second year it goes by and it doesn't rain, they began to take Elijah just a little bit more seriously. And finally the Lord tells Elijah, Go and show yourself to Ahab. And Elijah says, Your Highness, let's have a competition. You bring the prophets of Baal on top of Mount Carmel And I'll bring myself up on top of Mount Karma. We'll take two bullocks, we'll put them on two altars, and we'll have someone, each we'll see which one can get God, their God, to call send down fire from heaven Ahab agrees. Elijah goes up there, the prophets of Baal go up there, they present the altars, and they put the offering on there, cut up in little pieces, and uh the prophets of Baal get to go first. 450 prophets of Baal. They began to run around and dance around and sing, Oh Baal, hear us. Oh Baal, hear us. Oh, Baal, hear us. On and on they go. And I love uh anytime there's sarcasm in the Word of God, I absolutely love it. And all of a sudden Elijah becomes a little bit sarcastic I think Elijah is more like me. I'm more like Elijah than I am the Apostle Paul. Let's just put it that way. And Elijah says, maybe he's on a journey. Maybe he's asleep. You need to yell a little bit louder. He can't hear you. Maybe he's talking to somebody else and you're interrupting. And Elijah just goes on with four different things. That maybe their God Baal is doing. And finally they start yelling louder. They start cutting themselves. Uh uh The thing that's typical with uh many Far Eastern religions, they start cutting themselves and bleaming on the actual altar and yelling louder, Oh, fail, hear us, nothing happens Finally, Elijah gets up. He says, This, if God be God, worship him. If Baal be God, worship him. Whoever sends down fire from heaven, that's we're going to worship. And now for all these hours, nothing has happened from Baal Nothing was ever going to happen from Baal. Nothing has ever happened from Baal, nor will anything ever happen from Baal. He's not even real. Elijah gets up, clears his throat a little bit, and says, steps back and looks at the altar there, the twelve stones that are stacked up, the uh the offering that is on top of it And he says, you know, if I'm going to call down fire from heaven, I really need one important ingredient. I need some water Most people would think that's kind of strange. I think everybody thought that was strange. I wouldn't be surprised if those prophets of Baal start making fun of Elijah for putting water on the altar that he's getting ready to ask his God to send down fire on So Elijah sends four guys, they get buckets of water, they dump it on there. You've got to remember, it's a three-year drought, and they're on top of a mountain. It might have taken a little bit of time to go get four buckets of water. He says that's not wet enough, go get four more. Oh, it's still not wet enough, go get four more. He dug a trench around the eye of the altar there, and the trench is now filled up to the brim. with water. Then Elijah prays a 63-word prayer. You know what Elijah's 63-word prayer? You know what he never prayed for? He never asked God for fire. Elijah just said, Lord, show these people that you are God, show these people that I'm your servant, and that everything I've done, I've done at your request and at your command. Elijah finishes praying, all of a sudden the fire of God falls on top of that altar. Did you ever read about that a little bit? Not only did it burn up the sacrifice It burned up the stones that the altar was made out of. It burned up all the dust that was around the altar, and it lapped up all the water that was in the trench. See, we still use water to put out fire. God used fire to put out water. Finally, after fire has fallen, the altar is burned up, all of a sudden the people begin to say, The Lord, he is God, the Lord He is God. No longer are they worshipping Baal. And Elijah says, Well, now here's the next step. Go get me those four hundred and fifty prophets of ba of Baal, and I just need a sword, a real sharp one, if that's fine. And he kills all four hundred and uh four hundred and fifty of 'em. Then he says, well, let's fix this thing. He gets down on his knees and he begins to pray for rain. Prays the first time, sends his servant nothing. Second time, nothing. Third time, nothing. Seventh time he comes back. He says, I see a cloud like a man's hand. And Elijah said, We're close enough to West Virginia that you guys are going to get this. He said, You guys better hurry up and go home. It's going to be a gully warcher. It's not a gully gully washer, it's a gully washer. West Virginians think there's an R in the word wash, but there's not. But still, we'll go back to the message. Everybody runs. You would think that at this moment in time Elijah is almost a superman. He has defeated the king, he's defeated the prophets of Baal. He's called and asked God not to send water to rain, and he didn't send rain. He called and asked God to send fire and God sent fire. He asked God to send rain again and God sends rain again. You would think that there's nothing that this man would be afraid of, but Jezebel sits down and writes him a letter And the letter basically says, for lack of more information, dear Elijah, I hate you, love Jezebel. Elijah goes into doubt and depression and despair. He begins to say to God, Well, if it weren't for me, you'd have nobody. I'm the only prophet left. I'm the only one that hasn't bowed his knee to Baal. I'm the only one that hasn't kissed him God picks him up and moves him over to Mount Horeb and puts him in a cave there. And you know how the story goes? There's a fire, but he's not in the fire. There's a whirlwind, but he's not in the whirlwind. Then there's an earthquake, but he's not in the earthquake. Let me tell you something though Just to throw this in, no extra charge. Last year my wife and I were in two hurricanes and two earthquakes. How many other people can say that? We're on the seventh floor of an apartment building in Misawa, Japan when a 5. 6 earthquake hit Misawa, Japan. It's kind of fun because you're up there like it's like a ride and stuff as you shake back and forth. But anyway, it's not God's not in the earthquake, and then there's a still small voice. And God was in the still small boys. He first tells Elijah, I got seven thousand that have not bowed the knee to Baal, that have not kissed him. You're not the only one I have, but even even though God is Scolding Elijah a little bit, he also wants to encourage him. And as we get to this passage of Scripture, you're in 1 Kings chapter 19. I hope I Told you that chapter a while ago. You're in 1 Kings chapter 19. God is going to give Elijah some things to do, and we're actually going to meet all of this was background. We're actually going to meet the individual that we're preaching about tonight. First Kings chapter nineteen, begin with me, I believe it's verse fifteen, as we look. And the Lord said unto him, Go return on thy way to the wilderness of Damascus. When thou comest, anoint Hazael to be king over Syria. And Jehu, the son of Nimshes, shalt thou anoint to be king over Israel. And Elisha, the son of Shabad of Abel Mahola, shalt thou anoint to be prophet in thy room. And it shall come to pass that him that escapeth the sword of Haziel shall Jehu slay, and him that escapeth from the sword of Jehu shall Elisha slay. Yet I have left me seven thousand in Israel, all the knees which have not bowed unto Baal, and every mouth which hath not kissed him. So he departed thence, and found Elisha the son of Shabbat, who was ploughing with twelve yoke of oxen before him and he with the twelfth and Elijah passed by him and cast his mantle upon him. And he left the oxen and ran after Elijah and said, Let me, I pray thee, kiss my father and my mother And then I will follow thee, and he said unto him, Go back again for what have I done to thee. And he returned back from the uh back from him and took a yoke of oxen, and slew them, and boiled their flesh with the instruments of the oxen, and gave it unto the people, and they did eat. Then he arose and went after Elijah. Now watch this phrase carefully with me, and ministered Unto him. Skip over to 2 Kings chapter 2. 2 Kings chapter 2. This, by the way, is six years later Over these intervening six years, Elisha has not done a miracle. Elisha has not uttered a prophecy. Elisha has not preached a message. Now here they are in 2 Kings chapter 2. It's time for Elijah to be taken into heaven. Notice what it says. And it came to pass when the Lord would take up Elijah into heaven by a whirlwind, that Elijah uh Elijah went with Elisha from Gilgal. And Elijah said unto Elisha, Tarry here, I pray thee, for the Lord has sent me to Bethel. And Elisha said unto him, As the Lord liveth, and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. So they went down to Bethel The sons of the prophets that were at Bethel came forth to Elisha and said unto him, Knowest thou that the Lord will take away thy master? Please watch this phrase here from thy head today. And he said, Yeah, know it, hold you your peace. Elijah said unto him, Elijah, tarry here, I pray thee, for the Lord has sent me to Jericho. And he said, As the Lord liveth, and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. So they came to Jericho. And the sons of the prophets that were at Jericho came to Elisha and said unto him, Knowest thou that the Lord will take away thy master, here it is again, from thy head today And he answered, Yea, I know it. Hold ye your peace. Elijah said unto him, Tarry, I pray thee here. For the Lord has sent me to Jordan. And he said, As the Lord liveth. As thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. So and they too went on. And fifty men of the sons of the prophets went and stood to view afar off, and they too stood by Jordan. And Elijah took his mantle and wrapped it together and smote the waters, and they were divided hither and thither, so they too went over on dry ground, and it came to pass, when they were gone over, that Elijah said to Elisha Ask what it sh what I shall do for thee before I be taken away from thee. And Elisha said, I pray thee, let a double portion of thy spirit be upon me. And he said, Thou hast asked a hard thing. Nevertheless, if thou see me, when I am taken away from taken from thee, it shall be so unto thee, but if not, it shall not be so. And it came to pass as they went on and talked, that behold there appeared a chariot of fire. And horses of fire, and parted them both asunder. And Elijah went up by a whirlwind into heaven, and Elisha saw it, and he cried, My father, my father, the chariot of Israel and the horsemen thereof He saw him no more. And he took hold of his own clothes and rent them into pieces. And he took also up also the mantle of Elijah that fell from him. And went back and stood by the bank of Jordan. And he took the mantle of Elijah that fell from him, and smote the waters, and said, Where is the Lord God of Elijah? And when he had also smitten the waters, they parted hither and thither, and Elisha went over. Now I want you to turn one more page over in your Bible to chapter three. Let me give you a brief little synopsis here The nation of Moab is trying to attack the nation of Israel, the nation of Judah, and the people of Edom. So those three kings, the king of Edom, Jehoshaphat, king of uh Judah And Jeharam, the new king of the nation of Israel, get together to have a summit to see what they're going to do against the Moabites Jehoshaphat, being of the people that are still following the godly line of David and still worshiping in the temple, wants to talk to a prophet before they make any kind of decision. Look if you will Second Kings chapter three, verse eleven. But Jehoshaphat said, Is there not here a prophet of the Lord that we may inquire of the Lord by him? And one of the king's servants answered and said, Here is Elisha, the son of Shabak. Watch this, which poured water over the hands of Elijah. He doesn't say, here's Elisha, boy that guy can preach. Here's Elisha, that guy can sure prophesy. Here's Elisha. That guy's a real miracle worker. No. The only way Elisha was known as the guy that was a hand washer. See, not everybody can be a prophet, but everybody can be a hand washer. Let's have a word of prayer before we begin. The Lord Heavenly Father, we thank you for this evening. Lord, we thank you for our time together. Lord, we ask that you bless the message. We ask that you help us as we look at your word tonight. Father, we know that every single church everywhere that preaches the gospel needs more people to be servants. Father, we ask That the example of Elisha will spur us to a level of servitude of our brothers and sisters in Christ that we've not achieved before. Father, have your will in your way. In Jesus' name. Amen. When you look at Elisha, the first thing I want you to see is his call. Obviously, first he is called by Almighty God. It is God that says to Elijah, who doesn't know who Elisha is at the time, go and anoint Elisha to be the prophet in thy room womb uh room. See, understand this carefully. God is still calling people. I'm like every evangelist or every preacher that travels. I could name you fifty to a hundred churches that are looking for a pastor, an assistant pastor, a youth pastor, a music pastor, or the golden unicorn of Bible-believing churches The youth and music pastor. They're almost impossible to find today. I can name you church after church after church that's looking for someone. And people seem to act like it's God that stopped calling. No, God is still calling He's still calling in this church. He's calling in every church. God has always been calling. Remember when he told Moses up on top of that mountain? He said, Come now therefore, and I will send thee unto Pharaoh, that thou mayest bring forth my people, the children of Israel, out of Egypt. He called Jeremiah in Jeremiah chapter one and verse four Before I formed thee in the belly I knew thee, and before thou cameest forth out of the womb I sanctified thee and ordained thee a prophet unto the nations He called those disciples in Matthew chapter four and verse nineteen. Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. He's called every single one of us To go ye into the highways and hedges and compel them to come in. Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Teaching them to observe all things, whatsoever I've commanded you, and lo, I am with you all the way, even unto the end of the world. Understand, God has not stopped calling, not for a second, but God's people have stopped answering. Long before Elisha call Elijah called Elijah, uh Elijah called Elisha, God has already called Elisha, has he not? Notice the call of Elisha starts With God. But then Elijah does call him. Elijah shows up at his house, and there is Elisha ploughing with twelve yoke of oxen. That means his family had some prominence That means his family had some importance. That means his family had some wealth. Twelve yoke of oxen meant you were on the rich side, if you will. You were a one percenter in the nation of Israel, if you will He walks up and throws his mantle over his shoulders. Now that's not just calling him to serve him. That is actually a Hebrew picture of adoption. He says, I want you to travel with me. And I love what Elisha does Elisha says, Well let me go online and put a survey out on Reddit and see how many people think that I should travel with you Well let me ask my Facebook friends, let me post on X, let me see what everybody else thinks I ought to do before I do anything. He didn't say, I wonder how many vacation days I'm going to get when I A guy that I actually went to college with posted on Facebook a couple weeks ago the questions that he asks churches when they want him to come where they're talking to him about being their pastor By the way, he doesn't have a church yet. I'll tell you why. Here are the questions. Do I ever have to work after five o'clock? Do I ever have to work weekends other than Sundays? Do how many vacation weeks do I get? And does that include the time that I get to go on church-funded conferences? He asks all those kinds of questions about what what is going to happen if he takes that position. Guess what? Nobody's offered him a job Elisha doesn't say am I gonna have sick days? What kind of health insurance packages am I gonna get? Now watch me carefully, please. I want to be careful here There is nothing wrong with someone who is looking for a position asking how much they're going to get paid or the church telling them how much they're going to get paid. When it becomes wrong is when that becomes the reason that you say no When you say that's not enough, I can't step out on faith, that's when it becomes wrong. And Elisha doesn't do that. He says, Let me kiss mom and dad goodbye and I'm gonna follow you When Elijah calls Elisha, he immediately surrenders. He doesn't have to think about it. Now understand this, putting ourselves in the situation Don't you think that any person who loved Jehovah in all the nation of Israel would have loved the chance to travel with Elijah? Who else can tell you about calling down fire from heaven? Turning off the spigot in heaven for three years, and then turning it back on through the power of God. Who else could tell you those stories? Who else could describe for you the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man? Understand, Elijah calls Elisha, and immediately Elisha surrenders. Now watch this though, because here's where the rubber meets the road I have the I've had the privilege of preaching hundreds of weeks of teen camp. I've preached in seventeen Bible colleges. I've preached in youth conferences and youth things like that for a long time And I have seen young people, and anybody who works with young people know that they're more susceptible to the call of God to full-time Christian service than people in their fifties and sixties. I will point this out though. A sixteen-year-old has a lot less to surrender to God when he's sixteen. fifteen than he will when he's thirty six. But I've seen young people sit in the seat, I've seen them be moved. I've seen them get out of their seat. I've seen them come to an old fashioned altar and say, I'm giving it all to you. I beseech you, as Paul said, I beseech you therefore And they picked up all those things that have been keeping them from surrendering to the Lord. And they brought them up and they laid them down at an old fashioned altar and said, Dear Lord, you can have every single thing. I'm going to give it all to you. In Jesus' name, amen. And they turned around and then did this. Oh. And picked it up and took it back to their seats with them. Elisha didn't do that. Elisha didn't just surrender. Elisha severed, didn't he? After he goes and kisses mom and dad goodbye, he takes that yoke of oxen that he was ploughing behind. He kills them. He then takes the instruments of the yoke and sets a big fire and makes surrendering and severing oxen steak barbecue for all the people that are around See, Elisha did not want to be distracted by the yoke of oxen that was still waiting for him. And when things would get tough, he could say, Boy, I could go back and plow with those uh y those oxen and that'd be a whole lot better. I had things a lot better when I was try uh with my parents than I do with Elijah. Elisha, I think I'll go back to that. Elisha made sure there was nothing to go back to. He didn't just surrender, he severed I'll never forget. I'm I may have told you this story. I don't think I did. I was up in Canada a couple years ago actually going to preach at the camp I was telling you about this morning. A mom came to me, it's the first week of August. Her son, Levi, was a graduating senior that year, and in just a couple of weeks was headed to the United States to go to Bible college. He had worked very diligently and had saved up. Two full years of c tuition and room and board before he even left home. His mom came to me and she said, Brother Harper Can you please help me with something with Levi? I said, I'd be happy to. She said, I want you to help me talk him out of going to Bible college I said, well why? She said, well, I want him to serve an internship with my brother, who owns a roofing company here in Canada. She said, that way, if that preaching thing doesn't work out He'll have something to fall back on. I told her, I said, ma'am, I'm not going to talk to Levi about that. I'm sorry, I just can't do that. And by the way, I would ask you to rethink your your your position here because you just told me you're more you're not willing to trust God to take care of your son in the ministry, but you're willing to trust God to take care of him on a rooftop. It doesn't even make sense The truth of the matter is, we always seem to have a golden parachute plan, something to go back to, if that preaching thing doesn't work out. Elisha made sure there was nothing to go back to. He said, Not only am I giving it to you, Lord I'm severing from it, Lord. I'm surrendering and severing. Notice number one, please, the call of Elisha. Number two, though, the continuing of Elisha. Six silent years Humanly speaking, if you get to travel with Elijah, don't you think you're going to get a chance to preach every now and then? Don't you think you might get to prophesy once or twice? Maybe do a miracle here or there? Maybe learn how to call down fire from heaven. Elijah did it three times. For six years nothing. For six years Elisha is serving an almost complete silence He is sitting there pouring water over the hands of Elijah. That's what he's known for. He followed after him to minister unto him. He didn't follow after him to get the limelight. He didn't follow after him to be the center of everybody's attention. He just followed after him to pour water over his hands. That's a literal and figurative statement Literally, it means that it was time for Elijah to eat. Elisha poured water over his hands so he had clean hands after Elisha had made his peanut butter and jelly sandwich and cut the crust off of it. But it also figuratively means he was willing to do anything at all to help Elijah. He was willing to administer unto him the entire time. The truth of the matter is, Elisha was not looking for the limelight. He just wanted to be a servant. But watch me carefully Every moment he was pouring water over the hands of Elijah. He was drinking at the wellspring of the wisdom of Elijah, wasn't he? For six years he's absorbing. For six years he's learning. For six years as a servant, he's following, preparing for the next step. Let me tell you something about the next step in every single area of the Christian life. The next step is harder I told you I preached in several Bible colleges. I'm sure you have too, Doc. But uh if I listened, if I were a Bible college student sitting there in a Bible college Getting ready to take my Greek midterm. And I've been working forty hours and I've been staying up all night trying to pass this test and I'm not sure I'm gonna make it And I'm sitting down in chapel and I just need some encouragement. Then you get some old 60-year-old guy that steps up and he tells all the students with their bloodshot eyes Y'all think it's hard in college. You wait till you get out of the ministry. I'd quit right now. I'm sorry. If I'm that guy right there, I'd say, well if it's if this is as easy as as it gets, I'm done. I can't do much more. You know it is true though. Every step of the ministry it gets harder. When you become a an assistant Sunday school teacher and you're working, you're organizing things and you're taking the role and all that kind of stuff And then every single day you pray that that old Sunday school teacher that's teaching the class who's been doing it for forty years, you pray for her health and her longevity. You don't want her to go anywhere Then finally she says, I think I need to stop now. Too many things going on, too many things in my life, too many health issues, and you become the senior teacher, the teacher of the Sunday school class. Can I tell you this? It'll be harder When you go from being an assistant pastor to a pastor, it gets harder. When you go from being a helper on a bus a bus route to a captain of a bus route, it gets harder. With every single step of spiritual growth and spiritual advancement, the job gets harder But understand this, something else goes along with it. It is true, going back to the Bible college student, it is true it's harder in the ministry than it is in Bible college. But if you do your best, you study really hard. The Lord brings back everything to your mind as you take that test Your professor is going to give you a piece of paper back. On that piece of paper, there may be a 1 with two zeros after it and no decimal points. Some of y'all got that. There was a math joke in there. You could have got a ten or a one, but you actually got a hundred. I hate to have to explain that. I'm sorry. I thought it was funny when I said it, but anyway You know what you do with that? You put that on your refrigerator. You love that. Some of you have things on your refrigerator that your children did eight years ago. It's yellow now. Take it down If you do that all year long, at the end of the year you might make the dean's list or the presidency list. At the end of four years, you're gonna wear a fancy little robe and walk down an aisle, they're gonna hand you a piece of paper. But then you go into the ministry. I'll tell you the ministry is harder from the get-go. You go to Bible college, you prepare for missions, and you come out, you get out of Bible college, you think, I'm glad that's over, and now you're on deputation. I told Sy preached at a missions conference a couple weeks ago, I told them I've been on deputation for 30 years. They all felt sorry for me And as m miserable as deputation is, and you've heard stories, I'm sure, about things that have happened to missionaries on deputation, they finally get the opportunity to go where they've been called to go, where they surrendered to go twelve years ago, finally after all the college and all the preparation and all the deputation and The the the the the the cargo ship uh the cargo crate has been sent, all their belongings over there. They get there, they go through all the paperwork and the visas and all that, and they get there and they start and they think, This is great, the clouds are gonna open, I'm gonna hear the Hallelujah chorus every morning when And I wake up and they're there for a year and a half, and they get up every he gets up every single Sunday and preaches to his wife and his three children, and no matter how hard he tries, nobody shows up And he and his wife cried themselves to sleep. Oh, it's harder in the ministry. But then there's that Sunday. When in the back door comes a fella. They talked to him when they first got there. He wanted nothing to do with them, but now his wife is sick. He's talked to everybody else, and now he wants the preacher to pray for him. Next thing you know, he's there in your church, his wife is there, all their kids, their their cousins and aunts. Now you're pr standing up in the pulpit and you're preaching to fifty or sixty people. I'm here to tell you, it is harder to be in the ministry, but the rewards are so much greater. You teaching that Sunday school class and you didn't want to teach that Sunday school class. You wanted to be that assistant teacher forever and ever and ever. Finally had that one kid you went home and you told your husband or told your wife about it and you said, oh man, I got this one kid he, and I quote, gets on my last nerve. I don't think he listens. He's got the attention span of a goldfish. He's disturbing everybody. He can't keep his hands to himself. He's just terrible. I don't think a single word that I'm saying gets through to him Year after year he comes to church and you almost are at the point where you're praying that he doesn't show up. But then about ten years later you're standing here on a Sunday morning and The back door opens and you see someone walking in and you think, boy, he kinda looks familiar. And he walks straight up to you And he says, you know, you were my Sunday school teacher when I was in second and third grade. You didn't know what I was going through at home My home life was a disaster. My parents were involved in illegal things. They never spoke to each other. The only place I ever found love was when I came to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. The only place I ever saw people that cared for me and prayed for me. He said, now I want you to meet my wife and my two children. We're members of such and such Baptist church. We moved to another town a few years ago, but we're members over there and we never miss a Sunday morning and Sunday night and Wednesday night. And I've been looking forward to the day that I could get back here And thank you for being my Sunday school teacher. I'm telling you, that's better than any hundred on any chest. It's better than any pr a president's list or anything like that. That it's better than any diploma. See, yes, the battles get harder, the job gets more difficult, but the rewards get greater and greater and greater. When a pastor stands in a pulpit and looks out and sees someone on the back road and he recognizes them, he had him in his office. 25 times. They didn't think their marriage was gonna make it. They thought all the time. He prayed with them, he counseled with them, and finally they got right with God. And now they're still together ten years later. And he can sit there and say, That's better than getting an A on a test. I'm telling you, the job gets harder, but the rewards get greater. With every single step of ministry, God's blessings get greater and greater and greater. Next week, I'll be preaching a revival for a young man by the name of Daniel Dent. Daniel Pastors, the Independent, missionary, Baptist Church of Alum Creek. That's the name of the church preacher. They bought a new van, it cost them $15,000, cost them $25,000 to print the name on the side of it I remember the day Daniel came forward while I was preaching at a camp in Charl uh in uh uh uh over close to Clenden in West Virginia. I remember the day he surrendered to preach. And now I get to go and preach a revival for him The rewards get greater. Oh here is here is Elisha getting up every morning taking care of Elijah. fixing his food for him, here's Elisha cleaning his clothes for him, washing his hands for him. Here's Elisha as a servant ministering unto him, pouring water over his hands, not asking for a single thing for six years But he's getting prepared because you can't be the prophet Elisha until you're the hand washing Elisha first Notice number one, we saw his call. Number two, we saw his continuing. Number three, I want you to see his character. You get to chapter two, and I have to tell you, chapter two made me mad the more I studied for this message I was mad at every Sunday school teacher I ever had, and every junior church teacher I ever had. Maybe not mad, just severely disappointing. I even looked up some commentaries that said the same thing I want you to notice his character. First off, I want you to notice his respect. This is how you've heard the story, many of you, all your life. Maybe uh in in in a church like this, maybe you've heard it correctly, but most have heard the story like this. Elijah says to Elisha, I'm going from Gilgal to Bethel. You stay here. And Elisha says to himself, wait a minute. If I see him when he goes up, I'm going to get a double portion of his spirit. But if I don't see him, I won't get anything. So what happens if I'm still here in Gilgal and he goes to Bethel and goes up from Bethel? I'm going to miss out and not get any blessing. Then Elijah says, I'm going from Bethel over to Jericho. You stay here. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. What happens if you go up when you're in Jericho? I mean, I don't get that double portion unless I see you when you go up. What if you go up in Jericho? I'm going to get nothing out of this. I'll go with you as the Lord liveth, as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. He says, all right, I'm leaving Jericho, going to Jordan. You stay here. Ho ho ho. I'm not falling for that. What happens if you go up when you get to Jordan? I'm not going to see you and you go up. I'm not going to get that double portion of the blessing of your of your spirit because that's how I'm supposed to get it. That's what you've heard the story. Say, that's what I heard the story my whole life Do you know that's not it's not just not accurate, it is the exact opposite of what actually happened Elisha doesn't know about the double portion until after they've gone from Gilgal to Bethel, after they've gone from Bethel to Jericho, after they've gone from Jericho to Jordan, after they've crossed the Jordan River. Then Elijah says, What do you want when I go up? Reminds me of my wife's family. Now, my my wife's family, when her parents were both alive. Her mom's with the Lord now. When her parents were both alive They would have every single holiday, every Thanksgiving and every Christmas that I remember, after the meal, they would all basically sit around and divide their parents' stuff up in front of their parents That's not what my family did. We just waited until somebody died and then we fought over it like you're supposed to do. The uh the American way. I can tell you to this day who's supposed to get the pivot top table, who's supposed to get the long champ glasses, who's supposed to get Granny's China, who's supposed to get Kath Clean China, I think you down the list And tell you who's supposed to get all this stuff. It was all already divided out. Even down to r rings and necklaces, it was all already talked about. It always made me feel uncomfortable That's exactly what Elijah does. What do you want when I go up? Elijah says, I want a double portion of your spirit. Let's retrace our steps though. When Elijah says, I'm going from Gilgal over to Bethel, you stay here. Elisha says, you know, master. Bethel, that's where Jeroboam is started, instilled idle golden calf worship in the nation of Israel. That's where idol worship is prevalent everywhere, Master. You're probably going to need me. As the Lord liveth, as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. I'm going to Jericho, Pastor. You know the guy that built Jericho? You know he did it under a curse? You know that city's wicked. Master, who's going to pour water over your hands if I'm not there to do it? Who's going to minister to you if I'm not there to do it? As the Lord liveth, as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. Oh I'm going to Jordan, you stay here. No, I'm not staying here. You might need me. It might be rocky terrain. What if you slipped and fell? What if there was a problem? What if people stood up against you You know, master, I'm going with you every step of the way. I'm going to minister to you. I'm going to pour water over your hands. And as the Lord liveth and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. Elisha did not stay with Elijah to get a blessing. Elisha got a blessing because he stayed with Elisha. Elijah. The simple truth of the matter is, he wasn't serving to get, he was serving to give. And Elijah says, What do you want? And see I personally interpret this this way. When he says, I want a double portion of your spirit, I don't think he's saying I want to be able to run around and tell everybody I got twice the spirit of Elijah. I think what he's really saying is this, you know, master? I'm about half the man you are. And if I'm going to get anything done, I'm going to need a double portion of your spirit to do it. This is not a man who is out for himself. This is a humble servant of Jehovah and a humble servant of Elijah just pouring water over his hands. I want you to see his character, his request, his respect. But then his request. I love what he asked for. He asked for a double portion of his spirit, but I love even more what he didn't ask for. It's an amazing thing that a few times in the Word of God you have the Lord lay out some options for someone and they ask for one thing and then the Lord ends up giving them lots of other things as well. You know, Elisha did not ask for respect But after Elijah has gone up to heaven and he's crossed the Jordan River again, fifty of those sons of the prophets come and they kneel down at him as the prophet of the Lord. He didn't ask for anybody to revere him, but I think that happened, don't you? Remember at the end of chapter 2, he goes to that wicked city of Bethel And when he gets there, those young men start calling out to him, those rebellious, idol worshiping young men. They said, Go up, thou bald head. Now it may be possible that Elisha was in fact bald But I know a lot of preachers that don't have a lot of hair. I'm doing everything I can not to look over here I realize I have a mirror. I realize when I look in the mirror I have less hair than I had just a few years ago. I remember w it When my daughter was, I think, two years of age, I bent down to kiss her good night and I felt her little stubby fingers on the back of my head right here. And I said, Charity, what are you doing? She said, I'm trying to fix this space But you know the preachers that I know, and I've seen some wicked combovers. In in one church in Tennessee, I see there's a guy there that has a wicked comb forward He's not he's not the preacher. I'm not kidding, alright? He is absolutely bald up here, but he parts his hair right back here in the back and combs everything from forward so it looks like he has a head of hair. When you first look at him you go, wow, that guy's awful h old to have a full head of hair and then you're like Where's that coming from anyway? And then when you find it, it kind of messes you up just a little bit. But you know the preachers that I know who have follic or follically challenged By the way, did you know that ninety-five percent of all bald men still have a comb? They just can't part with it. Okay, uh I'm gonna take a moment here and just pause, time out. The very best dad joke in the history of mankind. We're in Abilene, Texas. We're at a uh uh a pawn shop. They have great great pawn shops in Abilene. This guy is trying to buy an amplifier or a uh uh uh a speaker And he asked them why it's so cheap, because they're like three and four hundred dollars. This one's twenty-five dollars. And the guy came back, he said, I'll go check, and he came back and he said, I found out why it's twenty-five dollars. It's stuck on max volume I walked up to the guy, I said, You gotta buy that. You can't turn that down. Anyway, back to the message. I hope I haven't derailed us too much I think Elisha, if he were bald, I think he knew he was bald. I think he probably could comprehend the fact that his hair was thinning. And so I don't think that what they're saying there is a physical characteristic that they're criticizing. Remember what the sons of the prophets said to Elisha? Thy master be taken from thy head today. You know if Elisha walked into the city of Bethel and somebody wanted to be critical of him They wouldn't have said a word, because Elijah's standing right there. Elijah might just go, oh, what was that you said? How about some fire from heaven? That's what Elijah would do Nobody's going to mess with Elisha while Elijah's there, but his master has been taken from his head now. So these men say, go up, bald head. You're a nobody without Elijah. They're not just if they are talking about his physical appearance, I think what they're really saying is, you don't have any authority as a prophet. You're a nobody without Elijah holding your hand. Elisha curses them and God sends two she-bears and forty-two of them are killed. Do you think he ever had a problem with people not referencing him at referencing him after that? He didn't ask for respect, but he got it. He didn't ask for reverence, but he got it. He didn't ask for a long life. He's going to live to be 110 years of age. He didn't ask for a long ministry. He will be the prophet in the nation of Israel for 60 years. He didn't ask for protection even. But remember when he and Gehazi are in that cabin and the Syrian army's all around, and Gehazi says, Master, what shall we do? And he says, Lord, just open his eyes And this Lord opens up his eyes and he sees chariots of fire all around. He didn't ask for any money. He didn't ask for wealth. But when Naaman shows up Although Elisha doesn't take it, he could have. It was six six talents of gold and six six talents of silver and six thousand pieces of gold and changes of raiment. He didn't ask for any of those things, but he got them all. See, because God wants us to be humble. I just want to serve Him better. I just But I need to do what needs to be done. I want a double portion of your spirit. And God says, not only am I giving you that, I'm giving you everything else too. Notice, number one, we saw the uh the call of Elisha. Number two, we saw his continuing, number three, we saw his character, we saw his respect for Elijah and his request, a double portion. But lastly, please, his convictions. Now I don't want to step on anybody's toes here, but I'm going to say something in a moment that might you might think I am, but I'm trying not to. A few things about Elisha that you notice immediately. First off, he has the same God So many young guys today are deciding that they need to detangle or de-entwine or whatever term they're using now. They don't want to do anything that their previous pastor did. They don't want to do anything that they were taught when they were young. They want to move away and do everything Differently, and it's almost as as soon as an older preacher steps off the scene, a younger preacher steps in and changes everything, up to and including the God that they serve When Elijah comes back, Elisha comes back from Elijah going up to heaven and he smites that water, he doesn't say, I wonder if I have the power of Elijah now. He says, Where is the Lord God of Elijah? See, Elisha always had the same God that Elijah did He didn't change when he became the new guy. He didn't change when his name was over the door. He didn't change when people started knowing who he was. He was always a servant of Jehovah God And the same God. He did some of the same miracles. I love it when Bible scholars, and I always hate to use that term, when Bible scholars describe Elisha, they will do, depending on which guy you read after Some will say that Elijah did twelve miracles. Some would say he did fourteen. Others would say he did sixteen. Every one of them says, well if he did twelve, then he did twenty-four. If he did fourteen, then he did twenty-eight. If he did sixteen, then he did thirty-two. As if That proves it. If Elisha never did a miracle, God told him he would get a double portion of Elijah's spirit, so he had a double portion of Elijah's spirit. I don't need you to tell me, see, you can trust God to do what he says, because if you count all the miracles up, there's twice as many That doesn't even faze me at all. I'm glad it works out that way. I'm glad it makes people comfortable. But if God says you're getting a double portion, you're getting a double portion no matter what else happens But he did some of the same miracles. He raises a widow's son, he makes the crews of oil not run out, he parts the Jordan River just like Elijah had done. He did some of the same miracles. He had the same God, the same miracles, but he also had the same separation. Remember in that passage in chapter three I told you about, you got these three kings, the king of Edom, Jeharam, the new king of Israel, who like I mentioned, I think I mentioned is better than his father-in-law in one respect. At least the nation's not worshiping Baal anymore. They're still worshiping false gods, but they're not worshiping Baal. And then Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah. And he called for Elisha and Elisha walks in. And if you read on down after where we stopped, when Elisha walks in, he sees Jehram sitting there, and Joshua Hoshaphat sitting there. And he doesn't go, oh What a great honor to be with the King of Israel. Let's take a selfie. I'm gonna post this on Facebook. Now, there are some good men that I know. Please understand. Don't try to figure out who I'm talking about because I'm not talking about anybody specific. That almost every time they post something, every time you see them, they want to tell you about meeting a congressman, meeting a cabinet secretary, meeting a senator, meeting a governor, meeting a governor's chief of staff And they're always real excited about that, and hundreds of people say, well, that's awesome, that's wonderful, that's great. Don't please don't think I'm being critical, even though it comes across that way. If you spent the morning In the presence of the King of Kings, why would you be that excited about a member of the House of Representatives? I'm sorry. Maybe I would be the same way. Maybe I would be all gushy and all that. I don't think I would be, but maybe I would be. But I think we've lost sight of something We're replacing certain men as if they have replaced Almighty God. I can talk to God every day. Elisha walks in, and there's the king of Israel. He looks at him and said, What do you want? And then he tells him, if it wasn't for Jehoshaphat The king of Judah, I wouldn't even be here. I'd turn around and leave right now because I'm not impressed with you. I'm impressed with him. The fact is, this man stayed true. He didn't change, he didn't alter, and for sixty years he's every bit as hard-nosed, as hard preaching, and as miracle-working a prophet as Elijah had ever been. For uh the next sixty years he's going to be the standalone almost prophet in the nation of Israel. He never changed at all. His convictions were always the same What I'm trying to tell you is this, Christian, when you look at Elisha, never mentioned in the New Testament like Elijah is. As a matter of fact, he's only mentioned once. Jesus mentions him when he tells the story of Naaman. Elijah's mentioned all through the book. He just keeps showing up. Not Elisha. If we were to all sit down and evaluate the two, most of us would be much more impressed with Elijah than we are with Elisha. But I'm here to tell you something. This faithful prophet would have never been the faithful prophet that he is if he hadn't learned to wash hands first. You might never be a senior Sunday school teacher, a deacon, or an usher, but you can be a hand washer. I just love that verse. Well, here's Elisha. He poured water over the hands of Elijah. You and I may look at that and say, oh, poor little known Elisha. But God didn't. God was using the hand washing time to prepare him to be the prophet for the nation of Israel. How many hands have you washed today? Are you looking for someone whose hands you can wash? Or are you just looking out for yourself? Remember what Paul told the Philippians? Look not every man on his own things, but on the things of others. Let's bow our heads and close our eyes, no one looking around. Your head's bowed and your eyes closed. Wonder how many would say, Brother Harper tonight, I know for sure if I died today I'd go to heaven. I didn't preach on salvation tonight. But how many would say my testimony is I'm on my way to heaven. I've trusted Christ. Would you slip your hand up, please, and hold them high in the air? Thanks, may put your hands down. Now, how many would just say this? Brother Harper, the life of Elisha convicted me tonight. I just want to be a better hand washer. Would you slip your hand up, please, all over the auditorium? Hold them high in the air. Thank you, maybe put your hands down. The thing about being a hand washer, you might not get daily compliments for being a hand washer. But just like in this passage of scripture, somebody's watching. And if no human being ever sees A cup of cold water given in a disciple's name will receive a disciple's reward. Our Savior said that. Just a moment, we're going to have an invitation. Our pianist is already here. She's already got her page picked out. We're going to pray, then we're going to stand after we stand. I'll give her a signal and she'll begin to play. You slipped your hand up, don't stay there. Step out on the very first note. Find your way to this old-fashioned altar and do business with God. By the way, one more question. Some of you have surrendered. But you never severed. Maybe tonight's the night to sever. Thank you for the privilege of preaching. Father, we thank you for the hands that went up all over the auditorium. Father, we ask that you bless this time of invitation. Help your people to do what you would have them to do in Jesus' name. Before we stand, let me say this This whole story, like so many stories in the Word of God, takes place because Elisha was willing to step out Ever wonder why the devil wants to talk you out into staying in your seat? Because as you go through the Word of God, you're going to see victory after victory after victory won. Because someone steps out. You what the Lord's light on your heart. As we stand all over the auditorium, every head bowed, every eye closed.