So Second Samuel chapter number seventeen is where I want to begin reading. I'm going to start in verse number one, and I'm going to read again. I know I did last week, but this whole section is all one unit, and I'm trying to keep it together in context. Verse number one Chapter 17. I'm going to read down through verse 14 if you would follow along. The Bible says, moreover, Ahithophel said unto Absalom, Let me now choose out twelve thousand men, and I will rise and pursue after David this night. Now let's get the background here, the context a little bit before we go on David's been run out of Jerusalem, as we know. We've been studying that. Absalom is uh insurrection. He's run David out of Jerusalem. He wasn't going to fight his son He's abandoned the palace. Absalom has now taken occupation of the palace. And Absalom and his forces now occupy Jerusalem. And David and the men loyal to him, and it's a fair amount, they've been they've uh run out of the city, they've crossed the river, they're heading, high-tailing it out into the wilderness. Now this is at night. This is that evening when everybody packed out sometime in that time same time frame. This is very, very early on. uh Absalom's occupation of the palace in Jerusalem. And so he calls these counselors in. And if you remember, David sent um uh Hushai back. To be a counselor to Absalom as a mole was his spy. All right. So that's what's happening. Now Absalom has called in these men. He says, I need advice. I need your counsel. So here's uh Ahithephel, and he was loyal to David before. Now he's he's abandoned David. He is um uh what do you call uh Traitor, I guess, is what um the word I'm wanting. So here's his advice. More of Ahithophel said unto Absalom, let me now choose out twelve thousand men, and I will arise and pursue after David this night. And I will come upon him while he is weary and weak, candid, and I'll make him afraid. And all the people that are with him shall flee, and I will smite the king only. And when he says I'll smite the king only, what does he mean? They're gonna kill him. I'm gonna kill the king. Well I won't get anybody else, I'll just get the king And I'll bring back all the people unto thee. The man whom thou seekest is as if all return, so that all the people shall be in peace. And the saying pleased Absalom well and all the elders of Israel. Then said Absalom, Call now Hushei, the Archite, also, and let us hear likewise what he saith. And when Hushiah was come into Absalom, Absalom spake unto him, saying, Ahithophel has spoken after this manner. Shall we do after his saying? If not, speak thou And Hushai said unto Absalom, The counsel that Ahithophel hath given is not good at this time. For, said Hushai, thou knowest thy father and his men. They be mighty men, and they be chaffed in their minds, as a bear robbed of her whelps in the field. Thy father is a man of war, and will not lodge with the people Behold, he is hid now in some pit or in some other place, and it'll come to pass that when some of them be overthrown at the first, that whosoever heareth it will say, There is a slaughter among the people that follow Absalom. And he also that is valiant, whose heart is as the heart of a lion, shall utterly melt. For all Israel knoweth that thy father is a mighty man, and they which be with him are valiant men Therefore, I counsel that all Israel be generally gathered unto thee, from Dan even to Beersheba, as the sand that is upon the sea for multitude. And that thou go to battle in thine own person, so shall we come upon him in some place where he shall be found, and we will light upon him as the dew falleth on the ground. And of him and of all the men that are with him there shall not be left so much as one. Moreover, if he be gotten into a city, then shall all Israel bring ropes to that city and we will draw it into the river until there be not one stone, one small stone found there. And Absalom and all the men of Israel said, The council of Hushai the Architect is better than the council of Ahithophel For the Lord hath appointed to defeat the good counsel of Ahithophel to the intent that the Lord might bring evil upon Absalom. I titled the message. We began it last week. I've entitled it Where is Thy God? I've kind of modified that title a little bit. I kind of like this title, The Unseen Hand of God. The reason I'm thinking that way is David, while all this has taken place, David is running for his life out in the wilderness. He's in the dark Lowest point of his life, no doubt about it. And he has no, here's the point, he has no idea All that's taken place back in his house, really, his palace. He has no idea these conversations. He has no idea what's doing. God is working on David's behalf, unknown to David. So let's pray and uh look at this. Father in heaven, Lord, as we study these events here, uh to me are fascinating And I pray that you would uh uh just uh teach us and speak to us. Fill me with your spirit is my prayer. And Lord, I'm I believe and uh my every sincere desire is to be true to your word and teach it as it is. And so I pray you'd take and apply it to our lives as we are, and have your way. Help us to grow in our faith. Pray we would uh Not leave here the same, but we be stronger in our faith or understanding. So speak through me, I pray in Jesus' name I ask this. Amen The first point we looked at last week was what I called Hushia's clever conversation. If you back in chapter number 16, the last part, Hushiah comes up to David just by way of reminder or to Absalom and uh Absalom says, what in the world are you doing here? You're a friend of David. Why are you why are you here in this palace? Why are you with me? Why aren't you out with your friend? And he says uh he sa he says some clever wording Of course, he's being uh double-minded here a little bit. Uh he's loyal to David, but he's spying for David. So anyway, he says, God save the king, God save the king. So he's showing respect to Absalom. And that was pretty accepted and would have been uh uh you know the you would expect that on somebody that's being loyal. Uh and he declares his loyalty. He says, I'll be loyal to the one that God hath chosen to be king of Israel. Now that's where I think he's had a little double meaning in his wording. He's talking to Absalom and he's implying to Absalom that he's talking about him, but he never says, I'll be loyal to you He says, I'll be loyal to the one that God has chosen and the people who have chosen to be king. So that was obviously who? That was David. So I thought it was pretty clever on Hushai's part to say this in such a way that Absalom in his monstrous ego is thinking, wow, you know, he's recognizing me as king, when in reality he's expressing his loyalty to the one Absalom's trying to kill. So I thought he was very clever in his conversation. Then we started on this and we noticed Hushai's courageous advice. And that's where in verse number 20 Absalom says of chapter 16, he says, Then Absalom said, Give counsel among you what we shall do. Now I got looking at that again this week, going back over the notes, and it dawned on me. Here Absalom has overthrown David. He's run him out of the city. Um he's possession of the of the the capital of Israel. Um And the very night that he accomplishes this, he basically admits he doesn't know what to do now. I just got thinking about that. He's like, uh all right, we got the place. All right, what do we do now? Now I don't know about you, but that implies to me he didn't totally think this thing through. He didn't plan things out before he got there. How many people would agree with me? It'd probably have been a good idea to know what you're going to do once you get there. I see, this is me r maybe reading into it a little bit, but uh I see very poor leadership on the part of Absalom here when at this point he should have been right ready to put things they should have well I guess what I'm trying to say is they should have had this conversation before they invaded the city. And so, but nevertheless he seeks for advice from these counselors And Ahithophel shows up, he's his right-hand man, and his recommendation was to publicly violate David's women. And we talked about that. Then he said to pursue immediately after David's company. And we read that there in the first four verses. Let's go after him right now, tonight. I'll get twelve thousand men. I'll leave them out there. We're gonna come on David before he even knows what happens. We're gonna scatter everybody. I'll kill David, I'll get the others back and bring them back to Jerusalem. So that was his advice. Now, let's pick up. My first thought there was Ahithophel's recommendation. Now I want us to notice in verse 4, 5, and 6, Absalom's reaction To what Ahithophel just told him he should do. Look at verse 4. And the saying pleased Absalom well, and not just Absalom, and all the elders of Israel. They're all sitting around this counseling in in this uh conference room. They got their big chairs, no doubt, and tables set up, uh smart boards there, chalkboards all around. This is what we'll do. We're gonna do this and do that. And uh they all said, man, this is great advice. Oh, this is tremendous. And so Absalom's reaction is first of all his unsurprising approval. Absom likes what he hears. And by the way, this is a very wise course of action. Now, if they're going to strike, they better do it now. And get there before David has time to dig in and get organized. So the advice, military advice that Ahithophel gives him, is actually very, very strategic and very, very wise course of action Now, I think it's said that Absalom is pleased with a plan that kills his father. Now, I don't know about you, but that's an awfully cold, hard heart that is pleased with a plan. That murders his father. And by the way, this is not self-defense. This is not a justified execution of somebody that's committed a capital crime This is an innocent man that's fulfilling the role that God has anointed him to fill as king of Israel. And Absalom's pleased with the plan that kills his father. I've thought about that a little bit. How does a person get to the point where they're okay with that? Absalom approves of the murder of his father. David was a man after what? God's own heart. David was in love with God. Now, he made some mistakes, and a lot of this is fallout from that. But um A man who is in love with the Lord, now get this: a person that is in love with the Lord, a man or a woman you could say after God's own heart They're going to be hated by the world. You mark it down. We've had it awfully good, and I've said this a lot lately. We've had it awfully good here in the United States of America We've had religious freedom. We've had a government for the most part has understood and recognized the value of a church having freedom and not persecution and not being harassed. And we've had it pretty good. That is an exception to the rule. Throughout the history of mankind, those that love and are committed to the Lord Jesus Christ that are our men and women after God's own heart have been hated by the world. Now think about David. I got thinking about this Think about David. He loves God with all his heart. He's passionate. He's writing these psalms. He's exercising faith, defeating the enemies of God. I can understand the Philistines hating him, right? They hated God. They were enemies of God, so a man that's in love with God would hate him. So the Philistines hated God, but King Saul hated God, or hated David. He wanted to kill him. King Saul hated David. That would hurt, don't you think? Your father-in-law, the king you've been so loyal to, and he hates you and wants you to kill you. So David's got the Philistines out there hating them, wanting to kill him every chance they can. Then he's got his father-in-law or his the king of his nation who he loves dearly. He hates him as trying to kill him. Can you think of anybody else in David's life that hated him? I thought his wife Michael. Remember that? She despised him in her heart, the Bible said. I don't know about you, but that would hurt if your wife hates your guts. So he's got the Philistines out there. They hate him. His king hates him. His wife hates him. Here his own son hates him Wants him dead. Um a lot much of his former administration, uh Hithophel, was his right-hand man for years, and a lot of his administration fell out against him And they're apparently all happy and pleased with David being killed. What I'm trying to say is, if you love the Lord Jesus Christ, sometimes you're going to find yourself awfully alone. Sometimes your country turns on you, and sometimes your family turns on you, and sometimes your co-workers turn on you. And it explains a lot of the psalms that David penned, if you'll read them very carefully, he says stuff like, no man cared for my soul. On every hand they were against me. Fear and trembling gripped my heart. And David is a man who is faithful to God, that loves God. In spite of the fact that everybody was against him. I came across a quote the other day. I like this. James No uh John Knox made this statement. He said this. He said, One man and God is a majority. In spite of all this opposition to David from every corner of his life, God was with him. And God took care of them. So Absalom's reaction to Hithophel's advice, I'll go we'll go Adam tonight, twelve thousand men We'll get him right away before he has a chance. I'll kill him. Nobody else. I'll bring everybody back. Everything's going to be honky-dory. Unsurprisingly, Absalom says, yes, that's good. That's good advice. That pleases me. But then He makes an unexpected request. Look at verse 5 with me. It says, Then said Absalom, all right, so verse 4, he's pleased. Everybody's saying, Yeah, this is a thing to do, this is the way to go, this is a great idea Let's do it. And then out of the blue, Absalom says this: Call now Hushai, the Architect also, and let us hear likewise what he saith. Now I don't know about you. I'm reading this and I'm thinking, why in the world would he do that? Hushyai just showed up. He was very skeptical of his loyalty to begin with. These already have a settled plan. They all agree. This is the thing to do. This is the the best, this is what we need to do. Then before they do anything, something pops in Absalom's head, his brain, and it says Get Hushiah in here and ask him what to do. Does anybody want to take a guess what I think it was that popped that in Hushiah's brain? I think it was God Almighty God is working on David's behalf, and he prompts Absalom to ask Hushia to come in here. And this is a real turning point in this whole event. There was no reason to reject Ahithefel's advice But he makes this statement. Let's get Hushiah in here. I put this down. This is the unseen hand of God working on David's behalf. You know, all through Scripture you find God working in an unseen way on the behalf of his people. All through hist all through scripture. Can you think of anyone else in the Old Testament where God was working yet they the individual probably didn't see what God was doing till after it was all said and done? Can you think of anybody? The book of Esther. I had Esther down here where God is working with Naaman and Mordecai, and he just happens to read the chronicles tonight. that uh uh uh uh Mordecai's there. And so Esther is a even though God's name is not mentioned one time in the book of Esther, you see God's hand all through it. Can you think of anyone else? Joseph Man, God is just working and he's in a prison and he's in a pit and he's hated by his brothers and he's totally alone. Yet that whole time God is working, God is working, God he says several times, God was with him, the Bible says, God was with him. And then when it all said and done, here he saves millions of lives. And God's unseen hand was working on behalf of Joseph. Anybody else? I thought of Moses. Out in the wilderness 40 years, God's preparing him. Come back in. He's raised in a Pharaoh's house and all that experience. And we can go all through there, all through Scripture. God's unseen hand, God working, yet the people failed to see it at the moment. All through church history, I love church history. You read through church history, you see God working, God working, God working. Even in our own lives. Yes. Yes, and our own lives. We can look back at the time we had no idea what God was doing. And then later we find out God had been working. The unseen hand of God. I want to challenge us tonight, at this point in the message. I want to challenge us. To ask God to help us be alert and aware for his unseen hand. And I'm afraid sometimes we attribute to coincidence Events that are actually the hand of God working on our behalf. And so here, out of nowhere, Absalom says, hey, let's bring Hushiah in. And I can see his elders there and his other counselors, and I can see Ahithophel, and I can see all their heads snap over at Absalom. And they don't say anything, but they're I can hear them this is this is uh a little bit of uh uh artistic license here, imagination, but they all snap their heads, and I can hear them all thinking, why would we do that I can see Ahithophel thinking to himself, that's the stupidest thing I've ever heard. We've already got a plan. We know what we're going to do. This'll work. But nevertheless, he brings in. By the way, come back to chapter 15 real quick with me, if you would. And look with me at verse 31. David says a prayer. Verse 31 of 2 Samuel 15, David says this prayer. Look at this prayer. He says, and one told David, saying, Ahithophel is among the conspirators with Absalom. Now look at this. And David said, O Lord, I pray thee, turn the counsel of Ahithophel into what? We're about to see that prayer answered right before our very eyes. Come back here to verse number 7 of chapter 17 Says, uh, bring in Hushiah, I want to see what he has to say. All right. Verse 6. And when Hushai was come to Absalom, Absalom spake unto him, saying, Ahithophel has spoken after this manner. Shall we do after his saying? If not, speak thou. He says, all right, what do you think? So we have, first of all, we had uh Ahithophel's recommendation Sleep with his women, attack them now. Absalom's response, hey, that's a great idea. Let's ask Hishi. And now we have Hushai's response. Absalom's reaction, Hushai's response. Look what he says in verse 7. And Hushai said unto Absalom, now this is where the courage part comes in. This guy's got some guts. The counsel that Ahithophel hath given, now notice the wording very carefully, is not good, but he doesn't stop there. What's he say? At this time. I think what he's saying, when he attacked that on at this time, I think what Hushai was saying, listen, this is pretty good advice under normal circumstances. This is good advice. But at this time, in these circumstances, it's not good advice. And what he's suggesting here is, I believe, he's suggesting that they are not dealing with a typical enemy. This isn't just some run-in-the-mill Philistine giant. This isn't just some typical Philistine or Ammonite or Moabite that harasses us constantly. You're dealing with a very unique person at this time And so he says, uh the advice that Hifeel has given is not good at this time. Now I think he accomplishes two things with this statement. First thing he does is he's appeasing Ahithophel and Absalom. He's not saying, that's stupid, that would never work. He doesn't say that. He's kind of giving a little positive spin to appease them. Oh, listen, the advice in this circumstance isn't good. So he's not calling them an idiot And so I would imagine when he says Ahithophel's advice is not good at this time. I think he caught Ahithophel's attention when he said at this time. He said, What do you mean at this time? I imagine he's thinking, well, what's he got in mind? So he's picked his interest, he's appeased them a little bit, but he's also, I believe, very subtly accomplished something else. He is maybe putting little cracks in their confidence that they can take David out He says, this isn't good at this time. This circumstance, this enemy, this man you're facing is not like ordinary soldiers. Your plans that would work with other people with this guy are not going to work. Can you see where that maybe in the back of their mind might plant a little seed of uncertainty Yeah, this is David. Huh. He's slain his ten thousands. He's killed giants. You know what? Maybe we need to think this through a little bit more. You see what he's accomplishing? And so Hushai uses this statement, it's not good at this time. So what does he do? And uh two things he does here. First of all, he gives an analysis of the situation Anybody ever watch these stupid news and they say, I'm now for analysis of today's events. Anybody ever hear that Well Hushiah is saying, he's saying, listen, what you what I've what uh Hithophel said at this time, it's not good at this time, not in this circumstance. This is a unique thing. Now let me tell you how it is. Let me give you my analysis. Look with me if you would at verse 8. And uh for, said Hushiah, thou knowest thy father and his men, that they be mighty men. So the first point, he gives a four-point analysis here. His first point is this: David and his men are mighty men. These are not ordinary soldiers. These guys are exceptional. And you know it, and your men know it, and all Israel knows that. The phrase mighty men means this: extremely strong, extremely courageous, extremely valiant. So he's saying, this is what you're dealing with, this is what you're up against. So again, he's putting these little seeds of doubt about can we handle this? This is David is a mighty man. He's got a lot of powerful soldiers with him. And then in the second part of verse 8, he points this out. David and his men are not only mighty men, but David and his men are very angry men. Look what he says. That they be mighty men, and they be chaffed in their minds as a bear robbed of her whelps in the field. Now what's he saying? He's saying these guys are ticked. You're not just going out there after a soldier that's fighting because it's his job or anything. This is personal now with David. This is as personal as if a mama bear had her baby bears taken from her. Would you agree with me? A mama bear that had her baby bears taken from her is pretty ticked. And so he's pointing out, listen, and that word chaff there means this, extremely bitter I mean, your daddy is hot. Your daddy is ticked. And you gotta think this through a little bit. This is our situation. He's a powerful soldier. Tremendous experience. He is extremely angry. He is chaffed in his mind And then he points out in the last part of verse 8, first part of verse 9, he says, Behold, he is now hid in some pit or in some other place, and will come to pass that Oh, let me back up. The end of verse 8. He says, Thy father is a man of war. He knows how to battle. He's got experience. He will not lodge with the people. Behold, he's now hidden some pit or some other place. And so he points out that David and his men are mighty men. David's men are very angry men at this point. David and his men are very strategic men. David knows military warfare. He knows military strategy. He's not stupid. And you think you're just going to show up with your 12,000 men and come upon him and you think you're going to take him, you're fooling yourself. He's already anticipated that. He's prepared. He's got his everything set up And so again, he's putting doubts in their confidence. I put this down. Hushai is saying to him, You're not going to surprise David, I'm telling you right now. He's going to be ready for you. And then the last part of verse 9 and verse 10, he says, This and it will come to pass when some of them be overthrown at the first That whosoever heareth it saith there is a slaughter among the people that follow Absalom. Now he's saying, listen, you get out there. You're not surprising them. He's going to be ready for you. He's going to be all over you. And a bunch of your men are going to get Taken out. And what's that going to do to the morale? What's going to happen to all the others? They're going to be what? They're going to be terrified. And look what it says. And he also that is valiant, speaking of Absalom's men Whose heart is of the heart of a lion shall utterly melt. He's going to terrify and you're going to have nothing. And so he's saying, listen, if you let David defeat you on that first assault, you're done. It's over. You're not going to have anybody fighting for you. They know David. They know he's a mighty man. He is angry. He is strategic. And if you get out there, he's ready and waiting for you, you might as well forget it. Would you agree with me? That probably made Absalom stop and think for a bit. It's a profound analysis of what he's saying. And then he gives some advice. He gives threefold advice. Look at verse 11. Therefore, I counsel. He said, all right, here's my advice. That all Israel be generally gathered to thee from Dan even to Bathsheba as the sand that is by the sea for multitude. So his first advice is this: you need more troops. Ten 12,000 guys ain't gonna get David. You need a heap more than that. Now remember when David was young after he killed Absalom And then they went to war with the Philistines. And when they came back to the city in victory, all the women were out there singing. And what were they singing? They had said, Saul has slain his what? Thousands, but David his They're saying, he's saying, listen, David slew ten thousand himself. And you think you're going to take 12,000 out there with him being as mad as he is, ready and waiting for you? You're going to need a heap more than that. In fact, you're going to need to get all the men in the whole nation, from Dan, he says, from Dan even to Bathsheba, as the sand that is upon the sea for multitude. If you want to guarantee victory, You're going to have to so overwhelm him with numbers that he can't stand. Now, in saying that, what's he doing? What would it take to get all the men, fighting age men of Israel, all of them, all the twelve tribes, get them together? Get them drafted. Get them a little bit of training. Get them armor and everything. Get them organized and be able to go out here. What's Hushi doing? He's buying David some what? Time. He's saying, oh, he gets if you do this, now he's buying David time, where David can actually be ready. And maybe something else will happen in the meantime. Would you agree? Hushi is pretty clever. And then something else I think he's doing here by saying you need to get all the everybody from the whole nation, something else he's doing. I wonder if maybe in his mind he isn't thinking, you know, ever as a few days go by and no doubt several weeks. At least, Israel might stop and start thinking through what they've just done. And they'll get to know Absalom a little bit. And they'll start thinking, you know, maybe he isn't the best guy. Maybe we didn't have it as bad as we thought I think uh he was planning on putting posters up with David on his face on it and says, um, do you miss me yet? I think it might have been what he was thinking So anyway, he advises you need a lot more troops, so he's buying David some time. Then look at the second thing he advises, uh his uh advice, verse 11, the last part He says, uh, and that thou go to battle in thine own person. Absalom, you need to leave this. You go to battle out there personally. Don't send Ahithophel You go out there himself. Now what's David doing here? I think he's appealing to Absalom's ego. Absalom has a problem with pride. He thinks he's the cat's meow. And I've heard a little bit of cat meowing lately. Absalom thinks he's it. And so Hushai picks up on this. Now come back to verse one. Notice what Ah Ahithophel had advised. Ahithabel said unto Absalom, let what's the next word? Me. Now pay attention here. Let me now choose out twelve thousand men. And I will arise and pursue after David this night, and I will come upon him while he is weak, weary and weak, and then he come down, and I will smite the king only. Verse 3 and Aye, who is Ahithophel planning on being the hero in this whole thing? Ahithophel. And Hushii picked up on that. I wonder, now this is speculation, I wonder if Ahithophel wasn't planning on using this as an opportunity to overthrow Absalom. Because he said, I'm going to bring all these people back. I, I'm going to do this, I'm going to conquer that. I'm going to do this. Now this is total speculation. I don't know anybody that uh Uh I I didn't get this from here, just studying it. I thought, you know, that sounds like a good opportunity for Ahithophel to s overthrow Absalom If he's got this. Now, I don't know that that's what he's doing. But Hushiah is appealing to Absalom's pride and his ego and says, hey, listen Uh you need to go out there and do this yourself. You need to get out there. Now I don't know, but I wonder if Hushi isn't thinking this is the chance For Absalom to be taken out. Maybe he knew Absalom wasn't much of a soldier, which he wasn't. And the other thing is, look at verse 12 and 13. He says, So shall we come upon him in some place where he shall be found and will light upon him as the dew falleth on the ground. I mean overwhelm him. And of him and all the men that are with him, there shall not be so much left as one Moreover, if you be gotten in the city, then all Israel bring ropes that city will draw it in the river until there be not one small stone found there. We're going to level that city. We're going to wipe out everybody that's with them. Ahithophel said, I'll just kill the king. I'll bring the rest back with me. Hushi's advice, kill them all. We'll just wipe them all out. And I think that appeals to Absalom. His perverse desire for power. You take them out there, we'll wipe them all out. So notice in verse 14, Absalom right away approves this. Look at verse 14. Absalom and all the men of Israel said, the council of Hushai the Architect is better than the council of Ahithophel. Again, we have the unseen hand of God. God has just turned the counsel of Ahithophel to foolishness in the mind of Absalom. God answers prayer. Took a little while. David's not aware of it at this point yet. But God is answering prayer. God is working. God is working. By the way, it's interesting. Look what it says there, verse 14. For the Lord had appointed to defeat. Now notice how God describes Ahithophel's counsel. To defeat the what? Good counsel of Ahithophel. In other words, what Ahithophel advised was right, was good. That was the best course of action. But God confounded Absalom. And turned that good counsel into foolishness in the mind of Absalom and spared David. The answered, this is the unseen hand of God and the answered prayer of David. And I am with this when you're in the wilderness and it's everything seems dark and it seems like the whole world's against you. Don't stop praying. Keep praying. Keep praying. Keep praying. David's prayer is a simple little prayer. Please confound the counsel of Ahithophel. And God heard them. And God answered it. And when you're in the wilderness and you're all alone, it seems like God's not doing nothing. Just keep trusting the Lord. Just keep trusting the Lord. Just keep trusting the Lord. God comes through and David is delivered. So what a fascinating thing here. And so David has no idea. But God is working on his behalf. I don't know what your situation is, I don't know what your burden is, I don't know what your fear is, but I know this, God knows what it is. And if you'll trust him and pray, God will work on your behalf. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask dear Lord that you would help us to learn from this dramatic and fascinating conversation, these course of events here. And you'd help us to see that you are active even when we don't see it. Help us to believe that. Even when we don't sense it, we're not aware of your hand, help us to believe it. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I'm trusting God in a situation that I don't know what the answer is, but I'm going to trust Him. And I'm going to believe that he's working on my behalf. Any like that, any like that. I'm going to trust him. I'm going to believe that he hears me and is answered. Even though I don't see it at this point. God bless you, hands all around. And maybe we ought to tonight do what David did and just bring that to the Lord and say, Lord, this is what I need. Lord, I'm trusting you. Father, bless our imitation, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.