1 Peter 4, verse 17. The Bible says, For the time has come that judgment must begin at the house of God. Then he says, and if it first begin at us, what shall the end of them that obey not the gospel of God? Judgment must begin at the house of God. What I want to talk about in a few minutes is where judgment must begin. Where it has to begin. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to teach us and speak to our hearts tonight. Father in heaven, we are grateful for a good day, Lord. And professions of faith, young people calling on you, Lord, folks making decisions at altar, just good crowd, visitors. And Lord, we're just so grateful for your hand of blessing, the privilege of being a part of the family of God and a part of the body of Christ. So now as we finish out this Lord's day, we've gathered together, we have our Bibles open. Lord, I believe I speak for sure the majority of us at least, or we really are looking to you to speak to us and help us and teach us your word. Lord, you need to do that. And so I yield my will to you. I present my body anew this hour. And God, again, pray earnestly that you fill me with your Spirit and that you speak through me To each and every one of our hearts and lives. And I pray for our church that we would be the church you desire and that you need us to be in this hour, in this place. And it's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. As we mentioned about every time we look here into Peter, and we have been for quite some time now. Is Peter is addressing young believers, and when I say young believers, I don't necessarily mean they're young in their age. No doubt there was the whole spectrum of age, but they were young in their faith They hadn't known the Lord long. This is not a long time after the ascension of Christ. How many people know what I mean when I say use this term? First generation Christians How many people know what I mean by that? In other words, they weren't raised in a Christian home. They were reached outside of a Christian home, first generation. That's what he's writing to here. Folks that um are are new Christians, young Christians, regardless of their physical age. And he's writing to them particularly in response to the fact that they've paid dearly for their faith. The fact of the matter is, and I find myself repeating myself on this, but the truth of the matter is, you and I have not paid very dearly for our faith. Getting saved in America is a pretty painless thing for the most part. So, but not for these dear folks. They've paid dearly. They've been run out of their homes because of their devotion to Christ. Not because they're corrupt. Not because they're liars. Not because they're thieves Because of their devotion to Lord Jesus Christ, they've been rejected, disowned. No doubt many of them lost their jobs. And it goes way beyond that. They have paid the price even to the point where they're physically abused. Some of them lost their lives And so he's writing to them and he's encouraging them. The first part of the book, as we remember, he's encouraging them, stay faithful. God's going to bless you. You know, your salvation is secure. First chapter there. He goes to great length to reassure them. Then he begins instructing them. If you remember, he talked about submission. Huge port there, verse chapter 2 and chapter 3, talked about being submissive to authorities and that type of thing. Now he's picked up this steam. Another issue in chapter 4 here we've been looking at, and that is suffering. And suffering injustice, suffering persecution, suffering mistreatment And he's challenging them on this to have the right attitude, the right approach to it. Now, I think there's a real danger when somebody is mistreating us. When somebody is treating us unjustly, particularly for our faith, simply because I'm a dedicated to Christ, I want to try and be a disciple. And then somebody, we lose our job or they mistreat us or they treat us unjustly in some way. There's a real danger In that, as a believer, in focusing on the faults of the one that is treating me that way. Follow what I'm saying? If we're not careful, we can start looking for well, they're doing this and they're not that And we get our eyes on the people that are doing wrong, and we start looking at the sins of the world and the unbelievers and all they're doing wrong and how they're mistreating us and how they're being unfair And they're calling me that, and they're doing this. And if we're not careful, we start to judge those who are hurting us. And even worse, and maybe we're all guilty of this to some extent, but I've seen it a good bit If somebody is unkind to me, somebody is mistreating me, if we're not careful, we can find ourselves, now listen, we can find ourselves excusing our own sin Because of the sins of those treating us that way. And suddenly, well, I'm not that bad, I'm not doing this, and and we start excusing our own sin, and not just excusing our own sin, justifying. Our own sin, being unkind. And so Peter is addressing this here. And notice that our text again, he says, for the time has come that judgment must begin at the house of God. Judgment must begin at the house of God. Now, maybe they were looking, I don't know, what prompted him to say that other than the inspiration of God. Maybe these dear folks, he was getting word back that they started retaliating and they started focusing on those that were mistreating them. And he says, wait a minute, we need to rein this in and judgment, if there's any judgment going to take place, it has to begin here at the house of God. Now let me try and explain what I believe he's telling us here. Number one, my first thought is this, the truth of judgment. The truth of judgment. And what I mean by that is judgment is a major theme all through Scripture. Judgment. We live in a world and there's certain circles in Christianity, quote unquote, I use that term a little loosely, there's certain folks who, and certain uh uh an element of professed Christianity That says there ought to be no judgment in the life of a believer. Don't judge. Remember that little saying was going around it would go Don't judge me. Anybody hear that? Um anybody how many people never heard anybody say that? How many people have heard someone say that? How many people have no idea what I'm talking about? Raise your hand There was a member of one of the teens, this was a number of years ago, but she it was sun she were going down to Sunday school and she had like four donuts in her hand from back there and she looked at me and said, Don't judge me. And so there's this mentality in some circles that under no circumstances at all, for whatever reason, is there to be any type of judgment. Anything goes, everything's okay But the fact of the matter is, the Bible's full of judgment. In fact, right at the beginning of humanity, when Adam and Eve disobey God, God addressed everyone involved in the fall of man. He addressed the serpent, he addressed the woman, and he addressed the man. And he pronounced judgment on every one of them, pronounced sentence on every one of them. So in Genesis chapter 3, you're only three chapters into the history of the universe, and you have God expressing judgment. On those involved in the fall of man. And in Psalms, I found the term judgment 30 times Is used in the book of Psalms. Oh, thou judge of all. Thou judge of men. Now, Psalms is a book when you're brokenhearted and you're struggling, you're discouraged, boy, you go to Psalms. Anybody do that? That's what I do. No matter what time in, I go to Psalms. But if you pay attention, Psalms is full of referencing the judgment of God and making judgment, judgment, judgment, judgment. Now we come all the way back to Revelation, if you would keep your place here in Peter and come to the last book of the Bible, Revelation chapter number 20. And you have the here you have the end of the history of mankind, at least on this planet. At least in the world that we now live in. There will be a new heaven, new earth But at the end of this world, this earth, the history as we know it, at the end, it ends with what? Judgment. Look at Revelation chapter 20 and verse number 11. John is. God has given John this revelation, this vision of a future event. And he records it and he says what he saw. He tells us what he saw at the end of The history of this world. He says, I saw a great white throne, and him that sat on it, whose face the earth and the heaven fled away. And there was found no place for them. And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God. And the books were opened. And another book was opened, which is the book of life. And the dead were what judged out of those things which were written in the books according to their works. And the sea gave up the dead which were in it. Death and hell delivered up the dead which were in them. And they were judged, every man, according to their works. Death and hell were cast in the lake of fire. This is the second death. Now look at this. And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. That is a literal event to take place at the end of the millennial reign before the new heaven, new earth. This is perhaps one of the most sobering accounts in all of Scripture. Where the judgment of the unsaved man and cast in a lake of fire. Judgment is a major theme through all scripture And it is vitally important that we understand the judgments of God. Mankind We can deny it all we want. Mankind can deny it all we want, can ignore it, neglect it all they want. But the fact of the matter is, mankind will be held accountable to God And have been from the beginning of our existence. We're accountable to God. God judged Israel For their rebellion and their idolatry, for the rejection, ultimately when they rejected the Messiah, God judged Israel. Jesus faced the judgment for our sins in our place. Jesus was judged in our place. Immediately following the rapture, you say, well, preacher, I'm saved. Praise God. I don't have any judgment. Immediately following the rapture is the judgment seat of Christ. Now we're not judged for our sins there, praise the Lord. Jesus was judged for our sins. But we will be judged. It's the judgment seat of Christ. And Paul says in Corinthians, he says, every one of us will give an account of ourselves, our works, whether they were good or bad, what sort they were. And so even as a believer, though I'm now danger of hell, I'm in no danger of being rejected by God, I'm fully accepted into the family of God and into the presence of God in heaven. I'm fully accepted, but nevertheless I will give an account for how I live my Christian life. So judgment is a major theme all through scripture. It is a fact of the existence of mankind. Now let's come back to Peter. And so Peter is making reference to judgment. It's a biblical truth. It's reality through all history of mankind, the judgment of God, judgment. Notice here, he says in verse 17, he says, for the time has come that judgment must begin at the house of God. Now, we'll talk about what he means by the house of God in just a minute. But first of all, the truth of judgment. There is judgment, and he says it must take place. So the truth of judgment, second point tonight is this: the timing of this judgment. Look what he says. The very first phrase is what caught my attention. For the time has come that judgment must begin. The time is come. I don't know about you, but uh when I was young, when dad said, all right, it's time, whatever was going on, that's when it took place, right? All right, it's time And Peter is writing to these believers who are being mistreated, who are being persecuted, who are being treated unjustly, and he says, whatever is going on in their lives that we're not privy to Whatever may have been going on in their minds and however they were reacting, we're not told. But he says this, listen, it's time. The time is now. I've got looking at that little phrase, the time has come. It means this: the time is now. It's due now. So whatever this judgment is, he's referring to a judgment beginning in the house of God, whenever this was It's not some- whatever it was, is not something that's to be put off. It's to take place now. But the time is now. The time has come. You know, just as an aside, there are some issues in life that should not be put off. For instance, salvation should never be put off. Today's the day of salvation. Now is the accepted time. If I'm talking to somebody that's unsaved, maybe here in the congregation or online Listening in somehow on an archived message. But I'm talking to somebody that's unsaved. The day to get saved is right now Somebody said one time, the best time to get saved is when you're a young person. The second best time to get saved is right now. So don't put that off. Don't put that off. We were talking Brother Ed and Brother Charlie. I got a older guy I'm working on. He's unsaved. And uh I told him, I said, um, and uh Uh we pressed them right there. Listen, you get saved. He said, uh, this is what he said to me. He says, all right, I'm going to get saved, but not now. So we pressed him a little bit. And he says, listen, uh, I'll get saved, but not now So we told you, no, you don't no promise of tomorrow. You don't know what's going to happen. He got mad. Listen, I'll get saved, but not now. So all right, all right. I gave him a tract. I said, I'm sick and Charlie and Ed on you though And they'll track them down. Yeah. So the issue of salvation is not something to put off. The time is now. The time has come. If you're not saved, the time has come to get saved. The matter of repentance. If a Christian has sin in their life, time to repent of that sin is now. Don't let that linger. Don't just let that foster, fester. Man, that needs to be dealt with. You know, you have a ruptured appendix. The doctor says we need to fix that now You're in danger. You need to take care of that. It'll get worse. It'll make things worse. When I was down on we were on vacation last year down in Alabama, my retina tore off my on the inside of my eyeball, the retina came off And I knew immediately what was going on and so I called my eye doctor up here and I said uh I said I I know I know what's happening my retina's tort and they said ask me questions and say, oh yeah, you're you're you're right I said, listen, I'm going to leave today and I'll be up there and I'll be in the office tomorrow. They said, oh, no, no, no, no, no. They said, you go immediately to the emergency room, you get that fixed right now, because you're in danger of losing your eyesight And what I'm saying is this, if I'm a Christian, if I'm talking to a Christian, you have known sin in your life, you know it's wrong, you know it's not right. And you let that fester and you let that go, it's going to ruin your testimony. It's going to destroy. You need to make that right now. Get that out. Confess it. Forsake it. Now. Don't let that linger. Don't let that linger. And so salvation is something that needs to be dealt with now. Repentance. Obedience to the Lord. God's speaking your heart. God's showing you in the Bible. God's been dealing with your heart. Something you need to do. Some matter of obedience. Don't you put that off. Delayed obedience is disobedience. I always tell someone when they get saved, the first thing you ought to do is follow the Lord in baptism. I found if somebody just puts that off and puts that off and delays obey obeying the Lord and that that's a hard that's hard for them to grow spiritually. They trust God, obey God, follow the Lord in baptism, come out as a follower of Christ. Brother, that helps you grow. And so there's some things, and we could go down a list. I got uh loving others, like Good Samaritan. Can you imagine that good Samaritan comes along, finds that guy half dead, he looks at him and says, All right, I'll be back tomorrow I got to been dead. It need to be dealt with right now. Right now. Loving others. I put down uh oh and here In our text, judgment. Whatever this judgment that must begin at the house of God, whatever that is, it needs to be done right away. Not something we put off. So number one, the truth of the judgment, it's all through Scripture. The timing of this judgment is now, whatever this involves, whatever this issue is, needs to be dealt with right away. Thirdly, I want us to notice the top priority of this judgment. Notice again, he says here, there's two words that stand out in my mind. For the time has come that judgment must begin That phrase must begin. I looked it up. It means this. It means first on the list. Top of the list. Start with this. Whatever you're doing, you need to start with the judgment at the house of God. And then he says down there, he says, judgment must begin at the house of God. And if it first begin with us, at us What shall the end of them? The word first there means first in importance. So whatever this judgment at the house of God is, it needs to be done right away, and it needs to be done before you do anything else Alright, so everybody see what I'm building up to? See what he's saying? It's time, it's now, before anything else, this judgment must begin at the house of God. And that leads me to my fourth and last thought. What is the target of this judgment? In other words, what is he talking about? Judgment must begin at the house of God. I have twofold question. Number one, who is the judge? And two, who is being judged? Who is the judge in this judgment here he's talking about? And who's being judged? Well, I got my commentaries out and I looked this up and I want to see what other people I had my idea, what I believed it was. I studied it. I looked, see what others, some suggested That the judge here is the church, and the Jews are the ones that must be judged. And they get that from the phrase the house of God. They said the house of God refers to the temple. Where the Jewish met and worship and the Jews are to judge uh the Christians, the church is to judge the Jews because they've rejected the Messiah? I read that two or three times and I looked at this and I said, no, that ain't correct I don't buy that for one minute. So what is he talking about? I'll tell you what he's saying here. The judge And this judgment that must begin at the house of God, the judge is the church, is believers We're the ones that have to do the judging here. You say, well, who are the people being judged? It's the church. It's us as believers. You know what he's saying? He's saying that we, as a body of Christ, now I hope you'll get this, this is the point of everything. He's telling us, God is telling us at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church that we, as a body of believers, before we make any judgment on anyone else, We need to stop and thoroughly judge ourselves. It has to begin here. I'm as upset with our country as everybody else is. I'm as disappointed, I'm as grieved, and I'm as uh I'm upset as everybody else is about what's going on in our country. But I tell you what, judgment doesn't begin in Washington Judgment God does God doesn't say judgment must begin in Annapolis. Judgment needs to begin right here among ourselves. Can I make this statement? I believe this with all my heart, I believe this for a long time. The condition of our country, the blame for the condition of our country, I lay it at the foot of the church. We have failed in soul winning. We have allowed so much sin in our churches. I'm talking in general, and I'm talking about independent fundamental Baptists. We have excused and overlooked. And some cases justified so much sin in our church that we have no leg to stand on to judge Washington, D. C. God says it's got to start here. We gripe and complain about well about politicians running around and and living in sin. And we got in our own church, in our own homes, we're looking at garbage. We're watching and reading stuff that grieves God. He says that judgment, first and foremost, it has to start now, and it's above everything else. Judgment must begin at the house of God. That's the whole point of this text. If we're not willing to judge our own sins, will you get this? If we're not willing to judge our own sins, we have no business standing in judgment of others. We're not willing to deal with our own disobedience. We have no business standing in judgment of this world when we allow sin. As a body of believers, we must judge our own selves before we can stand in judgment of anyone else. I believe more important than making judgment on Washington D. C. is making judgment on our church, on myself. Where am I at? Now I'm going to fit this next statement. I'm talking about me and the likes of me. I believe judgment needs to begin with preachers before it is on politicians. Tell you what, preachers ought to have some kind of testimony. Preachers ought to have some type of testimony of the presence and grace of God on their life And we're so worried about wicked politicians, and we got people standing behind pulpits and standing professing preachers all around, living in sin and living in garbage. And God says, you better clean your own kitchen up before you start worrying about other people. Come on now, am I right or wrong? I know I'm right. We need revival in our churches We need a good dose of old-fashioned conviction of sin in the body of Christ and an old-fashioned dose of repentance and getting right with God. Before we'll ever, ever be able to stand in judgment. I'm going to show you some verses and I'll quit. Come with me, if you would, to Matthew chapter 7. This is a sermon on the mound. We end up sermon on the mound a lot, it seems like. But chapter 7, he's about two-thirds of the way through his sermon, Jesus preaching to disciples. And he makes a statement here that I think we don't take as seriously, maybe, as we ought to. Verse 1 of Matthew chapter 7 he says, judge not that you be not judged. Now we know he's not saying there's no place for judgment because we just notice it's all through Scripture. But let them explain. For with what judgment you judge, ye shall be judged. That right there ought to stop us in our tracks. That statement right there would shut up a bunch of gossip. For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged, and with what measure ye meet, it shall be measured to you again. Now look what he says here. And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but considerest not the what? Now look at the wording here. Or how wilt thou say to thy brother, let me pull out the moat out of thine eye. And behold, a beam is in thy own eye. Now look at the wording, verse 5. Thou hypocrite, what's the next word? Ah, that's what Peter said. Peter said, let it first begin at the house of God. First. You say, what uh we shouldn't we should we should just say it's okay what they're doing? No, I'm not saying there shouldn't be judgment on What's going on out those places? But I'm saying it starts here. It starts with me. It starts in my heart and mind, my home, my kitchen, my computer, my books, my movies. My places I go, my language. So he says, first, thou hypocrite, first cast out the beam out of thine own eye. Let judgment begin at the house of God. And then shalt thou see clearly to cast out the moat of thy brother's eye. One more verse, and then we'll have Lord's Supper. Come with me to 1 Corinthians chapter 11. This is the most detailed description in Scripture of the Lord's Supper, how it's to take place, its purpose, and its method. 1 Corinthians chapter 11. And he begins there, and we reference this every month. We take part Lord's Supper. We begin in verse 24, and he says, you know, this is my the take eat, this is my body, and then verse 25, this is the cup of new test of my blood. And he explains why we're doing this, for as often you eat this bread and drink this cup, you do show the Lord's death till he come. Very, very sobering, very, very serious uh ordinance. He says, verse 27, therefore, whosoever shall eat this bread and drink this cup of the Lord unworthily shall be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord. Now look at verse 28. But let a man examine what? You know what our flesh likes to do? You know what we in our carnal state like to do? Let every man examine somebody else. In fact, I've been doing this a long time. But I've actually had people say to me something like, you know, they have no business taking part in the Lord's Supper. My response is: you have no business making that judgment. Let a man examine the person in front of me. The person there, my spouse, that person. No, no, no. Let a man examine who? Let judgment must first begin where? House of God. With me. Let's read on. Let a man examine himself, so let him eat of that bread and drink of that cup. For he that drinketh and eateth and drinketh unworthy, eateth and drinketh damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord's body. Would you agree with the pretty serious stuff here For this cause, many are weak and sickly among you. Many sleep. Some have died because they've been negligent in this. Now here it is, verse 31. For if we would judge ourselves We should not be judged. But when we are judged, we're chastened of the Lord that we should not be condemned with the world. See, he's saying basically, you and I have a choice. I can examine myself and judge myself on what's right and wrong, if there's sin in my life, I need to judge that and condemn it, get it out, make it right. Or I can leave it there, just neglect it, don't worry about it. So it ain't that big a deal. I know it ain't right, but it's not that big a deal. Alright, then let God deal with it. Tell you what, it's a whole lot better for you and I to deal with it and make it right than wait until God deals with it. Any of y'all ever have your mother say this? You wait till your father gets home Anybody ever hear that? Yeah. It's a whole lot better to deal with that, confess it, forsake it, get it out, than wait until God starts chastening. That gets rough. Now we don't lose our salvation, but if you anybody here ever been chastened of God? Anybody know what I let me put it this way, some of you West Virginia folk want us to understand this better. Anybody here been taken out to the woodshed by God Yeah. A whole lot better make it right. Listen, should we preach against the sins out there? Yes, absolutely. Should we take a stand? Yes, absolutely. But before we do that, let's stop and check ourselves out. If we're being hypocritical about this, we're telling other people you ought to be doing this, you ought not to be doing that, and then we've got garbage in our own lives. Jesus says, no no no no no no. Judgment here first. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to follow your instructions here. Lord, it's not something really to joke around about. It's not something to horse around with. It's something very, very serious. Judgment is serious. And so I ask, dear Lord, your Holy Spirit would help us take this seriously. Lord, I pray from here, from pastor on through the whole body of Christ, that you would convict us, that you would provoke us. That you would stir us to judge let judgment begin with us first. Help us, I pray, Lord. Father in heaven, I pray you bless the invitation in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes across.