Uh Psalms chapter 86. Psalms eighty-six. We have uh two special recognitions I would like to uh just uh Put out here before we begin our message. First is yesterday uh Sam Thomas was presented with his Eagle Scout um uh what do you call it? Eagle Scout Badge, his Eagle Switch badge, and had a nice ceremony here. That is a tremendous accomplishment. Sam's back in the sound room. I think we ought to give him a hand for that. That's a tremendous thing. And uh we're very proud of Sam and uh I tell you he just conducted himself tremendously. George I have to scare Yes. Yeah. Takes a lot of character and discipline and and uh Leadership. Yes, very good. We're very proud of Sam and uh we're thrilled uh that uh that he could do this. And then also we have another uh uh significant accomplishment probably involved a little more uh courage and uh determination than even an Eagle Scout uh badge would be, and that is being married sixty-five years Harry and Ruth Miller, today is their sixty-fifth wedding anniversary. How about that? And uh took a lot of patience on Mrs. Miller's part all these years. And uh she has great rewards laid up in heaven for her for all that. But uh we do have a real special fellowship this evening. I assume they figured this out by now, but uh this tonight after this service We have a real special uh fellowship for them and we just want to celebrate with them this uh tremendous, tremendous occasion. And so We're just thrilled and and happy for them. Alright, Psalms chapter 86. I just want to uh reiterad one verse that uh brother Pat read a few moments ago, and that's verse number seven In Psalms chapter 86, the Bible says, In the day of my trouble, I will call upon thee, for thou wilt answer me. I read this in my devotions uh several week or so ago, and um I read that phrase in the day of my trouble I will call on thee. I think I got it on, but there we go. Uh in the day I read that in the day of my trouble I will call upon thee, and I thought of this. That's telling us what to do in the day of trouble. When the day of trouble Uh in that God had David record this prayer down uh and to be included in scripture. God did what we call in studying scripture, he inspired this prayer. In other words, God, whether David was aware of it or not at the moment, when he was praying this prayer and then led to write it down, God was moving in this and having him pray and record the very words God wanted recorded here. And it was included in Scripture. And all these years God has preserved this prayer for us in the Word of God. Now we are absolutely convinced, every ounce of my being, and we as a church are convinced that the Bible is God's Word. And that every word in the scripture is given to us by inspiration of God. In other words, God moved on all the penmen that uh used to record the Bible. God moved on them and had them record the very words that he wanted them to record. And then God has preserved them for you and I in this day And so when we hold in our Bibles here, we are confident we hold the very words of God. So this is a significant prayer, in that God had David record this down, and it's been preserved for us all these years. Um and why would God do that? Why would God have a prayer that David prays, uh have him record it, have it included in scripture and preserved here all these days? I'll tell you why, because there's something in it to help us It's something here that for you and I, for our faith to be stronger, our lives uh to be more in line with the will of God. Help us deal. But the troubles that come into life. So it's a significant prayer. Now I got studying this. I thought, well, what's the background of this prayer? What was it? That prompted David to pray this prayer and say, In the day of my trouble, I will call upon thee, for thou wilt answer me. What What was the situation David was in that would uh that produced this prayer? And after diligent study, I came to find out we have no idea They don't know what the background was. We're not told. All the information we have on this prayer is that it is a prayer and that it was prayed and recorded by David. Now, as you look at the prayer, and if we had time, we could go verse by verse through here and break it down. You glean a little bit of information and we can speculate Perhaps what the situation was that David found himself in that prompted him to pray this. And the the best guess we can make, and again it's a guess, And I tend to lean this way, is that it was most likely prayed while Paul was persecuting David. Now, many of us, I'm sure, are familiar with David's experience. Saul was king of Israel. And um uh Saul was king of Israel and uh he was the first king. God had chosen him to be king, and uh Saul was uh started out great and he ended up being a terrible, terrible king. And uh David was um chosen of God to replace Saul in God's timing. Well, David's coming up through the back ranks in the military, and David is a tremendous warrior. He is uh uh uh very successful in battle. In fact he was so s uh and and by the way, Saul was a tremendous soldier also. But David was exceeding Saul in his statistics, in his um, what would you call it, uh kill count. Kill ratio. David was exceeding Saul in that. In fact, the people, particularly the women in Israel, started singing. They they came up with this hit song. It was in the top forty. Saul has slain his thousands, but David his what? Ten thousands. How do you think that went over with Saul? Not so hot. In fact, Saul was very immature in a lot of ways. He was very carnal in a lot of ways, not a very spiritual man. And he uh he got very jealous. The Bible says that Saul eyed David. In other words, he got very, very jealous of him, and he became paranoid. of David thinking David's going to kill me and take my place. Now David was ordained of God to replace Saul, but he wasn't supposed to kill Saul. He was in God's timing, he would replace him. Saul got paranoid, and so he began uh an all-out assault in killing David. God preserved him, and um uh he went through a number of years under intense persecution by his king. So that we believe is the setting of this prayer. David's being pursued. And by the way, the whole military's out after him. And so you can imagine the intensity of that and uh the fear that would be dealt with. And so David is definitely in a day of trouble. Now notice again, verse number seven. In the day of what? No, no, don't say that. In the day of my trouble, David was going through a very difficult time. Now I got looking up that word trouble. Trouble can mean anything. Man, did you ever notice some folks, probably all of us, some folks have a tendency to exaggerate their troubles. Anybody ever notice that? Anybody here ever hear anybody say, oh, I'm dying? You know what I'm talking about? Chances are you're probably not dying. Uh I have uh certain folks, I won't point they say their names, but sometimes they'll come to church and after they're leaving they'll say something like this, I was freezing in there Why is everybody looking over this way? You know, I noticed that there wasn't any frost on them at all. It's a little bit of exaggeration. They say I was freezing in there. Uh a and then the other end of the spectrum uh and often in the same service afterward I'll have somebody come up and say this. I was roasting. I was melting in there. Uh would you agree that's a bit of an exaggeration? They might have been warm or they might have been a little cool, and uh but as long as I control the heat, you're gonna suffer in one way or another So we have a tendency to exaggerate. When I was in Indianapolis, I spoke to a uh when I was youth pastor in Indianapolis, I spoke to a a high school, a Christian high school, pretty large, and I preached on troubles and dealing with troubles and the youth pastor came up to me afterward laughing and he said, Boy, teens really have it rough He said he had one one time, he wanted a new Camaro. This was back in the day when Camaros were really something. He wanted a new Camaro for his high school graduation and his parents weren't going to get him a Camaro, they were just going to get him some other not a sporty car. And he said the boy came to him and said, I just want to die. I'm not getting a Camaro for graduation. I would say his day of trouble wasn't quite as bad as what he perceived it to be. So we have a tendency to exaggerate Um how many of you guys ever came into the house and told your wife, what's for dinner? I'm starving. I've looked at this crowd. There's very few that are even close to starving in here. So we have a tendency to exaggerate. That's my point. Did you get that point there? We have a tendency to exaggerate. Well, I got looking up this word trouble here. I don't believe David was exaggerating. In fact, if you go back into the history books of the Old Testament, you find that David went through some real, real trouble. I mean life-threatening stuff. And as I got looking up the word trouble, it has this idea, it has to be to have so much anguish that you're backed into a corner In other words, I'm in a situation where I don't see any way out of it. If I go this way, I've got problems. If I go this way, I've got problems. If I go this way, I've got No matter what decision I make, it's not a good situation This, in the day of my trouble, in the day that my problems have backed me into a corner. And I have nowhere to turn, I have nowhere to go, I don't see any way out of this. It has the idea of being overwhelmed with trouble and anguish. And the word anguish, the term anguish, kept coming up in all the definitions I kept looking up of the word. Anguish. To be overwhelmed. We would say something like this. I'm in over my head in problems. I don't see any way out. I don't see how this can possibly be resolved. I don't see how I can possibly get to a situation where things are going to be okay. That's David's assessment of his situation he was in. In the day of my trouble, I will call upon thee, and thou wilt answer me. When we read Scripture, we find that some of God's greatest servants had some of the most severe trials. Of anyone in Scripture. In fact, uh F. B. Meyer, a great preacher in years gone by, he made this statement. He said, God will not use a person greatly until he breaks their heart thoroughly. And when we go through trials, we go through difficulties, we're in good company because, as I said, some of God's greatest, greatest servants, men and women. Are folks that went that were backed in a corner, that had problems that was absolutely over their heads and they saw no way to solve it, and God came through and God made something great out of them. So, that's also true throughout history. I was thinking of folks that have influenced my life over the years, particularly since I came to know Christ. um many years ago and folks that have influenced me and those who God used in great great ways to help me grow in my faith as I look at it very carefully I find that many of them are folks that went through great trials And had great difficulties and even anguish many times in their life. And God taught them, and God brought them through that, and was able to use them to help me. My wife and I were talking last evening about different folks in the church. We weren't gossiping. We were talking about different folks in the church who had really been through difficulties. Had really been through trials and just stayed rock solid and just stayed faithful to the Lord and right through it all they just plugged They just uh uh plotted forward, they just stayed faithful to the Lord, just stayed true to the Word of God, and God brought them through, and what an influence they are on other people's lives. So we see that in Scripture, we see that through history. David, without a doubt, was one of God's greatest servants What an influence. How many folks here have ever been blessed by Psalms chapter 23? The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. Man alive. And uh David, what a blessing. He has been to millions and millions of people for thousands of years, and yet he went through deep trials and difficulties. I want to know what David did when he was back into a corner. When he got to in a situation that was over his head, he saw no way out of it, he saw no way that could possibly anything good come of it, what did David do in that day? And then I want to learn to do that for when I face trials and I face difficulties. So what did he do in the day of his trouble? I hope you'll jot some of these down. I want to give him Give them to you as quickly as I can. Uh maybe you say, Brother Leatherman, I'm not backed in the corner. Things are going better for me now than they ever had. Listen, you better write these down, because that day will come Uh uh somebody said this. Uh everyone is either just coming out of the trial in the middle of the trial or fixing to go into one. That's just that, right. Job said, as the sparks fly upward, so uh uh something. And um As the what did he say? As the sparks fly upward, Brian, you're my go-to guy. As the sparks fly upward, so man is born unto trials. Don't look it up. That might not be exactly right, but uh Aren't you impressed with the scriptural skill of your pastor here? Uh but what was he saying? He's saying, listen, trials are part of life. Hey, and sometimes there are days when we feel like David does here that we're completely backed in, we have no way out, we just don't see what the answer is. Um somebody else, a great preacher down in Texas years ago, I think it was George W. Truett, said, he said, be nice to everybody, because everybody's having a hard time. And so maybe you say, you know things are going pretty good, just I don't have to pay attention. I'll just lean my head back and go to sleep and uh I'll let somebody else that's going through trouble they can get this message. I want to urge you to jot these down because I promise you the day will come Well, they'll be very helpful. Number one, what to do in the day of trouble? Number one, establish a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. If you don't already have that established, you need to do that. Now, let me show you some verses here in Psalms 86. Look at verse number two. Preserve my soul, for I am holy, O thou. What's the next two words? My God. Look over at chapter 12, or I'm sorry, verse 12, and the first part of verse number 12, same chapter. I will praise thee, O Lord, my God. Look at verse 13. For great is thy mercy toward me, and thou hast delivered my soul from the lowest hell You know what I gleaned from just those few statements? That tells me this. David had a personal relationship with his Lord. It was more, God was more than just a religious ritual he went through. He had a personal relationship. With the Lord his God. We would say in our day, with the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, let me ask you a question. Do you know Jesus Christ? Now listen carefully to the words I'm using. Do you know Jesus Christ as your personal Savior? Now, a lot of people, and I would say everybody in this auditorium right now, you know things about Jesus. You know he was born of a virgin we celebrated Christmas. You know a lot of things about his life. He did miracles, he died on the cross Rose again. Uh you can name all kinds of things about Jesus. I didn't ask you, do you know about Jesus Christ? But do you know Jesus Christ in a personal relationship? It's a world of difference between the two. Um I know about uh I'm reading uh I've read uh uh uh It's kind of on the shelf right now, uh, but I'm reading a biography of the president of Kazakhstan, Najurbayev. And I've learned a lot of things about him. And I can tell you different things about his past and his involvement in the in uh in uh the Russian uh uh politics, the communist leadership, and I can tell you what he was doing when the f wall fell and all of that's in there. I know things about him. But if somebody would come up and say, Pastor Lederman, you've been to Kazakhstan, do you know, do you know uh Nazarbihab, the president of Kazakhstan? Do you know him personally? My answer would be what? No, of course not. I don't have any kind of relationship with him. I don't know him personally I know about him. I could quote you facts about his life. Tell you a little bit what he's like. And that is the difference between religion Christian as a religion, Christianity as a religion, and Christianity as a relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. Um, so in the day of trouble Religion isn't going to do you a whole lot of good. But a personal relationship with Jesus Christ will change everything. Look with me again at verse 13. Listen to these words very carefully. This is David speaking. For great is thy mercy toward me. Now mercy Biblical mercy is God withholding something that I deserve. Um, you know, maybe uh maybe uh uh uh somebody deserves some sort of punishment, and in mercy The other withholds it from them. That's the idea here. For great is thy mercy toward me. Look at this. And thou hast delivered my soul from the lowest what? Hell. You know what that verse tells me? David was a saved man. He had come to a point in his life, something had happened. And he had come to a point in his life where he understood that he was a sinner under the judgment of God. And God had in mercy extended the offer of forgiveness, and God would forgive him for all his sin. and save him, keep him from going to hell when he died. Now lest you don't lest there's any confusion, the Bible is clear. There is a real literal place called hell. Clear in Scripture. And a person who dies without a personal relationship with Jesus Christ is separated from God for all eternity in this very real, horrendous place called hell. And David tells us in verse 13 that he had gotten to a point that he had made the decision to accept God's offer of forgiveness. God's mercy, he had accepted that, and he was saved from going to hell when he died. David was a saved man. He had a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. Now, here's the question: How do I do that? How do I establish a personal relationship with the creator of the universe? Well, the Bible's very clear, and the book of Romans in particular goes into depth on how we do that. One, we have to recognize the fact that we are a sinner. The very the statement The very fact that David is asking for mercy tells us he re-saw himself as guilty. Right? If I wasn't guilty, I wouldn't re request mercy. So David recognized himself as a sinner. Romans 3:23, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Romans 3:10, there is none righteous. No, not one. We have broken God's law, we've sinned against God. And thus, God being a holy God, we've broken the commands of God. His holiness requires that we be judged for that. Just like we live in a land of laws. And if the law is broken, there's consequences. You speed, the policeman has the authority to give you a ticket and issue a fine, a judgment for breaking the law. Well, God is holy. Our God is a God of laws. We break his law. The requirement is separation from God for all eternity, a place called hell. Now, David didn't want to go to hell. Nobody in their right mind wants to go to hell. Not if you understand what what it is. And God didn't want David to go to hell, and God doesn't want anybody to go to hell. In fact, he's not willing that any should perish. And so he gave his son Jesus Christ to die on the cross. Now we know these facts, but he died for you and me personally. For my sins, this is what just stirs my heart. Is that every sin that I've ever committed, every law of God that I've ever broken, something I've said, I've thought, I've done. Jesus Christ, in love and mercy for me personally, took responsibility for my sins. And he says to God, I will take the judgment for Dennis Leatherman. All his sins, I will take his judgment for him. And I will bear the punishment of his sins in my own body on the cross. And when Jesus died on that cross, he was dying for personally for me. The sins I have and will commit, he suffered God's judgment. And not just for me, but for the sins of the whole world. Every one of us is buried and rose again. And the Bible says that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Have those sins removed, the judgment removed, it's already been paid for. I'm saved from hell and I now have a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. So what do you do in the day of trouble? Well, first of all, I need to be sure that I have a personal relationship with Jesus Christ, that I've come to the point in my life Where I have accepted God's offer of forgiveness. I accept that, Lord, I believe you died for me and rose again. I'm calling on you and accepting. The offer of forgiveness you've given me, and God forgives me and saves me from sin in hell. And now the way is clear between my God and I, and I have a personal relationship with it. Alright, so did you get that? Number one. What to do in a day of trouble? Number one, establish a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. If you haven't already, you need to be sure and know you're saved. Number two, jot this down. I like this one. Percolate the goodness of God Percolate the goodness of God. How many people uh how many how many coffee drinkers do we have here? About half the crowd. We're going to rename our church, Coffee Baptist Church. We drink so much coffee here. We saw yesterday we're coming back from giving out tracts and there was a tractor trailer, a tanker tractor trailer, and it was painted, said coffee on the side of it. I said, wow, that's a lot of coffee And uh I said that would last our church about two weeks. Oh, that whole thing. And uh I'm trying to remember why I'm talking about coffee. Percolator, that's right. Uh you ever have a percolator? How does a percolator work? You got the coffee grounds up top, right? You familiar with this? If not, boy, you are so lucky to come to church today and learn about a percolator Uh uh percolate, you have the coffee grounds up top here, you have the water down here, and you have a little pipe goes up the middle, and uh you heat the water up, it gets boiling, it runs up the pipe, and it percolates out over the uh coffee grounds and runs down through them and comes down. Then it goes back up and goes through it again. And it's just a continual process that going through the coffee grounds Now I got reading Psalms 86 and David's day of trouble and what he was doing, and it dawned on me as I looked down through there, he keeps dwelling over and over and over on the goodness of God. It's like he's percolating how good God is. Let me show you some verses here. Come back here with me. Let me show you. Look at verse number five. For thou, Lord, art good and ready to forgive, and plenteous in mercy unto all that call upon him. Look at verse number 8. Among the gods, there is none like unto thee, O Lord. Neither are there any works like unto thy works. Look at verse number 10. For thou art great and doest wondrous things. Thou art God alone. Look at verse 13 For great is thy mercy toward me. Thou hast delivered my soul from the lowest hell. Look at verse 15. But thou, O Lord, art a God Full of compassion and gracious, long-suffering, and plentious and mercy and truth. Do you see what he's doing here? He's taking these Facts about God that he knows to be true. And in the day of his trouble, when he is backed into a corner, we don't know what the circumstance is, but it is an anguish time He has a relationship with the Lord and he just percolates over and over and over how good God is and how awesome God is and how powerful God is and how compassionate God is. And he just keeps dwelling on that over and over and over. And he's basically saying this, I know my troubles are bad, and I don't see a way out. But there is a God in heaven that is greater than any of my troubles, and I don't know how he's going to do it. But God, you're good There's no one else like you. I rejoice in your goodness. And he refuses to focus on the trouble, and he focuses on the Lord. Now, here's where you and I blow it. You know what we percolate? We percolate the trouble. We dwell over and over and over on how bad I have it. Come on now, am I right over? You all look at me like you're pious. We do that. Oh so how you doing? Boy some people don't ask them how they're doing, all right. They're gonna start percolating. But we do that. And we just go over and over how bad I got, oh it's terrible. Oh, my back, my neck, my job, my boss, neighbors, the weeds. Snow, it's hot. We just go over and over and over and over and over and over and over how bad we got it. Now that is the worst thing you can do in a day of trouble. That's obvious. It's not going to get me out of it. What I need to do is focus on the Lord. And remind my sinful heart how good and powerful and awesome. I like what he says there in verse number 8. I love this. Among the gods, there is none like unto thee, O Lord. You know what he's saying? God, nothing even comes close to you. In power and in awesomeness, and in and in and in ability and wisdom. Again, Kathy and I were talking so it's been some time ago. And uh you know, I think uh now now indefund independent independent fundamental uh in the independent fundamental baptists. And uh I believe, listen, this is m this is my opinion. I believe independent fundamental baptists is the closest thing to the Bible you can get. It's just my opinion. But you know what? We have a tendency in our circles to dwell on all the awful things going on in the world. Am I right or wrong? Now I think we need to deal with it. We need to preach on it and all that stuff. But I think sometimes we forget how incredible our God really is. And sometimes we forget that we have a God that is all powerful. And the nations, the Bible says, are just a drop in the bucket. Compared to our God. And so when I look at my troubles, and they're legit. In the day of my trouble, when it's overwhelming, David, we see that there is obviously he is up against it. But he refuses to let himself forget that there is a God greater than any trouble he's ever going to face. And there is a God wiser than any situation he can't figure out. And that his God has the answer to every question, the solution to every problem, the provision for every need. And we must not forget that. So number one, establish a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. Number two, percolate the goodness of God. By the way, as I was looking at David's percolation here, is that a word? Percolation? It is now. And uh he's going on there. I noticed there's an emphasis on the mercy of God and forgiveness. And I've already touched on this, but um David's focus of his goodness of God again is a result of his understanding of how sinful he is and how merciful God has been to him. And that's kind of the theme through this. God, you've been so merciful to me. You've extended so much mercy and compassion to me. And I got thinking about that and doing a little cross-referencing in the Bible. And you know what I found? When it comes to the Lord Jesus Christ, do you know who had the closest, most intimate relationship with Jesus Christ? Those who realized how great God had forgiven them. Jesus says who uh he says those who are forgiven the most are those that love me the most. One person is recorded in Scripture as washing Jesus' feet. Only one. Wasn't a Pharisee. Wasn't a high priest. Wasn't some, wasn't even one of the disciples It was a sinful, wicked woman who God had forgiven tremendous, perverse sins. And she comprehended how merciful God had been to her. And she came in, the only one recorded in Scripture that washed Jesus' feet. Had the most intimate fellowship with Jesus Christ. And I see that with David. God, you've been so good to me. The day of my trouble, Lord, you've been so merciful to me. We say this so often, as difficult, and I'm not trying to trivialize our problems we face. They're real. But the fact is, if we really got what we deserved, we would be burning in hell. And the fact that God has been merciful and is gracious and patient sure helps me deal with troubles. Let me give you the third thing to jot down here real quick. Stay persistent in my prayers to the Lord. Number one, establish a personal relationship. Number two, percolate the goodness of God. Number three, stay persistent in my prayers to the Lord. And I get that from verse number three. Here it is. Be merciful unto me, O Lord. There's that mercy aspect again. But look what he says next. For I cry unto thee daily. I cry unto thee daily. He just prayed and prayed and prayed and prayed. Every day he brought his situation to the Lord The greatest action that you and I can take in the day of prayer is humble persistent in the day of trouble, I should say, is humble, persistent prayer. Now I would venture to say, if we sat down one-on-one in privacy, just about, if not all of us, would say we've got one or two things. That we really, really, really need God to do for us. My wife and I have two things we pray for every single day. If God would come down to me and say, Dennis, I'll do two things for you and nothing else in life. If he said what, there's one thing I'll do for you and nothing else in life, I've got one thing already I've been praying about, God, this is what I'd want you to do. Now, do you have that in your mind? David said in other portions of scripture, this one thing will I seek after. He had one thing he wanted and needed God to do more than anything else Now when we're back into a corner in the day of trouble, I need to take that trouble, that situation that I can't see a way out of, that circumstance that I cannot find a solution to And I got to bring that to God and bring that to God and bring that to God and daily pray, pray, pray, pray, pray to God. Here's what we do. And we mess ourselves up. We try to deal with it ourselves. We try to figure out a solution. We'll go to this, that, and the other. We'll try and figure out some way to deal with this when God, in reality, has most likely allowed that to come in my life, so I'll seek in. So I'll learn to trust him. I'll see what he can do. I found that the greater the trouble, the more persistent my prayers should be. How's your prayer life? Do you pray? What's your first response when difficulty or trouble comes? Is the first response, man, I've got to get alone with the Lord. I need to bring this to God. David said daily, I lift my prayers unto thee. Pray God can do more. Listen, here's the problem. We've got people looking to other people to do for them what only God can do for them. I've had, as pastor, and I'll tell you the greatest joy of my life as pastor of this church, but over the years, I've had folks look to me and ask me to do for them things that only God can do for them. It's like you need to look to the Lord for that. So pray. You got that down, number three. Stay persistent in prayer. Got this one down. Number four. Present my soul to the Lord in surrender. Look at verse four. Second part. For unto thee, O Lord, do I lift up my soul. Look over at verse eleven. Teach me thy way, O Lord. I will walk in thy paths, unite my heart to fear thy name. Uh that's not the right verse. Uh well, yeah, teach me thy ways, O Lord. I will walk in thy truth, unite my heart to seek the to fear thy hand. Notice he says, teach me thy ways. And verse number uh four he says, I will lift up my soul. Now I got thinking about that phrase. Help me out here. Everybody doing all right? Everybody good? Okay? Happy? Something? I'm looking for a response. Amen. Thank you there. I was getting worried. I thought you all died. Um What does it mean to lift up your soul? I thought, well that's a nice phrase. I've heard it in songs I will lift up my soul. I thought, well what does that mean? Lift up your soul. And so I do what I always do when I don't know something. I ask my wife. And she goes, I don't know. And uh so I gotta look at it, you know what I think he's saying there when he says, I will lift up my soul? I think he's saying, I'm surrendering my life to you. It's the idea of taking that sacrifice and putting it up on the altar. I am lifting up my soul. God, my soul is my life. I just present it to you. In the day of my trouble, God, I don't see any way out of this. God, I don't see any solution to this. Lord, I'm just going to yield myself to you. You just have your way with my life. Teach me, Lord. I just submit and surrender myself to you. Jesus had a day of trouble. Did you know that? The crucifixion. And before he went before Pilate and all of that, and the scourging and the mocking of the soldiers and all of that. He got alone with the Lord. And he said, Lord, if it be possible, let this cup be removed You know what he was saying? Now we understand, I'm putting this in human terms, so we understand he was Lord and he knew how this was all going to play out, this is all part of it. But in a way you could say he was backed into a corner This was the Lord's day of trouble, overwhelming anguish. He's going to take the sins of the world. And he's praying to God: God, is there a way out of this? Is there some door I can slip out and avoid this Lord if there be any other way? But he doesn't end his prayer there. He says, nevertheless, what? Not my will, but thy will be done. You know what he was doing? He was lifting up his soul. They're saying, Lord, whatever your will, if it's your will for me to go through this, then God, I go through it. And in my mind, that's when our salvation was secured. When Jesus said, Not my will, thy will be done. Then it was going to happen. In the day of our trouble Let's make sure we got a relationship with Jesus Christ. Let's uh percolate the goodness of God. Let's pray and pray and pray. Let's present ourselves the Lord. Say, Lord, here I am. I yield myself to you. Whatever your will is, you just take and use this however you see fit. And then last of all, and I like this, anticipate an answer to prayer. Anticipate an answer to prayer. Look at verse 7. He says, In the day of my trouble, I will call upon thee, for thou wilt answer me. David was confident that God was going to answer his prayer. Now the word answer there doesn't mean that God will give you and I whatever we want. The word answer means respond. It means God will respond to my prayer. Now, His response may not be exactly what I'm anticipating But he will respond. And I'm here to tell you, I've been in this long enough, and I know that Bible well enough. I'm here to tell you that God's response to our prayers, whether it's the way we anticipated it or not, Is always the best response to our prayers. I don't know how many times over the years I have prayed and prayed and prayed for something, and God responded in a way different than what I was expecting and asking him to, and I look back on it and I say, Thank God he didn't answer the way I wanted. God knows better for me what's best for me than I do. But I can be very, very sure if I have a relationship with Him, if I have yielded to Him, and I pray. I can fully expect that God is going to respond, answer in the way that is best for me. Now, the way that's best for me may mean I need to stay in that corner for a little while. May need I need to go through this trial. It may mean he'll open the door right away and I get out of it. Hey, God's response to trial may not be removing the sickness right away. He may let me have to deal with it for a while for reasons known to him. I was praying and asking God to heal Mike Stubler. I wanted God to make them well. Just for selfish reason, I could see things he could do for the Lord here in the church here. I had plans for him for the next 50 years. I said, God, you can't take them. You can't take them. We need them. God responded. Not the way I wanted them to. God healed them. Not the way I anticipated. But I look back and God definitely responded to our prayers. God was glorified through his whole process in his day of trouble. And now he's with the Lord. So, what I'm my point I'm trying to make here is God doesn't always respond the way we want Him to, but we can be very sure of this. God is paying attention. And God will respond. And if I'm surrendered to him, if I have a personal relationship, I'm percolating how good he is. And I'm yielded to him, however God responds, I know that's the best thing in the world for me. So, what to do in a day of trouble? God expects us. I thought of this quote this morning when I was getting ready. God expects us to expect him to respond to our prayers. God wants us to explain. And you know what I found out? Whenever I'm expecting God to answer my prayer, you know what I'm doing? I'm watching for it. Alright, God's going to answer this prayer. I'm watching for it, watching for it, watching for it. Where it is, I know that prayer is coming. I tell you, that gets exciting. That gets exciting. What to do in a day of trouble? Do you know the Lord Jesus Christ, your personal Savior? Do you know for sure that God has forgiven your sins down in your heart, that your sins are forgiven? When you die, you're going to heaven. If not, you need to settle that today. Percolate God's goodness. Go out of here just thinking about how good quit quit dwelling on your problems. Start dwelling how great God is. Say, well, I just don't know how to do that. We'll show you one of the hymn books. Take it home. Start singing those hymn books. I was going to say I'd give it to you, but the deacons get on me when I do that. Pray. Pray, pray, pray, pray, pray, pray. When's the last time you and your wife got on your knees beside your bed, held hands, and just begged God to help you in your situation? When's the last time you nailed an old-fashioned older and just, God help me? I preached some prayer down in the Dominican Republic a few weeks ago. There's like five folks there just sobbing. God help me. God help me. Crying out to God. Surrender. Say, God, I want your will to be done. And then just trust God to answer that prayer. Father bless us, Lord, they ask. Day of trouble comes to all of us. We need to know what to do. And I pray that you would help us in this matter. With our heads bound and eyes closed. I wonder how many would say