Alright, everybody should be there now. Matthew chapter 9. Do you find it? Matthew chapter 9, go right to the end of the chapter, verse 35. And Jesus went about all the cities and villages teaching in their synagogues and preaching the gospel of the kingdom and healing every sickness and every disease among the people. And when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion on them, because they fainted and were scattered abroad as sheep having no shepherd. Now don't just read over that verse. He was moved with compassion. He was moved because he saw the spiritual need of the people. Verse 37, then saith he unto his disciples. The harvest truly is plenteous, but the laborers are few. Pray therefore the Lord of the harvest that he will send forth laborers into his harvest. I think I did answer some prayers. They went from the 12 to the 70. The early church in Jerusalem, some say, grew to perhaps as many as 50,000 people. We don't know what it is for sure, but it was a lot. And then they started establishing other churches and they had to appoint elders, pastors, in those churches. And God began answering those prayers. And there have been different times where the evangelism has waned, where it's not been as strong, where people get complacent. This man said he was reading through the book of Judges, and there's this cycle. You know that God starts blessing it all, everything's going great, and you start trusting in yourself. And then g God brings judgment. You start, false gods come in. The world comes in. And God judges you, and then you have to bring another deliverer. And you know, that's repeated over and over. That's a tendency of humankind. In America, we started this country with religious freedom. And people were searching, they were looking. They came to this new place seeking to worship God. But there weren't that many churches. And the pilgrims that came over, not not just The Congregationalists and the Episcopalians, but the pilgrims and separatists that came over, they were looking for freedom to be able to worship. They'd been persecuted, in some cases burned at the stake for their religion. And so they came to America, but there weren't that many churches, there wasn't that much influence. And there were revivalists Some out of the Puritans, even uh Jonathan Edwards, preached the sermon, Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God, right in our state, Enfield, Connecticut. The history says they men grabbed the pillars for fear they were going to fall into hell any moment. There was a tremendous consciousness of God And of course the Congregational Church had two ideas of how to construct the church, and they would take in members that were unsaved. So there was a lot of unsaved people in those churches that people were looking. George Whitfield came to America and some people didn't like what he did, so he went out into the open field and began preaching. They would send a crier out in the morning and people would uh hear George Whitfield's gonna be in Middletown. There's a famous story, you can look it up, Nathan Cole's report. of Whitfield coming to Middletown, Connecticut. And say go through the the the ride this horse out in the country and farmers would drop their stuff, they would saddle their horse and you know they would drive it as hard as they could to get there for that morning. They say it's going to be there at nine o'clock and they're like they're running for their lives. They're going to hear the preaching. And three, four, five thousand people would meet out in the open. If George Whitfield came to Bettletown today, they probably would say, You don't have a permit, you can't do this I mean we we live in a different world. Del Mudi had scores of people, thousands of people come in here and preach There was a second Great Awakening beyond the first Great Awakening. There was a time when churches were growing and expanding, and there were colleges that were thriving, training people for ministry That all that is changing. Fifty years ago, probably you'd go back even sixty years ago, there were about 14,000 independent Baptist churches in America Now today there's about 14,000 independent Baptist churches in America, while the population has doubled. But the churches that were 14,050 years ago, most people could attend that church and be fairly content to say, this is a good church. But today, you'd be lucky to find a thousand. And the churches are much smaller. There were churches that were running thousands. There were preachers that I thought they're just a Bible teacher, they're not dynamic, and they'd have 2,000 people. In those days, the Methodist Church was strong and reviving. There were stories about people coming to the altar and Pleading and praying, people getting saved, their lives changed. There's a little town near where I grew up in Brazil, Indiana. There's a Methodist church. There's only five thousand people in town. They have five thousand in Sunday school every week. Today those churches don't have any. Many of them are closing. We just received a church building that closed because they didn't have enough people I'm writing an article that I'm going to put in the sword on the coming crisis When I look at this passage, it says, Pray therefore the Lord of the harvest, he'll send forth laborers. That's the only prayer request our Lord ever gave. He said, I have one prayer request. I want you to do this: pray for laborers. Because we are facing a crisis. Churches are contracting. Churches are closing. There's some starting, but not enough to keep up with those closing. Pastors my age, younger and older, are stepping down. Health reasons, retirement, worn out, whatever. Missionaries are leaving the field There aren't enough people to replace them. There are not enough trained young men and women to replace them Now I want you to follow what I'm going to say because I've got a message from the Bible, but I want to put it in the context, if I can, of where we are today. In Canada, Brother Al Stone is a good friend of mine, and he's like uh a patriarch in Canada And he just told me this a month ago. He said, there are 300 independent Baptist churches in Canada. And by the way, some of them are fairly small, but some are a couple of pretty good size. These are 300 independent Baptist churches, 30 are without a pastor right now. Now, not only that, they've been without a pastor for quite a while. And not only that, they have four students being trained right now to be a pastor in Canada, throughout all of Canada. The schools that are there and as far as we know anybody from the States. Now there may be more come, but there aren't thirty. So what is the answer to that? I don't know that I have an answer, but I know that that's where we're headed. And we need more labors. Then I think it begins with this prayer request of our Savior. Pray therefore the Lord of the harvest. My last podcast, I do podcasts called Heart for God. You can look under my name, wherever you get your podcast. We just did one with Brother Paul. But my last podcast, this is up to date as of last week, last Thursday. Twelve churches in upstate New York that do not have a pastor. And some of them have been a few years. That's not counting some that have clothes because they can't find a pastor. I get calls from Pennsylvania. They say we have a building paid for. We have some people. We can support a pastor. Won't be a lot, but we can support a pastor. Now I would have given our firstborn child to say we got a building and property and no mortgage. Now I wouldn't give my last one. The first one I would I would have given. Last one was a girl, I wouldn't forgive her, but first one was kinda hard. He he was a tough one. But he's a pastor day, so I forgive him. But But to to imagine you have a building, an apartment. We went to Connecticut, we had nothing. We met in the nights at Columbus Hall. We got kicked out before we ever started. He said, we'll let you stay four weeks. Then we had to find another place. Then we went to abandoned school. Then the congregational church had a little chapel right downtown, the town greeting, and they invited us to meet there. For six months and they kicked us out. I'm not sure what it was. It may have been the camel rides we had in the back of the church for our anniversary But our goal was to have 300 on our first anniversary. And we were riding buses, did dumb things. If I'm an expert at church planning, it's because I've eliminated everything you shouldn't do. I did a lot of wrong things So we had these camel rides, we have pictures everywhere. We have three uh our goal was 300 on our first anniversary. And I told the ashes, now f if we're close, I said, you've got to find somebody. We've got to reach our goal. We had $299. And one of the ushers went out and he paid two kids five dollars to come into church. We had three hundred and one. I don't know why they kicked us out, but they kicked us out. They didn't give us another week. No warning. Just don't come back. And we went to another school. Now we're starting to hear rumors. We were there for about a year. Now it's just two years old. And so I said, we we gotta do something. We had no money. We we don't know. But You know that that's the ministry. That's starting churches. The Lord enabled us to buy a piece of property. But Matt, you appreciate this. I thought, there's no Google Earth And I said, you know what, I think if I got in a plane and a guy's instructor, fly instructor, and he took me up, it was either $5 or $25. I don't remember which it was And he said, I'll take you up and I'm flying over. Like I own the town. Like we have no money, no people, you know, a handful of people really, like fifteen families. And I'm looking over that, I said, there it is, that's where we need to go I said, I'm I'm I'm good, just take me down. And I found out how much they wanted for that property, and it's like I the number was so big, I don't even know what the number was. I can't remember it. Millions and millions of dollars they wanted for that property. But the Lord enabled us A property just a mile up the road. We're just a mile from ESPN headquarters. So I mean it's a an excellent location right off the highway. And that went up for sale. And we ended up somehow securing that property. And again, all the things you shouldn't do. So we we had fourteen thousand dollars that somebody gave us It was a Russian Polak. He he drove a Mustang that the fenders were flying, blowing smoke. I mean it wasn't vintage at all. And so he gave us this money, a single guy password But that's not enough to buy a piece of property. And so the bank said, Well, we'll own you part of it, and then they held back a second mortgage. We have balloon payments every year and then an It was a three year mortgage. We had to pay it all off in three years. And we every year we got to the the bloom payment and tomorrow it's due. We had nothing. I mean we had to have $20,000 in one day, just a handful of people. And to be honest with you, I don't know how we ever did it. I don't know how we got that money. That that's church planning. You know, God does miraculous things to get property and start churches. But right now A young man could come out of college and he could he could pick that there's a church that has a new facility, all-purpose building. They they've been without a pastor for quite a while. They the pastor died suddenly, he was a young man, and they've got somebody there six months and now the church has been vacant again for a period of time Twelve churches just in upstate New York. And I can go through every state. People call from Pennsylvania almost weekly. And they say we've got a building it's paid for. They may have a parsonage and they can often support a pastor full time. Now my my question, I don't ask him this, but I know the answer. Have you ever sent us a student? You ever sent someone from your church to Bible college to get trained? And of course the answer is no. So you think you can just call Bible college and somehow we have a machine and it spits them out Like there's one. You know what what do you want? Somebody that you know part is here in the middle and you know that's six feet tall and You know, spend all this time with the teens and the seniors and, you know, y y just spitz them out. There they are. Didn't happen that way. They come from churches. It's like this. You realize that there are many, many churches. I would say the majority of churches have never in their history sent someone out to start a church. Sent somebody in the ministry. That's not the case here. But I'm saying that I think the majority of churches, they've never I wonder if we're really praying. I've had parents come they say t the children seem interested in missions. They they say, Well you know there's not much money in missions. Now that's an odd statement. These folks they're not dying because of starvation They they live like I mean basically like everybody else. You know, they have a car, they you know they gotta live somewhere, they either rent or own a home. How much do you need? If we really surrender to the will of God, then as a parent, you know what you should do? You should prepare your children so that God calls them, they're ready to go. Think about this: James and John, sons of thunder. They're fishermen. There's a big difference between being a preacher and a fisherman. You're fishing for fish, now you're going to fish for men. So here's James and John. Jesus comes along and he said, Follow me, and I'll make you fish as a man. They did, didn't they? Did you hear their father object saying, you know, there's not much money in this? This may be a harsh thing. You might lose your life. You may have to give your life for this. He didn't say that. I believe he and his m his wife. Prepare them that whatever God wants, surrender your life to it. And as a parent You do an injustice to your children to sell them short and say, I want you to live on our property. I don't want you to go far away. I want to see our children grow up. You do an injustice to God Himself. We ought to be praying for God to use them. Everybody's not going to be a missionary. Everybody's not going to be a preacher. But there is a highest call for every young person where you say, I want God's will done in my life. There's an interesting story about a man named Art deMoss. He went to He was at a special meeting, Dr. Lee Robertson, the Chancellor of Tennessee Temple and pastor of Highland Park Baptist Church. He was preaching. And so Art DeMoss is still a young man, but he's married. He comes to Dr. Robertson and he said, Dr. Robinson, I don't know what God wants me to do. And so Dr. Robinson said, come to Bible college. And he said, I I think God will show you what to do. So he did. Backed up his stuff, went to Bible college. It was like a year later. He didn't finish school. It was like a year later. He came Dr. Robertson. He said, I know what God wants me to do. Just to be in there for a year. He said, I know what God wants me to do. He moved to Philadelphia. He started a mail order insurance company. Real I mean base level, entry-level business. God bless that. He started making a lot of money. At one point I know he gave over four million dollars to the college. I don't know all the other things he did. And another thing that I know that he did, he died fairly young in his sixties, I believe. And I believe his wife's still alive, Betsy. But he set up a trust, and they and still once in a while you'll see an ad on television. If you need spiritual help, call in or write to us, and we'll send you our literature. He was an amazing soul winner. Now, is that a bad thing? Because he wasn't in the ministry? No, he found God's call for his life. Dr. Tom Wallace was with us, I think it was 93 at the time, wasn't long ago. And I'll never forget what he did. He said, now what I want you to do, get a blank piece of paper, put it in front of you And ask God to fill it out. Lord, what do you want me to do? But so often we've already got marked through, here's what I want, that's what I and there's no room. For God to figure out what He wants you to do. We have to have a clean slate. Lord, I'm willing to go. I'm willing to do anything. Be honest with you, I didn't want to step down as uh the pastor of the church. But I knew that was what God wanted. You know, you surrender to whatever he wants. And he's given me a fruitful ministry to continue. I'm still at the college. I still teach. I still represent the school. I'm having a blast. We we were in Maine. We have young people an ensemble and they're singing that and then I preach and I mean it it it's terrific. Great thing. And they're fun to be with. I mean it We've discussed everything from facial hair. You know, they said a young guy, if you can't grow a beard, then don't do it. It looks stupid. That's from college students. I mean they you know they're talking about music and you know they're real detailed and all this stuff. Uh I mean they're laughing or carrying on it's do you guys realize it's eleven o'clock at night and y you should be sleeping to get ready for school tomorrow and they're Carry it on, having a great time. We stop the Burger King, get something to eat. They're singing and Burger King The manager comes out and he's there listening. You know, what a bl we were in New York City and saw the Statue of Liberty, you know, they're singing there. I met some people who said, yeah, well we'll sing, they sing an a cappella, right out of the middle of nowhere. And they've traveled New Jersey and New York and up to Maine and Massachusetts and back to Connecticut and I mean i it's a riot. You know a lot of people will never know that because they've never surrendered. Say, Lord, what's your will? You know, missionaries travel around, they see the they see all the good and bad in churches. They not they learn what to do and what not to do. You go to some churches, it's like, oh You're here today. Oh, I I didn't realize. I have a daughter in Japan. They went to this church that's pretty good-sized church down Florida. And they were like, Oh, did we schedule you? Were you supposed to be here? Yeah? You know, here's the correspondence. Yes, you're supposed to be here. I mean that and then you go to church and it's like there's this little country church and they're giving you gifts and they're giving you money and give you a loft offering, a thousand, two thousand dollars, people will put it in your hand, and I mean that You learn the good and the bad. You know what God provides. God takes care of you. And what what a joy to be able to do that. You know, parents you deprive your children. If you don't prepare them for whatever God wants, prepare their heart and encourage them to be willing I as I already mentioned, my my people get they roll their eyes when I say this. They grew up in the country on a farm. They were, oh now here we go again. But I have my w we live near the little town. It's just a spot in the road. You know what I'm talking about? It really wasn't a town. It was just a spot in the road that they called a town. And my a mile from me is my father's parents. And I spent a lot of time there. I mean I could ride a bike to their house. And my other my mother's parents, they were maybe five miles from us out in the country. I spent a lot of time on tractor and farming and building houses and I spent a lot of time my grandparents saw me grow up in fact my my mother's my mother was the oldest of three girls she got married at 17 You know, you shouldn't do that, shouldn't get married at 17. But so she got married at 17, dropped out of school, didn't finish her senior year, though later she did get her degree. But She was within a year had my sister and then a year and a half later had me. So my her father, my grandfather, Moody, was 41 or 42 when I was born I mean it's like a father. He watched me grow up. I was with him a lot. We we went place together. I helped him farm. And People would make comments, oh, you know, this is my grandson, you know, but you don't say it's my son. In fact I called him dad. You say well how do you know the difference? It's just who I'm looking at, you know, it's my it's my real dad or d my dad. I mean it That that was amazing thing to grow up that way. But one day I drove off. Everything we had in a 58UL trailer in a car, to a place we'd never been. I never thought about how my parents felt. That it had to be hard. There they're there there they go. My wife's parents were not far away either. She's more emotional than me and my family, but you know, she's crying. We knew that's what God wants to do. That would be hard. It's not easy to leave your family behind. They never saw our kids grow up. They they didn't experience what I experienced. We go home every summer on purpose so that our children would see their grandparents. That that's the best we could do once a year. And basically we just recuperated, uh lived off of them for a week or two, ate their food and stayed in their house The grandchildren saw their grandparents. That's the best we could do. You know there's a there's a sacrifice involved in that. Now we got a daughter in Japan. You know what time it is in Japan? Ten o'clock in the morning, Monday morning. We've got a window about two or three hours we can call. That's it. Well they're up three in the morning. We we see them every five years. Now we've done a little more than that because we've been over there, but they don't come back to stay up every five years. Do I like that? I like what they're doing. They're following God. I wish I was there all the time That's not a bad thing, because they've committed their life to God. They're doing something they're in a place where there's no way else doing it By the way, you have a card back there by the Scots, and he's filling it, my son-in-law's filling in for them while he came to States. They only have one person in church, maybe two. That's all I but my son-in-law's filling in for them. That's that's a big town. I mean it's a hundred and fifty thousand or two hundred and fifty thousand people in that town. Uh but we don't see them. But we're confident that God has them in a place where they belong. And on top of that, you think you have snow here? They average twenty-five feet a year. Now they may get more. They've got thirty, thirty-five feet of snow a year. You throw the kids out the second story and they don't go anywhere. It's like through the winter, all you do is take care of snow. That's your job in the winter. We have children in South Carolina and Virginia. And first we have one. Our first child has five kids and they're close by and they go to our school and our Bible college. And it it we want them to do the will of God. We never told them you've got to go to the ministry. As long as they're serving God, doing what God wants to do, we're happy. But I don't know if we're really praying the right way. Are we praying in such a way that we want our best young people to surrender their life to God? The grandchildren? Are we praying for God's best, his highest calling? You know it's a little different when it's your own children. When it's somebody else's, it's not so hard. But it's gratifying when you prepare them to say, I want you to do God's will. That they follow God's will. That's the safest place they can be. That's the best place that they can be Well, I didn't get to my sermon yet, but I'm going to quickly give you a little outline. When you look at the passage, see the problem is the sheep are scatter well scattered without a shepherd. So it's like sheep not having a shepherd. If you don't have a shepherd, the sheep are scattered So there has to be somebody to monitor and watch over the sheep. That's something we're praying for, that, you know, God will, you know, we w we went through a transition and we had Plan ahead to say how are we going to do this and find the next one to come in. That's a big thing. Who your pastor is is important. And so we began praying about that. The Lord helped us But there is a problem with the sheep without a shepherd. And even with the shepherd, there are problems. I liken a ministry to this, Brother Letterman. It's like you're building a wall. And you lay the first course. You look back and say it's beautiful. You lay the second course. You take a little bit of pride in that wall. This is terrific. I really enjoy building this wall. You start building the third course, and you look back, a couple blocks have fallen out. You go back and put those back in the wall. You start building the fourth course, and suddenly more blocks fall out. And before you know it, all you're doing is fixing blocks to put back in the wall and you're not getting anything done, right? You know, that that's kind of what the ministry is like. There's all these problems and things. You know, pastor and church would be great if it weren't for the people. That is the people that is the church. That's the ministry. You never have to worry about being laid off. You never have to worry about not having a job. That's the purpose of a pastor. The sheep without the past are scattered. There are moral issues and all kinds of problems and emotional issues. Sometimes there's a failure of the pastors that if the if the devil can destroy the pastor or his family, he can destroy the whole church That's why we should pray for our pastor every day. We just went through this transition. Every day, the top of my list, I'm praying for this new pastor. Die I to understand the vulnerability of every pastor. You've got to pray for them. Pray for your missionaries. They need your help And notice also that there's a multitude. He saw the multitudes. That this should concern us. This should somehow get a hold of us. When's the last time you looked at someone and looked at your community and said, Wow, there's so many unsaved people. Now I haven't been here long, but I've purposely gone out meet a few people. And here's what I already sense. There are a lot of people have some Christianity, but not much. You wonder, are they really saved? They claim to be a Christian. You know, they go to this uh rock and roll kind of a church. Do they really know the Lord? Early on we w we live there there's a couple of mounts, one on each side of our town And at this one you can get up on top. And I remember going up on top of the mountain, I'm looking, it's getting dusk, the lights are coming on, I'm looking down at the city. I'm just thinking, how am I going to reach these people? How are we going to get people saved? It's real easy to become a bit calloused, unconcerned. But we have to look at people. There's somebody's son or daughter, somebody's father or mother, someone's child. Do we really see here are people in need of the gospel? There has to be that vision. Jesus had that vision. He looked at the people and was moved, says with compassion. It it touched his heart. When's the last time it touched your heart if there are people unsaved here in this community? And where missionaries might be going? Is your heart moved for those people? Secondly, the harvest is wasting. You know, the harvest is plenteous, but the laborers are few. We're the Reapers. There's an interesting pamphlet or article. It's called The Parable of the Orange Picker. Anybody ever seen that or read that before? Brilliant moving, moving thing. You should Google that online. The parable of the orange picker and read it. It's moving. And basically it says this, they this man drove to Orange County and he passed all these Orange trees and there's no laborers and it he gets there and uh they have this big party and harvest festival and uh this man picks the mayor of the town picks one orange and everybody applauds how great it is And then this man drives back and he sees all the fruit dying, wasting, because there's no labors But that's where we are in America right now. That's the problem with missionaries. They're coming back and we're limited on how many churches we can start because we've got to fill the role of those that are stepping out Where are the reapers? Where's the compassion? Where are the tears? Matthew 9 says that he was moved with compassion. Psalms says the Lord is gracious, full of compassion. 1 John, it says that vows of compassion for him. And Jude 1, you almost have this as your verse to remember, but just before that says in a sum have compassion. Of some have compassion. So we see the field is ripe to harvest, but there are not enough laborers, and we need more people and praying that God will raise them up, praying for these little children. I have these little cards that I'm going to get new ones made, but I have my sports car when I got saved and a little test for me on the back. And I give this to children, give it to young guys, and I say, now when you get ready to start a church, you contact me. We'll help you. I just want to put that thought in our mind. God has a plan for every person's life, and you ought to be praying. Praying that God will raise them up. Then finally, what do we do about it? That's the question. What do we do about this problem? How where are we headed when we don't have enough y young people in training today to fill the pulpits of those stepping down? Well, the one thing I know the Bible tells us to do is to pray. And we ought to pray honestly, sincerely. Lord, raise them up out of my family, raise them up out of my church. Lord, give us more young people trained and prepared for the mission field. BIMI is very, very close. I was on the board of BIMI for a number of years. And one of the leaders just told me this six or eight months ago. He said, we got plenty of money. We just need missionaries. And today people have plenty of money. But they don't have young people joining the ministry. That's great, it's great for a missionary. Yeah, we can get support, we can get money, but We don't have enough missionaries. And I think that's something we've got to address and I don't have all the answers, but I know the one thing we ought to be doing is praying individually, praying for young people. My mother told me an interesting story when I was very, very young. Actually the church was preaching the gospel where we went when I was very young. And There was a lady in the church and my I I don't remember. My mother told me this story. But I had to be very young, maybe three years old And this lady, Mrs. Smith, looked at me and she pointed her fingers and she said, You know, young man, God could use you. I don't remember that. My mother remembered it. You know, there was someone that was interested in praying. They've got to raise somebody up. I don't have time to go into it, but another just briefly reference My grandfather was praying that they would have a preacher in their family. They thought maybe my cousin would do it. He ended up in a rock band and that the whole different direction. But they thought there was no hope for me, didn't bother There's no way I would end up in the ministry. But he did pray. I was preaching at my wife's home church and a man came in the back I didn't know. And I finished the sermon. He came up to me and he said, your grandfather's really be proud of you today. I said, who are you? What made you say that? He said, well your grandfather's always praying that there'd be a preacher in his family. He thought your dad would be that one. He wasn't. He was a farmer. He worked at a wicked lumber yard My grandfather was praying, my grandma was praying if they have a preacher in their family. Do you think that mattered? Do you think that made a difference? I don't know, I'm a preacher. Not only that, we've got sa children there in the ministry, they've got grandchildren now in the ministry or studying for the ministry. Think God answered a prayer? I I all I can say is I know there are people in the ministry and I know they were praying specific for their family. Are you really willing to do that? Are you really willing to say, yeah, I want the best for my children? Whatever God wants, that's what I want. That's how we have to pray. And God will, if He doesn't want their ministry, He'll show them what their highest calling is and what they can do. But I can guarantee you one thing. He wants them committed and their life surrendered. You already we have two choices, we either give or go. That's what it comes down to. We either support those going the field, support the church, support the pastor, or we go and we lead the church and lead the missions. And God will show you which one it is if you're willing to do what He wants. Get a blank piece of paper. Say, all right, God, you fill it out. Let's pray. Father, we are thankful tonight for the privilege of being this great, wonderful church. We know your presence is here. And perhaps there's someone that this may be a help to. Perhaps there's someone that should surrender to the ministry. Should surrender to say, Lord, I'll do what you want. And maybe they don't know what that is, but they've never surrendered Maybe their parents that need to surrender their family, their children, their grandchildren. Say, Lord, I want your will done in their lives. If there's someone tonight that's here and is not saved, well that's what it's all about, that you might know the Lord and know Christ as your Savior. Heavenly Father, I pray now your blessing on invitation. Help us speak to our hearts now. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.