1 Peter chapter 3, verse 22, I'm going to try and give you as quickly as I can a few thoughts I have from this one verse, the last verse in chapter 3. How many were impressed with how I ended the message this morning? Very impressive, yes. And so we'll see what we can do tonight. Look at uh verse twenty-two says this who is speaking of Christ, the word who there, you come back up to verse eighteen, is is who that who refers to, for Christ also hath one suffered. Now we come down to 22. Who, Christ, is going into heaven And is on the right hand of God, angels and authorities and powers, be made subject unto him. Now this is what I want to try and do in a little bit of time we have. Where is Jesus Christ right now, and what is he doing? And Peter answers that question. Let's pray. Father, we ask you to bless now our time in your word. Sure been good to be in your house today. Thank you for blessing us. I pray your presence to be here again tonight. You'd speak to our hearts, encourage us, give us the boldness of men like Brother Andrew, and give us that faith and that burden. uh to reach our world with the gospel. I ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit, and I pray that you would speak through me, Lord. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. If we remember the context of of this verse here, number verse number twenty-two, and the whole context of the book really, uh Peter had been dealing with the matter of submission. How many people remember We worked our way down through that. Chapter two, verse thirteen, over to chapter three, verse thirteen. He's talking about submission to various authorities. that God places in our life. And of course, Jesus Christ, being the ultimate authority and the ultimate example of his submission to God the Father, and he uses that example to us, that we are to be submissive to the authorities God puts in our light. Then the second context, if you want to say, more recent as we work through here, is suffering. In chapter 3, verse 14, up through where we're at now, he's been talking about suffering, unjust suffering. Doing right, serving God, trying to uh uh live for the Lord, and yet people uh turning on us, persecution, all that. That's the context behind this And Peter in verse 22, I believe, gives us two bits of information that can help us when maybe we're struggling with this matter of submission to authority. Let's let's be honest. It's just us tonight. Uh let's be honest. How many folks here have ever struggled with this matter of being submissive to authority? Anyone at all? Yeah. How many right now no, don't uh Don't raise your hand right now. Yeah, we struggle with that. Why do we struggle with being submissive to authority? Because we have a what? Sinful nature. We like to be the one in charge. And so when we're struggling with this matter of being submissive to authority, or maybe we're struggling, we're suffering unjustly. Maybe we're trying to do right on the job or in the family, trying to live by faith and serve the Lord, and people are giving us a hard time, and maybe somebody loses their job because they of their faith Maybe somebody is cussed out or people hate you for no other reason than you're a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. I tell you, that was something that I had to learn to deal with early on in the ministry. When I took the title pastor, back as youth pastor and then pastor of a church, some people hated me for no other reason. Then I was a pastor. And that's the truth. Oh, you're a pastor church? And they immediately dislike you. They know nothing about me. They had interacted with me all, but the very fact that I was a pastor church, they disliked me Anybody ever have something like that or something along? Somebody just did you wrong for whatever reason? Anybody know what I'm talking about? And so when we experience that or we struggle with submission, I think verse 22. Comes in and can help us. And I'm thinking that Peter, of course, under the inspiration of God, but this is included here in that whole context, that whole subject he's dealing with, these two subjects He makes this statement. He tells us where Jesus is right now and uh what he's doing. And so let's look at it. Two bits of information. Number one, he tells us the location of our Lord and Savior. Look at verse 22. who is gone into where? Heaven. And then he says, is at the right hand of God. So there's two specifics about the location of the Lord Jesus Christ. One, he is in heaven. Now notice how he phrases that. He doesn't say who is in heaven He says who is what? Gone into heaven. I thought why in the world does he word it that way? Why does he say he's gone in there? Why do you just say oh he's in heaven? So I got looking up the word gone. Brother Mark was talking in teachers meet about definitions of words. So I looked up the word, how it's used, and background of it, and and uh the definition, and it has this idea, this is interesting Peter says, speaking of Christ, who is gone into heaven. That word gone has this idea to be taken over to Or to be transferred from one location to another. Anybody here ever have a job and they transferred you, you had to move, you got transferred somebody, anybody know what I'm talking about? If you're in the military, you get transferred all the time. In one location, and then you're moved over to another. What do you think Peter was talking about When he said that Christ is gone, transferred, moved, taken over to heaven. What event was he talking about there? The ascension of the Lord Jesus Christ, no doubt about it. He is referencing the fact that Jesus Christ was here on earth And he was transferred, he was ascended up into the into heaven in the very presence of God. 40 days after Jesus' resurrection, he spent 40 days here on earth after his resurrection in his glorified body, in his physical, human, glorified body, 40 days And then he's transferred to heaven. Take your Bible, if you would, keep your place here. Turn with me real quickly to Acts chapter 1 Acts chapter number one. Now there are various events in the Bible that I would love to have been a little birdie sitting on a branch observing it take place. However, I just thought of this. If I was a bird, my brain would be the size of a grain of rice and I wouldn't be able to comprehend what was happening, so that would be meaningless, right, Pastor Matt? So, but I would love to have viewed and witnessed that event. Anybody here have some events in your in the Bible you would love to have seen take place? Anybody? Uh the parting of the Dead Sea, wouldn't that have been something? Or uh how about the event of creation? Wouldn't that be awesome? See that. I would love to have seen what happens in Acts chapter 1. I want to begin reading in verse number 8. Here the Lord's given his final instructions to his disciples. He says, but ye shall receive power. After that the Holy Ghost has come upon you And ye shall be witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem and in Judea, and in all Judea, and in Samaria, and unto the othermost parts of the earth. So he gives his final instructions. Now he look what happens. And when he had spoken these words, I underline the next little phrase, while they beheld, he was what? Taken up, and a cloud received him out of their sight. He is gone into heaven. He is transformed. He is taken from this place and he has gone up into heaven. Now look how the disciples respond Verse ten, and while they look steadfastly toward heaven as he went up, uh that's probably an understatement there Uh how many people would be amazed? They're standing there talking to him, giving these instructions. Okay, the Lord's alive. I can't believe it. And here he is talking to us. And he gives these, okay, we're going to be witnesses. We're going to get power of the Holy Ghost And we're going to be witnessing, okay, okay, all of a sudden, how many people would be standing looking uh steadfastly up to heaven? Yeah That would be incredible. And look, and then uh uh two men stood by them in white apparel. Look what they said to them Which also said, ye men of Galilee, I love the way he says this. I just love it. Why stand ye gazing up in the heaven? Now I've mentioned this before, but picture in your mind, we're sitting there and we're watching this from afar off. Here you got these 11 disciples like this They're just gazing. What in the world? And the angel appears and says, what are you guys doing looking up into heaven? Uh the Lord just ascended. And he says, look what he says, this same Jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven, there's that gone into heaven. That's that phrase. Which is taken up from you into heaven. I love this next statement. Will what? So come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven. So the angel will give us a little information there. Jesus ascended up into heaven. They're standing there just amazed, just dumbfounded, what just took place. And then the angel appears and he says He doesn't just say Jesus, and oh, this Jesus, he's coming back again. He doesn't say that. He gives them some information. He says he shall return in what? In like manner as you have seen him go. Now this isn't the message, this isn't what Peter's talking about, but I want to stop here just for a second. Jesus Christ is coming back the same way he ascended. Now, how did he ascend? He ascended visibly. They saw him. Jesus Christ is going to come back visibly. Jehovah's Witnesses are wrong when they said Jesus came back invisibly to New York City back in 1914. They are wrong. When he comes back to earth, every eye will see him. Visibly, he ascended literally, he's coming back literally And he ascended physically and he's coming back physically. And so this is a tremendous event. And Peter says that Jesus Christ, come back here to Peter if you would, he says, who is gone into heaven. He's ascended into heaven. He is transferred, transported up into heaven. Peter witnessed this. Now he's recording this. He saw with his very eyes Now think about this. Peter saw with his very eyes that empty tomb. Remember the account? He ran there. He ran ahead of John, but then he got to the tomb and he stopped and waved it. Then John went in. Remember that? And uh uh he's there uh and he saw the empty tomb, he saw the garments. And then later on, Jesus appears, and he sees the resurrected, glorified body of our Lord Jesus Christ, and there he is. And he's not a spirit. He's a physical resurrected physically. He's got his body. He says, touch me, feel me, eat some fish, bread. He says, I'm not a spirit, a physical body. And then Peter is there in Acts chapter 1, and Peter is one of those standing there gazing as this takes place, an eye witness account. Of our Lord's ascension into heaven. How many people agree with me? An eyewitness account is a pretty strong account of something happening. I saw it with my eyes. I saw it. Actually, and I wish we had more time, but if you go over to 2 Peter chapter 1, he references the fact that he was an eyewitness to the resurrection of Christ. He was an eyewitness to the fact on the Mount of Transfiguration when the Lord spoke, this is my beloved son with whom I am well pleased. He was an eyewitness of all of that. He says, We were witnesses of that But then he makes this statement, and it's important. He says, however, in the Word of God we have a more sure word. Than even seeing it with our own eyes. You know what he's telling us? He says, I saw it. We saw it with our own eyes. This happened, I'm telling you. But what God has recorded in his word is even more reliable than our eyewitness account of what we saw take place. I'm telling you, nothing tops the authority and the reliability of the Word of God. Of the Word of God. You could possibly say, well, they saw it, but they misinterpreted what was happening. Hey, there's no misinterpreting what God says. He says it very clearly. And so the Lord is in heaven. Peter says, I saw it, we saw it with our eyes. It's recorded in Scripture. And by the way, we talked about this in the Bible Institute the other night. Jesus Christ is in heaven right now. in the very same physical body that he had while he walked here on earth. I mean right now there is a literal Physical body of the Lord Jesus Christ in heaven with the Lord. Jesus Christ was fully God. You understand that. Amen. Jesus is God. Amen. 100% God Jesus was also 100% man. Total man. Did you know he never gave up his humanity He is still 100% man in heaven right now as he was when he walked this earth. He never abandoned his humanity. He never abandoned his physical body that he was born with and lived and grew and developed. Ate fish and ate and walked on water. He still has that physical body. Now it's a glorified body at this point when he was resurrected, but it's still the same body uh uh flesh and bones uh there. So Jesus Christ is now in heaven with the same literal physical body he walked the earth with though it's glorified now. He never gave that up. Now I don't know about you, but that's a little encouraging that in heaven right now is a man The God man, but a man in heaven with God. And then he tells us the second specific about his location. One he says who is now in heaven, Then he gets a little bit more detailed about where in heaven is Jesus. Is he at the gates checking tickets when people show up? All right, you got your tickets? No. Where is he at? What's it say? What's it say in verse 22 there? He is where? At the right hand of God. Now that's significant. Um in ancient times, when there was a king, or there was a potentate, or there was a a sovereign, they would refer to the king sometimes. In ancient times If somebody was at the right hand of the king, that was a very significant position. That meant that they had the highest rank Of anybody in that kingdom, right up there with the king. They had the highest rank right with the king. It meant that they shared authority With that king. It meant that they had access and a relationship with the king that others did not have Can I suggest to you Jesus at the right hand of God the Father shares authority with God Almighty? He is equal with God. He has the highest rank of all beings Uh read Philippians chapter two. Again, if we had uh if we had more time, uh I think we ought to have three hour services personally, but uh I didn't get very much response on that one. Well But anyway, we could go to Philippians chapter 2, where it talks about Jesus Christ. God hath highly exalted him. And giving him a name that is above every name. That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow and tongue confess that he is Lord to the glory of God the Father. That's what he's talking about at the right hand of God. And there is a man, the man Christ Jesus, in heaven at the right hand of God Sharing authority with God. You say, preacher, Jesus is God. Jesus is 100% God, but don't ever forget He's 100% man also. And he stands there as the second Adam. He stands there as oh, well, I'm getting ahead of myself. So number one, he gives us this information. He's at the uh the location of the Lord Jesus Christ. He's in heaven, and he's at the right hand of God, and at the right hand of God, he's doing two things. Number one, he is our advocate 100% man, the second Adam, standing at the right hand of God, sharing authority, highest rank, intimate relationship And he is there as our advocate. Somebody talk to me. What is an advocate? Speaks on your behalf. You have these Uh PETA. Anybody here recognr uh familiar with PETA? People eating tasty animals. Um But these animal rights people and they say we're advocates for the innocent animals. Um listen, I'm all I think when it's cold out You ought to bring the animals in and warm them up right beside the potatoes and gravy and oh the I'm gonna get hate mail for that, but um But an advocate is someone who stands on behalf of someone else and represents them. You and I have a man in heaven when I blow it. When you blow it, we mess up. We got a perfect sinless human God, 100% God, but 100% man human standing on our behalf at the right hand of God to represent us and plead for us. Isn't that something? I like 1 John chapter 2 verse 1. If any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father. Even Jesus Christ the righteous. And he stands there. How many people have sinned today? No, don't raise your hand. We say something, we do something, and say, oh man, oh God And Jesus is up there in that glorified body, that physical human body, and he stands before God and says, God, I've paid for that sin. All right, here's my wounds. By the way, Revelation, his wounds are still there That sin's paid for. Here's the pierced side. It's paid for. Paid for. Thank God for an advocate at the right hand of God the Father. Amen. The one for him, you and I would never make it. We would never make it. So he's our advocate. Hebrews chapter 7. Again, I wish we had time. Hebrews chapter 7, 27-28 says that he is at the right hand of the Father. Says that he makes intercession for us. He stands there on our behalf, on our behalf. You say, preacher, I don't think I could I couldn't represent myself before God. I'm not- No, we don't have to. Jesus represents us for us The perfect second Adam fulfilled the law. So he's our saints' advocate, but at the right hand of the Father, but also he's mankind's judge He shares authority with God the Father. Did you know? Do you know the Bible clearly teaches that every man, woman that ever lived, ever has lived, is alive now, or ever will live, will have to stand before God in judgment. The unsaved at the great white throne, the saved at the judgment seat of Christ Do you know who it is that is the judge on that throne? It's Jesus Christ. You say it's God the Father. No. Listen to John chapter 19. John chapter 5, verse 22. Jesus said this. The Father hath committed all judgment to the Son. It's at the right hand of the Father So Peter writes, says, uh he's a thorn into heaven at the right hand of the Father. That's where he is. What's he doing up there? Well what he says his location, then come back here. And uh he says to him, Father, angels and authorities and powers being made subject unto him, that's his authority. His location in heaven, right hand of the Father. Now he has authority. All principalities, angels, authorities, powers are made subject unto him. I looked up that word subject. What it means it's made subject unto him. It means the place under another's authority. To be made to yield to the authority of judgment. I want to end with this. There is not a man on planet Earth Doesn't matter what his position is, a king, he can be the king of some Middle Eastern kingdom, he can be the president, the most powerful nation of the world. He can be a governor of a state. He can be a mayor of a city. There's not a man in any position on earth that is not under the authority of Jesus Christ. Not a man. When Jesus stood before Pilate, again I wish we had time. When Jesus stood before Pilate And Pilate says, uh, he asked him a question, and Jesus didn't answer him. I just read this the other night in my evening devotion. He says, um, he says, uh Answer thou me not? Knowest thou not who I am? Pilate saying this to Jesus Christ. Don't you knowest thou not that I have authority? Of life and death, I'm not quoting exactly right, but Jesus said this. You would have no authority were it not given to you by God above. I'm here to tell you, our God, our Savior, the man Christ Jesus, there is not a human being in any position that is not under the authority of Jesus Christ. You think about the corrupt leaders that are in the world and the power they have and the control they have over people. Don't ever forget there's a man at the right hand of God that they will one day answer to. God is the ult Jesus Christ, the ultimate authority. He is mankind's judge. He is mankind's judge. There's not a man on earth not under the authority of Jesus Christ. By the way, there's not a devil in hell that is not under the authority of Jesus Christ. Read Job chapter 1 and 2. Job is a is an unusual book. I like it. And a lot of dark things in there and struggles going through. But I love chapter one and verse two, where it shows that Satan has to get authority and permission from God before he can touch one of God's people. You say, oh, you don't, boy, the devil's working me over. You don't know what I'm going through. I'm here to tell you, God's allowing that. That means God's still in control and God can and will use that if I'll trust him to bring some good out of it. At the end of the book, Job says I heard of you, Lord. I knew I loved you. I heard all about you. But man alive, I've seen what you can do when you go through the darkest valley and how you can bring me through. He learned a tremendous lesson And Satan was subject to our God, our Savior. There's not a devil in hell. Peter's writing to these believers, and they're being persecuted, they're being suffering unjust. They're learning to be submissive to people who sometimes are difficult to be submissive to And he's saying, listen, you remember Jesus Christ is in heaven at the right hand of the Father, and he has all authority. This is what I wrote down in my conclusion. We must not allow the spiritual bullies of our day. To cloud the fact that Jesus Christ is still in charge. Wicked leaders Hateful Christ haters, people who are hateful and want to persecute the believers of God, they have a limited And temporal authority, but God is the ultimate authority. You follow what I'm trying to say? Jesus Christ is still King of Kings. He is still Lord of Lords. There may be somebody, some spiritual bully trying to lord it over you. They're giving us a hard time, and maybe they'll throw us in prison. They may take our wealth, they may take our possessions, they may physically uh beat us, they may take our lives. But I'm here to tell you, Jesus Christ is still in control, and he'll have the ultimate say. He'll have the ultimate say. Man's rebellion is limited and temporal. Man's persecution of God's people is limited and temporal. Satan's destruction and attempts to devour us is limited and temporal. And we can be bold and we can be confident and we can be courageous and we can be victorious knowing that whatever man does to me, I've got a God, I've got Jesus Christ at the right hand of the Father. And every power is subject unto him ultimately. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us. In this day, we were talking earlier, the spiritual warfare that's going on, and the and we see the dark clouds, I think, of persecution on the horizon and opposition To the gospel and the church of Christ. I pray you'd help us, Lord, to not lose heart. Help us, Lord, to not get fearful and cower. Lord help us, like Brother Andrew, to be bold in our faith and to be courageous in our witness and to trust you, who is the ultimate authority. of all mankind and all of all spiritual beings. Our heads abound, I suppose. How many would say, Preacher, I need to rem I need to remember, I I need to be bold, I need to be courageous in my witness and not think not look at what man can do But keep my eyes on Christ. Any like that? I need that. I need that. And that's what the world needs from the church right now. A bold, courageous, victorious church. Father bless our invitation. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.