Psalms 119. If you would notice verse number 11, our memory verse, and we quoted it at the beginning of the service. Pastor Matt read it a few moments ago, and I'd like for us to read it again together, if you would. Verse 11, Psalms 119. If you would, read it with me. Ready? Thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not sin against thee. And I just want to share you a few real quick thoughts about where to hide the Bible. Where to hide the Bible? Let's pray. Father, we pray now, in the little time we have, that you would take your word and the truths here, and I pray your Holy Spirit would apply it to each of our lives as you know we have need. God, I don't know the needs of everybody. I can't see the heart. I don't know the minds. But Lord, you do. And so I'm asking you now to take this passage and these thoughts, these principles And apply it to our lives as we need, as you know we need it. And help us on our end to be receptive and open. To your speaking to our heart, your leadership in our life, help us to make right decisions. And I pray you'd help us grow in our faith and be the people you intend for us to be. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We're giving We're given zero information about the background of Psalms 119. If you notice above verse number one, there's no title given there. There's no penman mentioned, and there's no context behind the writing of this chapter. The only thing we know about Psalm 119 is this. It's part of the Bible. It's part of Scripture, and it is authored by God. Whoever the penman was that wrote it down on those manuscripts many, many thousand years ago, whoever the penman was, we know this, God was the author. God was moving and breathing into their heart and minds what he would have to be penned down. I think most of us here that know the Lord as Savior understand the value of the Bible. This year our theme has been Standing on the Promises, and we emphasize the Bible. And we urge people to get back to the Bible. Read your Bible personally on a daily basis. Let God speak to your heart, feed your soul through the Word of God on a daily personal basis, and then read it together as a family. We've emphasized, encouraged family, what we call family altar. Or the family gathers together around the Word of God, read a passage of Scripture, pray to the Lord, maybe sing a hymn. We've emphasized this, getting back to the Bible and standing on the Word of God, standing on the promises. build our life according to the teachings, instructions of Scripture. And so I think we understand the value of the Bible. I think most of us here understand how important the Bible is In our personal lives, in our homes, and in our church. I put this down. It is impossible to neglect the Bible, God's word, and expect God's blessings If I want God's blessings on my life, then I need to pay attention to what he says to me in his word. I need to heed his word. I need to follow his instructions, heed his warnings, claim his promises. If I want God's blessing all my life, how many people here this morning, you want God to bless you? Say amen. Amen. Of course we do And so we cannot neglect the Word of God. It's vital for that. Again, it's impossible to neglect God's Word and experience the joy of the Lord. I want the joy of the Lord. Jesus says, my joy I give unto you. And we cannot neglect God's instructions, God's word, and experience the joy of the Lord. Now get this statement, please. It is impossible to reject God's word and avoid eternity in hell Did you get that? It's impossible to reject the Word of God, say no, I don't care what God says, I don't want what God says, I reject it. In rejecting the Word of God, I'm rejecting the Son of God, because the Son of God is the Word of God. And to reject the Word of God, to reject God's word to us, it makes it impossible to avoid eternity in hell. And this is not my message this morning, but I just want to say this. The reality of hell is one of the reasons we run these buses. Because there is a hell, and people die in their sins, are lost for all eternity in a horrific place called hell, ultimately the lake of fire. And the buses are a great tool that God has used to bring people to accept the Word of God and receive Christ as Savior and find eternal life The reality of hell. And we could just go down the list. Reality of hell is why we have a radio station. The reality of hell is why we have gospel tracts. And we've got Christmas gospel tracks back there The reality of hell is why we go out every week knocking on doors, Thursdays, Saturdays, Sunday afternoons, knocking on doors, trying to talk people about the Lord Jesus. So, what I'm saying is this: the importance of the Word of God. If I'm going to find eternal life, if I'm going to find forgiveness of my sins and salvation from hell and a new life in Christ I have to accept what the Bible tells me about Jesus Christ. The importance of the Word of God. By the way, that's why we assemble these scriptures and ship them off to the mission field. so people can be exposed to the Word of God and learn about the Lord Jesus Christ and find eternal life. Would you agree with me? The Bible's important. Vitally important. Vitally important. Now, what do we know about Psalm 119? We don't know who the penman is. We don't know what the context or background of it is. what it was, but there are some things we know about Psalm 119. First of all, it's the longest bo chapter in the Bible. Psalms 119, 176 verses. There's no other chapter in all of Scripture that has that many verses in it, it is about the same length as the book of Philippians. If you read the book of Philippians, that would be comparable to the Psalms 119 chapter, the book of James or the Book of Ruth. It is actually longer than some other books of the Bible. We're studying the book of Jude in Sunday school on Sunday mornings. By the way, you ought to get involved in Sunday school. I enjoy the Sunday school hour And the book of uh the chapter of Psalm 119 is longer than the book of Jude, longer than the book of Philemon and others. And so one thing we know about Psalm 119, it is the longest chapter in all the Bible. Number two, I put this down, we know what the subject of Psalms 119 is. So you just read it through, it becomes very obvious. The subject is the importance of the Word of God. Look with me, if you would, at verse number 72. It says, the law of thy mouth, that's the word of God. The penman speaking to God. Verse 72, the law of thy mouth, look at this, is better unto me than thousands of gold and silver. In other words, he's saying, I'd rather have the Bible than have great riches. If I had to make a choice between having the Word of God or having great, great riches, he said, I'll choose the Word of God. Now, I know many of you feel the same way I do, but my opinion, as far as I'm concerned, my Bible is the most precious possession I have I I I don't know of anything I have that I would be willing uh to sacrifice my Bible for. I want the Bible. Somebody said if you were stranded on an island and you could only have one book, what book would you have with you? I think I'd have a book on how to make boats. Then I could get off the island and get my Bible. Anyway. Nearly every reference in Psalms chapter 119 refers to the bot, neither every verse refers to the Word of God. There's eight, primarily eight terms throughout the book of, or throughout the chapter 119 that refers to the Word of God. Look in verse number one. The Bible is referred to as the law Blessed are the undefiled who walk in the uh blessed are the undefiled in the way, who walk in the law of the Lord. That's talking about all the commandments, not just ten. all the instructions in Scripture. So he's the law is i is the term used. In verse number two, the Bible is referred to as the testimonies of the Lord. Number verse 4, the precepts is a term used. Verse 5, the statutes, and we don't have time to study what these words mean this morning, maybe another time. The commandments in verse number 6 Verse 7, judgments of God. Verse number 9, the word is a term used to refer to the Bible. And then over in verse number 91, it says, refers to the Bible as the ordinances of God. So the whole chapter is emphasizing the importance of the Word of God in the life of the believer. In the people of God. By the way, the Bible is vitally important, not just in my personal life, not just in my home, but it's important in our church. Any church that neglects the teaching and the preaching of the Bible, any church that pushes the Bible teaching out of it, is making a terrible, terrible mistake. And we see the consequences of that all across our land. So the importance of the Bible. How many people here recognize this name, Brother Billy Foster? If you've been around here long, you remember old brother Billy Foster. He attended here a little bit for a while, and then he went out and and uh took the King James Bible Church just outside Ter Alda back in the back there And was there for many years. Old Billy Foster is one of the most godly, most humble men I've ever known. He's with the Lord now a number of years. Billy Foster was a blessing to me We did a campaign while he was attending here for a while. We did a campaign on memorizing scripture. And we'd recognize, we'd sign one year, we were going to memorize Psalms 119. The whole thing. And I'll never forget Brother Billy Foster walked in the back there, and he started off, verse number one Blessed are the undefiled in the way who walk in the law of the Lord Blessed are they that keep his testimonies that seek him with the whole heart. And he just went down 176 verses. Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. I mean didn't even stop to hesitate. Just Rattled it off. I tell you that's quite an achievement. Maybe that would be something to challenge. Somebody, memorize Psalm 119. The emphasis, the importance on the Word of God. Another thing we know about Psalm 119, I want to go quickly here, is it's an acrostic Psalm. By that I mean this. It's made up of 22 stanzas or sections. If you look at it, each of those sections is eight verses long. We read the second one this morning. Pastor Matt read the second one Each of those stanzas or sections in the Hebrew, which our English is translated from, each verse in that stanza begins with one of the Hebrew letters of the alphabet. For instance, the first eight verses, if you'll notice above verse number one, it says Aleph. That is the Hebrew, first Hebrew letter, what we would understand to be letter A. Then the next eight stanza would be B, C, D, all the way down through there, 22 letters in the Hebrew alphabet. And each verse in that stanza in the Hebrew begins with the letter of that stanza. It's a brilliant piece of literature. Now we do not know who the penman was. We made that clear. We don't know We can't decipher from the context who it is. However, I did come across this. There is a Jewish tradition, an old Jewish tradition. That suggests that David was actually the penman of the book of the chapter Psalm 119, chapter Psalm 119. And the tradition says that he used it, he penned it this way, deliberately, in this fashion, with the letters so that he could teach Solomon the letters of the Hebrew alphabet. And it was actually, according to this legend, this tradition, It was actually used of David as a uh educational tool to teach Solomon the Hebrew alphabet. Now whether that's true or not, we have no way of knowing. It's very feasible, it's very possible. that that's happened. I think it's a good idea to use the Bible as the basis for our children's education. Did you know that in America there was a day when the Bible was the basis of our children's education? Did you know that you can still, in 2024, 2025, you can get curriculum and teach your children at home with a curriculum that the Bible is the basis of their education? And I say, Amen to that. So whether that's the case or not, we do not know. And the last thing we know about Psalm 119 is that it is a prayer. Whoever the penman was, if perhaps it was David, it is a prayer to God. It's recorded by inspiration. Of course, God led in all of this But he is praising God for his word. He is thanking his God for the word of God. When is the last time You lifted your voice up to God, your Creator, and said, Thank you for giving me the Bible. We ought to be grateful for the Word of God. And so it's a praise to God for the Word of God. It is a proclamation. He's proclaiming the importance of God's word. Whoever the penman is, he wanted to pray, he prayed, and he's praying that everybody would be able to have access to the Word of God. He's praying that everybody would understand the importance of the Word of God. He is proclaiming to the world that the Word of God is vitally important. This world needs the Word of God We've got to do everything we can to publish and distribute the Word of God in our own community, in our nation, and around the world. Distribute the Word of God. And Psalm 119 is a prayer plea for his own understanding of the Word of God. Verse number 18, he says this, in this prayer, he says, Open now mine eyes. Speaking to God, open thou mine eyes that I may behold wondrous things out of thy law. Anybody here ever read something in the Bible? And you couldn't make head nor tail out of that Anybody here know you read it and say, I don't understand what he's saying here. Can I get a witness? Anybody at all? Yeah. You know what we can do? We can come to the author and say, God, would you help me understand this? God, would you open my eyes so that I can see what you're trying to tell me here? Now sometimes God will explain it to us. Maybe later on down the road we get older in our faith and we get more exposed to the word of God and then it makes sense. But what I'm trying to say is this, if we'll ask God sincerely to teach us and lead us from His Word, He will do it. He will do it. I think it's a wonderful thing. Every morning, come the Word of God, say, God, open my eyes that I can see what you have for me. Give me instructions for today. Lead me in my life. Help me to live for you and serve you. What a great chapter, Psalm chapter 119 is. Now, verse 11, and I've just got a few minutes here, verse 11 tells us where to hide God's word. Thy word have I hid in my what? In my heart. Hide it in my heart. I got looking up that word hide. Thy word have I hid, I should say. Thy word have I hid. I looked up that word hid And it means this. You know what it means to hide something. Just cover it up so nobody can see it, nobody can find it. But this has the idea. There's a little bit more to the word that it's translated from. It has this idea. to have something of great value and secure it in a hidden place. You follow what I'm saying? In other words, I believe the psalmist here, under the inspiration of God, is saying this. I have the Word of God, it's of incredible value. It's so important in my life. It's important to me. And I'm going to hide it, I'm going to secure it in a place where nobody can ever take it away from me. Hide it. Treasure it. Now where in the world can I hide the Bible where nobody could take it away from me? If I have my Bible right here, somebody could rob me on the way home, walking a hundred yards over, and uh you never know. And uh and they say, give me your Bible, uh, and they steal my Bible from me But I can hide my Bible somewhere that nobody could ever take it away from me. And he tells us where to hide our Bible. Where? In my heart. in my heart. In other words, I ought to apply myself to this book and ingest it to absorb it into my heart and mind, to take it in through memory and exposure and Living it out and make it part of me. And nobody, listen, I'm here to tell you, nobody can take that away from us. The word of God in my heart. The word of God in my heart. It's better to I put this down like this. To have God's word in my heart is better than having God's word on my shelf. I wonder how many folks go home from church, and I'm sure nobody here would do this, but I wonder how many folks go home from church, take their Bible, and set it on the coffee table, put it up on the shelf, and that's where it sets till next Sunday. And get it. I'm telling you, the word of God in your heart's far better than the word of God setting on a shelf. I had a fellow I worked at the meat pack and plant. Rough crowd, I'll tell you, rough crowd. There's a fellow there named Kevin. I got saved and I got witnessing to these guys and telling them what God. And so I got a bunch of these little you how many people ever saw those little Gideon Bibles? You know what I'm talking about? I mean little microscopic things. And they're great. So I had a bunch of them and I was giving them out. About five, six months went by, and uh old Kevin, I mean, uh that whole crowd was rough. I was part of it before I got saved. I mean, just wicked lifestyle, wicked And one day we got talking, I got talking to Kevin about the Lord a little bit, and he went like this. I said, you alright? He goes, I got it right here. I thought, what's he got there? And um he reached back and he pulled that little Idea in the Bible out. He said, I got it right here. I said, Well good. He goes, I take it everywhere I go. Bars, nightclubs, drinking. Take it everywhere I go. I said, Kevin, that's great. I'm glad you do. But what you need to do is you need to read it and apply what it says to your life. You need to believe what it says and act upon what it says. You need the Lord as your Savior. He goes, Oh, I got it right here. Listen, the Bible in your heart is a whole lot better than the Bible in your pocket. Letting it affect me, letting it uh uh guide me and lead me and direct me in my life. The place that I hide God's word is in my heart Now think with me about the importance of the heart. The importance of the heart. Over a thousand times the Bible refers to the heart of man. Now, when the Bible refers to the heart of man, it's not talking about that muscle that pumps our blood. It's talking about our command center. Of all that I am, my heart and my mind. The word heart, by the way, in Psalm 119 is referenced twelve times He references the heart of man, the importance of my heart. I want to suggest to you the most important aspect of my being. Who and what I am, who and what you are. The most important part is your heart. Your heart Just like the heart is important in the physical makeup, in the spiritual makeup, our emotional well-being, our mental well-being, our spiritual well-being, the heart Is the core, the most important aspect of all of us. The heart controls my emotions. My heart controls my will, my thinking. The kind of heart I have determines the kind of person I am. The condition of my heart determines my values. My priorities, my perspective on life and my perspective on the world is all determined by the condition of my heart. Proverbs 423 says, Keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. My heart determines my life, my attitude, my thinking, my values. Again, Proverbs 23, verse 7 says, As he thinketh, In his heart, so is he. You have somebody that's a liar. You know why they're a liar? Because they have a deceitful heart. Somebody's selfish. Oh, it's about me. It's all about me. And me, me, me, me, me, me, mine, mine, me, me. You know why? Because they have a selfish what? Heart. Heart. The importance of the heart. I want you to think about the influence of my heart. Did you ever hear somebody say this? Well Just follow your heart. Anybody ever hear that? Can I suggest to you that's terrible advice? Terrible advice. The Bible says in Jeremiah 17:9 that our heart, now get this Think how important it is. It determines what I am, how I think, the way my values. But God tells us in Jeremiah 17, 9 that the heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. That's not a pretty picture. Proverbs 28 and verse 26 says, He that trusteth in his heart is a fool. Would you agree with me? Strong language. God says, if I trust my heart, if I follow my heart, that deceitful, desperately wicked thing that controls what I am, if I follow that, if I let that have its way I'm a fool. I'm a fool. That's what God says. The influence of the heart Proverbs 23, 6 says, God says to us, Give me thine heart. Give me thine heart. Proverbs is Solomon writing to his son. He's giving him advice. He's giving him wisdom. And much of Proverbs is Solomon speaking on behalf of God. Again, under the inspiration of God. But he's speaking on the behalf of God, and he says, My son, give me thine heart. And God looks down at all of mankind, us as individuals, and he says, Give me your heart. Give me your heart, that which controls you, that which is so corrupt, so evil from the fall of man, you take that wicked, desperately wicked, deceitful heart of yours that You cannot trust, you cannot let it lead you. And you take and you give it to me. You give it to me. You know what God will do? We give him our heart, our command center, our control center. You know what he'll do? He'll give us a new heart. Jeremiah says, I'll take your heart of stone, and I'll give you a heart of flesh, tender, soft, that I can lead and direct. And uh and control your life. He said, How do I give my heart to God? Well Romans chapter 10, verse 9 and 10 tells us that if we confess with our mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in thine Heart that God hath raised them from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Salvation is a matter of the heart. Too much religion in our world teaches that there's some outward thing I do, and then God, then I'll be acceptable to God. If I get baptized, then I'll be acceptable to God. If I give money, if I take the Eucharist, if I uh do my last rites if I do these seven pillars of Islam if I do this and don't do that and perform this and perform that and go here and give this and do that Then I'll be acceptable to God. And I'm here to tell you, all of that is a lie of the devil. There's nothing I can do outwardly to make me acceptable to God. I need to come to Him with my heart. And believe that when he died on that cross, he was dying for me. And that when he was buried, he was buried as if I had died and was buried. And he rose again for me. From my heart, I believe that's true. I put my faith and trust. Romans 10:13 says, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord, I just say, Lord, my old sinful heart It's messed me up. I've done so wrong. And Lord, I come to you, and from my own sinful heart, I believe that what you did for me That you died and suffered hell for me and rose again. And I'm trusting you. And God says He'll give me a new heart. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature, a whole new life. Now I'm talking a lot of people know exactly what I'm talking about. I was 19 years old. I'm telling you, sorry, wretch, you heard me say. And I called on the Lord. Jesus Christ came into my heart and life. He gave me a new heart. He gave me a new life. And my life has never been the same. 45 and a half years later, and my life has never been the same. I every more I cannot get over what God has done for me when I trusted Jesus Christ, my personal Savior. And there's people all across the auditorium say the same thing. Say the same thing. The influence of our heart, it's corrupt, it's sinful, it's deceitful, it's desperately weak. You know why you lie? Because you got a dishonest heart You know why you lust is because you got a lustful heart. And we can bring that to God. And that heart influences us. Whatever controls my heart controls my life. If left to itself, my heart will lead me wrong every time. But under the control of the Lord Jesus Christ. Under his control, with him on the throne of my heart, dictating and controlling me as my Lord, my Savior. I yield to him and he'll lead me. I'm telling you, Jesus Christ will lead you right every single time. There's people all across here who would say amen to this statement. I have never regretted trusting the Lord. I have never regretted letting the Lord Jesus Christ have his way in my life. I have a heap of grats When I did things my way. When I did what I thought and said what I thought and went where I thought, and I tell you, I gotta learn to die to self and let the Lord control my heart. Amen? Amen. The importance of the heart is what we are, the influence of heart, and let me end with this. The insulation of the heart. That brings us back to our text. Thy word have I hid in my heart. Why would you do that? That I might not sin against thee. That I might not sin against thee. I tell you, we do not realize the devastation of sin. In my life and in your life, sin is the worst thing that I can allow in my life. Sin. Anything outside the will of God, anything outside of the perimeters that the Bible gives me of how I'm designed to live and function and behave and think. Anything outside God's perimeter is sin. And whenever I live out there, out of the will of God, it has devastating consequences. You don't believe me? Have you been paying attention to what's happening in our world? It's sin. The greatest threat to mankind is not COVID, is not bird flu, is not monkeypox. The greatest threat to mankind is the sinfulness that comes out of our own natural rotten hearts. That's where it all comes from. It's where it all comes from. And so I need to insulate this heart. Again, Proverbs, Psalms 139, verse 23. This is David. He says, This: Search me, O God, and know my heart. He's saying, God, if there's something in my heart, if there's something that's influencing me from my heart, if it is leading me, God show me. God help me to know that. About once a month we have Lord's Supper. I think it is a very, very important ordinance of the local church. We take Lord's Supper, we're told very clearly, very emphatically by God not to come flippantly. But to come humbly, repentant. And we take part of that memorial of Jesus br giving his body and shedding his blood for you and I We're to come very humbly, repentantly. And the way we do that is we, and we do this every time, every time. We stop and say, Lord, search my heart. Show me where I'm wrong. Show me what's out of line. And then we confess that and we come and say, Lord, you're right. This is wrong. It has no right place. I judge it as God judges it. And the blood of Jesus Christ his son cleanses us from all sin. And so I need to insulate that heart from letting sin have its way in my life. And the way I do that, Psalm 119. 11 says, it's by hiding God's word in my heart. I keep my heart open to the Lord. God, show me. Teach me. I want your word in my heart so that I can know the right thing to do and the right way to go, the right way to behave. I think we need to saturate our heart with the Word of God, memorizing, reading, sitting under the teaching and preaching of the Word of God. Hide the truths of God's word deep, deep in our heart and mind. I love the bus ministry. I love all our ministry. I love them all. But I tell you, there's something about a ministry, our Sunday school hour, bus ministry, anything, master clubs, all these various children's ministry. I tell you what I especially appreciate about them. Is our workers, and I believe under the leadership of the Holy Spirit, are taking the Word of God, and we're helping these teenagers. We're helping these children that you saw up here and downstairs. We're helping them put God's word in their heart And I am absolutely confident that when the Word of God is hidden in the heart of these young people, somewhere down the road, that's going to bear fruit. That's going to come back. Anyone remember the name Michael Stubler? I mean, we talk around here about like he's the Moses or something. But I tell you, he's an extraordinary man. He was an extraordinary Christian. He told me one time, he was saved, he was probably early 40s, I think, when he got saved. Right around there, 40, 42, 3, somewhere in there. He told me and I and it was just out of the blue, living in sin, just rocking and rolling and rapping and I don't know what other kind of music and drinking and carrying on. And he got saved. God changed his life. And we're all amazed, and I'm working with him. He's such a blessing. He's winning souls. One day we were talking. He said, brother, he said, Pastor, did you know? Now when I was a little ten-year-old kid in Baltimore, a Sunday school bus would come by our street and pick me up and I'd run the bus, ride that bus. They taught me about the Lord Jesus and they taught me the Bible And 30 plus years later, that seed that was down inside his heart and soul came alive. He came to trust Christ as Savior. Isn't that something? And you and I as believers, we have memory verse every month. We don't do that just to fill time or something to get a candy bar. Why? Because we've got to get God's word in our heart. It'll help us live for the Lord. God can use that to lead us and direct us in our life The Word of God, the Word of God, the Word of God. Most precious thing that we own, whether we realize it or not, most precious thing these young people here have, whether they realize it or not, is that Word of God they have sitting right beside them What you have in your lap and what I have, the Word of God. Let's heat it. Let's absorb it. Let's follow its instructions, claim its promises, heed its warnings, follow its examples, and hide God's word in our heart. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask I pray you would help us to hide your word in our hearts. In Jesus' name with our heads bowed eyes