Faith of our fathers. I want you to see in 1 Timothy chapter number 1. 1 Timothy chapter number 1 By the way, you're wide awake when I tell the story. Don't you dare doze off now. If I see you dozing, I'm just going to stop and I'm going to say, okay, I want to look at the person next to you and slap them And by the way, I will say it, I will, but don't you doze off. Don't you doze off. First Timothy chapter number or excuse me, second Timothy chapter number one. Second Timothy chapter number one Yeah, don't slap the adult next to you. Don't do that. Second Timothy chapter number one. I want you to look at this passage of scripture. And I pose to you this rhetorical question, because we don't answer rhetorical questions. Where would you be? Where would you be if it weren't for the influences in your life? Where would you be? Look at First Timothy, or 2 Timothy chapter number 1, starting in verse number 1. 2 Timothy all the way back to the end of the Bible. Find Revelation. Go back about four books and you'll find five books you'll find 1 Timothy, 2 Timothy. 2 Timothy chapter number 1, look at verse 1. The Bible says this, Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God. We talked about that earlier too. I love that. According to the promise of the life of life which is in Christ Jesus. 2 Timothy. So who's this letter written to? Let me read verse 2. You guys help me out. You're the smart teenager. I've been working with teenagers for a long time. I'm not real smart. So you guys help teach me here tonight, okay? You're the smart teenager, right? Right? Yes, you are. Yes, you are. Verse number two is the answer. Verse number two is the answer. Who is this letter written to? Verse number two. Timothy. See, you guys are the smart ones. Timothy It's also the title of the book, Timothy. So this letter was written by who? Oh I tricked you. The letter was written by who? Paul. Paul. To whom? Timothy. To Timothy. Okay, so Paul writes this letter, this book, by inspiration of the Holy Spirit of God. He writes this book to Timothy. And he says, this: to Timothy, my dearly beloved son. But this isn't Timothy, this isn't Paul's son. He's not his blood child. Paul Paul wasn't, he he hadn't, as far as we know, according to the word of God, he didn't have any children. But here he's writing this letter and he calls this young man his son. Hold on. He says to Timothy, my deal with one of the son, grace, mercy, and peace from God our Father and Lord Jesus and Jesus Christ or Christ Jesus our Lord. Verse 3, I thank God whom I serve from my forefathers with pure conscience. That without ceasing I have remembrance of thee in my prayers night and day, greatly desiring to see thee. Being mindful of thy tears, that I may be filled with joy. When I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee, Which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and in thy mother Eunice. He says, I and And I am persuaded that in thee also. Wherefore I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God, which is in thee, by the putting on of my hands For God hath not given us the spirit of fear, but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind. Here in this, most people say just the introduction to the book of 1 Timothy or 2 Timothy. Paul writing a letter to Timothy, his son, we would say his son in the faith. A young man who Paul had the opportunity of sharing the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ with. Say, oh, Brother Kurt, what are you talking about? I'm talking about, I put down in my notes number one, verse number two, that Paul, he pointed Timothy to salvation. Paul was instrumental in pointing Timothy to salvation. Here in this passage of Scripture, Paul's writing this letter to Timothy, and he says, Hey Timothy, you're my son in the faith. He said, You know Jesus Christ. Because of some influences in your life. There's some people, Paul or Timothy, who were along in your life who helped share with you the good news of Jesus Christ Hey Timothy, you're on your way to heaven. Stop and think about this. You're on your way to heaven now. You will no longer burn in a place called hell. Why? Because some people cared enough to share Jesus with you. And I look at this passage of scripture. Obviously, Paul A man who God used in a great way to share the gospel with so many people. And we learn in the Bible that he shared the gospel with a young man named Timothy And Timothy's on his way to heaven because of the influence of a man named Paul in his life. But not just Paul. There was also some other influences in his life. Did you read it? Who were the other who were the other influences in Timothy's life? His grandma and His mom. Those are the two, Eunice and Lewis. Those two were the ones listed in the Word of God. That God used the omen to help share Jesus Christ. With a young man who was going to burn in a place called hell. Hold on. Timothy, we believe, because the Bible indicates, Timothy put his trust in Jesus Christ. Where is Timothy today in 2022? Where is he? Go ahead, you can talk to me. I love it when you talk to me. Heaven. He's in heaven. How'd he get there? Well yeah, that makes sense. Kimmy is in heaven today. Here's the reason why he's in heaven. Because he put his faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Hey, is Timothy in heaven because he got dunk in the baptistry? About three of you voted there. Is Timothy in heaven because he got dunked in the baptistry? No! No, there you go. Thank you. Is Timothy in heaven because he was a member of his good local church? No! Was Timothy in heaven because he was nice to his mom and mom and grandma? No. No. Timothy's in heaven because someone pointed him to Jesus. God used Paul and God used Lois and God used Eunice. Three very influent hold on three very influential people in his life And today, Timothy's in a place called heaven because other people cared enough to point him to Jesus. Hey, can I ask you a question? Who pointed you to Jesus? Oh, just think about it for a minute. Who pointed you to Jesus? I was a young man sitting in that small Christian school, that that church, Emmanuel Baptist Church in Matsune, Illinois, Pastor Norm Amsutz. I remember it was a Wednesday night, January 11, 1982. I know I'm old. Thank you for pointing that out earlier. I was sitting on the third row back, Brother Danny, right where you're sitting. The church, that church, really the church I was in may have been as big as this section and not all the way back. Not a big church. Was a Wednesday night service. I got to church because Pastor Amstutz and his family pulled into the Rhythm and Roll Skate Center. My parents owned a roll skating ring. pulled into the skate center and and and I came running out the front doors of the Rhythm and Roll Skate Center out onto the gravel parking lot in in Matt Toon, Illinois. And he pulled in the parking lot, he and his family, and I jumped in the car with my best friend Tory, his son And we rode to church. I went to church because they stopped by and picked me up. I remember sitting in that church service on that Wednesday night, getting this, sitting in the on the third row back by myself, no family members there Uh my my parents weren't there? My three brothers with girls' names, they weren't there? Just me. And I remember sitting there on that Wednesday night service, the entire service thinking, hey, if I die tonight, I'm going to spend eternity in a place called hell. That's 10 years old. Say, Brother Kurt, really, you were thinking that? Literally, all I could think about was spending eternity in a place called hell. By the way, hell is not a cuss word, hell is a literal place. Hell's a place where people right now today are burning right now. People we read about in the Bible who who rejected Christ. That rich man who who God had a conversation with him in the place called hell. God had a conversation with him. Guess where he is in 2022? Still burned in a place called hell. Now I remember as a 10-year-old boy sitting there in my seat thinking, where am I going to go? I'm going to spend eternity in a place called hell. I didn't want to die and go to hell. I remember sitting there during that service, I can't remember a thing. Pastor Amstet preached that Wednesday night. Probably won't be much different than today. Tonight with me preaching to you. You won't remember a thing I said. But I remember sitting there thinking this, I don't want to die and go to hell I don't want to die and go to hell. I don't want to die and go to hell. I remember sitting there in my seat thinking that and Pastor finished preaching, as soon as he finished preaching, it was Wednesday night. But brother Leatherman, there were 14 total people in that service that night. 14 total. Eight of them had the last name Amstutz. The big church I remember he didn't give an invitation on Wednesday nights. Because really it was just a small group of people. I mean, it w it was like family. But this Wednesday night he finished preaching and he came and he stood right in front of the Lord's Supper table. He said this, he's holding his Bible in his hand. He said, folks, I don't I don't know why. But tonight I feel like God wants me to give an invitation. And it was like the Holy Spirit of God smacked me in the back of the head. Said, Copeland, this is for you. Trust me tonight. And I remember sitting there in my seat. He had us all stand. I was scared to death. I didn't want I was the church brat I got called down in every service. I would do something to annoy or something to distract. I learned that if you do the itsy bitsy spider, you know the itsy bitsy spider, you know that I I've told some of you this, some of y'all know this. I can take it, split it apart, crack it against my head, and it made a bunch of noise. You all here last year you heard somehow I'm surprised y'all weren't doing that already. I I I would do that just to distract, just to be annoying. I'd get called down in services. When I stepped out of that seat, I was I I thought for sure I was gonna okay, y'all just stop cracking your knuckles now. I I I I thought for sure, you know, if I come forward pastor's gonna you know he's gonna kick me out of the church. Why am I going forward? I didn't want to go forward, tears coming down my cheeks. I remember he was standing there and I stepped out of my seat and I walked forward and I shook his hand. He looked at me and said, Kurt, what'd you come forward for? I just simply said this. I said, Pastor, I don't want to die and go to hell. I want to die and go to hell. He took me up the two steps just like this. And there was a seat right up here, just like this bench. And we knelt there at the seat. He opened his Bible and he showed me from the Word of God what it means to be a Christian. Look at me, teenager. I didn't want to die and go to hell. I'm thankful! I'm thankful for Norm Amstet! My pastor Who took the time to care about me? An influence. Look at me. An influence in my life. Someone who cared enough to share Jesus. A man named Jim Preston, one of my other pastors. Who took the time to open the Bible and share with me the good news of the Word of God out of the Bible? I'm thankful for people in my life I'm thankful for Bob Kelly, who was my pastor, who opened the Bible and taught me the Bible and showed me the good news of Jesus Christ. I'm thankful for Tom Wallace, for Mike Norris for my pastor now Blake Siles who opens the Bible and shares with me about Jesus who told me that I was a sinner Who that my sin, that my sin needed to be punished. But that Jesus Christ paid my sin debt. All I had to do is put my faith and trust in him. I'm thankful for the influences in my life that pointed me to Jesus. I look in this passage of Scripture. I want you to see, I'm not just making this up, I'm not just giving you just giving you thoughts. I want you to see the Bible. Verse number two. The Bible says 2 Timothy. Here's Paul, and he's making an influence of this young man, Timothy. 2 Timothy, my dear beloved son. Look down at verse number 5. When I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee. Hey, hey, here's a man named Paul who made an influence. In someone else's life, who made an impact in someone else's life, who pointed someone else to Jesus? Who's influenced you? Who is it in your life that's come to you in your life that's influenced you and pointed you to salvation? Hey, teenager, can I challenge you tonight? Why don't you take the time tonight? Or tomorrow when you get home. To go to that person that pointed you to salvation. Tell them thank you. See, I'm standing here today because faith of our fathers, someone pointed someone to Jesus. And someone pointed someone else to Jesus. And they pointed someone else to Jesus. And they pointed someone else to Jesus. All throughout their 2,000 years of human uh since Jesus Christ came here. Someone's been pointing others to Jesus. And I'm a product of someone pointing others to Jesus. I'm so thankful. Paul was that to Timothy. Number one, he pointed him to salvation. Number two, he taught him about his purpose in life Number one, he pointed him to salvation. Number two, he gave him a purpose in life. Look at verse number one: Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, by the will of God. According to the promise of life, which is in Christ Jesus. Talk about the will of God, verse number three. I thank God whom I serve. from my forefathers with a pure conscience. You know what Paul's saying here? Paul's saying this. He's saying, I've got a job to do in my life. I want to point people to Jesus. Number two, I want people to understand there's a purpose in life. And really it's already been discussed tonight. Brother Danny nailed it. We've got a purpose in life. God has a plan. Hey, teenager, look at me. God has a plan for your life. Say, yeah, Brother Kirk, God's plan for my life is I'm going to make a million. Before I'm 30, I'm going to be a millionaire. By the way, that may be God's plan for your life. And if it is, praise God for it. Make sure you're faithful to church. Make sure you tithe. Amen. Brother Kurt, God wants me to be a mechanic. Great! If that's God's purpose in your life, great! Brother Kurt, God wants me to be a plumber. Great! Wear a belt, please. God wants me to be a plumber. Great! Be a plumber. Do whatever it is God wants you to do in your life. I I like what you said the other day. The will of God's not a place, it's a it's a process. It's what God's doing today in my life. God has a purpose in your life. Hey teenager, look at me. God has a purpose in your life. God has a plan for you to do. Girls, you know this? God already knows who you're supposed to marry. That's pretty awesome. Wouldn't you like to know? You don't want to know who you're gonna marry? No? No? How how many girls would say I I'd like to go ahead and know who I'm supposed to marry? How many couple of you raising your hand? Hey, can I tell you the truth is? If you knew you'd probably say, No! No way! We love to ask couples. My wife and I do a lot of couples retreats. We love to ask couples. Was it love at first sight? Brother Matt, was it love at first sight for you, Ms. Courtney? It was for you Was it n no? Not really. We asked this one couple. He grew on you, right? He grew on ya No. My wife, my it was it by the way, we asked we it Brother Danny, was it love at first sight? Was it for you? It grew eager on you too. Oh, so there was a reason why you're like, ew Yeah, get away from me. You're plagued. The truth is is we we And I forgot what I was even saying. We loved to ask these couples if it was love at first sight. We asked this one little pastor and pastor's wife, was it love at first sight? And uh he was like, he just smiled real big and she said, I hope not. He was a senior in high school and she was in third grade. Better not have been in love at first sight. You go to jail for a long time Sorry. Sorry now. You go back up here and figure out where I was at. Hey, God has a purpose in your life. Hey, hey, young man, God knows what occupation you're going to have someday. I'm as serious as the heart attack in a fat man in a candy race on this. Please listen. God has a plan for your life. God has a plan for your life Hey, there's not one young person in this auditorium. There's not one older person in this auditorium either that God does not have a plan for your life. God knows what he wants you to do. Here in this passage of Scripture, Paul looked at Timothe and said, Hey Timothy, I'm doing God's will for my life right now. You know what he's telling Timothy? God has a will for your life too. I'm serving Jesus Christ with my life right now. In Timothy, you need to serve Jesus Christ with your life right now as well. God has a purpose and a plan. Hey, you sit here and you say, Brother Kurt, I'm in seventh grade. I I you know I I I I I'm still like, you know, digging for treasure in my nose and my pinky because it's fun to do. No one knows I do it, but I just do it anyway. No, they know. I love it giving invitations. You got that seventh seventh grade. I'm just picking on the guys. So girls, I know you wouldn't do anything like this. But seventh grade guy, eighth grade guy, invitation, every head bowed, every eye clothes, you know how we do it. And which is kind of kind of spooky, you know. We we we get you all tired and then we say, bow your head and close your eyes. You're like, oh, oh thank you. Finally I can sleep And there's always there's always those those it's usually a junior high guy, usually. And they're always you know they bow their head and close their eyes and they're like this. Like no one knows that they're looking Or they have their eyes closed because they said, Bow your head, close your eyes, and they are digging for gold. I mean they're like digging away and digging and then they Dig some more. Or put it in their mouth or something. Hey, can I tell you it's seventh grader? God has a plan for your life. Hey, senior, God has a plan for your life. Romans chapter 12, verses 1 and 2. I beseech you therefore, brethren. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God that you present Your body, a living sacrifice. Holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. Be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. That ye may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect. What's the next words? Will of God. How do I know what God wants me to do? Every day you present yourself. Every day you present yourself. My favorite verse in all the Bible. It's my life verse. Isaiah chapter 6 and verse 8. The Bible says this: And I heard the voice of the Lord saying, Whom shall I send? And who will go for us? God asking Isaiah the question, Isaiah answers, then said I Hear am I, send me. By the way, when I read that verse, I don't read it like that. I read it, Brother Aaron, for me that verse is this. Oh oh oh Pick me you you don't you ever you ever been in class and and the teacher asks the question And there's that guy in the class who knows the answer and the teacher knows that guy knows the answer, but the teacher wants someone else to answer, so that guy's like, oh, oh, oh, oh, and it's it's like they gotta go to the bathroom real bad. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh Sometimes then they'll raise both hands. You know what I'm talking about? Oh, oh, oh, oh, pick me. And then a leg goes up. Pick me, pick me. Hey, you know what Isaiah is telling God? God says to Isaiah, Isaiah, I need someone to serve me. Isaiah, I'm looking for someone to live for me. Isaiah, who's gonna live for me? And Isaiah answers. Oof! Oof! That's how I read Isaiah six eight. Hey teenager, look at me. God has a plan for your life. And you know what God wants from you? He wants look at me guys! God wants you to go. Oh, pick me! I'll do it! I'll live for God! You see, Paul looks at Timothy, and Paul says, Hey Timothy! There's influences in your life. Influences that point you to Jesus. Influences that help you know there's a purpose in life. And lastly, number three. That influence verse number three. I thank my God whom I serve From my forefathers with a pure conscience that without ceasing I have remembrance of thee in my prayers day and night, or night and day. I look at this. Number one, I see the That Paul pointed him to salvation. Number two, he gave him a purpose in life. Number three, he gave them a pattern to follow. In other words, Paul was the example to Timothy. I don't know if you're getting this. Paul was an example to Timothy. And you know what Paul was telling Timothy in 1 Timothy and 2 Timothy? Hey Timothy! Now I taught you and you go reach some others. And you know what Timothy's job was? Timothy's job was to go find someone else and reach them and say to them, Hey I I I've got you, now you go reach someone else. And then it was to someone else, hey I I got you, now you go reach someone else And you go reach someone else, and you be an example. You point people to Christ, you be an example to someone that God has a purpose in their life. In other words, you set the pattern Hey teenager, so in your brain, I want you to think about this. So much I want to say there. Who is your biggest influence in life? Don't say it out loud. In your brain, think about it. Who's your biggest influence? My biggest influence would be Luke Bryan. He can sing really, really good. And that's a shame. My biggest influence is Taylor Swift. That's a shame. That's a shame. My biggest influence, uh that'd be Tom Brady. He may be a pretty good quarterback, but I can tell you that I feel sorry for you if he's your biggest influence. I I have three older brothers. All the girls' names My second brother Kelly. It's a girl's name. I remember going outside and playing, and and I'm done with the message. But I remember I remember going outside and playing. And and Kelly would he would tell me to do things. And I used to fight against it. No, no, I'm not going to do it. No, no, I won't do it. And then he would say, if you don't do it, I'm going to beat you up. And so ultimately I usually got beat up and then did what he wanted me to do anyway. And I remember sometimes getting in some pretty bad trouble. And you know what my mom would say? I'd I'd tell my mom, I'd say, Mom, Kelly told me to do it. And then she would say, if Kelly told you to jump off a bridge, would you jump off a bridge? Probably, because he'd beat me up if I didn't. And I'd get in trouble. Kelly was a huge influence in my life. My oldest brother Carrie, girl's name. My oldest brother Carrie was a huge influence in my life Hold on. Look at me and listen for just a minute. I know I told you I'm done. Some of y'all are packed up packed up. And I understand that. Ice cream's waiting. I'm ready for it too. I remember walking through our house at the roller skating ring. Listen, listen. As I walk through the house Our house was actually in the roller skating rink, which is really pretty cool. It literally we our my bedroom was one wall from the roller skating floor. I remember I walked in the house and in order to go to the bathroom I had to walk past my brother Carrie's bedroom. As I walked past Carrie's bedroom, I remember I looked over on the bed. My brother Kerry was laying on the bed, on top of the covers. His bed was made, his room was clean. He was laying on his bed on top of the covers. And on his pillow, he had the Bible out. We weren't even in church. I'm a bus kid. Technically not even a bus kid. I'm a van kid. I remember looking over and seeing my brother Kerry with his Bible out And as I walked by, I thought, that's weird. It's not even church time, and he's not the preacher, and he's got his Bible out. Something must be wrong. I went in the bathroom, came back out. As I walked back past him, I looked back over again thinking maybe I just didn't see it right. Looked back over at him again, and there he was still Tear coming down his face as he was reading the Bible. Can I tell you? One of the greatest influences in my life. was my brother who was setting an example for me. I look at 2 Timothy chapter 1 and in my mind I see this. I see faith of our fathers. Hey, I think all of us would agree as we throw a pin across the room. I think all of us would agree that sometimes we don't set a very good example. I think we'd all agree that America is in some pretty bad shape. Morally, spiritually. America's in some tough shape. And I know at twelve years old, probably you're thinking, I don't care. Wait till you start buying gas for your vehicle. You'll start caring a little bit. America's not in great shape. What are we going to do to change it? Well, Brother Matt just did a fantastic job preaching on that. But it all boils down to this. Faith of our fathers. Brother Leatherman, how long have you been here at Mountain Lake? Twenty nine years. Wow. Wow. It's a long time. Have you had some rough times along the way? Have you ever by the way he's he's nodding his head yes. I'll tell you his answers. Have you ever had some times along the way? I'm getting a little personal here, so you can tell me to hush up and get just pray and be dismissed. Have you ever had some times along the way you wanted to quit? I just spit too I'm sorry. Did you say yes? Why didn't you quit it? That's a message by itself to answer that one. Can I tell you one of the reasons why he wouldn't quit? It's because of y'all. In particular. Y'all. Why? Because he wants to pass his faith down to you. And one day, you may have some children. Scary thought. Evan, you may have some children too. Yeah. Levens running around. Hey, d do you do you know why he's pastoring this church? It's for you, but it's also for you to tell your children, and for your children to tell their children. That's why he hasn't quit. By the way, young people, why do you have people who brought you to a youth conference? I'll tell you why. Because they want you to see the faith that they have So you don't burn in a place called hell someday. So you understand God has a purpose in your life. So you can make a pattern for other people to follow as well. Why, Brother Jake, bring y'all? Because he loves to be tortured. Yeah. No, it's always always that way. Can I tell ya? Chant are are you where are you staying? Uh is sleeping tonight? Uh we have an Airbnb Yep. Airbnb? So the guys are staying in the Airbnb or the guys are staying in the trailer? Guys are staying in the trailer. Okay. Alright, so you got one one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, eight. Have you staying in a small R V? And these guys all smell great, don't they? Yeah. You didn't have Taco Bell on the way here, did you? Just making sure. Just making sure it doesn't matter, really, to be honest with you. You y w wh why why would you why would you torture yourself like that? I mean, isn't it more comfortable sleeping at home? Hey, hey guys, do you know why he's doing that? Because he wants you to see the faith he has in his God. So that you have faith in his God, your God as well. Girls, I say the same thing about y'all too. E even if you're the only one that came. Why'd he bring you? So you see the faith. Why'd your pastor get up and preach? Because he wants you to see the faith. So that you have it your own. I'm so tired of being around teenagers who they just hang on to nothing but mom and dad's skirt tail in their faith. God loves you. Jesus Christ died on the cross for you. You got faith in him. I held my babies in my arm. My arms. For the first time almost 25 years ago, my first child. Twenty-five years this week. I'll never forget the unbelievable feeling of responsibility. First of all, she's a girl and girls are stinking expensive. Holy cow. I mean Shampoo, conditioner, hairspray, straightener, curling iron, straightener, curl, triple barrel curling iron Hairspray, scrunchies. I can't find my scrunchies. Gotta go buy more scrunchies. Gotta gotta have these hair pins. I gotta have makeup That's not even getting down the clothes path. Man, there's so m so anyway I'll never forget holding my daughter in my arms. For the first time her little chin is quivering. I'm gonna start crying if I'm not careful. She crying, her chin quivers. She'll still to this day, if she cries real hard, her her chin will quiver. My wife laying in the hospital bed. She's crying. I'm holding my daughter. I'm crying. She looks nasty, to be honest with you. She looks like an alien. The tube's still connected. Anyway. I'm holding my daughter in my arms. And in my mind, here was my thought. Have thoughts still in my mind still to this day. Where's she going to be one day? Paul set a pattern to Timothy. I'm going to reach you. Timothy, I want you to reach someone else. How many of y'all are seniors? I keep saying I'm done. How many of your seniors? Raise your hand. Seniors. Senior in high school, that is. What? Are you senior? Are you? Senior and senior? Two two seniors? Three seniors? So three seniors? A junior is a senior over here too? Huh? Virginia? Any other any juniors? Juniors? All right. Can I tell you this, juniors, seniors? Every other person in this auditorium in your youth ministry watches you. They see how you act, they see how you sing. They see if when the preacher is preaching, if you're like They're watching you. And you're setting an example. You have a responsibility. I'm a girl, I'm not a father. The principle is you set an example. You've had people influence you. Let's turn that around. Let's be an influence to others. You go back to your church Sunday? You know where Mountain Lake Independent Baptist teenagers need to sit Sunday morning in church? Right down front. Why? Because you're an example. Victory kids, you know where you need to sit Sunday morning in church? Right down front. Why? Because you're an example. People are watching you. If I knew every other church's name, I'd say your name too. Sorry. You're an example. Let's be that example. Tonight people have influenced you. Do you know you're saved? You know God has a purpose? Then let's set the example for others too. Let's pray. Every head bowed, every eye closed. By the way, don't bow your whole body. Just bow your head. Some of y'all might doze off into deep, deep, deep prayer for me. Just bow your whole body. Just bow your whole body. Just bow your head. Close your eyes. Don't bow your whole body. Can I ask you a couple of simple questions tonight? With no teenagers looking around, please. No teenagers look around at all. Can I ask you just a couple simple questions? How many say this? Brother Kurt, Paul had an influence in Timothy to see him saved. Brother Kurtz, someone's had an influence in my life, and I'm saved. I'm on my way to heaven tonight. I know I'm a Christian. I'm not perfect. Get get this. Listen, don't doze off. Don't don't don't lose your train of thought You say, Brother Kurt, I'm not perfect, but I know I'm saved. I know, I know if my life ended tonight, I know I'd go to heaven. I'm not perfect. But I know I'm saved. If that's you with no teenagers looking around at all, if that's you and you say with a curd, I know I'm saved, I'm on my way to heaven I'm not perfect, but I'm a Christian. If that's you, would you slip up a hand as a testimony of the fact I know I'm saved? By the way, I didn't ask you where you go to school. Didn't ask you, you know, how nice you are to other people. I didn't ask you if you've been dunked in the tank I'm asking you, do you know you're saved? God bless you. You can put your hands down. A lot of hands went up. Praise the Lord for it. Not every hand went up, and that's okay. Thank you for your honesty. Can I ask this question? How many of you say this, Brother Kurt? Truth is, is I'm not sure. I'm not sure if I died. Listen to the question. I'm not sure if I died today, I'd go to heaven. But I know this. I know for sure I don't want to die and go to that place called hell. Let me repeat it. Brother Kurt, I'm not sure if I died today I'd go to heaven, but I know for sure I I know for sure I don't want to die and go to that place called hell. And you say, Brother Kurt, please please don't embarrass me. Please don't point me out. Don't call my name. And I promise you, as a gentleman, I will not embarrass you. I'll not call you out I'll not in any way, I'll not in any way embarrass you. But I would sure love to have the honor of praying for you today. I won't call you by name. I won't embarrass you. But in general, as I close the service, I'll pray for you. You say, Brother Kurt, I'm not sure if I died today I'd go to heaven. But I know for sure I don't want to die and go to that place called hell. I was ten years old when I settled that matter. And it was a service just like this. I knew I didn't want to die and go to that place called hell. If that's you tonight, you say, I'm not sure I'm going to heaven, but I know for sure I want to die and go to hell, with no teenagers looking around. If that's you and you'd let me have the honor of praying for you, would you just slip up a hand? Just put it up and put it right back down. God bless you. Thank you. God bless you. Thank you. Someone else, I'd love to pray for you. Brother Kurt, I'm not sure if listen, I'm not sure if I died today, I'd go to heaven, but I know for sure I don't want to die and go to that place called hell. Anyone else? I'd love to pray for you. God bless you. Thank you. Anyone else Say brother Kurt, what will people think? Can I can I help you with two two things on that? Number one, who cares what anyone else thinks? And number two, it doesn't matter what they think because it is you getting it settled that you're going to go to heaven, and ultimately what they're going to think is, praise the Lord. And they'll applaud. They'll be so happy that you got saved. Brother Kurt, what about I people already think I am saved. Who cares what anyone else thinks Say brother Kurt, I'm not sure if I died today I'd go to heaven, but I know for sure I don't want to die and go to hell. Anyone else? I just want to pray for you. I won't embarrass you. I haven't embarrassed anyone yet But I'd love to have the honor of praying for you. I'm not sure if I die today, I'd go to heaven. But I know for sure I don't want to die and go to hell. Anyone else? Just slip a hand up. I'll pray for you. Anyone else? Then can I ask this question, Christian teenager? Do you understand God has a purpose in your life? God wants to use you. He may want some of you to be a preacher. He may want some of you to be a missionary. He may want some of you to be a businessman He may want some of you to be a banker. He may want some of you to be a pilot. I don't know what God's will for your life is. Maybe you're going to be a nurse. I don't know. It's none of my business. But God has a purpose in your life. And Christian teenagers, you know what God's asking you to do tonight? He's asking you to lay your life at the altar for Him. God, hear my, send me. To present your body a living sacrifice. Say, Brother Kurt, I don't know what that means. That means just coming to the altar and saying, God, I'm yours. Whatever, God, whatever you want, I'm yours. And lastly tonight, Christian teenager, who are you influencing? Who is it you're making a difference in their life by the way you're living yours? You're influencing others. It may be you're singing the lyrics to that song and you're influencing them in a very bad way. It may be you're looking at your best friend saying, hey, get the Snickers bar. And you're being a bad influence. Tonight I'm asking you, why don't you tonight tell God, God, I'm determining I'm going to be the right kind of influence on my friends. I'm going to set the right kind of tone. Lord, I pray you'd bless this invitation time. God, I pray for those that raised their hand, three or four that raised their hand tonight and said they weren't sure they're on their way to heaven. God, I pray that tonight would be the night of salvation in their life. Your word says that. And God, I promised them that I'd pray for them. So Lord, right now. I ask that you give the courage to those young people to put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. Hell's real. Hell's real. And God, outside of putting our faith and trust in you, that's where we'll spend eternity. So God, I pray for those that raised their hand tonight, said they weren't sure they're on their way to heaven. God, may you give them the courage tonight to step out. And get that settled tonight. I wish I could pray them into heaven. I can't. They've got to do that themselves. They've got to talk to you. And God, I praise you'd help them to do that tonight. Lord, for Christians, I pray you'd help each one of us to understand that you have a purpose in our life. And God, that you also have given us as an example to other people. And God, I pray you'd help us to be that pattern that other people follow that leads them to you. Bless this invitation time in a special way, in Jesus' name I pray. With it Amen.