Exodus chapter 3, we're going to look at one verse tonight. Verse number 11 The Bible says, and Moses said unto God. Now we'll review here, get the context here in a moment. I think most of us are very aware of what the context is, but I want to restate it here in just a moment. But it says, Moses said unto God, Who am I that I should go unto Pharaoh and that I should bring forth the children of Israel out of Egypt? I want to talk about Moses' response to God's call, God's commission to him. He says, who am I? Who am I Let's pray, and we'll look at this a little bit tonight. Father in heaven, I thank you for uh uh Brantley and the tremendous job quoting scriptures here and all the young people, so many of them. are learning your word. And I pray, God, that you would just take your word, your Holy Spirit would root it deep down in their hearts and minds and soul. And that this these truths, the scripture would bear fruit in their lives throughout the rest of their lives. And now, Father, as we have our Bibles open, we're looking here at this passage, I pray, Father, that you would please Speak to our hearts from the simple statement that Moses made and the lessons here, the principles here, and that your Holy Spirit would ply them to our lives That we could be stronger in our faith. We would understand a little bit clearer our own selves and Lord also who you are and how you respond to us. So I yield my will to you. I present my body anew at this moment, this hour, as that you would fill me with your spirit, and that you would speak through me, my lips. Your word to our hearts and minds. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. The Bible's fascinating. As you read through the Bible, if you've paid much attention as you read through the Bible, there's throughout the Bible, God will compare uh his people to various things. He'll use uh metaphors or uh illustration of what we're like For instance, the Bible refers to God's people as plants numerous times. In Psalm chapter 1, the Bible says, The blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night, and he shall be like a tree Planted by the rivers of water, bringeth forth uh his leaf does not whether bringeth forth his fruit in his season. But a tree. And there he's illustrating the fact that uh believers we can be If we'll be careful of the influences we allow in our life, if we'll guard ourselves and we're not in the council of the godly walking in the city in the sea of the scorn, floor, if we're careful about that, and we meditate in the Word of God, there can be stability in our life. We want it to be up and down, on and off, hot and cold, right with God, not right with God. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And he says we can be like a tree that's planted by the rivers. The water is stable and bears fruit consistently And so sometimes uh in that case and others were uh believers, God's people are are compared to a tree. Uh in uh in John chapter fifteen believers are referred to as a vine or a branch, and that we abide in Christ, and has the idea of Christ bearing fruit through us Jesus winning souls, other people getting saved through us as we abide in Him, the fruit of the Spirit, as we walk in the Spirit. And so we're referred to as a vine or a branch. Isaiah refers to God's people as grass. The grass withers. All flesh is as grass, and the grass withers. And he talks about how frail we are, the frailty of life, the uh how um uh uh uh uh mortal we are. Just like grass withers and dies, so uh we uh are mortal also. Uh Matthew chapter one, I already mentioned this, re uh referred to as vines. In John 12, he says, uh, except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die it abideth alone, but if it die, it bringeth forth fruit. And he's referring to believers as wheat. We die to self and then Christ can live through us and Christ can bear fruit in us and we can grow and get ourselves out of the way. So all through Scripture, and there's many, many others I list All through Scripture, believers are referred to as are compared or illustrated by different types of plants. He does the same thing with different types of animals. Can anybody think of any animals that she that people are compared to in Scripture? You got an A on that one. Sheep, yeah, and unsaved, as goats, unbelievers. But sheep he uses, he illustrates believers as sheep to illustrate the point that we're dependent upon the Lord. were to follow him, just like sheep follow a shepherd. And I think that is a very, very accurate metaphor for believers. We act a lot like sheep in many ways, and you could elaborate on that. In John 21, referred to as a lamb, Isaiah says And if we wait on the Lord, we can mount up with wings as eagles. And so he uses that illustration in Psalm 42 Uh verse one, as the heart panteth after the water books. A heart being, what would a heart be? A deer, type of deer And so we're compared to deer there, thirsting for the Lord and for the Word of God. And um Take your Bible, if you would. Keep your place here. Come with me to Psalm 32. I said all that to get to this last one that I want to bring out tonight. Psalm 32. And verse number nine. There is an animal that God's people are compared to. It's not an eagle, it's not a sheep. It's not a deer. It's less flattering than all of those. Psalm 32, and look at verse 9. He says, Be ye not as the horse, or as the what? Mule? We would maybe call it a donkey, mule. Which had no understanding, whose mouth must be held in with fit and bridle, lest they come near unto thee. He's warning his people. He's warning the people of God. Don't be like a mule. The implication here is that some people are like mules. They uh what what would be the chief characteristic of a mule? Stubborn. Yeah, anybody here know anybody that's stubborn? I mean not I'm not talking about your spouse. I'm talking We meant you to say most of us here have our own stubborn streak. Most of us here, in fact, I hate to say this, but this is probably true, and I'm including myself in this generalization. Most of us are probably more like mules than we are like sheep. Did you ever read through the book of Proverbs and see the description of the fool and the description of the wise man? and come away thinking I'm more like the fool than I am the wise man. He says, don't be like the mule. Some people are like a mule They're stubborn. They're resistant. Trying to get them to move. Trying to get them to do something. And they absolutely will not do it. They dig their hooves in the dirt. And they are not budging. Uh anybody here remember Phil Sherman? Phil Sherman, blind man. He was attending here. He passed away a number of years ago. sat in the back there. He used to always tell me, uh not always, but often when I afterward I'm shaking hands, he'd come back and he'd say something. He always said something real positive. He'd say, Pastor, that was a great message. Thank you. Then he'd say this, you sure look good today The guy's blind is a bad. He doesn't see a thing. I said, Phil, coming from you, that means a lot. He had he raised donkeys. And uh one time we were talking, I was visiting with him, we were talking, and he said, I said something about them being stubborn. They're stubborn. And man, you know, he'd be quick to correct you He immediately stepped in and he says, they are not stubborn. I said, what do you mean a donkey isn't stubborn? A mule isn't stubborn. He said, they're not stubborn. They're cautious. So they're very cautious animals. Whether they're cautious or stubborn, I don't know, but they're tough to get to move sometimes. And the whole reason I bring that out is to point out that a lot of times, I'm afraid more often we like to admit we're more like the mule when it comes to the will of God. and the leadership of the Holy Spirit in our lives and we are like a sheep. Anybody here ever anybody here ever have God speak to your heart about something He wants you to do and you just know it's the Lord leading maybe a passage of Scripture He just impresses upon your heart to witness to somebody, say something, or go and do something, and immediately you put resistance up. Anybody here know what I'm talking about? Yeah. That's being Psalm 32, 9 resisting like a mule. Sometimes God has to put a bit in our mouth, depending on the circumstance, and get us to do his will. Sometimes uh even though we resist. In this passage back in Exodus three Verse eleven and I I was tempted to read down through verse eighteen, but um well for sake of time we're not going to read all of that. I find, and actually in the chapter 4, I find Moses is behaving more like a mule than he is like a sheep. He's resisting God. God has gotten his attention with that burning bush, and we spend a good bit of time dissecting that and looking at how all the implications of this burning bush get Moses' attention, first of all So he captures Moses' attention. Then, if you remember, we spent a good bit of time pointing out that God clarified very clearly in Moses' mind who God is. He's holy. He's the God of his fathers. He's a faithful God. He's a holy God. And so he clarified. And then our last message, we looked at the verses preceding verse 11. There we have the call of God. He says, I'm going to send you down to Egypt. And I'm gonna pull you out. I'm gonna he had the commission of God, I should say. And I'm gonna send you down to Egypt, but I'm gonna use you to lead the Hebrews out of Egypt into the promised land. That was his commission And Moses' first response was resistance, resistance, objections To God's commission in his life. And again, I hate to say this, but if we've got to be honest, right? We tend to do the same thing a lot of times. God speaks hard, God convicts us. I'm a pastor, I'm no different than anybody else, but as standing from my perspective on preaching the word of God sometimes give invitation And um it's surprising, I guess it shouldn't be, but sometimes it's surprising how many times they're dealing with someone's heart, God's dealing there, and uh when the invitation is given, rather than responding, they resist. And object to what's God dealing with their heart about. You know an anybody know what I'm talking about? I I'm thinking of a fellow years ago Uh he was sitting over here about where Matt is, somewhere in that area. I preached Sunday morning. I'd known I knew him a little bit. He was unsaved and he'd been coming out a little bit. I preached my heart out pled with people to get saved. He had his girl with had a girl with him. He was probably about my age now at that time. He was what my age is now. And um I preached, I gave the invitation And he stepped out in the aisle, and the girl with him reached over and grabbed his arm and pulled him back. And he never came forward. And um resisting, resisting, resisting. That's what Moses is doing here. Um I wonder, did anybody here ever try and talk God out of what he wants you to do? Oh God, I don't know. Really, God? Come on. And we come up uh tell me if I'm right or wrong. We come up with 10,000 reasons why I can't do what I know God's telling me to do. Am I right or wrong? That's what Moses is doing. It could not be any clearer. God could not have made it any clearer in Moses' mind what God wanted him to do and how God was going to do it. And yet he resisted. Yet he resisted. He responds, I put it this way, Moses responds to God's commission with resistance rather than submission. He objects to it rather than submitting to what God's leading him, directing him very clearly to do I put down five ways Moses resists this commission of God. He uh five ways he objects to this commission of God. I'm just I'm going to list them for you, then we're going to come back and look at the first one. We're going to try and work our way through these in the coming weeks. The first thing he does, he c he declares that he is incapable of doing what God commissioned him to do. Look again at verse 11. And Moses said unto God, Who am I that I should go unto Pharaoh and that I should bring forth the children of Israel out of Egypt? What's he saying He's saying, I can't do this. I am not capable of this. I'm unable To do what you are telling me to do. So the first response is, he declares I'm incapable of this. We'll come back and look at that for a bit Look at chapter 3, look at verse 13 of chapter 3. God responds to Moses' initial objection. Again, we'll look at that in the future. Then verse 13, Moses comes back with a second objection. And Moses said unto God, Behold, when I come unto the children of Israel and say unto them, the God of your fathers has sent me unto you. And they shall say to me, what is his name? What shall I say unto them? His first objection is, I'm incapable of doing this. His second objection is he debates with God about his ignorance. I won't know what to say. One, I can't do this, God responds, and he says, I won't know what to say to him. They're going to ask me Who you are, what in the world would I say? I don't know. I'm ignorant. Look at chapter 4 and verse number 1. God responds to a second objection and Then he comes back in chapter 4 with his third objection to God's commission. And Moses answered and said, But, do you ever say that to God? God says, I want you to do this. But But behold, they will not believe me, nor hearken unto my voice, for they will say, The Lord hath not appeared unto thee So his third objection, he denies any credibility. He says, it's incredible that I would go down there. If something is credible, what does that mean? It's believable or it's along those same lines. It's reliable You know he's not a credible witness, he's not a r he's not reliable. I wanna know if we can believe him So Moses' third objection to the Lord is, my testimony, it's kind of to this effect, my testimony to the Hebrews is not credible. My testimony is not reliable. They won't believe me. They won't trust me. They won't follow me. Now, why in the world would Moses think That the Hebrews would not trust him, that the Hebrews would not consider him a credible leader. He blew it 40 years ago. He tried in his own strength. He ends up killing a man. All the Hebrews turn against him. I'm saying, and we'll look at this a little more detail later on, but I'm thinking as I'm looking at Moses and listening to what he's saying, I'm thinking in the back of Moses' mind, he's thinking they still remember. They remember who I am. They remember how bad I blew it. Moses' credibility was not lacking on the part of the Hebrews, although they had their issues. Moses' credibility was lacking where? In his own heart and mind. In his whole own heart and mind. And sometimes we think That I can't do this, nobody will listen to me, nobody would trust me. And that's his argument I don't have a credible witness. I put it this way. He denies any credibility on his part. They won't believe me. Then God responds to that. And he says, all right, we'll take care of that. I got that. It says, I've got, I'm glad God can say, I've got that. And so we'll look at that. Then come down to verse 10, and he brings up another objection. Chapter 4. And Moses said, here's just back and forth, back and forth. Lord, Moses said unto the Lord, O my Lord, I am not what Elohent, neither heretofore nor since thou hast spoken unto thy sermon, but I am slow of speech and slow of tongue. He demands to God that he is inarticulate. That's a fancy word. That means what? He can't talk good. He says, Lord, I uh uh I'm not elegant. I can't talk. Uh I couldn't get in front of those people and Pharaoh. Oh goodness, I am slow as speech. That word slow as speech has the idea that uh to stutter, have a hard time getting the words out. And so he says, I uh I can't talk I can't talk good, Lord. God responds to that. And then come down to verse 13 of chapter 4, and now we get to the root of the problem, I think. Look at verse 13. And he, Moses, said, look at what he says here. Now God's answered every one of his objections. God's addressed every one of his objections. Now I think this last one, he's finally being, he's finally getting to the root of the matter. He said, And he said, O my Lord, send, I pray thee, by the hand of him whom thou wilt send. You know what he's saying? Get someone else. So his first objection is, I'm incapable. Who am I? I can't do this. His second objection is, I'm ignorant Uh I I won't know what to tell them. They're going to ask who who is the Lord. I don't I won't know what to say. Third objection is I'm not I don't have a credible testimony. They won't believe me Fourth objection is I I'm inarticulate. I can't talk very good. I stutter. I I I have a hard time with my words. I can't do this. And his last one, he's being honest, he says, I'm not willing to do this. He's basically saying, Lord, no. I'm not doing what you're instructing me to do. Get somebody else. Now, again, we're way ahead. We're going to spend some time on this, but look how the Lord responds to that last one. Every other objection, God had an answer to, God had a solution to. This one, how does God respond? He gets angry. He's he's he's got to the heart of the problem. It was Moses' heart. Had nothing to do with his ability to speak, had nothing to do with his ignorance, had nothing to do with his testimony. It had everything to do with a heart that was unwilling to trust God and follow his instructions. And I venture to say that is the problem for all of us. We get down to the root. We can come up with all these objections. We can come up with all these excuses. We can come up with all these arguments Why I can't do what God's instructing me to do. And really the bottom line is I have a heart that's not willing to trust God and submit to Him and do what He says. And so we have these objections. And these objections are not statements of faith. These are statements of unbelief. These are statements of resistance. These are statements of protest and opposition, what God is trying to do. Here, these are the statements of a spiritual mule. And Moses is digging his hooves into the dirt, and like that old stubborn yule, he says, I am not going. It's not budging. That is not resistance to the will of God. Would you agree with me? Resistance to the will of God is not faith. Right? It's unbelief. It's if we want to get nitty-gritty, it's rebellion against God. Now it wasn't quite exactly the same, but as I was looking at these issues that Moses brought up, these objections that Moses kept throwing back at God every time God gives him this commission. He throws back, I'm not capable. Well, God answers that. Throws another one. God answers that. Finally, God gets angry at him And it reminded me a little bit of in John chapter 6, that is, I think it is, we won't turn there But the Lord has a situation on his hands, and he's got 5,000 men, plus there's women and children in the mix. This huge crowd are listening to him preach. They've been there all day And the Lord's concerned for their physical well-being, and he turns to his disciples and he asks them, the great crowd here, and I'm putting this in my own words, but he says something to the effect, have this great crowd here, they've nothing to eat all day. And they're going to faint. We need to feed these people. Everybody familiar with that event in the life of the Lord? Feeding of the five thousand. And he asked his disciples, what should we do to feed them? Now they had seen him do some amazing miracles. They knew what the Lord was capable of. They're not ignorant. They knew what the Lord was capable of for whatever reason it never entered their mind that maybe Christ, Jesus Christ, could do something Physically, humanly impossible. And so they immediately start coming up with excuses. They come up with objections why we are unable to do anything for these people One of them says, and you can go to Mark, you get some of this, but uh one of them uh says, uh, oh uh good night, if we had 200 penny worth You know, if we had a whole month's, half a year's wages, we couldn't feed all these people. Lord, what you're saying is now we can't uh who are we to do this Go back to Mark, one of them suggested, send them away. That's not our problem. Let somebody else take care of their problem. Send them away. That's their issue. Let them figure it out. Do you see the correlation to Moses' objections and the disciples? What I'm trying to say is this. What Moses was doing is not that uncommon. Even disciples of Jesus Christ will, on occasion, probably more than we like to admit resist and object to God's leadership and God's direction in our lives. Anybody here ever Anybody here ever hear some a testimony, maybe a preacher, evangelist, a missionary, and they'll say something along these lines. They'll say, God spoke to my heart in a missions conference, God spoke to my heart in a service, whatever Can't, maybe young person. And God's calling me to preach. And this is years later, they're giving their testimony, and they'll say something like this. I fought against the Lord, Lord's call in my life. Anybody ever hear a preacher say that? Yeah. Same thing Moses doing. Sunday school teacher. You ask a Sunday school teacher, you know, would you be willing to pray about teaching a class or doing this or doing that? And um, oh no, I couldn't, no, I couldn't. And later on, after God beats them up pretty good, they come back and say, oh, is that class still available? I was thinking about Jerry Vogel. Some of y'all remember Jerry Vogel. For a long time, this is years ago, he would say stuff like, Oh, I can't stand kids, oh don't put me in a kids' ministry, I hate kids. I said, You better be careful, God's gonna put a millstone around your neck and throw you in the ocean We bought a Sunny school bus down somewhere, Virginia somewhere is a good ways off, and he ran down on a Saturday to pick the Sunny School bus up. And bring it back up. Now he there ain't no way he's working with kids. There ain't no way he's working a bus route. He can't stand kids. He's gonna get a millstone around his neck and get through the ocean We had prayer meeting that night and uh while we were couple several of some men are in here and and Jerry pulled in the bus, you'd see him come up here and we went walking back to look at the new bus I'll never forget it. Jerry comes off that bus. Tears are streaming down his cheeks. Just streaming. He's falling. He said, Jerry, he said, God's called me to work a bus route And he did. And he did a great job. Jerry and Dave Heimbel are the ones that led James Kent to the Lord, who's now in the ministry over in Pennsylvania. I mean scores of people. He did a phenomenal job. The problem was just getting his heart in willing to do what God was calling him to do. You with me? So we're looking at Moses here and giving him a little hard time and critiquing him here pretty hard But the fact of the matter is, probably every one of us, if we're not careful, will fall into this category. We'll catch ourselves, find ourselves being a mule. Instead of a submissive sheep, and will resist and go against it. And so let's look at this. Let's look at that first one. We've got a couple minutes. So let's look at that first one where he says that he's incapable He declares that he is incapable of doing this. Come back there again. In fact, I want to read verse 11 and 12. We're not going to get to 12. All I want to do is look at his objection, then we'll look at the Lord's answer. And Moses said unto God, Who am I that I should go unto Pharaoh, and I should bring forth the children of Israel out of Egypt? Now let me just read God's response. And he said, Certainly I will be with thee. I underscored that in my Bible. And this shall be a token unto thee that I have sent thee when thou hast brought forth the people out of Egypt. Ye shall serve God upon this mountain. And then he goes on to his second objection. But notice the I notice three problems with this initial objection. Who am I? There's three problems with this. Number one, the first problem with this objection, he's starting off with the whole, he's his whole premise is wrong. He still has in his mind that he has to do this He misunderstood what God was telling him. I'm convinced of that. The more I look at this, the more I read this, the more I study this, I'm convinced. Moses totally misunderstood What God instructed him to do. And then we touched on this last week. But look again at verse number eight. This is where God's telling him what's going to happen. This is God speaking. Jehovah speaking to Moses audibly, and I am come down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians. and to bring them up out of that land into a good land and a large unto a land flowing with milk and honey. Then he goes on and talks about the people that are living there. On verse 8, and I know we already h dwelled on this dwelled on this last week. But according to verse 8, who is it that's bringing them out of Egypt and getting them into Canaan? Who's doing it? God is doing it. But you look at Moses' objection, and he is still talking, he's objecting as if God is saying, you've got to do it all. You go down there, you convince them to follow you, you convince Pharaoh to let these people out of there. It's all on your shoulders. Moses, it's up to you. That's his That's the premise he's working off of, and it's wrong. Um Moses mistakenly saw himself as the source of the deliverance That's how he saw himself the first time, remember? The first time he went down, I'm doing this. Acts 7. 25 says that he sought to deliver the Hebrews by his own power. By his own hand. He went down there one time. He had this, and I know we've already rehashed this quite a bit But I think it's important. He went down there. I've got this. I have the intelligence to get these people out. I've got the military training. I have the education I have the respect, I have the personality, I have the leadership skills, I can do this, and it failed totally And now God's sending them back down, and he's thinking that I've got to do that again. I've already tried it, it doesn't work. I've already done that. I can't do this. I've already tried and fell on my face. So his whole premise that he has to do this is completely wrong. He saw how it worked out the first time. Rather, God is saying, listen, you're the instrument in my hands. The first time Moses said, it's my hand. God says, uh-uh-uh, it's my hand. I'm simply holding you, I'm simply using you. Again, verse 8, I am come down to deliver thee. So his whole premise was wrong. Rather than being the source of their deliverance, he's simply the instrument in God's hand. It seems to me There may be exceptions to this, but I want to say it seems to me that God does not use our strengths to accomplish His will. He uses our weaknesses. Those pla those areas where we think in the Christian life, boy, I've got this, oh I can't, oh that's nothing. If I ask someone to do teach a class or whatever or something like that, and they say, ah, sure, it would be great, I can do that, I worry more about that than the one that says, Preacher, I don't know if I can do that The one that says, I got it, who are they trusting in? The one that says, I don't know if I can do it, but I'll try. Who are they trusting in? The Lord. Of those two, who usually produces the better results? The Lord God, I want to say God never uses our strengths, He always uses our weaknesses. Anybody recognize the name Gideon? Initially, what was Gideon's problem? When he agreed, God commissioned him to go and kill the Midianites. His initial issue was what? He had too many soldiers. Right? He put the call out. They had way too many. The military was way too big. The army was way too big. God said, I ain't using that And he fiddled it down until he had what? 300 soldiers compared to the Midianites. And God gave a great victory. You know what the problem was? He was too strong. God says, I'll use your weakness, not your strength. Does anybody recognize the name Samson? Would you agree with me? At least going by his character, Samson wasn't the strongest guy around, character-wise, right? I mean he's just messed up over and over and over. Brother Harper had a powerful message on Samson. I picture, this is the way I picture Samson. Samson Isn't big, muscular, strong, handsome looking guy like some of us. Um he was. Did you guys miss that or I think this is my opinion, and we'll find out I guess maybe someday we probably won't care. But I think Sam Samson in and of himself was just an ordinary looking guy. I don't think he had big muscles and broad chest and broad shoulders, big thighs. I don't think I don't think he was real big like that. And the reason I say that was everybody kept asking him, where in the world do you get all this power Right? I don't look at Pastor Matt and say, How in the world do you pick up this thing? I know how he can pick the thing up. He's a beast You know, you get some little scrawny guy like uh um me, and uh you say, how in the world can you do it? It's the power of God, right? So you got Gideon, you got Samson, how about David and Goliath? Would you agree with me? There were stronger men in Saul's army than this teenage boy There's more highly trained men. He killed a bear, he killed a lion. It's pretty impressive. But he was probably the smallest, weakest guy on the battlefield. And he's the one God used. God didn't use the big strong ones. And you see that over and over and over and over, all through Scripture. God doesn't use our strengths, he uses our weakness. Let me show you a passage, and I'm going to have to start winding down here. Come with me to 2 Corinthians. Paul makes a profound statement, and this has helped me a lot. 2 Corinthians. And go to chapter twelve, Second Corinthians twelve Paul was a great powerful man of God apostle. Power God was all over him in unusual ways We know he wasn't physically strong because he mentions numerous places about his weaknesses, his physical weaknesses. He referenced the weakness of his eyes And so he had physical infirmities that in his mind hindered him and made him less effective. He mentions one of those infirmities in 2 Corinthians chapter 12. He doesn't tell us what it is, other than the fact it was a physical, painful infirmity. Look with me, if you would, at verse number seven. He says, unless I should be exalted above measure, what's he mean by that? Lest he would get what? Proud, lest he gets too big in his own mind and people's eyes, lest I should be exalted above measure. Through the abundance of revelations, God was teaching them, he's recording scripture, most of the New Testament, he's penned down. There was given to me a thorn in the flesh. So that tells me it's a physical infirmity and it's painful. Thorns are painful, and it's in his flesh. He says it was a messenger of Satan to buffet me. Satan was using this physical infirmity to discourage him, to beat him down. And here's what I think Satan was doing. He was saying, I think Satan was beating Paul up. You can't be used of God. You can't do anything for God. Look how weak you are. Look at your physics. You're all in pain and you're You're got all these physical ailments. How in the world could God you're of no use to God? Doesn't that sound like Satan? And so Satan's buffeting him And so I was given a storn of flesh, a messenger of Satan, to buff me, lest I should be exalted above measure. Now he's getting a little ahead of himself here. He's telling us why God allowed him to have this. So he doesn't get proud. So he doesn't rely on his own strength, his own abilities. For this thing, verse 8, I besought the Lord thrice that it might depart from me. If only I could get rid of us, then I could really do something for God. Verse 9, and he, the Lord, said unto me, My what? Grace is sufficient for thee. For my strength is made perfect in weakness. Now Paul responds to what God told him. God says, Paul. If you're proud, you're healthy and strong and big and bruised and proud, I can't use you. My strength won't be made perfect in you Paul responds, most gladly, therefore, will I rather glory in my what? He wanted to glory initially in his physical strength, his power, his physical health. Because God corrected that and said, all right, now I'm going to glory in my infirmities. Why? That the power of Christ may rest upon me. Look at verse 10. Therefore, I take pleasure in infirmities. He takes pleasure. Anybody here ever gripe about aches and pains? Paul liked it. In necessities, in persecutions. That's why he could be in a Philippian jail cell and sing at midnight and stocks beaten. He's singing, praising God, praying. In distresses. For Christ's sake, here he sums it all up. This is the answer. For when I am what? Then I am strong. Paul got it. He figured it out. God doesn't use our strengths, he uses our weaknesses. And Paul and Moses isn't there yet. And God says, I'm commissioning you to go down to Egypt. I'm going to use you. I'm going to deliver the people. But you're the instrument I'm going to use to do it. And Moses' first response is, who am I? I can't do it. I blew it. I'm weak. I'm not capable of this. And God says, bingo. And we'll see God's response. He'll look back. So my point, my first point is this, and I'll end with this. His whole premise is wrong. He's coming with the idea that he has to do this. It's not us doing it. I tell, uh I'll end with this illustration. Occasionally I get to uh do um ordinations for young preachers And so we'll they'll give their testimony and we'll go through and their doctrinal statement and and we'll kind of grill them a bit, make sure they know that they've been called, they know a little bit what they're talking about, and they know a little bit of the Word of God. And some of those things. And then there's usually time where they just, the older preachers maybe give some advice, some suggestion to them as they're starting out. And one thing I try to always point out is this, and this applies not just to preachers, but anybody trying to serve God. This applies across the board. If I'm serving the Lord faithfully, and I'm giving the Word of God out, whether it's on somebody's porch or on a bus or in a class or behind a pole, if I'm sharing the word on job at break on the job and giving the word of God to somebody. If I'm trying to serve God, if I'm trying to uh to serve him in some capacity sincerely, God will use me He's going to use his word to have an impact in people's lives. He will. Sometimes we see it very evidently, sometimes we never see how God used my witness, how God used his word But sometimes we do see it. And here's the danger for a young preacher and anybody really. When God uses us to affect somebody's life, to help somebody, maybe they get saved Maybe they get victory in some area of the Christian life, they had some answers, and boy, they're so grateful. And they'll come and say, Oh, you're just Man, you did this for me and you did that for me. And we had a guy here, Dave Stewart. He said, Preacher, I need you to go visit some fellows. I need you to save them the way you saved me I didn't save Dave. I I can't even save myself. But he knew he just had the wording wrong. You follow what I'm saying? And people will think that it's you and I doing it. It's our great spirituality, it's our great intelligence, it's our great commitment to Christ. And I try to remind these young men, listen, you always remember it's not you, it's Christ. It's God working through you. Because the danger, when I start thinking it's me And I think it's my great leadership, my spirituality, my great Bible knowledge, my great illustrations, my great whatever. God can't use me But when I remember, I'm like Paul, who am I? The Lord says, You're right. You are nothing. I'm everything. That's what I want to use. You with me? So let's bring our weakness to the Lord. Let's bring our inabilities, our incapabilities. Paul put it this way. He said, not that we are sufficient of ourselves. That word sufficient means incapable. It means incompetent is really what the word means. Not that we are competent of ourselves, not that we are sufficient of ourselves, but our sufficiency is of Christ. Let's let God use us. Amen? Let's pray. Father, pray we can learn a simple little lesson when Paul said, Who am I? He thought he was the one going to have to do it. I pray you'd help us understand, Lord, that we just make ourselves available. Oh, Holy Spirit, open our eyes to see that what you can do Through every single one of us, if we just trust you. If we just follow your instructions, help us, Holy Spirit, help us see that Heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I don't know if I'm strong enough or capable enough to serve God, but I know I'm not strong enough or capable. And apparently that's what God's looking for. Is there anybody like that? Any like that tonight? I know it. I know it. Father, please bless our invitation. Help us to get that deep in our hearts that it's you and not us. When we're weak, you're strong in Jesus' name. Let's stand together heads about