Read down through the end of the chapter. I don't know we'll get all this tonight, um, but I w I want to keep this all together. It says verse fourteen, it says, And God And verse 13, I'm sorry, it says, And Moses said unto God, Behold, when I come unto the children of Israel and shall say unto them, The God of your fathers hath sent me unto you, and they shall say unto me, What is his name? What shall I say unto them? And God said unto Moses, I am that I am And he said, Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel, I am have sent me unto you. And God said, moreover, unto Moses, so God continues on. He answered his question. Now God And God said moreover unto Moses, Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel The Lord God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob hath sent me unto you. This is my name forever, and this is my memorial unto all generations Go and gather the elders of Israel together and say unto them, The Lord God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob, appeared unto me, saying, I have surely visited you And seen that which is done to you in Egypt. And I have said, I will bring you out of the affliction of Egypt unto the land of Canaanites and the Hittites, the Amorites, the Parizzites, the Hibotites and the Hivites, and the Jebusites, unto a land flowing with milk and honey And they shall hearken unto thy voice. And thou shalt come, thou and the elders of Israel, unto the king of Egypt, and ye shall say unto him The Lord God of the Hebrews hath met with us. And now let us go. We beseech thee, three days' journey into the wilderness, that we may sacrifice to the Lord our God. And I am sure that the king of Egypt will not let you go. No, not by a mighty hand. And I will stretch out my hand and smite Egypt with all my wonders, which I will do in the midst thereof. And after that he will let you go. And I will give this people favor in the sight of the Egyptians, and it shall come to pass that when ye go, ye shall not go empty But every woman shall borrow of her neighbor, and of her that sojourneth in her house jewels of silver and jewels of gold and raiment And ye shall put them upon your sons and upon your daughters, and ye shall spoil the Egyptians. So we're at this. The context here is, if you remember, God revealed himself to Moses in the burning bush. We looked at all that. And then God extends to Moses this commission to go down to Egypt and lead the people of the Hebrews out of Egypt. And if you remember, God emphasized to Moses, you're not doing it. I'm the one that's getting them out. You're just doing what I said. I'm just going to use you, but I'm doing it. And so Moses begins this back and forth with God. He starts throwing these excuses up, and um he has uh um he sends, let me uh he has uh Let me give it to you. He has five arguments or excuses why he can't do what God is commissioning him to do. I don't know if you've ever felt impressed of God to do something. God stirred your heart or impressed upon your heart and mind to do something. And you were resistant and you start coming up with reasons why you can't do what God wanted you to do. Can I get a witness? Anybody know? Yeah, I think we're probably all guilty of that at one point or another So that's what Moses is doing. The first one we already looked at was he says, I am incapable of doing this. Who am I? I'm incapable of this. And God addresses that Now the one we're looking at, we started last time, is uh he says, I'm ignorant. I don't know who to tell them sent me. When they ask me who sent you, what am I going to say? I'm ignorant. So first he's incapable. Now he says he's ignorant God addresses that. We're going to look at that here in just a moment. Next, we're going to see, he says, they're not going to believe me. He says, I have a problem with credibility. I already tried this once 40 years ago. It didn't work. I messed up bad. Everybody rejected me. The Egyptians hate me. The Hebrews hate me. They're not going to believe me. Then in chapter 4, we're going to notice he says, I can't talk good. I can't say this. So he's this argument, he's inarticulate. I can't speak very well. And then the last one, and this is one we're building to, and we're kind of taking our time here, but then his last argument is, I'm not willing to do it. Go find somebody else. And of those five arguments, we're going to point out over and over and over, of those five objections that he gives to God, why he's not the guy, why he's in why he shouldn't be doing this, he can't do this, of the five, only one of them. uh is really illegitimate. It's the unwillingness. That's the one that God reacts to. All the others, God's very patient with them God answers them. In fact, the one we're looking at now where he says, uh I'm ignorant, I don't know what to say, that was actually a pretty legitimate concern on his part because the Jews, if you remember, were very, very careful about, at least at this point in their history, very careful about who they worship. They've been in Egypt All these false gods, they're not just going to have some guy show up and say, oh, God told me to lead you out of here. Oh, okay. We're going to risk the limb in life. The Egyptians turning on us, killing us all, because some guy shows up, says, God told me, who is this God? And so I think he had a legitimate concern there. So, uh verse number 13, he expresses his concern to God. Now we have God's answer, God's confirming who he is. Moses expressed his concern. Now God answers with a confirmation. All right, I'll tell you who I am. I think God is being very, very patient with Moses here. He's tolerating his objections. And so far, and throughout this, Moses' big argument But Moses' big objection is going to be his own weakness. I'm incapable. I can't talk. I don't know who to say. They're not going to believe me. And so again, he's focused on himself and his own inabilities. And I can't do this. And I'm telling you, that is probably one of the biggest hindrances to people serving God when we get our eyes on ourselves. Rather than focusing on the Lord and his abilities. And Moses, all he's seen at this point, I can't do it, I can't talk, I don't have information. And he's focused on his weakness. And God, here's the thing that encouraged me, and I may be a little repetitious here, but God can work with weakness Say, I can't talk very good. Alright, that's not a problem with God. God can work with somebody that can't talk very good. They say of D. Al Moody, now I'm old, but I'm not that old. I never heard him But they say when D. L. Moody spoke that he didn't speak very good English That his sentences ran together, but God's power was on him. I'm telling you, God can use a person who maybe isn't very gifted, maybe isn't the most intelligent in the world, maybe isn't the sharpest knife in the drawer. But they're submissive and they're willing to do whatever God directs them to do. God can use that person rather than the sharpest, most intelligent, most articulate, gifted person That's not willing to do what God tells them to do, God can't use that person. You follow what I'm saying? And so God is able to work with Moses. He's being very patient with them in all these arguments. God's like, okay. I can deal with that, I can answer that concern, I can address that objection. It's when we're unwilling, that's when we have a problem. And you're going to notice here, and I keep jumping ahead here, but we're going to notice when we get there, that last one where God says, where Moses says, get someone else, find someone else, that's when God gets upset. That's the first time out of all these objections, that's the first one where God's going to rebuke them for that objection there. All the others he tolerates, he humors them, so to speak, he answers his concerns. But unwillingness, unwillingness is an attitude that God can't use. And so that's what it's building up to. So let's look at God's uh response here to uh Moses' concern about his ignorance. I don't I don't know who to tell them who who came. First thing I notice in chapter 14, the first part of verse 14, God identifies himself. Back to verse 13, he says. They shall say to me, What is his name? What shall I say unto them? So God, first of all, says, All right, I'll tell you who sent you. Tell them this. God said unto Moses, I am that I am. Now that's an interesting statement. I got study in that, and a and uh that phrase, I am that I am, comes from A name of God. It is literally a name of God that is used in various forms over 6,000 times through Scripture. We know when God told Abraham, he spoke to Abraham, he says, I am that I am. What he was saying was, I am Jehovah. That's what that phrase means. Jehovah. That's where the word Jehovah comes from. It is, when God is saying to them, I am that I am, God is, they already knew the name Jehovah. Anybody remember Moses' mother's name? It's trivia question time. What was Moses' mother's name? Jacobed. Jecobed means Jehovah is glorious. So they knew the name Jehovah Uh it was obviously they knew that was A, one of the names that God used to identify himself. But what God is doing here, when he says, I am that I am, he's not giving Moses a new name for himself. He's defining what his name means. He's telling Moses, I am Jehovah. Jehovah, I am that I am. Six thousand times that term Jehovah is used various ways. Sometimes it is translated Lord. Did you ever read your Bible, particularly Old Testament? And you come across the word Lord and it's an all in capitals, capital L, capital O, capital R, capital D. Anybody ever notice that? That is The translators and their integrity identify the fact that comes from the name Jehovah. And so it's used uh Lord. Sometimes it will be used in the Bible Capital G, capital O, capital D. God. If it's all capitals, it's from the word, the name Jehovah. And so it is, God is explaining who he is, what he's like. That phrase, I am that I am, tells us volumes about what God is like. He's revealing to Moses not just his name, but he's revealing what I am like. This is my characteristics. This is what I am. We're going to look at these I found it interesting. I noticed this whole call of Moses, this whole commission of Moses from the wilderness to go back down into Egypt and lead the Hebrews out of there This whole commission, much of it involves God revealing himself to Moses. Over and over and over again. I'm the God of your fathers, and God's revealing himself. God wants Moses to know who he is and what he's like before he ever sends them down to Egypt. It would be hard to represent someone that if I didn't know anything about that person, right? Moses is going to be a spokesman for God. And in many ways, he's a prophet of God. So he's going down here. He's He's representing God to the Hebrews and also to the Egyptians. He better know who this God is, what he's like, and what he's capable of. If he's going to come down and confront the most powerful man humanly speaking in the world at that time, most likely And so God is very, very thoroughly revealing himself to Moses, revealing himself to Moses. Now I got, what does that mean for you and I? I think a preacher, if he's going to stand up and preach the word of God and be a spokesman for God, he better know God. Right? You better know who God is. You better have a relationship with Him. He better know what God is capable of. I think sometimes we're not very effective in our Sunday school class or our bus route or preaching, pastoring a church We're not very effective because we're focused on what I can do and what I'm capable of. And a lot of times we don't even know what God is like and what he's capable of. I think every preacher ought to know God Every preacher ought to know what God is capable of doing and be convinced of that. Every preacher ought to know what God is like. Every Sunday school teacher ought to I'm not saying we uh we I'm not saying we ought to be great theologians. I don't consider myself a biblical scholar, but I say this often, I don't consider myself a biblical scholar, but I am a student of the Bible. And it's very important, if we're going to teach the Word of God, we better know not just the facts, not just God's name, but we better know what He's like and what He's capable of and how He operates And that's what God is doing for Moses here. He's the word of God. I think one of the problems in America, across all these denominations, we got people standing up claiming to be preachers, claiming to be spokesmen for God, they don't even know who God is You hear some of these guys. Derek and I were talking about guys on faith on YouTube and stuff like that. You hear some of these and you wonder what in the world do they even know who God is, what they're talking about. And so God, much of God's call to Moses involves God identifying himself, clarifying who he is and what he's like. And I think a representative of God, as I've been saying, ought to know God and know a lot about him. What he's like Now, this name Jehovah, I am that I am, is one of the most sacred names to the Jews, even to this day, is one of the most sacred names of God. In fact, many times they wouldn't even pronounce his name. They considered it so sacred, so holy, and my tongue is so sinful. It's not I don't even it's it's I don't even uh I can't even say God's name because it's so sacred, so holy, and my tongue is so sinful. Isn't that something? What did Isaiah say in Isaiah chapter 6? And uh when he saw the year that King Uzziah died, and he saw the Lord high and lifted up the Lord, L-O-R-D, Jehovah. high and lifted up, the God that I am that I am, high and lifted up. And he fell before him and he says, I am a man of what? Unclean lips. God's name is so sacred, I can't even say it. That's the attitude the Jews had. They recognized the holiness of God. Now, at this point, perhaps not, but later in their history uh they would recognize that. He says, I am, I am. Tells me that God is a personality. He's not just a force. He is a person. Now he's so far beyond our ability to comprehend, but he has personality, he has understanding, he has intellect. God has emotion, He rejoices, He grieves, He has anger, He is much, He is as much A person as you and I, he's much more person. He's the perfect person. But he has personality just like you and I. He says, I am the personality of God. There's so much about God that's Fascinating. He's here right now. We cannot escape his presence. He is here right now in our midst. And he's a person. He's thinking. He hears what I'm saying. He comprehends what we're thinking. He processes that in his perfect intellect. He's paying attention. It's an amazing concept to live life in the presence of a God who is a person, not just a force. And so he's revealing himself to God. Now what about this phrase, I am that I am? I think there's a whole lot more there, and we could spend a whole series just on What those names imply. But I have two that I want to give tonight, and I'll probably just end with those two He's identifying, I believe, and making that statement, I am that I am, he's identifying two things about this God that Moses is in the presence of. He's hearing God audibly say this to him. You and I are here. We don't hear him audibly. We read his word, but he's just as much as he was in Moses' presence. And number one, it gives the it suggests uh the idea that God is self-existent. Now somebody help me out. We got a little crowd tonight. What's your understanding of God being self-existent? What does that mean? Steve is not allowed to answer this. Brother Heinball is not allowed to answer this because he has a doctorate in godology or something like that. He knows. I know he knows. Does anybody else want to take a shot? What does it mean to be self-existent? Dependent on their own self to exist? Aha anybody else wanna Ed, Ryan, anybody? You agree with that? Me too. It means this. The fact that God is self-existent, I'll maybe get Steve's input here, but it means this: that God needs no one or no thing to exist. He isn't as ja as uh Evan said, he God is not dependent upon anybody to exist and continue existing. Uh Dorothy Exactly. That's one. He always uh God is self uh uh self existent. He always has been And he always will be. Somebody says, a lot of times unbelievers will say something like this, or an innocent, you know, sometimes sincere believer will ask something, well, where did God come from? When did God begin? God is self-existent. He says, I am. That's present tense. He always has been, always there will be. No matter what period of history, no matter what time, in eternity past to eternal future, God am. I am. The eternal present. So the question is, when did God begin? God had no beginning. He transcends time. You and I are limited. We're prisoners of the moment. I can't go back ten seconds. I can't go forward ten seconds. How many folks, if you could, would go back in time and do things over if you could? I had somebody years ago I said something about going back and doing it over. They said I wouldn't change a thing. I thought, man, they didn't learn a thing all that time. They didn't learn nothing. And it showed. But um God is self-existent. He had no beginning The heavens and the earth, they had a beginning. In the beginning, God, the self-existent one, always has been, always will be, he transcends time. You say, well, that's hard to understand. Hello, we're talking about God. He's self-existent. He always has existed. He always will exist. And he's not dependent upon anything to maintain his existence. You and I are dependent. We need air, right? We need shelter. We need uh we need uh social interaction. They've proven that. uh for humans to exist. I I read uh I heard a fellow talking one time and he was talking about little infants. They did a study on infants that got no affection, no love They had a tendency to die at a younger age than those that were shown love. We need, we're dependent, is the point, on so many aspects for our very existence. God is not. He is the uncaused cause of all things. And so when God said to Abraham, who uh Abraham, Moses, Moses says, Who shall I say sent me? God says, I am that I am. You're going to go down, you're going to confront Pharaoh. You're going to, first of all, you need to win the Hebrews over, convince them that you're representing me, and then you're going to confront Pharaoh And the God who always has been, the God who always will be, is dependent upon absolutely nothing for his existence. He's the one that's intervening on behalf of the Hebrews I don't know about you, that sounds encouraging to me. By the way, that same God is the one that saves us and keeps us saved. And so this profound statement, he's telling Abraham, not just giving him a name, he's giving the meaning, the significance of it. And the information that name gives us about this God, we can't see, we can't hear, we can't feel, but he's there. He's self-existent. I think there's a second characteristic of God that is revealed in this name. I am that I am, and that is this immutability. Alright, here's a big that is a theological word for you immutable. What is the word immuta? Steve cannot answer this. He don't know what immutability. I don't believe that for one minute. He's messing with me. Never changing. Immutable. Not only does he not change, he cannot change. If something is perfect and it changes, the only way it could change would be to what? Imperfection. God does not change. He cannot change. He is complete in and of himself. God is immutable. He's unchanging in his being. What he is never changes. You and I change, right? Anybody here a different person than you were before you got saved? Yeah, completely different. And the way I think, my values, everything about me is different. God never changes. As we got anybody here a little different over the years went by? Your character changed? Your demeanor maybe changed a little bit. I'd like to think I mellowed out a little bit. God never changes, never changes. Um in his being, in his character. For eternity, unmeasurable eternity past, he has been holy. Immeasurable eternity future, he will be holy. He's holy now. He says, I am, not I was. I am That is an eternal term. I am. Whatever God was to Moses, whatever God was when he's addressing Moses. And Moses then present whatever he was then, he's still today. And everything we read about God in the Old Testament and the things that he did and the and the works he did, he hasn't changed one iota today. In that past, in the beginning. When God spoke at that moment in time, when time began, and God spoke everything into existence. He's exactly the same now as he was when that took place. Don't tell me God can't help us. Don't tell me God can't do miracles. He's never changed one bit. Not one bit. I am, not I was. Whatever God was in eternity past, he is now, and he always will be in the eternity future. Um anybody here d I I can't I find myself doing this a lot in my mind We gl we tend to, I think the older we get we do this more, we tend to glamorize the past a little bit, right? Duck, oh, those good old days. When they didn't have any Novocaine, they just pulled your teeth out without any painkiller, you know, those good old days And we talk about the old days. Oh, they had revivals back in the days. And oh we the church the church saw this and they had these Great men of God, powerful preachers in the old days, and we glamorize all these. I'm here to tell you those guys were no different than us The difference was they were filled with the Holy Spirit. We have the same Holy Spirit in us. We have the same God today as Dio Moody, Billy Sunday, John, all those guys that years gone by, we have the same Holy Spirit in us today. God hasn't changed one bit. And so he says, I am that I am All through Israel's history, they're reminded over and over and over that God is self-existent, he's all-powerful, he's unchanging. Does anybody know what Jesus name means? The name Jesus? Anybody know what that name means? Jehovah Savior comes from the same Greek for Joshua. Jehovah's salvation. Jehovah is the Savior. Jesus is God in the flesh. It's Jehovah in the flesh. And so he makes this statement, he identifies himself I am that I am. And we could just go on. There's so much in that we could spend on. So then he goes on. So first thing we notice, Moses says, uh, who shall I tell him came? You know what's his name? What should I tell him? And they ask me, who sent you? Oh God. God says, tell him I am that I am sent you. Now God goes on and he gives, he identifies himself. Now he's instructing Moses. He's giving instruction. Look at verse 14, the second hand. God said unto Moses, I am that I am. And he said, Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel. I am hath sent me unto you. This is how so he's instructing them. When you go down there, Moses, I want you to know who I am. I am that I am. Immutable, unchanging, self-existent, all-powerful, that's who I am. Now, you go down there, here's your instructions. You go down there and you tell them what I just revealed myself to you What I just showed to you, what I just instructed you that I am, you go down and say that to them. I am has sent me It's interesting. Three times God says, say unto them. Look there in verse 14, the middle. He says, say unto the children of Israel. Look in the middle of verse 15. Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel. Then go down to verse 16. Go and gather the elders of Israel together and say unto them. And in fact, if you get there into um Verse number uh eighteen, when he gets before Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, he says, And ye shall say unto him All Moses is doing is communicating information. He's just like a he's just a tool in the hands of God. He's just an instrument in God's hands. You go down there, you just tell them what I'm telling you to do. Three things he's supposed God instructs him to do, and I'm I probably don't have time for this. Three things. I'll just give you this and then I'll stop. Three things. He tells he says, go down and tell them who God is. Verse 14, the last part of verse 14, verse part of verse Through verse part of first part of verse 16. Tell them who God is. Then he's going to tell them in verse number 17, he says, And you say unto them, in the last part of verse 16, I mean, go tell them that I'm aware of their situation. This God that always has been, always will be, is unchanging, is all-powerful. He's aware of what you're going through. I'm aware of your situation. And then verse 17, he tells them, you tell them, I'm going to keep my word. What I promised you, I will do. So who God is, he is aware of my situation, and he's going to keep his word. He's going to do what he promised. I don't know about you, but that encourages me. God hasn't changed a bit. He's all powerful. He's aware of what I'm going through in my life. He's paying attention. Like I said, he's here right now. He knows everything. He sees, he's processing, he understands everything perfectly, and he's given us a whole Bible full of promises. And he says, I'll do exactly what I promise I'll do. Israel's problem, and the interesting thing is, and this is well we're gonna have to do this later, but in verse number eight 18 through 22, God tells them how things are going to turn out. He tells them, here's how it's going to play out, Moses. So they get down there. Would you agree with me? It looks like to me, now this is I I can't stand in judgment of Moses and the Hebrews, but it looks like to me if God told them how it's all going to play out, what the end result's going to be. There's no reason to fuss or worry or be afraid or anything. They already know how this whole thing's going to play out. They're going to go through some horrific time. There's going to be a ton of pushback from Pharaoh, there's going to be opposition, there's going to be resistance, there's going to be uh um affliction on them. But God says, listen, when it's all said and done, you're gonna be fine. I'm gonna bring you out of it, I'm gonna bring you through this. So, and we're the we're guilty of the same thing as as Israel was, the Hebrews were. We bust, we know what God says, we know how the end turns out. We know he's going to take care of us, right? Am I right or wrong? We know he will But how many times do we get afraid? How many times we fuss and rah rah? We get irritated, we get discouraged. God says, listen, I already told you it's going to play out. I'll tell you how it's going to play out. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to know you. If nothing else out of this, help us to know you, Lord. Lord, you're here. You're in our presence all the time. God, you hear me. You're listening to me talking, praying right now. So I pray that you would help us to know you, what you're like, and your characteristics, and what that means to us in our lives at home, at work, in town, here at church. Lord, help us to know you. Paul said that I may know him. That's what we ask tonight. That you would help us grasp what this means for us. When our heads bowed, I suppose. Anybody here like me, got maybe God spoke to your heart. Maybe you found a little encouragement out of learning who God is. Any like that? Uplifted hand. Maybe we just need to come give God our burdens And put up our excuses for not serving them, not witnessing, not praying, not living for him. Just put all that up. Just say, okay, God. You're more than enough. I can trust you. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.