To after the service tonight for those that are interested want to stick around a little bit we're going to show I just have a few pictures from our men's getaway and just kind of give you a little idea what goes on down there And um I think we are trying to figure out how long we've been doing it. We're pretty confident it's been at least fifteen years. I know I believe we're pretty certain we've been doing it since 2000. Maybe it might have been a year or two before that even So uh been going down to Burgu, West Virginia for a long time. What a great place Burgu is. James chapter 3. I'm going to begin reading in verse 13. I'm going to read all the way down through the end of the chapter. We're certainly not going to look at all these verses, but uh we're just going to look at verse 13. But I want to read that whole section just to get I believe these last verses here are one passage and uh should be read as a unit. Notice he says in verse 13, For who is a wise man and endued with knowledge among you. He's asking a question. Let him show out of a good conversation his works with meekness of wisdom. But if ye have bitter envying and strife in your hearts, glory not, and lie not against the truth. This wisdom descendeth not from above, but is earthly, sensual, devilish. For where envying and strife is, there is confusion and every evil work. But the wisdom that is from above is first pure. then peaceable, gentle, and easy to be entreated, full of mercy, good fruits, without partiality and without hypocrisy. And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace of them that make peace. This whole passage he's comparing genuine Wisdom from above from God, and the I want to use the term counterfeit wisdom that this world operates by Now what I want to look at tonight is verse number thirteen. Who is a wise man endued with knowledge among you? I just want to use that question as the title of my message. Who is a wise man? Let's pray. Now keep keep Proverbs handy because we're going to be jumping back and forth. I want to try and let the Bible speak for itself a good bit this evening. Father, I ask you to bless our time in your word. Lord, it's been a good day. And it's just a blessing to finish out the Lord's day with God's people together, praising you and singing, rejoicing in what you're doing. Lord, we certainly do not deserve the least of your blessings. And so our hearts are full and grateful tonight. I pray you'd give us wisdom. Each of us as individuals, we need wisdom from above. And I need you, Lord, to fill me with your spirit. That's my earnest prayer. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. And I pray that you would be our preacher tonight, that you would speak to our hearts and challenge us and help us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Wisdom is vitally important in the Christian life. How many people agree with that statement? A foolish Christian When we as a Christian act foolishly, a foolish Christian is a defeated Christian. Across the board. There is no room for foolishness in the successful Christian life We've got to be wise. We're going to notice later on as we preach our way down through, it'll probably be several messages down the road, but we're going to notice that we have a threefold enemy That is trying to take us out spiritually. We have the world, the flesh, and who? The devil. And he brings that out here down, you get down a little farther on. And we cannot live in this world, we cannot live in this flesh, and we cannot live facing the devil and be foolish. We must be wise. When we make foolish decisions, we're going to have a difficult life I heard this quote one time. He said, Life is tough, and it's even tougher if you're stupid. It's a lot of truth in that statement. And I think we could take that statement and modify it a little bit and say, you know, it's not easy to live the successful Christian life. And if we're foolish It's even harder to live a successful Christian life. In fact, I want to suggest to you, without wisdom, we're defeated Christians. Now, you say, all right, I'm a Christian, God saved me, I need this wisdom. I tend to be foolish sometimes, and we're honest. We all deal with that. And I need the wisdom from God. I need wisdom. How do I get wisdom? Where do I go to get it? Well, I touched on it a little earlier in the service God has given to us a book in the Bible that is specifically designed to communicate wisdom to his people. And that book is the book of Proverbs. Now I hope you got something to keep your place in James. And we're going to, as I said, we're going to jump back and forth from James to Proverbs. And by the way, I kind of view the book of James as the New Testament Proverbs. Very similar in makeup. But come to Proverbs chapter 1. And I want you to notice this verse. I could easily just read it or quote it to you. But I want you to notice it, and I would encourage you to um uh underscore it. I'm sorry, Proverbs chapter four Proverbs chapter 4, and I want us to note, and I encourage you to underscore or highlight in some way in your Bibles verse number 7. The Bible says, now keep in mind with the statements I just made: wisdom is vital to live a successful Christian life. Now look at verse 7. Wisdom is the what? The principal thing. Therefore, because wisdom is the principal thing, therefore get wisdom, and with all thy getting, get understanding. Wisdom is the principal thing. Now, what does he mean when he says that wisdom is the principal thing? I put in my margin of my Bible the highest, the chief, the supreme issue. And all this verse is saying to you and I is what I've been trying to say in the introduction here, is wisdom is vitally important. If I'm going to live a life, now you say, what do you mean by living a successful Christian life? Well, that could mean a lot of things to a lot of people Let me tell you my understanding of a successful Christian life. A successful Christian life is when I can get to the point where I when I stand before Jesus Christ at the judgment seat of Christ And by the way, everybody here that's saved, we will stand before Jesus Christ at that judgment seat And to me, the successful Christian life is standing at that judgment seat and hearing Jesus Christ say to me, Dennis, well done. You lived your life as I intended for you to live. You function as I saved you to function. You fulfilled the purpose for your existence. You lived and operated according to my instructions. You fulfilled your purpose on life. Well done. To me, that's successful Christian life. Now I need wisdom to do that. And here it says wisdom is the principal thing. It's the chief, the most uh important thing. Therefore, because it's so important, get wisdom. That word therefore get wisdom has the idea of qu acquire it, go after it. I like this definition. It has this idea of make the necessary investments to make sure you get wisdom. Do what you need to do to get wisdom. It's the principal thing. It's the most important thing in your Christian life, having wisdom. Therefore, you better do what you need to do to get that wisdom because if you're foolish, you're going to be destroyed. If you're foolish, you're going to be defeated. The importance of wisdom. The importance of wisdom. If you would come over to chapter 9 of Proverbs. And notice with me verse number 10. Proverbs 9:10. Again, this is another tremendous verse to underscore or highlight in one way or another in your Bible. Verse 10 says, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. And the knowledge of the holy is understanding. The fear of the Lord, that's the starting point for wisdom. If I want to have wisdom, if I want to live my life, As God saved me, designed me to live it, the very starting point is to fear God. If I have no fear of God, then I have no wisdom. And what do we mean by the fear of God? I think we could summarize it and say it uh summarize the fear of God, submission to God If I'm not submissive to God, if I'm not submitted to God, I don't have wisdom because wisdom begins with the fear of God I need wisdom more than I need anything else. We like the story, and it's a tremendous illustration of this of King Solomon. You remember God approached him And he said, Ask whatever you will, and I'll give it to you. And Solomon could have asked for riches, or he could have asked for wisdom. And he very wisely asked for what? Wisdom. And God gave it to him above all other men. Wisdom is the principal thing. Wisdom is the vital thing. Before anything else, I need wisdom. And by the way, there's a difference between having wisdom and possessing knowledge. Um don't confuse knowledge with wisdom. A person may know a lot of facts and still be a fool. A person can have a lot of knowledge in their head yet have very little wisdom in their life. We live in a world that has tremendous knowledge. You agree with that? Man alive. We were joking down at the men's getaway. Everything that came up, a question would come up. Oh, just Google that. And so you can Google everything. And you have phenomenal amounts of knowledge at our fingertips. But I'd submit to you, and I think you'd agree with me, though the world has amazing amounts of knowledge, there's very little wisdom in this world. And so never confuse knowledge with wisdom. In fact, even in the Christian realm, it's possible to have a lot of facts about the Word of God, yet possess little wisdom of God. It's possible to have a lot of Bible verses committed to memory and in my head, and yet have little fear of God. I often point out, and I think it's uh uh important to see, uh a person can uh no doubt there was people sitting at bars last night throughout our county who could quote many, many Bible verses. Yet they're foolishly sitting at a bar and destroying their lives. So never confuse wisdom with knowledge. Some of the smartest people in the world, their lives are disasters. Their lives are ruined. They don't have the wisdom to make good decisions on how to live their life. Wisdom, here's my definition of wisdom. Wisdom is the God-given ability To apply the truth of God to everyday living. In other words, I not only know what is true, But I know how to apply that truth to my everyday life, to the situations. I know how to take the knowledge God has given me and use it in a way that brings glory to God and fulfills the purpose of God in my life. So you're going to have great amounts of knowledge, but not know how to apply that knowledge in a way that it will fulfill the will of God for my life. It's possible to have knowledge without wisdom. But having said that, genuine wisdom loves knowledge. You follow is everybody okay everybody with me? I know I'm Khanob. Mm kind of theoretical here maybe a little bit, but You say, well, you can be wise and you don't have to have all that knowledge. The fact is, you can have knowledge without wisdom, but wisdom without knowledge is handicapped. Wisdom loves knowledge. Wisdom wants to gain knowledge. Wisdom, the more knowledge wisdom can have, the more effective it can operate. Let me give you some scripture for that, if you would. Are you still in Proverbs? Come back to chapter one of Proverbs. And we're just going to race through a bunch of these and pay close attention to what he's saying here Wisdom loves knowledge. Wisdom wants to gain knowledge. Wisdom wants to learn. Wisdom wants to gather facts so that that wisdom can be more clearly applied. Look at Proverbs chapter 1 and verse number 5. A wise man will what? Hear and will increase learning. And a man of understanding shall attain unto wise counsel. Do you notice what he says there? A wise man wants to listen, he wants to hear, he wants to increase his learning. I'll tell you who the wise kid is in school. The wise kid in school is the one that listens to what the teacher's saying. The wise kid in school is the one that takes in what is being taught. The foolish kid says, I don't care about knowledge. I don't care about learning. I remember um when I was working at the Meepack and Plant, this was shortly after I got saved, and they would just play this rock and roll music so loud all over. And uh there was this song, and uh just saying it gets in my head up uh uh hadn't even thought of it, but there was this song, and it would go over and over, it just said over and over and over, we don't need no education We don't need no education. And these guys are just rocking out to this and God had just saved me. And I'm not thinking about that. And so I would joke around with them. I would go like this. No, we don't need no education. I don't need to learn anything. Uh this i I don't need to learn. You know what you know what type of thinking that is? Foolish. The fool doesn't want to learn. Wisdom loves knowledge. Wisdom, a wise man, will hear and will increase his learning. Come with me if you would to verse 7 of the same chapter, just a few verses down. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. Look at this next statement. But fools despise wisdom and instruction. I don't want anybody teach me. anybody show me how to do this or how this works or give me these inf this information. Who despises that? Now listen, don't get mad at me. I've been in this same place. I've been the fool too. But you say, I hate school. I hate learning. Better be careful. That verse tells me that the fool despises it. It's the fool that says that, not the wise person. Come with me if you would to verse 22 again of the same chapter. How long ye simple ones Well, ye love simplicity and scorners delight in their scorner. Look at this next phrase. And fools hate knowledge. Hmm, wisdom loves to learn. Wisdom loves to gain knowledge. Look at verse 28, same chap same chapter. Then shall they call upon me, but I will not answer. They shall seek me early, but they shall not find me, for they, for that they hated knowledge It did not choose the fear of the Lord. They would none of my counsel. They despised all my reproof Look what he says in verse thirty-one. Therefore they shall eat the fruit of their own ways. Listen, you and I don't let God teach us. You and I don't let what listen to what God has to say to us. You and I Don't want to learn what God has to say to us, and he says, You're going to eat the fruit of that way. You're going to reap the results of a life lived despising the knowledge of God. He says, I won't hear your prayers. I'm not going to, you're not, you're not going to listen to what I have to teach you and say, and I'm not going to. Wisdom loves knowledge. Look at chapter 10 I'm telling you, but Proverbs is amazing. Look at chapter ten and verse number fourteen. Wise men lay up knowledge. Wise man gains it. He learns it. He wants to learn from this. Look at chapter 12 and verse number one. Whoso hateth instruction loveth uh who's I'm sorry, start over. Whoso loveth instruction loveth knowledge. Now look at this last statement. This gets rough. But he that hateth reproof is what? Brutish. What does brutish mean? I put in the margin of my Bible, stupid. That's what it means. He that hates to be corrected, he wants to do his thing but won't let anybody come and say, hey, wait a minute, that's not the way, that's not right, this is how this I need to correct that A person that hates that, the Bible says is brutish. That's an old word for just stupid. I'm telling you, God doesn't pull any punches. Look at chapter 13 and uh verse 16. Every prudent man dealeth with knowledge. Now the word prudent there is a that is a kind of a soft term for wise. The prudent man dealeth with knowledge, but a fool layeth open his folly. I mean, he's a, uh the way my mom used to say it, he's a dumb bunny. Did you ever hear that phrase? He's just a dumb bunny and everybody knows it. Chapter 19, verse 2. I'm trying to emphasize this Chapter 19 and verse number two. Also, that the soul be without knowledge, it is not good. And he that hasteneth with his feet sinneth. What I'm trying to say is this: a wise, you can have a lot of knowledge and not have wisdom. There's a lot of foolish intellects But when wisdom comes, when I become wise, when I get wisdom, I fear God, and that begins the wisdom, and I get wisdom, I want to learn. I want to learn what God's word says. I want to learn how God operates. I want to know what God's will is for me. I want to learn and grow. I want more information. I put it this way: ignorance does not facilitate wisdom. I'm not going to be wiser because I'm dumb. Because I'm ignorant. That does not facilitate wisdom. Ignorance handicaps wisdom. Now I can be wise and not have a lot of knowledge But the more knowledge I have, the more effective I can apply my wisdom. If I am ignorant of God's truth, I'm going to be having a difficult time applying it to my life. If I don't know what God says, I don't know what God's will is. How do I apply it to my life? So wisdom says, all right, what is God's will? What does God's word say? What are the principles of life? That God has given to us in His Word so that I can live a successful, fulfilling life and have God's blessing and have Him use me. What are the principles? A fool says, I don't care, I don't want it But wisdom says, yes, I want that, so I can apply it to my life and fulfill my purpose for my life If I'm ignorant of God's perspectives on life, it's a difficult time to apply it. Now, stay here in Proverbs. Come back to James. Jump back to James here real quick. Verse 13, James chapter 3, who is a wise man and induced with knowledge among you? Let him show out of a good conversation his works with meekness and fear. So who exactly is a wise man. Number one, I put this down. We have the disposition of a wise man. Now you've got to look at this and as I studied this I kind of came to this. But that phrase, he says, Who is a wise man endued with knowledge among you? So I studied that, I got this impression. James is addressing, apparently there was an element of people within this group he's writing to, under the inspiration of God. Apparently there was an element within that group that was going around telling everybody how wise they were and how much knowledge they had. And they were just running their mouth about how wise they were and about how much knowledge they had, and they were going around proclaiming their wisdom. And they're proclaiming their great knowledge that they've been endued with. And James is, I think there's a hint of sarcasm here when he says, all right, who exactly are these wise people and the people with this great knowledge? Um genuine wisdom, I like this statement. Genuine wisdom is self-evident If I have to go around and tell people how wise I am, I'm probably not that wise. If I have to go around and tell everybody how smart I am, chances are I'm not as smart as I think I am. And so the disposition of a wise man is a wise man doesn't go around proclaiming his own wisdom, proclaiming his own knowledge. If he is that wise, if he is knowledgeable, it becomes evident. He doesn't have to promote it. We had a meeting a number of years ago, several of the people in the church, and we were working in a situation with a woman and her son outside of the church. And in the and and i i it was a little tense and it w it was a little trying. And throughout that meeting, which didn't last very long, but throughout the meeting, the mother and her son, but the mother must have said at least ten, maybe fifteen times My son is really, really smart. My son is so smart. My my son is smart Did I tell you my son is really, really smart. And we weren't in the meeting long and I got the distinct impression the boy wasn't that bright. And I left there thinking, you know, if your mother has to tell people fifteen times how smart you are, you're probably not that smart. Because if he was as smart as she was suggesting, she wouldn't have had to tell us You follow what I'm saying? And so the disposition of a wise person doesn't go around and bragging about how wise they are and telling how much knowledge they have. They don't need to declare their wisdom. If I need to declare how wise I am, it's probably because that wisdom doesn't exist. Proverbs, are you there? Ready? Jump back there. Let me give you some scripture. Proverbs chapter 12. And verse number twenty three A prudent man, again, there's that word prudent, it has the idea of a man that has common sense, that has very practical wisdom. A prudent man concealeth knowledge. But the heart of fools proclaimeth foolishness. You know what he's saying? A wise person doesn't have to go around telling everybody how much they know and how smart they are and how wise they are. But the fool runs around, a fool runs his mouth, and everybody figures out real quick that he's a fool. What's the old saying, it's better keep your mouth shut and make people think you're stupid than open your mouth and prove it that you really are And so the wise person doesn't go around proclaiming his own wisdom. Look at chapter 17 of Proverbs and verse number 27 makes a similar statement. He that hath knowledge does what? Are you there? He that hath knowledge spareth his words And a man of understanding is of an excellent spirit. Look at this verse twenty-eight. Even a fool, when he holdeth his peace, is counted wise. But he and he that shutth his lips is esteemed a man of understanding. Sometimes I get in a situation and I really have no idea what's being talked about. And I'll just stand there and go, hmm, hmm, hmm, hmm. Hmm. Now walk away and say, Bim, Brother Letterman knows his stuff. I know nothing. Oh it reminds me uh when I first came here, you know, and there was little church was a little rough and we were getting back on our feet and we had to take the U-Haul to Cumberland and one of the men that was here drove me to Cumberland. He was telling me the whole situation and different things and You know, I'm I'm this young preacher, I never pastored before, and inside I'm dying. Oh God help me. And he says, um, Pastor Leatherman I know you've come here and you know exactly what you're going to do and you know exactly how to get this thing turned around. And I said, Amen. Praise the Lord. I had no idea what I was doing So if we have to go around and tell people how wise we are, if you go around and tell people how smart we are and how much knowledge we have, it's a pretty good indicator that I don't have that much. So the disposition of a wise man is that he doesn't go around proclaiming his wisdom. He just lets it prove itself. In fact, that leads us to our second point. Is this the demonstration of a wise man, James, back in James Verse chapter 3, verse 13. Who is a wise man and do with knowledge among you? You got people running around boasting their wisdom and their knowledge? Okay. Let him show out of a good conversation his works with meekness and wisdom. In other words, if he's so wise and if he's so smart, let him show it Out of how he lives his life. I put this down. How I live my life demonstrates my level of wisdom. Not how I run my mouth. I can proclaim my wisdom, my great wisdom all day long, but how I live my life is the indicator. of the level of my wisdom. He says, sh let him show. That word show means give evidence, give proof of. It's kind of a legal term On a you get on the court, you get up on the witness stand, and the guy's defending himself or the prosecutor is making uh uh pursuing a prosecution and they say, all right, you show it, put it up there, put the evidence up there, prove it. He's alright, you are wise. Going around saying how wise you are isn't proving anything But you show, you demonstrate your wisdom by how you live your life and the decisions you make. He goes on, out of a good conversation Now we understand the word conversation. We're talking we're in a conversation. It means that, but it means a whole lot more. It entails my entire lifestyle. I a person demonstrates wisdom by living a morally excellent lifestyle. We've been touching on this lately. I don't deliberately mean to do this, but maybe it's just something on my heart and mind. But we hear so much filthy language today. And I'll tell you what that tells me. That shows a level of ignorance and foolishness on the part of the one using that language. And I found that the higher the level of wisdom is that a person possesses, the purer and cleaner their language will be. You get in some areas, and it's like every third word is the most vile word in the English language, and it doesn't even make sense. And I think that is a very foolish person. That is a very ignorant person. That they cannot communicate using just pure clean language. And it's true not just in our language, but in our lifestyle. If I live my life and it and it and it and it's characterized by nasty and dishonesty and filthiness and and worldliness and and uh carnality and sensuality and that's what characters my life he goes listen you're just proving you don't have much wisdom But a person that is able to make pure decisions and godly decisions and live an upright and morally excellent life Because that shows, that demonstrates, that proves the presence of wisdom in that person's life. If I'm able to interact. And I can function with people who maybe don't agree with me and function with people who are very maybe antagonistic to me, and maybe people who are very harmful to me And yet I'm still able to function with them in such a way without going down to their level and resorting to screaming and hollering and yelling and calling names, and my maturity level drops down to that of a five-year-old in a catfight in the nursery. He says, you're just proving you're not very wise, you're very foolish. Show out of a morally excellent lifestyle, out of a mature, godly, spirit-filled uh Christ-like response to even people who are morally and foolishly down here don't go down to that level We're not talking about a holier than thou type mentality, but we are talking about being wise. And not being foolish. Let him show, out of a good conversation, honest and pure. Uh notice what he says, who's wise and endued with knowledge? You claim to be so wise, you claim to have sold this knowledge? All right. Show that. Out of a good conversation, a morally excellent lifestyle. And then he adds on: out of a good conversation, his works The word work there is referring to that which his life produces. If I have the wisdom of God, if I am wise, how I conduct myself, how I How I uh live my life, my conversation, is going to produce good, godly results. I'm going to be a blessing to people who are a curse to me. I'm going to do good to those who spitefully use me. I'm going to bless those that curse me. I'm going to be morally excellent. And that lifestyle, that conversation will produce certain types of fruit. What we're seeing, let me say this, what we're seeing in American society is the result of foolish conversations. Foolish lifestyles. And we have rioting in the streets, and we have dishonesty and corruption in our leadership And we're losing our liberties. And Christianity is under an assault like it has never been in the United States of America. And the reason is because we are acting foolishly, and that is the works. of that type of conversation. It's the fruit. It's the result of functioning that way. So a wise person isn't someone who goes around talking about how wise they are and how much knowledge they have It just shows itself, it's evident there, and then the demonstration of it, it's seen it in its fruits and how it how that person lives and the results of their life. That wisdom becomes evident. Proverbs 11:30 won't turn there. Most of us, many of us know what Proverbs 11:30 says. The fruit of the righteous is what? Tree of life. And he that with his souls is wise. You know what he says? A wise person elevates that around them. A wise person doesn't gravitate down to the immature and racial and childish and sensual and worldly and sinful interaction. But good conversation produces works and a tree of righteousness, for the righteousness, a tree of life, and he that win his soul, the other people are raised up and they see Christ and they're brought to Christ and their lives are transformed. That's the result of wisdom, not foolishness. And so wisdom is demonstrated by how I live my life and the results, the fruit of my life. It's not me going around proclaiming how wise I am. And then the last of all, in James chapter 3, verse 13, who is a wise man a dude with knowledge among you? Let him show out of a good conversation his works. And then he taps this last statement on. With meekness of wisdom. I like that little phrase. The meekness of wisdom Now what does it mean to be meek? Well, it means it has the idea, it's used other places in the Bible, it has the idea of being very mild. How many people picture someone when I say someone is very mild-mannered? You have a picture of somebody in your mind. They're just kind of collected. They're not very boisterous. They're there. They're under it has the idea of being under control The meekness of wisdom, under control, gentle. They're humble in spirit. They're not weak. You've heard the saying, meekness does not equal weakness. Meekness is simply being under control. I'm not boisterous. I'm calm. I'm collected. I'm gentle. Pride and wisdom do not mix. Now I want to go to Proverbs one more time. Come on back here. Let's look. And I've got a list of verses here. We won't look at all these, but let me just give a couple. Proverbs chapter 6 I'm telling you one thing as Christians, we ought to hate, hate, hate, despise with everything in us. As Christians, we ought to hate pride. God hates it. Look at chapter 6 and verse 16. These six things doth the Lord hate? Yea, seven are an abomination unto him, a proud look. Then he goes down, lying tongues, hand that shed innocent blood, a heart that deviseth wicked imaginations, feet that be swift. Feet that be swift is running to mischief, a false witness that speaketh lies, and he that soweth discord among the brethren. Notice a proud look. God hates that. Chapter fifteen and verse twenty five. Along the same lines, he says. The Lord will destroy the house of the proud. Well, he will establish the border of the widow Ah, we won't go to all these. Let me just give you the verses. Chapter sixteen, verse five, chapter sixteen, verse nineteen, chapter twenty-one, verse four, and again in verse twenty-four of chapter twenty-one. And we could go all through the book of Proverbs. Wisdom and pride do not mix. Wisdom and pride do not mix. Foolishness and pride go hand in hand, but wisdom is humble. And so the demeanor of a wise man is someone that is meek, they're humble, they're under control, they don't blow up, they don't react. Wisdom. There is. Pride is a wisdom killer. Pride is a blessing killer. Pride is a grace killer. Young people learn learn to love learning. Amen. Don't despise that. Learn. Now fear God, get wisdom But don't be one of these that, whether you're homeschooled or whatever it is, don't be one of these that hates to study, that hates to learn. You say, yeah, but it's not fun. Listen, just because it's not fun doesn't mean it's not good And if all you're going to do is pursue fun, then your life is destroyed before you ever start. If that's going to be the priority in your life, what is fun, And you might as well mark it down now. You might as well, Brother Tom, let him lock you up right now, because that's where you're going to end up. Right? Might as well just get your cut reserved. That's where you're going to be. But if you want to be wise and you want to be someone that God can use in great, great ways, you say, God, you teach me everything you can How many people recognize the name Sam Morse? Anybody recognize that? Samuel Morse. Anybody recognize the name now? Do you know that Samuel Morris was a godly Christian? A man of great faith? He was considered by most people to be a genius. He was asked one time if he ever encountered situations where he did not know what to do. I mean, he was considered such a genius, they thought there's never a such situation. Where Samuel Morris doesn't know what to do. His response was this, yes, more than once. And he said, Whenever I could not see my way clearly, I knelt down and prayed to God for light and understanding. That is wisdom and that is humility. Went on. Morris received many honors for his invention of the telegraph, but he always felt undeserving. I have made a valuable application of electricity, not because I was superior to other men, but solely because of God. God meant it for mankind and must reveal it to someone, and he was pleased to reveal it to me. There is a man who has great knowledge, but he has great wisdom. And he says, and he fears God. Listen, he didn't get that way by being stupid. He didn't get that way by despising learning. I don't want to learn about electricity. I don't want to learn the facts about, I don't want to learn all that. There's nothing to do with me. No, no, no. He was wise and he loved learning. And he applied it and he gave glory to God. Amen? Amen. Now listen, I've met some folks, you know, back hills, West Virginia, had third-grade education, and that were smarter and wiser than some professors I had in university. I'm not just exalting book learning. I am saying this. Let's be wise. Let's ask God. Read Proverbs chapter 2, the first 10, 12, 13 verses. He says, if you pursue after wisdom, if you seek it like you work for silver and you get after gold, you found out there's a million dollars in silver hidden in that field or that hillside out there You go out there and dig and find. He said, if you go after wisdom and knowledge the same way you go after bucks and dollars, you'll get it. You'll find it. Because wisdom is the principal thing. Therefore, get wisdom. How many people here say, preacher, I would like to have a little more wisdom than what I do? Anyone here feel like that? So I'm preparing us, I'm praying God. I got a verse for you. If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God. Who give it to all men liberally. Maybe tonight there's a lot of us. It'd be good for us to be on the altar and say, God, give me wisdom. Teach me to fear you. I believe God would hear that and God would answer that. Father, I pray you bless this message. Lord, we want to be wise. We want to be able to take the truths of your word and the truths of life and apply it to our lives in a way that brings glory to you and that fulfills your will. For our existence. Bless our young people. Bless our senior citizens and all of us in between. Give us wisdom. Give us a hunger to learn of you and know you And then live for you. Heads bowed, eyes closed, say, preacher, that's my prayer tonight. That God would give me wisdom. Help me not be foolish. But to be hunger, hunger for truth and knowledge. Any like that? Uplifted hand preacher, that's my heart. God bless you. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.