Ezekiel chapter three. I already read verses sixteen through twenty-one during scripture reading. I'll read them again here in just a moment. But this is what I'll do. We'll pray and then we'll look at some things in chapter one and I'll give a little bit of background here and then we'll get into the the message. The title is Who's America's Watchman? Who's America's Watchman? Lord, I thank you for this day that you've given us. I thank you for our nation, Lord, and I thank you for those that have signed up to defend it, Lord. We're to give honor to whom honor is due, Lord, and sometimes it just feels inadequate just to say thank you or or even to have a special day like this. But Lord help us to express the honor that is due to these men and women. And we're grateful for them, Lord, and we're grateful for you and for your sending Christ, Lord. We're thankful for the sacrifice He made. so that we can have a home in heaven. Lord, now as we look at this passage out of Ezekiel this morning, I pray you would fill me with your Spirit, Lord. I pray you'd clear my mind of any distractions, anything else going on. But Lord, not just me, but everyone here, that all of us would be able to just stay focused on your word and focused on what you have for us. And um Lord, I pray that you would just take over the service now, and it's in Jesus' name. Amen. I like the book of Ezekiel. Um I I've I've really been enjoying going through uh just on my own for my own self uh my own uh reading and things. I I've been enjoying going through the prophets. Uh there's a lot in there. There really is. And it it seems like every every one of the prophets when you read it, whether it's Hosea, Ezekiel or Amos, no matter which one you're reading, it feels like it's current events, doesn't it? It's it's it's just fascinating. We say the Bible's a living book. It is. It's quick, it's uh it's powerful And it feels like we're reading things from today. There was someone we were talking to uh when we were down in North Carolina, and of course that was right after when we were down there for Sherathon, that was right after um the the terrorist attack on uh Israel and um and I pointed out to someone I was like, well you know and Amos it mentions Gaza and what they're gonna do and what God's gonna do because of it And it's like it was happening, you know, it's just like it's alive right now, something that was written all that time ago. The places are there, the the events are there, and the Bible's a living book, and it's amazing But anyway, as far as Ezekiel goes, and this isn't going to be expository through the entire book of Ezekiel in 30 minutes. Uh but just to give a little bit of background what's going on, um Ezekiel is if you read in chapter one here, and he's sitting by uh the river uh Kiebar in verse 3. Chibar, Kibar, however you want to say that, whatever the correct pronunciation is. He's sitting by this river and he's in the land of the Chaldeans Ezekiel was um among the f uh one of the ones in the first group of captivity. And uh so when when when The Lord appears to him. If you look at the time frame of this, and you can get you can gather that here from chapter one, this is actually his thirtieth birthday. His thirtieth birthday. And that's kind of significant because he was um he was to be a priest. And if you do much study in the Old Testament, 30 is when they would start their official duties and things like that. So this is on that day, his birthday, and he's in a different land So that that that needs to kind of all you know when when I first put that together and I was reading different commentaries and stuff like that, putting it all together, I'm like Well that would be kind of interesting to be in a foreign land on the day I'm supposed to start my priestly duties and I'm not. But what happens though is g God doesn't necessarily commission him to be working in the temple at that time, but God appears to him and commissions him to be a prophet. And we see that in chapter 2 and chapter 3. But he was 30 years old when this happened. So, and it says in verse 1 of chapter 1, it came to pass in the thirteenth year, in the fourth month, and fifth day of the month, as I was among the captive uh captives by the river Kieber, the heavens were open, and I saw vision visions of God. So God comes and speaks to him, and in the first few chapters, God uh shows up and he gives him his word. Um he gives him his this his scroll and he uh he he speaks to him, he talks to him, and they talk back and forth and God says what he's going uh to commission him to do. In chapter 2, verse 3, he says, And he said unto me, Son of man, I send thee to the children of Israel. And so that was going to be his mission. That was going to be his job. He's going to go back to Israel, and he was going to be a prophet. And again, going on in verse 3, to a rebellious nation that hath rebelled against me They and their fathers have transgressed against me even unto this day. For they are impudent children, and stiff-hearted I do send thee unto them. And thou shalt say unto them, thus saith the Lord God. And you go on the rest of chapter two. He says some of what he's going to say, and of course throughout the book, God is giving him words to say. And then in uh chapter three is the the text that I just read. I'll read it again in verse sixteen. It came to pass at the end of seven days the word of the Lord came unto me, saying Son of man, I have made thee a watchman unto the house of Israel. Therefore, hear the word of my mouth, and give them warning from me. When I say unto the wicked, thou shalt surely die, and thou givest him not warning, nor speakest to warn the wicked from his wicked way to save his life. The same wicked man shall die in his iniquity, but his blood will require at thine hand. Yet if thou warn the wicked and he turn not from his wickedness, nor from his wicked way, he shall die in his iniquity But thou hast delivered thy soul. Again, when a righteous man doth turn from his righteousness and commit iniquity, and I lay a stumbling block before him, he shall die because thou hast not given him warning He shall die in his sin, and his righteousness which we ha which he hath done shall not be remembered, but his blood will I require thy hand. Nevertheless, if thou warn the righteous man But the righteous sin not, and he doth not sin, he sh shall surely live, because he is warned also thou hast delivered thy soul. So he uh kind of gives a little summary of what he's going to be doing here. Um he summarizes it there in chapter two, and then this section here in chapter three in these few verses, he summarizes what Ezekiel is going to be doing. He's going to be acting as a watchman, as a guard, as a lookout. A watchman is the is the word he used. He's going to be a watchman for the house of Israel. He's going to be warning the wicked of their wickedness and God's judgment on sin and and they need to turn from that and what will happen if they don't. And um he's also needs to be going to be warning the righteous um uh to not turn from their righteousness. And if there is a a righteous person that turns from their righteousness, he'd be warning them as well. And if you go through the book of Ezekiel There is full of warnings to um just the people and the sin, and there's also warnings to the priest and things like that. So uh Ezekiel was definitely doing his best here in the book to do that message. Then if you go through the rest of the book, um a lot of it is uh Ezekiel We might use the the the term street preaching, but it was more more of like street acting. And if you look at some of the things he did, um he like for example he he built a model of Jerusalem and laid a model siege against uh Jerusalem and was saying what was going to happen, things like that. And um did some other things that were we might look at it as bizarre, but there was purpose and meaning behind it. And uh so he was using a lot of different illustrations in his preaching, in his prophesying. And uh saying what would happen, things like that. So um he did what he was supposed to do. And the the point is, is, and then what I want to focus on is these few verses, 16 through 21 about Ezekiel's responsibility to be a watchman. Now if you go to chapter 33, the wording here is very similar. And again this shows that Ezekiel was wanting to do what God wanted him to do. And if you look at Ezekiel chapter 33 Again the verse one, again the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, Son of man, speak to the children of thy people, saying to them, When I bring the sword upon the land of the people of the land, take a man of their coast and set him for their watchmen If when he seeth the sword come upon the land, he blow the trumpet and warned the people, whosoever heareth the sound of the trumpet and taketh not warning, the sword come and take him away, his blood shall be upon his own head He heard the sound of the trumpet, took not warning, his blood shall be upon him, but he that taketh warning shall deliver his soul. But if the watchman see the sword come and blow not the trumpet, and the people Be not warned. The sword come and take any person from among them. He is taken away in his iniquity, but his blood will I require at the watchman's hand. It's pretty strong, isn't it? So thou, O son of man, I have set thee a watchman unto the house of Israel. Therefore thou shalt hear the word of my mouth. And warn them from me. When I say unto the wicked, O wicked man, thou shalt surely die, if thou dost not speak to warn the wicked from his way, that wicked man shall die in his iniquity. But his blood will I require at thy hand. So very, very similar wording there to chapter 3, if you can see that. So Ezekiel would go on to warn the people. And we know that they didn't listen. They rejected his preaching. They rejected his word. And more destruction came. So Ezekiel took his uh his job very seriously to the point to where he was doing some of these just elaborate uh acts, elaborate illustrations um while he was uh preaching to the people. It was definitely evident that Ezekiel had a passion for his people. He loved the people. So God God Not only did God call him, but I believe God placed a burden on his heart for his own people. And I believe he had a burden to start with for his own people as well, and God just reinvigorated that or not recharged it, but Amplify it. That's the word I want to use. But anyway, so he took it very seriously. There's just a couple observations here before I get into my applications. If Ezekiel Wasn't to warn the people, he'd have been held accountable for it. Verse 18, when I say unto the wicked, Thou shalt surely die, we're back in chapter 3, I'm sorry. When I say unto the wicked, Thou shalt surely die, now givest him not warning. Nor speakest to warn the wicked from his wicked way, to save his life. Save his life. Same wicked man shall die in his iniquity, but his blood will I require at thy hand. The business that Ezekiel was called to was a life saving business. To save his life. The wages of sin is Sin brings death. And we know that. Sin brings destruction. The reason for death in the world is because of sin. And so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned. More sin, more death, you know. And so Ezekiel was in a life-saving business, and that life-saving business was to warn the people. of their sin and the consequences of it. I don't want to get too far ahead of myself, but it sounds kind of similar to what our job is, you know He was in the life-saving business. If he did not warn the people, they were going to die. If he did warn them, they they may have died or they may not have, which now looking back on it, we can see that they didn't listen and they they went through destruction and everything. You know, if if and he was saying if they they they do listen, then they won't die. If they don't listen, they'll die. But at least they have the opportunity If Ezekiel would have neglected his responsibility, the people would have gone through destruction without even having the opportunity. Without having the opportunity. So again, I'm just pointing some things out here. Now when this something again, this isn't some one of my points, but just observations about Ezekiel's story. When when he was commissioned, he wasn't exactly in a good place. When God showed up and and told him what to do, and he saw the vision of of God and All of that, he wasn't at home. He was in captivity, and he says it in verse 1 of chapter 1. He was in captivity. It wasn't exactly an easy task. Er well yeah, it was definitely his task was not easy. He was kind of in a rough spot in his life. If you know it. You know what I mean? It's just observations here. We'll connect them all later. Israel completely rejected God. It's the reason that he was in captivity to start with, and they were going to go through even more destruction. Israel had completely rejected God and that was the like I said, the cause of the captivity to start with. They they made and there was a a lot of religious people And they may not have openly said, well, some of them actually did, but their actions they rejected God. They were going against God, and I'm not going to get too much into it, because this is still just all introduction and everything, but They were they were worshiping idols in the temple and everything that went along with that. They were everything that went along with um the the pagan worship, it uh it just some awful, awful stuff. And they were using the temple to do it, and even in the book of Ezekiel, when he sees when he sees God and he sees God's chariot, so to speak, and he sees it leave. The temple, because it's just what was going on there. God's presence wasn't there. It is is is it is a mess And not only was there sin in the temple, there was sin in the court, there was sin in the home, and if you read through some of the stuff going on in in in in chapter twenty-two, we'll get here there in a little bit, but it was just filthy. It was wicked. Israel had not only rejected God as a nation, but as the individual, the families, the just It it was awful. It was awful. And so you have a very, very wicked nation That claimed to be God's people, that claimed to be a God's nation, and they were just absolutely wicked And you have a man on his thirtieth birthday, when he should be a priest. He's in captivity, and he gets commissioned to not be a priest in the temple, but to be a prophet, to do a job differently than what probably he had dreamed of. Which was much more difficult of a job. You see, the the th this is a tough picture This is a tough thing that he's going through, both what the nation's going through and what Ezekiel is experiencing himself. But he has a he has a call. He has an obligation. And then again in chapter 2, verse 3, God says, I'm sending you. I send thee to the children of Israel. Verse 16, uh he says he makes of chapter 3, he makes them a uh verse 17, excuse me, I have made thee a watchman. And he says again in chapter 33, and throughout the book, the word of the Lord comes to him, the word of the Lord comes to him, the word of the Lord comes to him to warn the people. To warn the people. So, all of this being put together, and we know what the outcome now of what happened, they did not listen. In fact, he actually knew they weren't going to. But he still did what he was supposed to do anyway, which again let me l this is just me thinking here. And I I always tell the teens, I'll tell you if it's my opinion, and this is my this is just me thinking I wonder how many of us would give up just because we know we're not going to win. Now I I know we read the end of the book, we know we win in the end, but I'm talking about our nation right now. How many people are saying it's too far gone, we're not going to win Does that mean we should not fight? Wouldn't integrity fight anyway, knowing that we're up against uh up against it Now again I'm not talking in terms of Christianity. Of course we know we win. We we know that. But I'm say uh anyway, that's that's just me uh thinking. And I'm glad that Ezekiel did what he was supposed to do, even though he he knew the people wouldn't listen. So, alright, let's go through this. I've got uh six points I believe, and uh I usually go through them real fast. You you know that. So number one, how does this apply to us? Well the obvious one is I believe America is in a very similar spot. America has rejected God the way Israel did. We claim to be a Christian nation. And much of what we see in our culture is very Christian-ish, very Christian-like in our culture. And uh the the influence of Christianity and the influence of the Bible is still seen throughout our whole country and everything. I understand that. Um but in our actions, in our legislation, in our agendas, we're wicked I understand the country was founded on the Word of God. It was. And I'm grateful for that, and you can still see the effects of that, and we are still reaping the benefits and blessings of that. America was built on that. In God We Trust is our slogan. Armato, not slogan. Motto. Is a slogan motto the same thing? No, it's not, is it? Not technically. It's armato. But we have promoted, just to name a few, evolution, humanism. The new religion now is wokeism. We promoted murder in and out of the womb. We promoted sodomy. We promoted bestiality. And is being promoted in our towns, in our schools, in our libraries There's something wrong with all of it. It's being promoted in our churches. And I'm not trying to pick on any certain Denomination or any certain um sect. But when you have a church That claims to be a part of the Bride of Christ and claims to be Christian and is not only allowing but promoting. Homosexuality, transing our kids, abortion In God's house, I see no difference than what was going on in the book of Ezekiel. And you know, just I'm thinking again, I'm just thinking. The picture of that uh of uh when he saw the vision, he saw that that that moving away from the temple, going into Babylon. I'm wondering if some of our local churches God's left And again I'm getting personal, I know that. But my heart has just absolutely broken. James, you started it you started getting teared up first, so it's your fault. But I I am just I told you about my grandpa, one of my heroes. He got he was he got shot at. I'm looking at Brother Miller. He was in combat and a lot of you as were as well. World War II on forward. And I mean the the the the people that died The people that gave their life I don't think they gave their life uh so that we can reject God and reject even go to the point of hating America. And it breaks my heart to see where we're at. And I believe it broke Ezekiel's heart. But America has rejected God. To pinpoint when, I think you could go back to the late 1800s, maybe, with the introduction of evolution. Of course it wasn't Taught everywhere, but that's when it started creeping in, but then you get it into nineteen forty seven Where the entire definition of the the phrase separation of church and state was redefined to change what it meant for four hundred years So now all of a sudden they're saying we gotta keep God out of government, which is the exact opposite of what it meant Then you fast forward to nineteen sixty four or seven, when that case was to get rid of voluntary prayer. In school? That this just makes no sense. Voluntary prayer? And then in eighty five it it was the case that got rid of voluntary silent prayer, how are they gonna know if I'm praying silently? Maybe like in uh when when um Oh, he caught Hannah praying silently. You know what I'm talking about? Maybe like that. That's just silly. It is not just a drift From God it is an outright attack on the very thing that our country was built on We have seen evolution, we've seen humanism, we've seen the attack on the other institutions, not only that of government, we've seen the attack on the family, we've seen the attack on the ch So we need to be aware of the fact that we are under attack. America has rejected God. And any attack on understand this, any attack on God, and any attack on God's word is an attack on the United States. So we have a duty. Second application, we have an obligation, we have a duty. Verse 18 and 19 of chapter 3, when I say unto the wicked, Thou shalt surely die, and thou givest him not warning. Do you think there's wicked people in our country? So so if Look look look at verse 17. When when I say unto the wicked, Thou shalt surely die, and thou givest him not warning. When's the last time you warned the wicked? Oh, they're there. There's an abundance. When's the last time you said something to them? You know what we tend to do? Complain. We will complain so much about how far things have gotten and I you've heard me say it before too, the teens have at all the time. Because to them I'm old, okay. So I said back in my day, you know, back in two thousand ten when I graduated, you know see now you all think I'm young, right? Yeah, they think I'm old for see. But I'll say, man, back in my day it wasn't nearly this bad, and you'd probably say the same thing to me. But that's what we like to do. We like to complain But where is the interaction with the wicked? When are we confronting them? When are we warning them? Ezekiel's job was not to go to Jerusalem and complain to all of his buddies about how terrible everything is. His job was to go and warn the people. To warn the wicked. I understand we got we got in Maryland especially, we got some nuts But is it my responsibility to not like cashews, okay? Is it my responsibility to just sit and talk to you and this is my sermon, I'm going to complain. No, my responsibility is to say something to them. A few weeks ago, I printed up those papers that had all the contact information for our representatives. That's what we should be doing. But not we should be saying this is how we feel about the border, this is how we feel about abortion, this is how we feel about gun control, this is how we f we should be doing that But w more importantly than that, I think we should be witnessing to them Uh one thing I like about Capital Connection is we just go and pray with them, you know. We show up and we pray with them and then like we say we don't want anything. We just pray with them, we give them something we try to witness to them as well. Sometimes we get to, sometimes we don't But we have an obligation to the wicked. And what a shame, what's a shame is you have people that aren't even Christians. They've rejected God, they've rejected Christ, and they're the ones that are standing up to the wicked, and they're wicked. We have Muslims in school board meetings standing up to the wicked, and they're wicked. We have uh people that are atheists that just have common sense standing up to the And they're not they're wicked. You know what I mean? My voice is cracking. You know what I mean? Getting excited. Why are we sitting back and complaining? That's not our job. Our job is to read chapter 33, blow the trumpet. Blow the trumpet. Warn somebody. If we can read the Bible, which I believe we all can, if we can read history, I believe we all can We have seen what's happened. Every single time in history a nation has accepted these principles, socialism, sodomy. Breakdown of the family, communistic agendas, ever rejection of God, promotion of uh of of humanism. Every time these things happen The nation's overthrown from within or from without. Why would I not warn somebody? How much would I have to hate my country for me to not say anything to the wicked? How anti-American would I have to be for me to not warn the wicked And I submit to you that's exactly what we are. I love my country, please don't misunderstand, but I think a lot of people just kind of like America but don't love it. Because if you loved it, you'd protect it. And I'm grateful for those who have signed up to physically protect it. But where's a war going on that's going on in the po in the political realm, in the social realm, and it's it's not with bullets It's with philosophies and ideas that go against God's word. And we have abandoned our best weapons, which are God's word and prayer. And we are not warning the wicked. We have a responsibility, we have a duty, we have an obligation to be a watchman to the United States. Me and Dale were talking a little bit last night. We were praying before service. And to see this to see the state Of some different areas of our own nation. I Dave, I think we were talking about that a couple weeks ago when you rode with me. We've got it pretty good here. There's a lot of places in America that don't have it this good. We got it pretty safe here. There's a lot of places in America that don't have it this safe. We got a lot of freedom here. There's a lot of places in our in our nation that don't have as much freedom as we have. In various areas. And it's it the the we we we get comfortable. We sit in our little bubble, we sit in our our little county, which is a very conservative county, and I'm grateful for that. I'm very grateful for that, and I'm grateful for our conservative elected officials here, and I'm grateful for that. But we have an obligation to our nation. Now I want you to watch this. Look at verse 20. We have a duty not only to the wicked, but also to the righteous. Verse 20, chapter 3. Again, when a righteous man doth turn from his righteousness and commit iniquity Thou lay stumbling block before him, that he die, because thou hast not given him warning. He shall die in his sins, and his righteousness which he hath done shall not be remembered, but his blood requireth thy hand I have a responsibility not just to warn the wicked, but to warn the righteous. You have a responsibility not just to warn the wicked, but to warn the righteous. There is no reason a righteous, a saved person, there is no reason for a Christian To accept some of the practices of the wicked. To accept the agenda of the wicked. I mentioned it earlier, and that is what's going on in a lot of our churches. These churches that were righteous and they were right, and maybe we didn't agree with them on everything, but they preached salvation by grace through faith. And now they're accepting The way of the wicked, it's our responsibility to warn the righteous. Because what's going to happen? God will lay a stumbling block before them, and they might die. And whose fault will it be? Ours. Because we didn't warn 'em. Now if we do warn 'em and they do it, But I have a duty. I have a responsibility. Every believer has this duty and responsibility. If the watchman can see and not do anything about it, it's his fault. It's my fault if I don't do anything about it. So third thing we need to prepare. If you look at it throughout the entire book of Ezekiel, God's talking with Ezekiel, he's talking with God. If you look at chapters 1, 2, 3 here especially God's giving him his word. He's giving him his word. He's telling him what to say. Here's the point I want to make. We have got to spend time with God We can't go into this level of a spiritual conflict unarmed And I believe, again, opinion, but I think it makes sense. I think one reason that that this stuff is happening so quickly and so fast Is because Christians are ill equipped. And whose fault is that? The Christians. Listen, when you're fourteen Your mom and dad make you come to church. Right? That's good. I think that's good, don't you? Hey, hey, say it's good. Say it's good. Come on. Huh? I know you want to come. I'm gonna get there. Okay. Yeah, so he wants to come. Good. Very good. I need to get someone else to work with here. So when you when you're young you can have someone you can you can ha that your parents can make you come to church. That that's good. I think parents should do that. I think that's great But whose responsibility is it for me to read the Bible? It's mine. Whose responsibility, even though they can tell you to come to church or else, Whose responsibility is it to read the Bible for yourself? Yours. Yours. You've worked with me that time. Good job. I don't think the reason our that that Christians are ill-equipped isn't because we don't have a Bible, because we've got plenty of them. I don't think it's because of I mean we we have access to as much information as we want in seconds. I think it's just we're that lazy We're too lazy to read the Bible. We're too lazy to study the Bible. And we we're not arming ourselves. We're not loading the magazines to to take into combat and we're going into combat with nothing. Of course we're gonna lose our country quickly. It would be silly to think we wouldn't. And and I know I'm young, thirty-two. But I have seen so much change in the past fifteen years. When w I remember when I was in high school and California legalized gay marriage, everyone flipped. It's like how in the world? It's like what I mean and everyone was like infuriated. But you know what they did? Nothing. Then now then Maryland did it. It was question six. I'll never forget question six Do you guys remember that? That was like the f I think that was the I think that was my first election actually that I got to vote in. And so then Maryland legalized it and then some other states did and then the country did in 2012 And and don't get me wrong, that that's an abomination. It's a it's a perversion of God's design. But that's kind of mild what they're doing right now. It's not mild, don't get me wrong. But it's just it gets worse and worse and worse and worse and worse and worse. And you know what we do? We talk about it And we don't warn the wicked, and we don't warn the righteous. It is my responsibility to warn the wicked and to warn the righteous, and it is my responsibility to be prepared. I have got to get in God's Word. I have got to study God's Word. And I've got to also know a little something about my country's history and its documents, understand the way it works. I've got to have some ammunition here If I'm going to go and confront someone like I'm supposed to, I better know at least I'm not saying you gotta have a PhD, but you gotta be a little bit Self-educated. You gotta know it doesn't take that long to read our Constitution or Declaration. You can read them both in less than an hour. We need to be prepared. We need to be aware. We need to be aware, and this is that's number four. We need to watch what's going on. Now don't get obsessed with the news and watch the news all the time. It's not accurate anyway. They don't even know what they're talking about. Actually, what's funny is you get more accurate news from Australian news companies than you do from United States news companies. That's whatever. But anyway, so Don't don't spend your whole day glued to your phone and glued to the TV and watching news. But you do need to be aware of what's going on. Because you need to know what the wicked is that you're supposed to warn against. We were not supposed to have our head buried in the sand. Supposed to be aware. You know, a good think about the watchman up. He's up on the wall, he's in the tower, and he's looking out, and oh look, the army's coming. I didn't see anything. I didn't see anything. Well he's still not doing his job. That's a bad watchman. Needs to be alert. Needs to know what's going on. And I think that's another area that a lot of us have failed. By us, I don't mean you and me. Um, I mean uh us as American Christians, I think we failed because, well, that just doesn't affect me. Yes, it does. Yes, it does. And it's our responsibility to be a watchman. So if we neglect our duty to the lost, they will perish. If we don't neglect our duty, they may perish, they may not. If we neglect our duty to the righteous, when they turn from their way, God will put a stumbling block before them, they shall die. It'll be our fault. But if we do, they might just they might just fix it. It's worth a chance, I think. I think it's worth a shot. And even like Ezekiel, even if you know that they're not going to listen, do it anyway. Do it anyway. You know, that's an excuse we give a lot when we're supposed to witness to someone. Well, I witness to them, but they're just not going to listen. You'd be surprised how many people have gotten saved where I thought they're just not going to listen Now a lot of times they don't listen. But sometimes they do. And all of this in mind, and that that I'm kind of saving it for one of my last points, but I might as well talk about it now This is a great application, not just for our nation, but for our job as ambassadors for Christ. There is wicked all around us, there is lost all around us. How much do I have to hate them to not warn them? How much do I have to hate someone for them to go to hell and me not care about it No, God called us to be watchmen. But for our for to to to tell people about Christ, we want to see them saved, but also I believe God's called watchmen for our nation. If we fulfill our responsibility, there's one of two outcomes, either one, the nation will be saved Or two, the nation will be judged, but at least they'll have an opportunity. But we we can know for sure that if Christians are silent We're doomed. If Christians are bad watchmen, we're doomed. How rapidly things happen in three years. Where will we be three years from now? Ten years from now? Fifteen years from now? It's hard to tell. So the way I kind of want to finish the service this morning I just want to ask this question. Where is America's Watchmen? Where's the young man that's gonna blow the trumpet? Where's the young men and young women that are gonna stand up and warn the wicked You see the sword coming. You better blow that trumpet. I've heard people say, well, it's too late. America is already being judged. I believe that there is judgment coming on us now, and I believe that's one of the reasons we're in the place we're in. But you you better believe believe me. It could be a whole lot worse. I don't know that we'll ever see America get back to what it was before. But we can definitely keep it from being overthrown completely Can y'all tell I'm passionate about this? I care about my country a lot. And I know you do too. Where are the watchmen? Ezekiel was called to be a watchman to his nation. If you go to Ezekiel 22, you don't have to go there. Very famous chapter here, Ezekiel 22. He spends the whole the whole chapter talking about how wicked things have gotten. I mean, it's just some some awful, awful stuff. And he talks about the sins of Israel, the sins of I mean th st th family sins, uh sins in the temple, sins of the nation. He goes on and on and on. And then vr he gets to verse twenty-eight, and the prophets have daubed them with untempered mortar, seeing vanity and Uh dividing lies among dives um unto them, excuse me, saying, Thus saith the Lord God, when the Lord hath not spoken. Quoting God, saying God said this, but he didn't say it. Verse 29, the people of the land have used oppression. Oppression exercised robbery Have vexed the poor, the needy, oppressed the stranger wrongfully, and I sought for a man among them that should make up the hedge and stand in the gap Before me, for the land, that I should not destroy it. But I found none. Who's who's who's the man? Who is he? Who's the young lady? Or old lady? I didn't say that. Who's the watchman? Who's the one that's gonna go to the United States? Who's the one that's gonna go to? We just went to those res that reservation out there. He's in his eight eighties and he's had four people that I know of, I think he said four, have come out and and and haven't been able to take over. That whole area about the size of the state of Connecticut. There's gonna be no in no gospel influence there. Who's going to go to those reservations? In the United States. Who's the watchman? Who's the watchman that's going to go to California, the seat of the liberal agenda? Who's gonna go to Chicago with all the violence and murder and drugs Hey who's who's gonna be the watchman to go down to the to our southern border and try to win some of these people coming across? Who's the watchman that's going to those villages in Alaska that you can only get to by plane or sometimes if it's warm enough in the summer by boat? Hundreds of these native villages and there's no there they don't have any they don't have any church Who's going to ham track Michigan? Every member of their government's Muslim Who's going to Dearborn, Michigan? 60% of their population's Muslim. They have the they they have um um what do they call that? They have their their own p the not police, but you know what I'm talking about Who's going to New England? It used to be the the seat of you know back in the day that that was Baptist Central. A lot of other denominations too, I know that, but Who's going to New England? All those people. Who's going to be the watchman that goes to Oregon? Goes to Portland. Who's gonna be the watchman? It goes to the United States before it's too late. God's looking for someone. You ain't gotta be You ain't gotta be good. You just gotta be available. He'll use you. Heads bowed, eyes closed My prayer for this morning was that maybe God would call someone to be a missionary to the foreign country of the United States. It doesn't feel like the same country it did a few years ago, does it? In a lot of ways it is a foreign. We need some missionaries to go to the United States. If our country slips through the cracks here, that's gonna affect foreign missions as well. One of the greatest things you can do for foreign missions is to support domestic missions. I believe that. It used to be that our churches were pumping out missionaries to the fore and field left and right, but not so much anymore. Now it's hard for a church to even find a pastor. Could it be someone here? So if God's calling me to be some sort of missionary to the United States I'd be willing. Maybe you don't know for a fact. You should just say, I'd be willing. Could you raise your hand? I'd be willing. I see a few hands. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. I don't know what that would look like. I don't know what that would mean. But God's looking for someone, someone to stand in the gap so he doesn't have to destroy the land Who's gonna do it? You're here and you don't know Christ as your Savior, that is the best thing you can do for your country is to trust Christ as your Savior. That's not the primary reason. I understand that But righteousness exalts a nation. The only way you can have a righteous nation is if it has righteous people living by the righteous principles. And if you're not sure if you died right now you go to heaven, this is your opportunity. Say, Pastor Matt, pray for me. I'm not sure I'm going to heaven, but I'm concerned about that. Could you slip your hand up? Alright, and I we're gonna come to invitation now. You can stand. I I'm not exactly sure how to give the invitation other than maybe just pray for your nation. Maybe this. Maybe this Maybe there's someone that would come down front here and just give your life to God for the sake of the country. There's someone that has come and surrender to be a watchman for our land. When she starts playing the altar's open.