Joshua. I don't have any stories to tell in the message, so I figured I'd better start with a story because some of y'all are like, if you don't tell a story, we're going to be miserable. Joshua chapter 24. Joshua chapter 24. Look at this passage of scripture Joshua's coming to the end of his life. We heard from Joshua chapter 1 this morning, Brother Leatherman, what a message. Can I tell you the key? The key to you leaving this conference and being different is what we learned this morning from Brother Leatherman. Get in the Bible. Get in the Bible. Stay in the Bible. Brother Kurt. Well let me just ask you publicly. Let me just ask you. How many of y'all have ever read a portion of the scripture and thought, I don't have a clue what I just read? Anyone? By the way, I'm looking for adults too. Any adults ever read the Okay, good. I'm I'm cause my hand's up and I'm thinking, ha I hope I'm not the only idiot here. There's been times you read a passage of scripture and I'll finish reading the scripture and I'll think, whoa, what was that? Can I tell you? Don't don't read I'm not telling you not to read those. What I'm saying is at at your age right now, hey, why don't why don't you go to Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Acts, Romans First, second Corinthians. Why don't we go through some of those those the the life of Christ? Let's learn. Let's go through the Pauline epistles. Let's let's look read Ephesians, Ephesians, Galatians, Philippians, all those. I'm getting out of order. You know what I'm talking about Let's read them. Let's let God speak to our heart. Grow in Christ. Hey, it's not just your youth pastor or pastor or teacher's job to read the Bible. You can, at 12 years old. You can at twelve years old read the Bible and understand it. You can. You can So let's read it. Let's get in the Bible. You can as a senior in high school read the Bible and understand it. By the way, if you're a senior in high school Go to some of those other passages that may be a little tougher and start reading them. And then maybe get a youth pastor along the side and call them and say, hey, what's this mean? And watch him scramble. Hey, I was just reading in Ezekiel. What's this wheel within the wheel thing? And just watch him say, uh, uh, let me get back with you. I don't I don't know And put them to the test on it. Joshua chapter 24. The end of Joshua's life. Joshua's coming to the to the twilight of his life. He's getting ready to die. And he gives a challenge to the people. He gives a challenge to those around him. And he wants them to understand life's getting ready. He's getting ready to go to heaven But there's more in store for them. Look at Joshua chapter 24, beginning in verse number 13. I love this passage of Scripture. Some of these verses will be very familiar. Some of them not quite as familiar. Joshua chapter 13, or Joshua chapter 24, verse 13. The Bible says this. And I have given you God speaking to the children of Israel. And I have given you a land for which you do not labor. And cities which ye built not, and ye dwell in them. Of the vineyards and olive yards which ye planted not, do ye eat Verse 14, now therefore, fear the Lord and serve him in sincerity and truth. Did you hear what Joshua just told him? Because I've been so good, God says, Because I've been so good to you, God says, now fear the Lord and serve him. Serve him in sincerity and in truth. And put away the gods which your fathers served, which are on the other side of the flood, and in Egypt, and serve ye the Lord. And if it seem evil unto you to serve the Lord, probably one of the most familiar verses in all of Joshua. And if it seem evil unto you to serve the Lord, choose you this day whom ye will serve. Do you hear what God and Joshua are telling the children of Israel? Time for you to choose. By the way, he wasn't just talking to adults. He's talking to teenagers too, and he says, Choose, make a choice, choose you this day whom you will serve, whether the gods which your father served that were on the other side of the flood, or the gods of the Amorites in whose land you dwell. And then Joshua says, But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. We're going to serve God If we're alone in it, we're going to serve God. He goes on in the verse 16. And the people answered and said, God forbid that we should forsake the Lord to serve other gods. I love their answer. Here the people look back at Joshua. Joshua's getting ready to die. And Joshua says to him, You've got to make a choice. You make a choice to serve God. And even if you choose not to, I'm still going to serve God. And the people looked back at Joshua and said, Hey, God forbid. We will serve the Lord. We're not going to forsake God. We're going to serve God. Verse 17, for the Lord our God, He it is that brought us up and our fathers out of the land of Egypt from the house of bondage, and which did those great signs in our sight and preserved us in all the way, wherein we went, and among all the people throughout or through whom we passed. And the Lord drave out from before us all the people, even the Amorites which dwelt in the land. Therefore, we will also serve the Lord, for he is our God. And Joshua said to the people: listen to this answer: Ye cannot serve the Lord. Here's Joshua. Joshua's looking back at him saying, Wait, wait, wait. You say you're going to serve God. He says you cannot serve the Lord. Here's why he says it: For he is an holy God. A holy God wants holy people. He goes on and says, He is a jealous God. In other words, he's not going to share you with your PlayStation. He's not going to share you with your with your with your your car with your hobbies you have. God is a jealous God. God wants you. He goes on and says, He will not forgive your transgressions all your sins. What he's saying is, you're going to say, I want God, but you're just doing lip service to God. God is not looking to play games in your life God wants you. Bible says in verse 20, if ye forsake the Lord and serve strange gods. Then he will turn and do you hurt and consume you after that he hath done you good. And the people said unto Joshua, Nay. Sorry. But we will serve the Lord. We will serve the Lord. I love the passion, I love their heart. Joshua verse 22, here he goes again. Joshua said unto the people, ye are witnesses against yourselves. That ye have chosen the Lord, chosen you the Lord, to serve him. And they said, We are witnesses. Then he says, Now therefore put away, he said, said he, the strange gods which are among you, and incline your heart unto the Lord God of Israel. And the people said unto Joshua, The Lord our God we will serve His voice we will obey. So Joshua made a covenant with the people that day and set them a statute and an ordinance in Shechem. I look at this passage of Scripture and I see some things in this passage of Scripture that are just as true in our life in 2022 as it was in Joshua's day, some three, four, five thousand years ago I want you to see what's true. I see, number one, Joshua tells the people, number one, God has been so good to you. He actually describes how God's been good to him. Verses 5 through 13. I won't go back through and read them again. I won't read them. You can read them later. Joshua chapter 24, verses 5 through 14. Or thirteen, he talks about how he delivered them out of bondage. He said, Hey, you you've been in bondage, you've been in sin But I'm here to tell you. I'm taking you out. And he rehearses it. He goes through d being in Egypt as slaves and how he brought him out of Egypt. You remember how he brought him out of Egypt? You remember how Moses you rehearsed it last night. I won't go through the history again. But he brought him out of bondage, out of Egypt, all the plagues, and finally Pharaoh says, Let my pe er Moses says, let my pff people go. And Pharaoh said, No way, Jose, the first nine times. He didn't even know Spanish. And then finally, the tenth time, he finally said, Alright, get your people and get out. Get out! Go! They go to the Red Sea, they go across the Red Sea, God parts the water, and as you said last night, he God drowned the the Egyptian army as they tried to follow through. God did a great work. God was so good to the children of Israel. You say, yeah, but they spent forty years in in the wilderness wandering Well, why did they spend 40 years in the wilderness wandering? Was that God's fault? Whose fault was it? It was theirs. Why? Because they chose to do it their own way. These were a group of teenagers that said, you know what, Mom and Dad, you can't tell me what to do. I'm going to do it my way. And God judged them for that. And for 40 years they wandered around in the wilderness, missing out on the blessing of God. But here in Joshua chapter 24, Joshua's looking at these people and saying, Hey, wait, God's been good to you. God's been good to you. They're going into the promised land. They're in the promised land. God has destroyed. With the verses we read, he said he drove people out from before them. He gave them their land. He gave them their crops that they were growing. God bless the children of Israel. And I stand before a group of teenagers today, and I'm here to tell you this. Devin, God's been good to you. Sorry for hitting you. He's bigger. God's been good to you. God's been good. I look in your eyes, teenagers, look at me You're at a youth conference October the first, two thousand twenty-two. And God's been good. You dressed nice. Praise God for that. I thank God for clothes. Amen. None of you are struggling with that. Say, Brother Kurt, you've not seen my closet. I've only got three outfits. Well, it's more than the children of Israel had. And I'm just guessing you probably have more than three out. I've got two daughters and a wife. I'll leave my wife out on this one, but I've got two daughters. I took you to their closet. Those of you men, especially if you're a dad, you know this. But those of you men If you've got a teenage daughter, I'm just telling you. They they can come in and they can say something like this, Dad, Mom, I don't I don't have anything to wear. Like what? What did you what did you just say? Come on, let's go to your closet. We'll walk in the closet. I'll open the closet. Double door closet! Out over the closet where it's stuffed full. Clothes all the way over here. Clothes in the middle. Clothes all the way over there. And on the end caps, there's more clothes in there. Back I mean hidden back here You go to the dresser, you open the dresser, I can dump it out, and there'd be pile this high of clothes. And they say, I don't have anything to wear. Okay. Dad, I need to get a new pair of shoes. You've got thirty. Why do you need another pair? Holy cow! Now we'll throw my wife in on this one. She got a number of shoes. A number of shoes. There's I won't say how many, but it's a number of shoes. And then she'll say, I'm just going to go look at shoes. What are you looking at shoes for? Why do you need another pair of shoes? I've got like three pair, I've got more shoes than I need. I've got like three or four pair of shoes. But that's like I that's like extreme for me. I got one pair of tennis shoes. One Well I say I got a pair that I keep in the garage and I mow in. Two pair of tennis shoes. But those are junk shoes and people shoes to wear out. I don't have to coordinate my shoes with my outfit. I don't care if my shoes match my I don't care if my belt matches my shoes. I don't care! Just throw the clothes on and go. I'm gonna get mud and dirt. I'm gonna get grease. I'm gonna get I'm gonna be out working, I'm gonna get everything dirty anyway. What's the matter? Right men? Because we work with our hands. We're men. So what we do is we get dirty. Who cares how we Yeah, who cares? Hey, can I tell you though? God's been good to you. God's been good. God's been good in your life. God's allowed you to come to a youth conference. We've eaten unbelievably well. Pizza, hot dogs, ice cream. I'm telling you, it is great! God's been good. You sit here today. I stand before you as Joshua. I'm no Joshua, you're not the children of Israel. But I stand before you and I tell you today, God's been good to you. Uh but brother Kurt, you don't know my family. You're at a youth conference. Where, by the way, I was raised, my parents divorced. My parents didn't go to church when I was your age I I understand that. I'm a bus kid, van kid, call it whatever you want. That's me. By the way, that's not a slam. That's a compliment I am thankful that we had a church that had someone who cared enough to pull into the parking lot of our roller skate rink and say, hey, will you rug rat Copeland boys who are brats in church making noises and distracting the services and every stop, don't do it. In every service, and yet they still picked us up. I I look at them and I say, It's your fault. You picked me up. I'm that kid. Hey, I'm thankful I had a a a group of people around me who cared enough about me to to take me to church. So that I could learn the Bible, so I could understand what God had for my life. I'm here today, number one, tell you this, Joshua told the people, God's been good to you. God's been good to you. I see number two in this passage of Scripture. Joshua looks at the people. And he says in verse 15, 14, and 15, now therefore fear the Lord, serve him in sincerity and truth. Down to verse 15. And if it seems evil unto you to serve the Lord, he makes this declarative statement. He looks at the children of Israel. He says, Brother Kurt, why are you so loud? I'll tell you why I'm so loud. Because some of y'all try to pray for me. Thank you, but don't. And because I'm passionate about this, I want teenagers to see what Joshua told the people. And I want teenagers today This great youth conference to make some decisions for Christ. And here Joshua looks at the children of Israel and he says this to them. He says, Hey God, it's been good. God loves you. Jesus died for you. Now choose. Make a choice. Who are you going to live for? Are you going to live for yourself? And I wrote down number two, choose today who you will serve. The same statement that was made to the children of Israel, God makes to you and me today. God looks at us today, October the 1st, 2022, and He says, Hey, choose! Who are you going to live for? Or are you just going to live your life going through the motions, doing the things that everyone else expects you to do? Or are you genuinely from the heart going to live for God? Choose! Moses said it to the children of Israel earlier on. Moses took his foot in the sand. Drew a line in the sand. And he basically looked at the children of Israel and he said, This, come on, big boy. Choose. Hey, if you're going to be on God's side, come on. Cross the line. But if you're not, stay over there and keep playing your little children games. Choose. Can I tell you, we all make choices every day of our life. And what God says in Joshua 24 is he says he wants you to choose to live for God. I have three older brothers. My oldest brother Carrie, girl's name. My brother Kelly, girl's name. My other brother Corey, it's not a girl's name, by the way. It's not. Brother Corey, it's not a girl's n Blessed my brother it is, not for you, but for my brother it is It's a girl's name. Hey, can I can I tell you? We all were raised in the same house. We all have the same choices to make growing up. My brother Kelly at age 17 he made a choice. At age 17, he looked at my parents. He actually cussed at my mom. We weren't in church, but we knew you don't do that. He cussed at my mom. My mom reached out and smacked him in the face. I mean it was like slow motion. I was watching it through the crack of the door and I was like, yes. My brother's getting beat by my mom. This is awesome. My brother cussed at her. My mom smacked him. It was like that slow motion. Saliva slowly going out of the corner of his mouth, a tooth going flying in slow motion, his head spinning like three times. The very next day my brother Kelly packed his stuff and moved out Made a choice. By the way, my brother Kelly now is fifty-four years old, fifty-five years old. One of my best friends in all the world. It wasn't until he was about 40 that God got a hold of his heart. You know if Kelly were to stand here today? Kelly would stand up next to me, and Kelly would say these words, I believe. Kelly would say, hey teenagers. Choose wisely. He would say, don't choose what I chose. He would probably say, choose what Kurt's done. By the way, I'm not patting myself on the back. I'm not. I am not a great example, to be honest with you. But the truth is, I didn't make the same choices Kelly made. And there's adults in this room who would tell you Turn off the alarm is what they would say. They would say there's there's adults in this room who would say, hey, make wise choices. Some of them would say, don't make the choices I made. Hey, hey, and teens, don't do the same things I've done, but make wise choices. Either way, you know what they're saying to you? Choose And Joshua stood before the children of Israel, and he said to the children of Israel, Today make a choice. Who are you going to serve? Who are you going to live for? Is it going to be a game system the rest of your life? By the way, I'm not knocking the game system. Brother Jamie and I we had a good conversation about that between services There's not I'm not saying games are wrong. What I'm saying is this, God has a purpose in your life. And if you get up in the morning, all you do is reach for the game system. You spend from the time you wake up until breakfast or till lunch or till supper that before you go to bed, you're back on the game system again. Hey, then there's a problem. Choose Christ. Live through Christ. Choose him. Choose him Say, Brother Kurt, I don't know if you don't, you must not know who you're talking to, because we're pretty good teens. You know, I'm I'm a pretty good kid. I'm not a bank robber. I've not murdered anybody. Well, almost, but they lived, so I'm not a murderer. Brother Kurt, I've not, you know, I've I've not been immoral. I've not I you know I cheated on a test once, but you know, that was just once and You know, I'm a pretty good kid. Hold on, can I tell you this? Children of Israel were good people too. And I've been around teenagers all my adult life. Can I tell you what I know about teenagers? We are professionals at looking good. We can put on a show. So long as mommy and daddy aren't on my back, I'm alright. As long as no one jumps my case, I'm okay. Oh, no, no. Hey, can I tell you what this choice is? This choice is not saying, okay, I'm going to try and do this right now from now on. No, no. The choice is this: God, you have me. My heart is yours, God. I have decided to follow Jesus. No turning back. I see number one Joshua tells the children of Israel, God's been so good to you. Number two, he says, choose today whom you're going to serve. I love this, the results. What happens when we choose Christ? Blessings or cursings? Follow When you choose Christ. Look at this passage of Scripture. The Bible says in verse number 20 If ye forsake the Lord and serve strange gods, Then he will turn and do you hurt and consume you. After that, he hath done you good Did you hear what Joshua told the children of Israel? Hey, hey, big boy, it's your choice. You can make the choice yourself. Hey, young lady, you may have mom and dad fooled, but you know what? God knows your heart. God sees who we truly are. And God says in his word, he set before you a blessing and a curse. A blessing if you serve God, a curse, and you choose to reject God. You sit here today, I'm here to tell you, you can choose Christ. You can live for God. God does have a plan for your life. God does have something He wants you to do. And you can do it. You say, Brother Kurt, you don't know my home. Does it matter? Doesn't matter your home. Doesn't matter the struggle. Doesn't matter how much money you have. Doesn't matter your grades. By the way, don't quote me on that with your teacher this next week. But it doesn't matter. If you're a straight C minus student, D plus student, that was me. C minus, D plus, that was me, all the way through. You know, I was giving it my all, and that's all I got. Some of you, you're a straight A student, and you're getting B minuses, C pluses. That's on you. That's on you. Give it your best. You don't have to be the greatest student in the world, but give it your best. I stand before you today. We're professionals that make excuses why we can't serve God. Well, I can't serve God because uh my parents got a divorce. So? Oh, I'm not minimizing the hurt. I understand the hurt. But that's not an excuse for you not to serve God. Oh, Brother Curt, I can't serve God. I can't serve God because you know my parents are poor. Great! So you should be even more grateful for the good things God's given you. That's not an excuse not to serve God. Brother Kurt, I can't serve God because you know I'm not as smart as I'm not as talented as someone else. My personality is just a little more reserved than someone else's. Hey, can I tell you? This is a hard lesson for me to learn, Brother Matt. God didn't make me Brother Danny. That's a brilliant statement, isn't it? God m hey teenagers, God made him to be who he's supposed to be. And God made me to be me. Brother Devin, uh you you said before, y you don't give as many stories. I I do. I I give a lot. I I remember early on, I remember Brother Aaron, I remember people looking at me and criticizing me because in my preacher I told too many stories. Well, just preach the Bible. Just preach the Bible. Okay, I I am preaching the Bible But I'll throw a story in there along the way too. You know what? That's why God made me. And it's very comforting to live in your own skin. I am albino white. I mean like if I showed you my legs, you'd be like, whoa, whoa, give me some sunglasses. What is wrong with that guy? He is nasty. Cover those things up. Matter of fact, in high school, my parents made me wear sweatpants underneath my shorts at the Christian school playing on the basketball team. I was the only door I mean I was the only person on the team that I had the the big old MC hammer pants underneath the shorts, the Larry Bird sorts back in those days, by the way Yeah, buddy. Styling. I was that guy. Hey, can I tell you it's real easy to look at your life and say, God, you can't use me But I'm here to tell you today, teenager, God has a plan for your life. And it's your choice. And today, just like Moses did, you can't see it, but there's a line there now. I don't want to make it too hard. Pastor Leatherman would probably be upset with me if I made a permanent line there. The question today is this, and I'm done. Who are you gonna serve? I'm not asking what your mom and dad do. Hold on. Look at me and listen. I really want you to get this. This is your choice. I'm not twisting arms. It's not my job. The Holy Spirit of God is the one who does the pulling and prodding and twisting of arms, not me. So my question today is, who are you going to serve? Well Brother Kurt, I'm going to, you know, I already know I'm going to be a uh I'm going to be a I'm going to be a baseball player. I'm gonna play for the Chicago Cubs. By the way, that may very well be God's will. And if it is, praise God. Just remember me when you're playing for 'em and get me tickets. Brother Aaron, you go with me, right? We go together. We'll go we'll go watch the game together And we get three tickets, brother Matt, you can fly us there. That'll work. That'll be perfect. Because while you're playing for the Covenants, buy him a plane. Buy him a plane. He'll use it for God. He will. And for us to get us through the game. Hey, God may want you to be a baseball player. I don't know. I don't know. God may want you in business. I don't know. I'm here today to say this Choose to live for him. Choose to live for him. Look at me. That's your choice. Choose to live for him. And that's what Joshua telling the children of Israel. He said, hey, wait, wait. If you choose to live for him, remember, he's a holy God. He wants you to live holy. He's a God that wants, he's a jealous God. He's not going to share you. He's not going to say, hey, you know, you're going to come with me for a little while and go with them for a little. He wants you all to himself. God wants you. Who are you going to serve? The invitation. Here's the line. Moses said it this way, who's on God's side? Joshua said, choose you this day. And I stand before you today and I ask you, who are you going to serve? Look, heard I'm 12. Who you gonna serve? Hey 17-year-old, who you serving? Hey senior, junior, sophomore, who you serving? By the way, adults, us too. Who are we serving? Choose today. Brother Kurt, I've already told God I'd live for him. One verse, I'm done. We're praying. Paul said it this way. Paul said, I die daily. He wasn't talking about And then someone resurrects him and he lives again. That's not what he's talking about. You know what Paul was saying? Paul was saying every day. Get this. Paul was saying every day I go to the altar. And every day I kneel at the altar and I say, God, today I choose you. God, I'm yours. Every day. God, I'm yours. Why? Because I don't like staying on the altar. I like doing it my way. So every day I gotta get on the altar. I gotta tell God, God, I choose you. I choose you. God, I'm yours. Every head bowed, every eye closed. Let's stand to our feet. Every head bowed, every eye closed. Any teenager? Maybe you're not sure you're saved. Hold on. Maybe you're not sure you're saved. Choose Christ today. Choose Christ today. Don't come and kneel and just go through the motions. Catch your youth pastor. Catch your youth leader. Let's choose Christ today. Hey, teenager, you're a Christian Who do you choose? You're here today, you say, Brother Kurt, I choose Christ. Today I'm going to the altar. I'm crossing that line. I'm telling God, God, I'm yours. I'm yours, God, whatever you want. Hey, if you choose Christ, the line's drawn. You're going to cross the line. I'm going to pray. As I pray, if God spoke in your heart, you feel free to move. Lord, I thank you for your love. God, I thank you for your word. I thank you for Joshua 24. God, that you give us the choice. You gave us a free will, no doubt about it. And God, I pray you'd help every young person, every adult, every person, myself included. God, may it be true of every one of us that we choose you. God, I'm yours. Take my life today, God, and use it any way you see fit. Bless these teenagers. Thank you for working. Lord, work in this invitation in a special way in Jesus' name. As the piano