There are so many lessons from this parable. You could just do series after series on this. One obvious lesson from the parable itself, where Jesus, in response to this fellow's question, Who is my neighbor? He goes on and tells the story of the Good Samaritan and the Levite and the priest and all that. Well, the obvious lesson from that parable is we ought to be compassionate to other people. Right? Compassion should be the hallmark of the people of God. Of all the people in Oakland, Maryland, in Garrett County. The people of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church that know the Lord Jesus Savior, we ought to be the most compassionate, merciful, kindest people in our community. Why you say, why should we be why do we have to be that way? Because God has been awfully merciful and kind and compassionate to us. And God wants us to be kind. God wants us to be merciful. Look there at verse number 37. Verse 36. Now which of these three thinkest thou was neighbor to him that fell among the thieves? And he said, verse 37, the lawyer says, he that showed mercy on him. Then said Jesus unto him, Go thou and do likewise. I put in the margin of my Bible, Jesus wants us to show mercy. John chapter 13, verse 35, the Bible says, By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples if you have love one for another. It's not the size of my Bible, it's not the shortness of my hair, and nobody's gonna have shorter hair than me It's not my three-piece suit, it's not my shined wing tip my shined uh black wingtips that identifies me as a Christian, it's my love for others and the Lord Jesus Christ. By this shall all men know that you're my disciples. Say, preacher, we've got to take a stand against sin. Yes, we should, but we ought to do it in love and kindness and speak the truth in love. Right or wrong? God wants us to be kind. God wants us to hold the standard high. He wants to stay true to the Word of God. And we're supposed to do it with love and kindness and compassion and mercy in our heart. How many folks here, God's been awfully patient with you? Sure. We ought to turn around and do the same thing. Romans chapter 5, verse 5, the Bible says, herein is the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Spirit of God. God wants us. God wants to love people through us. As we go about our work a day week and we go out and visit folks. and interact with people. We ought to be kind. We ought to be compassionate. We don't compromise our convictions, but we'll be very, very gracious and very, very kind. I pray continually. Brother Chip Paul, I got a little text from Chip this morning, Betty He says, praying for you, brother. I said, thanks, man. I need it. And one thing, years ago, Brother Chip came to me, and this meant a lot to me. He came to me, he says, preacher, He goes, what can I pray for you? I want to pray every day for you. What's something I can pray for you? I said, Chip, I got three requests. I said, one is pray every day that God will give me wisdom. Number two, pray that every day that God will give me power and courage to stay true to the Word of God. And I said, number three, and this one I earnestly need, is pray that God would give me compassion. God would give a love in my heart for people. I have a hard time with folks in the ministry, in Sunday school, bus worker or pastor or whatever. I have a hard time with folks say, Oh I love the ministry, it's people I can't stand. Now we laugh we laugh at that and we mean it jokingly, but I'll be honest with you, that that gets under my skin. There is no ministry without people. And if you don't love people, get out of the ministry. Because that's what you're there for, to love people with the love of God. To care about them, be involved in their lives, interact with them. And so that's the obvious lesson from this. You can see where you can preach a series on that, huh? Go down and do likewise. Let's, I want to speak to our members here this morning. Let's make this an earnest prayer of us as members of Mount Lake. God, give me compassion. How many folks are church? You say, preacher, I'm going to make that my prayer. God, give me compassion. I care about others. Enough to invest and be a part of their lives and give of myself. It's what the guy did here. So the guy, uh the lawyer comes and says, okay, a lot of my neighbors myself. All right, but who exactly is my neighbor? Lord tells this story. And one of the lessons from this story is that we are to be compassionate. There's another lesson here, and I'm going to try and go through this quickly because I want to get to something else, but my heart's full I see here in this parable the Good Samaritan, where the guys, uh the thieves come upon him and strip them, they leave them for dead, a priest comes by and Uh goes on the other side. A Levite comes by, comes over, looks at him, and then goes by on the other side. A Samaritan of all people shows up and he invests himself. He takes care of the guy and gets him in and makes sure he's okay I see here some principles for personal evangelism. How many folks in the service this morning, you're saved and you know it. Say amen. How many folks of us that know Jesus Christ the Savior, how many of us have a real concern I'd like to see other people saved? Can I get a witness there? Sure we do. I think there's some lessons from this Parable that will help us be a witness to other people, help us win others to Christ. First one I see here is there's an awareness on the part of this good Samaritan. Look at verse 33. I want to zero into him. But a certain Samaritan as he went by came where he was And when he saw him, he had compassion. Um it was uh uh as he journeyed Now here's the thing I noticed, this Samaritan, this good guy, he wasn't out looking for victims. He wasn't out victim-winning. It wasn't Thursday night victim finding. Right? He's just going about his daily business. He's just wherever he's going. Maybe a business trip, maybe he's going to visit family, we don't know. But as he's going along, here's the thing: he is aware of his surroundings, he's aware that here is a person that has a need. Here is a person that's in bad shape. Here is a person that desperately needs somebody to do for him what he cannot do for himself. Now if we could get that frame of mind as Christians in our soul winning, I think we'd see more people saved. As we go on our journey, as we're going about our day, as we're going about our business, doing our work, doing whatever We're aware of the fact that there are people around us who desperately need the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. People around us who are in bad shape, they're in sin, they're under the judgment of God, if they die in that condition They'll be separated from God for all eternity in the lake of fire. They're in bad shape. And they cannot save themselves. How can they believe if they have not heard? They need somebody to share the message of Jesus Christ with them. And God help us as Christians to be aware when I'm at Walmart, when I'm downtown at Sheiks, I'm out fishing by the lake or whatever, there's people around us. As we journey, we would see people who need the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. And so he was aware, he saw them Jesus said over and over to his disciples, he would make this statement, look on the fields. You know what he's saying? He said, be aware. Be aware of the fact that there are entire countries that have very few, if any, gospel witness in them. We've adopted the nation of Kazakhstan as our missions country. 17 million people, we know of three independent fundamental Baptist missionaries. Seventeen million people, three missionaries. Now they're not the only ones. There's others that preach the gospel there. But what I'm saying is we cannot blind our eyes to the fact that we live in a world that desperately needs Jesus Christ as Savior. So there was awareness here, and I think that's a principle of soul without him. Second thing I noticed, he had compassion. Look again at verse number 33. The last phrase, he had compassion on him. That word compassion is an interesting word. It has the idea of having your emotions stirred. It has the idea of having my heart stirred. My heart is touched. Last October, my wife and I, Kathy, became grandparents. That is exciting. And uh of course Sam and Sarah live out in Missouri, so we don't get to see 'em a whole lot, but I thank God for technology. And now we are able to get on our little phone we can Skype with them. How many people know how many people ever heard of that? I tell you, I am on cutting-edge technology here. I know about this stuff. I know how to text and take pictures with a phone. Whoever dreamed you would take pictures with your phone? I tell you, we he sends a little picture, a little Kenley. You know what happens in my heart? I mean it is stirred. It is touched. I just, you know, you see, I'm a pastor. I see pictures of babies. They say, oh preacher, come look at my baby. Oh nice, that's cute Um you know they're newborn, you go visit. Look how beautiful they are. They look like a grape, you know a raven. It's beautiful. You heard? I shouldn't do this. I'm not gonna do it. I'm not gonna do this. But anyway, I get a picture of Kenley. That's a whole nother story. Right? Can I get a witness? Heart just melts. I love her so much. She's got this thing when we Skype, she's trying to kiss Kathy and she puts the whole phone in her mouth, so the screen just goes black Then it comes back. That is a little bit the idea what he says he had compassion on him. He saw this guy hurting He's left for dead, the guy, and something in the heart of this Samaritan is touched. And his heart is stirred. He said, I can't just leave him. You can't just walk by. You've got to do something. God give us as Christians a little bit of compassion for the lost that are on their way to hell. I can't just walk by them and let them die and go to hell. I've got to do something. Compassion. Compassion. He genuinely cared for this man's well-being. I'm asking God to help me genuinely care about people who need Jesus Christ as Savior. I got a boy I've been witnessing too. Brother Jerry told me he's probably moving down eastern part of the state. I've been so burned for this guy. I've witnessed to him and witnessed to him. And he won't get saved. He reminds me so much of me before I got saved. I look at him and I think of myself back before Christ. My heart is stirred and he's kind of getting hard. You know, I've been putting a squeeze on him and maybe he's putting starting to put the fence, but now I find out he's moving away. I've been asking God, God, help me have compassion for people who need Jesus as Savior. God help me really care. Um, the best soul winners, the best witness, those people that bring people to Christ. are people who genuinely care about other people. It's not just a notch to put in my Bible, but it's so it's an individual that God loves and God has a plan for them. I really care about whether they're saved or not. I really care about whether they have eternal life and have new life. And God's presence in their life. So the first principle I see here as far as this good Samaritan and lessons I can learn from his actions To be a better witness, first of all, I need to be aware of the fact that there are people around me in need. Don't just turn a blind eye, don't just walk on. Now they're there. How many folks here, I'm talking to Christians now. How many folks here have you ever been somewhere and something down inside your heart touches your heart? You ought to talk to that person about grace. You ought to give them a little gospel track. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Just something now. I ought to give that person. How many times do we start giving excuses why I shouldn't do that? Oh Lord, they'll get mad. I'd look like an idiot. Ah, I can't do that. You know what I think that is? I think that's the Holy Spirit of God prompting us. God's working in their life. The Spirit of God is prompting us to take the gospel to Him. We need to be aware. Second thing, we ought to have compassion. We ought to have compassion. Third thing I noticed from this passage. In verse 34, he had awareness, he had compassion, but he also had involvement. Look at verse 34. Boy, I underlined those first several words in that phrase, in that verse. And what? Went to him. He's he's on as he journeyed. He's going along Jericho Road. He's got his business. Whatever it is, family, work, whatever he's doing. He's traveling down this road. But he's aware of the fact there's a guy over there off the road laying there. He's all bloody In fact, I'm not even sure he's alive. He might be dead. And he's aware of that. And his heart is touched. This guy needs something. But here's the thing, and this is where probably we mess up as Christians the most. He didn't just walk on. He got involved. He got involved. Our problem is we have this mentality. I know they're lost. I know they need Christ. If they die like that, they'll go to hell. I know that, but it's none of my business. Doesn't affect me. And we just walk on. This guy didn't. He stopped. He got involved. He went to him. It says he took care of him. You know what that means? He had to adjust his schedule a little bit. He had to inconvenience himself. He had to invest a little bit of time, a little bit of effort. He had to invest a little bit of finances we see a little bit later. I want to suggest to you, he even put himself at risk. There's thieves in them there, would be the first. Involvement, involvement. We say About others need of Christ, send the light, the blessed gospel light, let it shine. Here am I, Lord, send me We have heard the Macedonian call today send the Lord. We sing about it. How often do we do anything about it? How often do we actually go? We preach about it. And then, preacher, we know when the loss. Yes, America's knee is a people get saved. Amen. Preachers get up, myself and we preach about it, but how often do we go to them and get involved in them? I like what Lesterall said. He said, to get America saved You have to get Americans saved. To save America, you've got to get Americans saved. That requires involvement. We sing about it, we preach about it, we talk about it. But what the lost really mean, what the unsaved person in Mountain Lake Park this morning That woke up this morning without Christ, without God, without hope in the world. They're sitting in their living room right now. They're in their backyard getting the grill ready. What they really need is not a church singing about them getting saved. They don't need a church preaching about them getting saved. They don't need a church talking about them getting saved. They need somebody to come to them and tell them how to be saved. Involvement. Involvement. He went to him. He went to him. We gotta go to them. We gotta get involved in their lives. We're burdened for Kazakhstan. I really genuinely believe our church is burdened for the nation of Kazakhstan. We've been there, we're trying to find missionaries, we're investing money in that. You know what the people in Kazakhstan need? Somebody come over there and tell them how to be saved. Somebody go to them. I get the chance to preach a little bit at high school graduations and chapel, Brother Grant and I do up in Morgantown a little bit. Every single time I go, I take cards about Kazakhstan. I challenge those young people. Please Pray and consider giving yourself to go to this country or any country that God would direct you. Got a real nice card this week from uh the Greensteds going to Argentina. Just took them on uh as support. What a great family. Tell you that these missionaries stir my heart They're willing to uproot. He was pastoring a good church, very successful, people getting saved. The church was growing. God stirred his heart about people in Argentina. He didn't just preach about it, sing about it, talk about it. He says, you know what? I need to go down there. It's people in town here. It's people in an accident. Need a bus coming up there and pick them up, bring them, tell them about Jesus It's folks over in Terralda, down in Kittsmiller, up in Grantsville. We got folks in Grantsville who'd like to come to church here, but we don't have any way to get 'em. They don't have a vehicle. We don't have any way to go get them and bring them here. They say we'd like to come to church. They need the Lord. I mean by name we know folks. Well we need to talk about that and we need to sing and preach about No, they need somebody to come there and So there was awareness, there was compassion, there was involvement. He invested time, he invested effort, he invested money so that this guy would be okay. God, give us Christians whose hearts are stirred. We're aware of the need. Our hearts are stirred. And you say, you know, I'm going to get involved. I'll adjust my schedule. I'll do whatever I need to do. I need to get involved. These people need Christ. And then I see the fourth principle in the soul winning from this passage, in verse number 35. It says, and on the morrow, when he departed, he took out two pence and gave them to the host, and said unto him, Take care of him. And whatsoever thou spendest more, when I come again, I will repay thee. I put this down. Follow up. Follow-up. He's aware of the need. He's on his journey. He's going along. Oh man, what's the deal? Good heavens, this guy's beat up. He's bloody there. He's stripped naked. I think he might be dead. No, he's still alive. His heart stirred. I can't just leave him here. He'll die. If I don't do something, he will die. Alright? I'll go to him And he invests the effort, invests the time, takes care of the guy, gets him up on his donkey, gets him down there, changes his schedule, his routine, gets him in the in the uh uh the inn there, uh gets whatever he needs, takes care of him. And then he says this, when I come back, this is what stirred my heart about that. He didn't just take care of him too and then go on and forget all about him. He says, No, no, there needs to be some follow-up. I need to come back and make sure he's okay. I need to come back and make sure he's healing up I can come back and make sure all the needs are met. It's more than just a one-time, uh, one, two, three, pray with me, it's over, I go on. It's no no no. I need to invest, I need to follow up, I need to send some time, I need to do a little work here. And I'll be honest with you, if I have failed in my personal soul winning in any way, oh there's there's a lot of ways, to be honest with you, but I tell you one big way I've failed in my personal soul winning, and it has been this. I lead someone to Christ, see them trust Jesus Christ as Savior, and I like to write their name in my Bible and I put it in my Bible and I try to pray for them, and then I go on and never come back and invest the time and effort that's needed to follow them up and get them help them live for God. Now y'all are looking at me so pious. I say, heavy you don't even witness to 'em. Sorry. But God convicted me in studying this message. I need to do more follow. I need to come back again. And next week I need to come back. Hey, how's it going? It's God working in your life. Hey, we'd like for you to come to church. What do you need? Hey, we got a discipleship program. Let me teach you what it means to be saved and what it means to live for God. You know, I got reading in uh at the end of Matthew, uh, it says, Go ye therefore and teach all nations, don't stop there, baptizing them. Every single person needs to accept Jesus Christ as Savior. If they don't, they die in their sins, they end up in hell. Right or wrong? So I need to teach them the gospel. I need to show them how to be saved and try and persuade them and urge them to accept Jesus Christ as Savior. Most people I witness to don't get saved. But some do. Some do. Now once they do that, they accept Jesus Christ as Savior, my responsibility is not over. He says, Go therefore and teach all nations baptizing them If you're here this morning, you've never accepted Jesus Christ your personal Savior. That is the most important thing in your life right now, is to settle that matter and accept Christ as your Savior. Now if you've not done that, if you've not accepted Jesus Christ your person I mean if you have done that, and you've accepted Jesus Christ your personal Savior The very next thing you ought to do as a believer, and this is my conviction, the most important thing you do once you're saved is you ought to follow the Lord and believers' baptism. What I mean by that is you ought to come out for Christ. I am a follower of Jesus Christ. He died for me, was buried, and rose again. I am not ashamed of the fact that That he is my Savior from sin and hell, and I will identify with him in believers' baptism. You're here and you're saved, not baptized, you ought to be baptized. Simple as that. But doesn't end there. As a soul winner, as this good Samaritan, I'm aware of the need, the heart is touched, I get involved, I come back and I do follow-up. And as a soul winner, I want to make sure they have assurance. They understand what took place, give them some principles. I want to do everything I can to help and encourage them to follow the Lord in baptism. You say, preacher, you're just wanting to have a lot of baptisms. Listen to me. You know my heart. That is not it at all. We want people to follow Jesus Christ as Savior. That is our motive. But it doesn't end there. Now we gotta teach them to observe all things. What's the Lord's commanded us? That means we teach them they ought to read their Bible every single day. Every Christian should read their Bible every single day. Let me say that again. Listen, as a Christian, I think one of the most important things to do as a Christian, I mean living the Christian life, is spending some time alone with God in God's Word. I have never seen a Christian become strong in their faith without reading their Bible on a regular basis. I sometimes I I have the unfortunate I have the unpleasant I should say responsibility to help people sometimes when they sin and they mess up. And they want to make right. And by the way, don't get too pious here. There's none that don't mess up. A just man falleth seven times. But he rises up again. And in our dealing with them and trying to help them, one of the first questions I always ask, a Christian that's messed up, one of the first questions I ask, are you reading your Bible every day? You know what the pattern has been? Well, you know, preacher, I I I kind of let it slide. Well, you know, preacher, I did. But I kind of got away from it. I don't say this. The thought in my mind is that's exactly what I thought was the case. I tell you this book will keep you from sin or sin will keep you from this book. One or the other. Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his ways by taking heed thereto according to the word of God. Thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not And so my responsibility as the stroller is to come back, follow up, come again. When I come back again, I come back, try and get them assurance, try and Want them to help encourage them to follow the Lord in baptism, teach them that a Christian ought to read their Bible every day, Christian ought to pray every day. I tell you, we have so many aids to help us pray. Little aids. I got a little thing on my phone in the morning. Ding! Don't forget to pray for so-and-so. I've got a whole list of people in our church that have reminders throughout the day. Bing, pray for so-and-so. One of them is Bing, pray for three missionaries to go to Kazakhstan every day. Bing, pray for new members to be added to the church. Bing, pray that so-and-so gets saved. Bing, pray that God will heal that marriage. We get all this help. There's no excuse for Christians not praying. And it blows my mind that we need that much provoking to pray. It looks like we ought to be eager. So we ought to teach them to pray, read their Bible. Uh I want to get this guy saved now. God saved his life. But we're going to follow up, make sure he's okay, make sure he's growing and healing and getting to where he needs to be. Baptize and read your Bible, pray. I'm going to follow up and say, Hey, brother, you need to be faithful to church. Faithful to church. Church is God's idea. So, well, I don't believe in an organized church. I don't know if you really believe in an organized church or not. I believe in God's church. It's the body of Christ. God designed it. It's the very design is for help Christians grow and be what we ought to be. So I want to teach that new believer. You follow what I'm saying? Follow up, follow up, follow up. And so the Great Commission is more than just getting someone to call on the Lord. The Great Commission is investing myself in that person's life. Maybe over a period of time. I thank God. I got saved. Did I ever tell you May 7, 1979? Have I ever mentioned that to you the night I got saved? 1030 on a Monday night, right after? Yeah. People people are putting that on my Facebook now. I went to church that next Sunday. It was a liberal church down the road. Nobody had a Bible. I knew that wasn't I was I was seven days old in the Lord. I knew you ought to bring a Bible to church. Nobody had a Bible. The preacher didn't preach from the Bible. They just, I don't know what they did. So I went another show. Oh, I found a good, independent Bible preaching church. Two guys, I come in there, I'm telling you, I showed up in church that day, I was looking good. It's 1979, I'm 19 years old. I've dressed up. I'm going to church, you gotta dress up. I had my black silk shirt on. This is the truth. If I ever say the truth, I'll point it out Black silk shirts, gold chain necklace, tan polyester bell bottoms, I still see I'm I'm telling you, this is what I wore to church. Platform shoes. Black I mean I was impressed. I walked in, everybody looked at it and was like yikes I didn't have any fine problem finding a seat. But there's two guys in that church, Arden Musselman and Terry Wilcox. They saw me. I was newly saved. I was so hungry to know God and I was reading my Bible. God had changed my life so much in just a few days. I didn't know anybody. They were all scared of me. As soon as the service is over. Hey, what's your name? Back then I I went by Denny. I'm Denny. Hey Denny What's going on? Oh, just coming to church. Are you saved? You know Jesus. Yeah, last Monday night I accepted Jesus as my Savior. Really? I mean those two guys took me in under their wings. That next week they showed up at my door. Daddy, ah, we're talking. Let's read some Bible with you. Can we come by next week? Sure, man Say here we got this little Bible study. It's for new Christians when they get saved. Hey, I want that. Here's these verses. And for about six months Those guys followed up and came back again and came back again and came back again and came back again and they'd invite me we'd go out to eat and they'd take me to activities and say you need to get involved in this Hey, we got an opening in our children's program here, and you can just help put the drinks out. Do it somewhere where nobody can see you. Let me throw this out just real quick for our church folks. Sometimes a a new Christian or a visitor will come to church and they're dressed pretty different than what we might do. Keep in mind, we we live in a day and age where some of the things they're doing, that's what you do to dress up. You follow what I'm saying? We had a boy, uh I don't think he's he's not in here, is he, Mart? He's downstairs. Okay There's a boy down in children's church. I love this kid. He got saved last summer in Bible time. I'll just whisper And um never been to church, you know. So Mark and Jackie bring him in, as some of you know who I'm talking about. This brother and sister come in. And he told them, We're going to church. You need to dress up. So he got his clean blue jeans He's got his t-shirt. He got his mohawk trimmed just perfect. Dyed it bright purple. He's gone to church. He'd say, Wow, that little punk. No, it wasn't a little punk. It was a little kid doing the only thing he knew to do to dress up to go to church. So bear with people. They come in with silk shirt, bell bottom, polyester. They might think they're dressed up. They look like a clown, but they think they're dressed up And old Arden Terry. To this day I don't know where they got to. We I went off to Bible College and they went their way and I don't know where they're at today. But I tell you what, just the thought of them, I thank God for those two men. They didn't have to do that. I often thought, where would I be? Where would I be if it were those two guys? Didn't take the time to follow up. To follow up. To follow up. That was my introduction. And this is the invitation. We'll have the message next week. Let's ask God. I'm I'm talking to the SAID people here this morning. Let's ask God, give us some compassion. And we really care about others. Amen. Just a simple little prayer, but it might change our life. God, give me compassion. Let's work this week at being aware of people around us who need Christ. Hey, it might affect how we talk. Might be a little more careful what I say if I'm aware of the fact there's people around me meet Christ. I might be a little more ethical in my work. I'm aware people around me need Christ. Might be a little more patient with them. Let's ask God to give us compassion. Let's get involved. Go to that person. Say, hey, would you like to come to baby day? So your wife had a little baby. I'll come get you. We'll go out to eat afterwards. We'll do a little something. Be great. Just simple little things. Get involved. Get involved. And then when someone does trust, hey, when someone comes in here that got saved, the fellow last week got baptized. Let's have our church folk all over that. Hey, we want to help you. Come on over. Let's hey let them pray with you. Got any prayer requests? Something I can help you with? Get involved and follow up and follow up and follow up. You say, that's the preacher's job. That Samaritan was not a preacher. He was just an average day guy that saw the deed and involved himself in it. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us, Lord. I pray, Lord, you'd make us a soul-winning church in the biblical sense. Help us, Lord, to be a compassionate, aware, involved. Use us. We just want you to use us. Lord, you've been so gracious and you've been so kind and you've been so good to us, it would be sin for us not to be gracious and kind and involved in other people's lives. Our heads bowed and eyes closed. How many Christians here this morning say, preacher, I need God to give me more compassion for others? I need God to break my heart that I'd be more compassionate. Is there any like that? That's my prayer this morning. For God to give me compassion for the lost around me. How about it? God bless you. Hands all around Just that one prayer, earnestly prayed before God, I think could change everything. I wonder if there's some would say, Preacher, I need to be more aware. Of the needs of people around me. I get so wrapped up in myself. I need to be aware there are people around me that have real needs. Any like that? Say, preacher, that's my need. To be more aware. God bless you, Hans. Getting involved. We would just go down the list. Following up all of this, let me address any mighty be here this morning. Say, preacher, I don't know for sure when I die, I go to heaven. Maybe your thinking is, I believe I would, I hope I would, I want to But if you can't honestly say in your heart, based on the Word of God, that you know for sure that when you die you go to heaven and not to hell, if you don't have that assurance settled in your heart, you need to get that settled today. It is too dire to play games with your eternal soul. And you'd say, preacher, I'm not sure, and I would like God to help me settle that in my heart, that I sins are forgiven. I go to heaven, not to hell when I die. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me also that I can have that settled. God bless you. How about it? Any others? Preacher, I'm not sure that when I die I go to heaven and I do not want to go to hell. I need God to help me settle that. Any others? Any others? I wonder if there's some this morning say, Preacher, I've been saved, but I've not been baptized. And I need to come out and out for Christ. I'll die to self, I'll follow the Lord and make that clear through my baptism, identification with Christ the baptism. Is there any here that have been saved? But not been baptized. You say, preacher, pray for me. I know that's an important step. God bless you. How about it, others? How about it, others? God bless you. It's an important step. We went down a list of things that every Christian should do. Pray, read Bible, go to church, witness. We ought to separate from the world. There's a whole list of things. Maybe as a Christian, you say, preacher, I need to grow as a Christian. I need to do this follow-up stuff for my own self. And brother, is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. There's some of these things that I know I've neglected, and I need to get them in place. God bless you. Father, there's a lot of hands raised this morning. You know our hearts. We're asking you to help us. We're asking you, Lord, not leave us alone. Provoke us that we would grow and develop Pray for those that need Christ as Savior, that today they'd be willing to make that decision. And help every person that raise their hand find a place in old-fashioned altar. And just do business with you, Lord, stir our hearts. Help us, I pray, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, our heads are bowed eyes