I'm just gonna look at verse number two while you're turning there. Uh we have a number of school teachers, uh current and retired in our church and um I thought of them when I came across this story about a teacher who was teaching fifth grade And she gave her class an assignment, and the assignment was this. They were to go home and have their parents tell them a story and that the story had a moral to it And so share with class the story and what the moral was that that story was. So day or so went by. It was time for their assignments to be due. And uh the kids came back and one by one they began one by one they began to tell their different stories. Ashley stood up and said, My father is a farmer and we have a lot of egg-laying chickens, and One time we were taking our eggs to the market in a basket on the front seat of the car. We hit a big bump in the road. All the eggs went flying. They all broke, made a mess And so the teacher said, What's the moral of that story? She said, The moral of that story is don't put all your eggs in one basket. Good story, right? Very good, teacher said. Sarah raised her hand. Because our family are farmers too. But we ra raised chickens for the meat market. We had a dozen eggs one time, but when they all hatched, we only got ten live chicks. Dozen eggs, only ten live chicks And the moral of that story, my daddy said, was, don't count your chicks before they're hatched. Teacher said, well, that's a good story. That's a good moral. Michael is sitting there, sheepish, looking sheepish, and the teacher says, Michael, do you have a story to share? He says, Yes. So my daddy told me a story about Aunt Karen. Aunt Karen was a flight engineer in the Gulf War. Her plane was hit. She had to bail out over enemy territory, and all she had was a bottle of whiskey, a machine gun, and a machete. She drank the whiskey on the way down so it won't break, then she landed right in the middle of a hundred enemy troops. She killed seventy of them with the machine gun until she ran out of bullets Then she killed twenty more with a machete until the blade broke. Then she killed the last ten with her bare hands. The teacher said, Good heavens What kind of moral did your daddy tell you from that horrible story? He said the moral of that story is stay away from Aunt K Karen when she's drinking So there you have it. Exodus chapter 5, notice with me if you would verse 2. Every now and then we come across a good one, you know? Exodus 5, verse 2. And Pharaoh said, Who is the Lord that I should obey his voice? Who is the Lord that I should obey his voice? The message this morning, who is the Lord? Let's pray and ask God to speak to our hearts. Father, we're grateful for uh Good Lord's Day so far, and Lord, the blessing it's been to fellowship together and the singing has been a blessing. And I ask now, Father, as we look into your word, that you would settle our hearts. I pray, Father, that you would hedge us about, keep the devil and distractions away, that your will can be done in our lives. I yield myself to you, Father. I yield my will to your will. I present my body anew. I ask that you would take me and fill me with your Holy Spirit. Speak, I pray, through me Open our hearts and minds to what your will is. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. This amazing thing. To see how God works in the lives of individuals and also in the lives of nations. In Exodus, the end of Genesis in Exodus, we have the amazing story of the children of Israel. Ye most of us I'm sure are familiar with how Joseph was sold by his brothers as a slave to Egypt out of jealousy over their father's treatment of Joseph. And down in Egypt, the horrific events Joseph went through, falsely accused of rape, imprisoned for a number of years unjustly, forgotten about, and uh all that went through, but God was working. And Acts tells us, makes this statement: God was with Joseph. And God took that horrific situation that Joseph was in. And in a moment's time turned that around when Joseph interpreted Pharaoh's dream, and literally God used him to save a nation from starvation. Through that event, Joseph's family ends up moving down. Jacob and the family members and household, 70 members in all, they settle in Goshen, just on the edge of the country of Egypt. And for the next 430 years, Joseph's family and their offspring, the children of Israel, live in Egypt. During that time, you know the story, they become slaves to the Egyptians. Now think about that. 430 years. That's a lot of generations. You have Generations of God's people who are born in captivity, born as slaves. They grow up, children, teenagers, as slaves. To the Egyptians. They marry, they have children of their own. They get old and they die. And the only thing they know in life is to be a slave to the Egyptians. Never knowing anything other than slavery. Things deteriorate over those 430 years, their situation and their condition deteriorates. As the Egyptians become harsher, their taskmasters become more violent, the Egyptians become more demanding And the Israelites begin to cry out, God, you've got to help us. You've got to deliver us. God hears their cry. About briefly before the time of our text that we read, a young man by the name of Amram. He's of the tribe of Israel, of the tribe of Levi, I mean. He's a slave, it's all he's known, it's all his daddy's known, it's all his granddaddy's known. But this young man named Amram of the tribe of Levi meets and marries a young lady by the name of Jechobit. She's of the same tribe. They meet, they marry, and shortly after they're married, she conceives and gives birth to their first child, who is a daughter, and they name her Miriam. Twelve years go by. No children are born. Twelve years go by, and she conceives the second time, and this time she gives birth to a boy. And they named him Aaron. Shortly after Aaron's birth, we don't know the exact time frame, but sometime after Aaron's birth, Pharaoh. And as I said, the condition is deteriorating. They're becoming more demanding, the Egyptians are of the Israelites. They're becoming more hostile. They're becoming more violent, and Pharaoh, we will talk about in just a moment, begins to fear the Egyptians. They're multiplying, they're increasing in number. And so the unthinkable happens Pharaoh issues a decree. Now think about this. Put yourself in these Dear Hebrews situation in their shoes. Pharaoh, the final authority of the land, issues a decree That all male children at the moment of their birth are to be slaughtered or to be killed Now think about that. You that are parents. Every child born, if it's a male, kill it immediately. It is enforced abortion. Selective. Of course, horror goes through the people of Israel. This is unthinkable. This is the worst nightmare a mother could ever dream of And of course, the edict is carried out. About this time, shortly after this decree is given, this law was passed. That all Jewish males are to be killed at the moment of birth, Jacobed finds out she's expecting I don't know. I would imagine they pray, dear God, please let this baby be a girl. I don't want to kill my child Time goes by, it comes time for the child to be born. Of course they didn't have um sonography, what's it called? Um sonograms. It would be sonography. They didn't have that stuff. And so they didn't know what the child was. They didn't know the gender of the child before it was born. Now put yourself in Jacobed's shoes, Amram's shoes. The baby's born. Their first question to the midwife is, what is it? Midwife's face falls. It's a boy. They refuse To give in to the Pharaoh's demands. And through some pretty incredible creativity And through some miraculous events on God's side, Moses' life is spared They hide him for a number of months and of course he's growing and he's crying and you know it's becoming obvious people, neighbors, the authorities are going to find out there's a child in this house. We need to verify whether it's a male or female. So Jacobed and Amram in their, I think, a very creative The heart-wrenching action on their part, they make a little arc, a little boat. They pat it no doubt, make this comfortable, and they laid their son, several month-old son, in that thing, and they push it out into the Nile, and they say, God, we're putting our child into your hands. We're trusting you. Now, did they know that Pharaoh's daughter and the ladies came down at this one area? Was there that part of their plan. Maybe uh Pharaoh's daughter would see this baby. Well, I don't know if that was part of their plan or not, but it was part of God's plan. And we know the story how Pharaoh's daughter finds a baby and takes him up out of the Nile and spares his life, and Pharaoh's daughter actually gives Moses his name. We don't know what Jacobed and Amram's name was for their child. We're not told. But Pharaoh's daughter named the child Moses And that name is very interesting. The name Moses means uh there's several variations of the meaning. Uh it has the idea of uh someone down low and being lifted up And that fits the m life of Moses. He was a low born a lowly slave. decree to be killed as an infant, yet God lifts him up and makes him one of the greatest leaders in all the Bible The other variation of the median name is one drawn from the water, which is the name Pharaoh's daughter gave him in response to drawing him out from the water. So, things are in place. God is working. The Israelites don't see it Amram and Jacobed don't see it at this point. Moses himself does not see it at this point, but God has a plan. And God is working in events, in decisions made, and he is bringing his plan to a head. And his plan is to respond to the cries of the Israelites, answer their prayer for deliverance, and deliver them from slavery in Egypt. Moses born, everything's in place. Now we're going to fast forward. Eighty years go by. The events that there that we don't have time to cover. And it brings us to our text today that Jamie read a few moments ago Moses is standing before Pharaoh, and he is confronting Pharaoh on God's behalf. To let God's people go. To set them free from their captivity, to let them go and be their own nation. Work operate under their own laws, make their own decisions, have their own businesses, and no longer worked under the slavery and the cruel hand of the Egyptians Let my people go. Now, what about this guy, Pharaoh? What was he like? Well, obviously he was the dictator, he was the king, he was the pharaoh of Egypt, he was the final authority, his word was law. No democracy about it. We are told by the historians that this pharaoh here, that Moses confronted and dealt with and God did all this stuff with, was actually the son of Ramses II. Now if you've studied ancient history, you know about Ramses II. He was responsible for many of the Pyramids and various things like that. This was his son. The historians tell us that Pharaoh was a very ineffective political leader. And a lot of times, in that setting, and to some degree true in uh in our situation, if a person is ineffective in a leadership position, often they become unreasonable. And as a pharaoh, he can't be voted out. And the more ineffective he was, the more unreasonable he became Whether through frustration, whatever, he had to try and overshadow his ineffectiveness, his insecurities, whatever. And they say he became very, very arrogant. And he became very, very self-centered. Of course, the Egyptians viewed the Pharaoh as a type of god, one of many gods. And this Pharaoh took that to extreme. He became very violent and he was merciless. And so Moses is standing before him. On behalf of God, he demands: Let my people go. And that brings us to his response, verse 2. And Pharaoh said, Who is the Lord? That I should obey his voice to let Israel go. I know not the Lord, neither will I let Israel go. First thing I notice in this passage here is the rebellion of Pharaoh. The rebellion of Pharaoh He asked the question, who is the Lord that I should obey his voice? Now, one of two things is true about this question that Pharaoh asked Either he was genuinely ignorant of who the Lord was and was sincerely desiring to find out who is this Lord so that he could obey his voice. He's saying, you know, disregarding the last part of that verse, could be saying, Well, you said the Lord told you to let my people go. Who is this Lord? You tell me who he is, I'll do what he says. Now I want to stop there and say, thank God, that there are people who are genuinely concerned about knowing who the Lord is and wanting to obey Him and please Him. Amen? Thank God for that. Thank God for people in this church here this morning. Your sincere and genuine desire in coming to church and bringing a Bible and opening up Is opening your heart and mind to the Lord and what is the Lord's word for me? What is the Lord's will? I want to do what God would have me to do. I want to please God. I want to obey Him Thank God for people like that. Our church and churches around the world. But that's not what Pharaoh was saying. Pharaoh was not ignorant of who God was and desiring to obey him. Rather, Pharaoh was indifferent as to who God is. And was refusing to submit to God. Pharaoh's response, as is obvious, was Was more like this. Who does this God think he is What is this what authority does this God have over me that I should do anything he says? Now the sad fact is that is not an uncommon response to the Lord. In fact, we can go all through the Bible. We can spend the rest of the message just giving illustrations of men, women, and young people. Who, not in the same words, but their actions were the same, said, Who is God? What authority does God have over my life? Who does God think He is to tell me what I should or should not do? It's not uncommon for people to reject God's authority. We go through scriptures, we find all levels of society rejecting God's authority. You find highly educated people in the Bible rejecting God's authority. You find some very uneducated people in the Bible. rejecting God's authority. You find rich people rejecting God's authority. You find people in extreme poverty rejecting God's authority. You find people who have in government authority positions rejecting God's authority. You find slaves rejecting God's authority There is something in the nature of man that rebels at the thought of God telling me what to do. If you would, keep your place here and turn with me, if you would, very quickly, to the New Testament Book of Luke. The Gospel of Luke. Jesus is giving a parable here, a story of a situation. He's illustrating. God's plan for the church and the second coming of Christ. But he makes an interesting statement in Luke chapter 19 And I'm not going to read the entire parable here. I just want to look at verse 11, 12, 13, and 14. Luke nineteen, notice with me verse eleven And he heard these, and they heard these things. As they heard these things, he added and spake a parable, because he was not in Jerusalem, and because they thought that the kingdom of God should immediately appear. And he said, therefore, a certain nobleman went into a far country to receive for himself a kingdom and to return. And he called his ten servants, and delivered them ten pounds, and said unto them, Occupy till I come. And what he's telling them is, go about your business. Do what I've given you to do till I come back. Now look at verse 14. But his citizens what? Hated him. And sent a message after him saying, Now this if that this summarizes man's in general's response To God's authority. Look what they say. We will not have this man to reign over us. God is illustrating his plan for mankind. Jesus is uh uh illustrating through this parable his interaction with man. And the summary is that uh the vast majority of them say This man will not rule over us. This God, this, and the man here in the story represents the authority of God. Uh he is not going to tell us what we should and should not do. He's not going to tell me where I should or should not go. He's not going to tell me what I should or should not invest my money in. He's not going to tell me how I should live my life. He's not going to tell me whether I should go to church or not. I make those decisions for myself. Who is the Lord that I should do what he says? Come over, if you would, with me to verse twenty-seven. Luke chapter nineteen. But those mine enemies, which would not that I should reign over them, bring hither and slay them before me. It's a high price to pay for rebellion against God. Now let's come back here to Exodus chapter 5. And let's notice some aspects of Pharaoh's rebellion against God. Who is the Lord that I should obey his voice? First thing I notice under Pharaoh's rebellion here is that his rebellion is actually against the person of God. Look at very carefully at verse 2. Are you there? Everybody is everybody with me? Everybody alright? Amen. That's 10 out of the crowd. Good. Look at verse 2. And Pharaoh said, Who is the what's that next word? Lord. Now look very carefully at that word Lord. What do you notice about it? It's all capitals. We always notice that. We always point it out. We notice, oh wait a minute, that's Spelled the same, but it's different about other than other references to the Lord. Capital L, capital O, capital R, capital D. Whenever you see the word Lord in all capitals in the Bible, that is making reference to the personal name of God. It is not referring to the Lord just in a general sense. Well, who is this Lord? He is referring specifically to Jehovah. That's what capital L O R D is referring to, the personal name of God, Jehovah. Pharaoh is not just saying, well, I reject the concept of a God. He's not saying I deny that there is any God. What he's saying is this God Jehovah is not going to tell me what to do. The fact of the matter is All of mankind obeys a God, quote unquote. Either the God of self or the God of materialism, the God of pleasure, the God of money, the God of something. Man worships something. Am I right or wrong? So Pharaoh was not rejecting the concept of a God, but his rejection was of God personally rejecting fella. years ago. I mean he just tore me up one side the other, tracked me, told me how awful I was, what was doing wrong, all this I mean just laid into me. Then when he was done he said this. Now don't take that personally My wife remembers it, I think. It wasn't my wife, it was another person. But um Don't take that personally Pharaoh was rejecting God personally. This God is not going to tell me what to do. Rebellion In fact, look look back here. Who is the Lord? Who is Jehovah? That I shall obey his voice to let Israel go. Look what he says: I know not the Lord. You know what he was saying there? I refuse to acknowledge Jehovah having any authority over my life. Jehovah does not tell me what to do If I do something, it's going to be because I decide, not because he says so. Rebellion against God is a rejection of God. Now let's bring this home. And this is where it hurts. When we decide, when we decide that I'm gonna do what I want to do. From this book. That is rebellion against God. Conviction is setting in But this is very important. And we don't want to think of it this way. In fact, some of you may say that I I don't buy that, but it's true. When I decide, whatever aspect, I decide I am not going to do what God is telling me to do. I'm not going to do that. That is rebellion. You can you can sugarcoat it all you want, but it's rebellion And rebellion against God, get this, is rejection of God. If I choose what I'm going to obey and what I'm not going to obey, I am not submissive to God. You agree with that? I'm in charge. I'm deciding what I'm going to obey or not. And by not submitting to God, I am rebelling against God. And in rebelling against God, I am rejecting God personally. Now the here's where the disagreement comes. Here's where the resistance comes. Oh no no no preacher. I'm not rejecting God. I'm just not going to do that. I don't have anything against God. I love God. I'm fine with Him and He's my Savior. No, I'm not rejecting Him. I'm just not going to do what He says here Oh, you're rejecting him. I'm not talking about salvation here. I'm talking about you're rebelling against God personally. You say, oh, give me some scripture for that. Okay, glad you asked. Turn with me, would, please, to 1 Samuel. Now some of you know where I'm going with this. 1 Samuel chapter number 15. This is much later in Israel's history. Now Israel has a king. And as often happens when a man gets authority, that authority, I do not think power corrupts, I think power reveals corruption. And so King Saul is now in a position of authority. I don't think it corrupted him. I think the corruption was always there. It just drew it out, just made it obvious. And Saul now is deciding what he's going to obey that God says and what he isn't. God has given Saul some very clear instructions, just like he's given the church and given you and I as individuals, very clear instructions what we're to do and not do, do as believers, as his people. And Saul says, Oh yeah, fine. God, your God, I'm going to do this and this that you say, but I'm not going to do this. You said to do this and this way, but I'm going to do it that way. I think this would be better. And he rebels against God. And notice first Samuel chapter fifteen and verse twenty-two, God's explanation Of Saul's attitude and actions. And 1 Samuel 15, 22. And Samuel said Hath the Lord as great delight in burnt offering and sacrifice as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice. And to hearken than the fat of rams. Now look at this. Verse 23. For rebellion Is as the sin of what? Witchcraft. Now there's not a person under the sound of my voice I believe would come and say, Preacher, I practice witchcraft. I think every person on the sound of my voice would say, Preacher, I repudiate the idea of practicing witchcraft. I would never do that. It makes me sick to my stomach to even consider it. But God says, if I am disobeying him, if he has given me something clear that I am to do or not to do, and I am disobeying it, I am choosing to do what I think rather than what God says God says you are on the same level as the person practicing witchcraft. Now what is witchcraft? Witchcraft is the rejection of God's authority. It is a rejection of God's person. I will not worship Jehovah. I am going to worship whatever witches worship. Follow what I'm saying? Look at the rest of the verse. He goes on, he elaborates. Stubbornness is as iniquity and what? Let me ask you a question. Would you agree with me? Idolatry is a rejection of the person of God? Absolutely. It's saying I am setting aside Jehovah and I am worshiping something else in his place. And that's what rebellion is. Pharaoh was rebelling not just against this instruction. You know, we'd say, well, it's just that there that I I I'm not willing to do. I'm not going to do this. No, no, no. It was much more than that. It was rebelling against the very person of God. I think something we need to stop and consider. Every one of us, at some point in the future, guarantee there is no escaping it. Every one of us are going to have to stand before Jehovah. Every one of us are going to have to give an account to Jehovah, to God Almighty, and give an account of ourselves. As a believer, we do so at the judgment seat of Christ. Perhaps I'm talking to someone this morning. You've never trusted Christ as Savior. You've never had your sins forgiven through personally trusting Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. And if you die in that condition, listen, if you die with your sins unforgiven, you will stand at the great white throne, judgment of God. And have to answer to this one that a rebellion was against. Pharaoh's rebellion was against the person of God. Pharaoh's rebellion was also against the word of God. Who is the Lord that I should obey his voice? God was speaking through Moses. God's word. Now the question is, use your imagine. Is everybody still with me? I know it's a little warm in here this morning. Would you agree with me? Probably if God, now I'm saying probably, this is a supposition here, if God would have ripped the sky open And God would have thundered down onto Pharaoh's court as Pharaoh stood there and the skies lift open and God's face shows up and says, Pharaoh, let my people go! How do you think Pharaoh would have responded? Yikes! Get out of here! You're out of here! Would you agree with me? Suppose God ripped this ceiling open and his face came down and he says somebody's name and says, You better get saved today. Okay, okay, okay. But God didn't do it that way. And God never does it that way. Instead, God spoke through Moses. Now what do we know about Moses? He's a good guy, but man, he blew it a bunch. Huh? Moses said that he stuttered a lot. Moses was intimidated. The Bible says he was the meekest man that ever lived. That doesn't mean he was weak, but he was very somewhat timid. Wasn't we didn't push himself on things. So God is speaking through this very weak instrument, right? And I think, leather men here, I think Pharaoh saw Moses God is speaking through you. Who is God? Who's the Lord? I should obey his voice. Look at his spokesman Go. Why should I listen to this? And here's where sometimes people have a hard time with obeying God's word because it comes through inferior messengers. Therefore, they assume it's an inferior God. Follow what I'm saying? Listen, there's not a man that has ever stood behind this pulpit or any pulpit in the world. That has been adequate to declare the word of God It is not the man delivering the message. It is the word of Almighty God that has authority. And how foolish it is, how foolish it is to disobey God Because the messenger is human. Huh? There are pews setting empty this morning. That people once filled, that are now living in disobedience to God because they could not see past the messenger and see the authority of God. Follow with me? Now God forbid I I'm committed and you know I want to be the best pastor I possibly can. God forbid that I would blow it I would trust that God's people recognize the authority of God's word such so that if the messenger fails, God's authority is still true in their lives. You follow what I'm saying? He rejected God's word. Maybe all he saw was Moses stuttering and intimidated and And uh not a failure, murdered a man previously was a shepherd on the backside of the wilderness for 40 years. Good night! But it wasn't Moses, wasn't the authority. It was the voice of God. It was the word of God that was the authority. Well I don't I don't go to church because one of those deacons goes to Florida every winter. I was trying to think of something a deacon does wrong. Why would you disobey God because of the inhumanity of a person? Huh? You're not gonna stand before Dennis Leatherman and give an account at the judgment seat of Christ. You're gonna stand before God. You're not going to be measured by my standard, you're going to be measured by God's word. It's rebellion against the Word of God. Regardless of how feeble the messenger of God's word is, it's still God's word and is to be obeyed, and we will be still held accountable of it We give out gospel tracts. Simple little gospel tract. Ah, what's this little piece of paper has some verses on? Well, it's just a little piece of paper that has verses on. But brother, those verses have some authority. Amen. It's not the messenger so much, it's not the paper and the color of the ink. It's the authority of the word. Book, a sermon, a radio message may be pretty pitiful in and of itself. But if it's the Word of God, it's to be recognized and it is to be obeyed. Regardless of the median it goes through. You with me? He rebelled against the person of God, he rebelled against the word of God, he rebelled against the plan of God. God had a plan for Israel. And Pharaoh refused to cooperate with God's plan And I tell you what, tell you I'm I'm being very frank in this message. I'm trying to listen, you can stand in the way of God's plans if you want to, but you are going to be run over every time. God had a plan for Israel. They were coming out of Egypt. One way or another, they were coming out. And Pharaoh could stand in front of the tr the locomotive of God's plan and raise his fist and say, Who is God that I should obey his voice? But brother, God's will will be accomplished and he will be crushed if he does not cooperate. Amen. And the humanists and the atheists and the evolutionists and the Bible deniers and the liberal uh preachers can re deny the word of God, they can deny the plan of salvation, they can deny the reality of heaven, they can deny the reality of hell, but I'm telling you, it is true and God's will will be accomplished. Man on his dying bed can say, I do not believe in hell. But he takes his first breath after death in a place called hell. What do you think? Well I'm getting ahead of myself. God had a plan for Israel And to rebel against God was to rebel against God's plan. And God's going to accomplish his plan. We can fight it all we want. For 2,000 years, the devil and the world have been trying to destroy the church. But Jesus said the gates of hell will not prevail against it. And today the church goes on. God's will be accomplished. Let me say this. God has a plan for your life. Every one of us here, God has a plan for your life. God has a plan for my life. You know what? I can stand in front of God's plan for my wife, my life, my family, the abilities God has given me, the resources God has given me, given me all for a purpose, a reason, something he needs to accomplish. To advance the gospel, bring glory to Christ. I can stand in front of that and raise my fist and say, who is the Lord to tell me how to live my life? Who is the Lord to have to set the plan for my life? I'll decide what my life is. Go ahead And you'll be run over. Right or wrong. The Bible's full of illustrations. So we have the rebellion of Pharaoh, and I am with this the result of his rebellion As I said previously, he paid a heavy price. Personally, Pharaoh lost everything. Everything. He lost his respect of the people. He lost his nation. He lost his firstborn son. He lost everything. Proverbs 29, 1 says, He that hardeneth his neck, being often reproved, shall suddenly be destroyed, and that without remedy. Listen, if we decide we're going to do it our way, I'm going to do what I want. I don't care what God says, I don't care what God's word is, I'm doing what I want, when I want, the way I want, I'm here to tell you, as your friend, there's a heavy price to pay. There's a heavy price. There are people all across this auditorium who could stand up and testify. I rebelled against God. I did what I wanted, and boy, I'm paying a heavy price. Am I right or wrong? Paid a heavy price. Not only did it destroy him personally, it destroyed the people dear to him His family was destroyed, his nation was destroyed. You know why America is in the spiritual condition America is today? Because there's Democrats. It's the taxes, is it? You know why? It's because God's people won't obey God. And the country is suffering. Judgment must begin at the house of God. When God's people start getting right with God, it goes better with the country. It's always been that way. Always been that way. So he paid a heavy price. The second result of Pharaoh's rebellion is God's word was still accomplished. Israel came out of Egypt stepping over the corpses of Egypt's youth. We can rebel all we want to, but the wages of sin is still death. We can do our own thing all we want to, but God is still not mocked, and whatsoever a man sows, that he is also going to reap. Kills me. See young people who've been raised up and taught the things of God Talk what's right and wrong. God loves them. God has a plan for their life. God wants to use them. God wants to bless them. Than to say, no. I'm going to do it my way. I'm going to sell my wild oats, and I'm going to enjoy what the world has to offer. You know, I've been in this thing long enough. I've seen both ends of that. You know what I've found? When you sow wild oats, you reap wild oats. I could take you to homes of people, young man, young lady grew up in church, was taught right, and they determined they're going to do their own thing, and they married some wild Indian Now for the rest of their life, they're tied up to a bitter, hateful, disobedient spouse. Because they would not hearken to the voice of God. Huh? Financially they're a wreck. You know what they say? You know what they say to me? I wish I could go back and do it over. I wish I'd have trusted God. And I think Pharaoh said when this was all said and done, his armies floating, dead corpses in the Red Sea. Man, I should have listened to him right at the start. Imagine God's blessings on Egypt if Pharaoh would have said, God says that, pack your stuff, we'll help you. What do you need to do? We do not want to rebel against God, we want to cooperate with God. What do we have to do? Imagine how God would have blessed Egypt. God promised Abraham, I will bless them that bless you. I will curse them that curse you. Don't mess with God's word. Don't toy with God's commands. Who is the Lord? You know who He is? He's the Lord. Let's trust them. Obey Him. I was reading about uh, and I think I've used this before, I'm sure I have. But there was a naval ship, I'm trying to find where it was. Two battleships were assigned to a training squadron that had been in the seas on maneuvers in heavy weather for several days This captain has given his story. He says, I was leading I was serving on the lead battleship and was on watch on the bridge as night fell. The visibility was poor with patchy fog. So this was assistant to the captain navigator some. So the captain remained on the bridge, keeping an eye on all activity shortly after dark. The lookout on the wing reported light bearing on the starboard bow. The captain called out, is it steady or moving astern? The lookout replied, steady, Captain, which meant we were in dangerous collision course with that ship. The captain then called to the signal man, signal that ship. We're in a collision course. Advise you to change your course 20 degrees. That came the signal. Advisable for you to change your course 20 degrees The captain said to the signalman, Send again, I am captain, change your course 20 degrees. The signal came back. I am seaman, second class, came the reply. You had better change course twenty degrees. By this time the captain was furious He screamed out, send, I am a battleship, change course twenty degrees. The signal was quiet for a few moments And it came back. I am a lighthouse. Change course 20 degrees. The guy finishes up by saying, we changed course. Who is the Lord that I should adjust my life for him I'll tell you who he is, he's the Lord. We better change course, or we're in for a collision. Now that's true for our country as a nation. It's true for a lot of churches. It's true for some homes. It's true for some individuals. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd help us to trust you and obey you. Help us to recognize your authority in our lives. To recognize your love for us, your plan for our lives. Help us, Lord, not to be as Pharaoh and harden our heart as it says later. Lord, help us to be tenderhearted. Cooperate with you and allow your will to be done in our homes, our family, our children, our church, our ministry. Help us, we pray in Jesus' name of our hands