God has called Moses and went through somewhat elaborate process of getting Moses to the point that he was willing to to listen to what the commission was. And we spent a good bit of time on that, the burning bush, God identifying himself, all of that. Now we're in verse number 11. We have uh and and God is given his commission. In uh verses uh verse uh let me see verse 7 down through 10, we have the commission of Moses. God is telling Moses I want you to go back down into Egypt, go before Pharaoh. Now here's the important thing. If you remember, God tells him, I will bring the Hebrews out of Egypt. God says, I will do it But I'm going to use you. You're the instrument in me getting out. Moses misinterprets or misunderstands what the Lord's saying. Moses thinks what? He thinks he has to do it, and we're going to touch on that again a little bit tonight. And so he begins this series of excuse making on why he can't do what God is has commissioned him to do. So that's where we're picking up. Look at verse eleven And Moses said unto God, and we started this last week, Moses said unto God, Who am I That I should go in go unto Pharaoh, and that I should bring forth the children of Israel out of Egypt. And he, this is God speaking, he said, Certainly, I will be with thee And this shall be a token unto thee that I have sent thee. When thou hast brought forth the people out of Egypt, ye shall serve God upon this mountain. This mountain here that you saw the burning bush where you met me, you're going to be back here with the Hebrews, and you're going to be serving me on this mountain. So we titled this, Who Am I? We started it last week. I want to pick up tonight and continue on this discussion between God and Moses. Father, I ask you to bless now as we look into your word. And as always, Father, whenever I teach or preach your word, Lord, I desperately need the filling of your Holy Spirit. I do not just want to stand here and talk. And so God, I yield my will, present my body anew to you, and I pray with all my heart that you fill me and that you speak to our hearts. You take your word through my lips, apply it to every one of our hearts, myself included. And help us grow in our faith, and help us understand you and and uh your will for us and your plan for our lives. And so I ask all that in Jesus' name. Amen. If you remember, we said God compares us to various uh plants sometimes, a tree, Addie just Ali just uh quoted Psalm 1, uh he shall be like a tree. Uh sometimes he compares us to animals, you know, sheep, eagles. And remember last week we said that Moses, he's not acting much like a sheep at this point. He's acting more like a what? A donkey or a mule. He's digging his heels in and his resistance to God's commission for him to go back down to Egypt. So that's that's where we're at. Um we're going to in the coming weeks Look at five objections that Moses has presents to God why he cannot and should not go down into Egypt. And we started on the first one. The first objection is that he is incapable. And we noted that in verse 11. He says, Who am I? Um the whole implication is I am not the man, I do not have the capabilities, I do not have the gifts, I do not have the talents And we're going to see here in a little bit, I think what it really boiled down to, I am not willing to do what you are commissioning me to do And so he provides a uh he gives this objection and we started noticing the problems with this objection of his. Who am I? And I touched on it a moment ago. We dwelled on it quite a bit, but he uh one of the problems with his objection was he had the whole wrong premise. And that's where I was saying he he had the idea that I've got to do this, I've got to do it all. And uh and the premise was completely wrong. We pointed out back in verse number eight, God very clearly says I'm doing this. I'm doing this. You are not the cause of them coming out. You are the instrument of me bringing them out. You're not the one bringing them out. I'm bringing them out through you. I'm using you to do it And so we had the wrong premise. Now, here's where we're pit that's where we ended last week. There's a second problem with this objection of it is who am I? I I'm not the guy. I don't have the abilities. I'm not capable of this. Number one, he had the wrong premise. Number two, I put this down. Second problem with his objection is he had the wrong focus. Look with me here again at verse number 11 And Moses said unto God, and by the way, the this next, the rest of the chapter really into chapter 4, this back and forth between Moses and God. I find this fascinating. I'm captivated by God Moses' objections, God's response. Moses' objection, God's response. And so we're just starting out. And he says, Who am I? But notice there's a word he uses three times in one very short sentence. Let me read it and pay attention. Who am I that I should go unto Pharaoh, that I should bring forth the children of Israel out of Egypt? Anybody pick it up? I, I, I, I. He first of all had the wrong premise. Well, I've got to do this. I can't get down. God says, uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. God's going to say this here a bit. It's not you. I didn't tell you to do it. I'm doing it. I'm using you to do it So that was his wrong premise. Now he has the wrong focus. Who is Moses looking to to make this happen? Himself. Aye, I, three times in one sentence, he refers to himself. Um, and so the first time he went down The first time he sought to deliver he was already there, he didn't really go down, but the first time he tried to deliver the Hebrews from bondage to the Egyptians, he was relying on himself, right? Acts 7 tells us that by my hand. And so his focus, his confidence the first time was on himself. And how did that work out? Abject failure. He ended up becoming a murderer, a fugitive from the Egyptian authorities, and the Hebrews turned on him. And so the Hebrew the Egyptians hated him because he murdered one of theirs, and the Hebrews didn't trust him, and uh they run him off So when he trusted himself, the first attempt of self-confidence ended in complete failure. Now he's still focused. Now, this is what I got from this The first attempt, I got this, I can do it, I'll deliver them. They'll follow my leadership. I, I, I, me, me, failure. His focus is was on himself, right? Failure. Now, forty years later, humbled a completely different man standing before God, commissioning him to go and get them out of there. He's still saying I. But this time it's not the I of self-confidence. Now it's the eye of incompetence. Who am I? I can't do this. I, I, I. He still has the wrong focus. He's coming to two different conclusions. The first time focused on himself, I can do this. The second time he's focused on himself, I can't do this. The eye of incompetence Fact of the matter is, if God commissions us to do something, it doesn't matter who I am, it matters who God is. Right? If God calls somebody, let's just use for sake of illustration, if God calls or stirs someone to be a Sunday school teacher, And God and they know in their heart this is God's will. God wants me to be the Sunday school teacher. I'm just using that for illustration. If got if God's Commissioning me to be that Sunday school teacher, it doesn't matter what my abilities or inabilities are, it is what is God's ability and God's capabilities because He's the one commissioning me to do it, right? You with me? And we're going to look at this a little bit later on, if hopefully we'll get to it tonight. But Paul in 2 Corinthians, he makes a statement along these lines. He says, not that we are sufficient of ourselves. But our sufficiency is of the Lord. And we'll actually we'll look at that passage and quote it directly But Paul was saying the same thing Moses was saying, but Paul, the difference between the two, Paul's incapability, Paul's insufficiency Did not stop him from doing what God commissioned him to do because his focus wasn't on his insufficiency. His focus was on God's sufficiency. You with me? And so it's where's what am I looking at? What is my focus on? And he had the wrong focus. He was looking at himself. I think that's one of the reasons God went to such great lengths. Earlier in chapter 3 here, God went to such great lengths to get Moses' attention, and before he ever said a peep about what he was going to commission Moses to do before he ever said a word about that He went to great lengths to make sure Moses understood who this was that was confronting him, who this was was commissioning him. I am the God of thy fathers, Abraham, Isaac And he emphasized the fact that God is holy. So I think that's why we spent a good bit of time God clarifying the most exactly who he is. So that Moses would understand that he's more than capable of doing this, not in his own abilities, but in the God of his fathers. You with me? And so his argument doesn't hold up. It has serious problems. One, he's saying I can't do something that God did not tell him to do. I didn't say you deliver him. He says, I'll deliver them, but I'm going to use you. Then he says, uh, uh, I'm looking at myself. I, I, I. And he's got his eyes on the wrong thing. And then there was a third, there's a third problem with his objection. And this, in my mind, is the most serious. I can see where he misunderstood what God was saying. Anybody here ever misunderstand some something And you come to a wrong conclusion, then you find out and say, oh, okay. Anybody knowing to I I I can see that with Moses. All right. And God's very patient. We'll see that here in a bit. Then he got his eyes himself. I. And by the way, that's natural for fallen human being to focus on ourselves, right? We tend to do that. Let me challenge you a little bit. Listen to what we should do to help us in this area is listen to our conversations with people how many times we turn that conversation to come around and be about ourselves. Jerry I think we do it, we don't even think about it. Somebody says, uh, oh man, I stubbed my toe. I think I broke it. Oh yeah, well let me tell you what happened to me. And then for the next 45 minutes, it's my whole medical story. You know, and they're walking away saying, my toe still hurts You you follow what I'm saying? Or or anything like that. And so I can you know I can understand Moses misunderstood. This is huge what God's doing and he misunderstood what God was saying. Alright, I get it He was wrong, but I I I can understand that. I can understand him, not understand it. I can see where we get focused on ourselves and we think I can't do this, aye, aye But this last one, this third problem with this argument, I think is the most serious. And I think a lot of times we're guilty of this and we don't really think about What we're saying, how we're thinking. The third problem was this: he had the wrong approach. Um He's look look again what he says. God says, I will send verse 10, God says, I will send thee unto Pharaoh that thou bringest forth my people, the children of Israel, out of Egypt. Now God made it clear, God's doing it, I'm using you. Now Moses said unto God, and Moses said unto God, Who am I that I should go to Pharaoh, that I should bring forth the children of Israel? You know what he's doing here? Whether he's consciously doing this or not, it's what he's doing. He is questioning God's judgment. Right? Saying, God, you chose me. But who am I? He is uh, here's what he's doing. Again, whether he's deliberately doing this or not We don't know. But he's putting himself in judgment of God's decision, right or wrong. God says, I'm commissioning you. I'm going to send you. I want you to go down there. And he's basically saying this, God, you're mistaken. God, you're not right. I'm not the one to do this. I'm not the one, I'm not capable. Everything about this, God, is wrong. We need to be very, very careful when God instructs us to do something when we say no. Need to be very, very careful about that. Moses is saying, no, I'm not and he in and he digs his heels in later on. He's a mule. And he resists what God is telling him to do, and he's putting his judgment above God's judgment. Um he's questioning and not directly and And I don't know whether he's doing it consciously, but in resisting this and objecting to what God is doing, he's questioning God's intelligence. God, you're making a mistake. God, you're wrong. Now, everything I understand about God and everything that is very clearly taught in Scripture about God is God makes no mistakes. God is not wrong on his judgments. God is not wrong in his decisions. God is not wrong in his selection for the role you and I have in the kingdom of God. And when we say, God, I'm not the man, what I'm doing is putting myself up and saying, God, I know better about what role I have in your service than you do. Now I don't know that Moses deliberately was communicating that, but to me, I think that's what he's doing. He's saying this, God, you've made a wrong choice. You've made a mistake God, you have a bad plan. If I'm part of the plan, it's a bad plan. And I'm here to tell you: God does not have bad plans. Say, well, I just don't see how God could use me. That's not your choice or my choice to make. That's God's judgment. Say, well, I I I I don't have the capabilities to do what God's telling me to do. I that I am not in the seat to make that I do not have the position or the authority to make that judgment. God's the one that makes that judgment. How many times? Let's just use this for an example. And apply any area of Christian service, I would say, Christian life. But how many times has God touched the heart of a young man or a man somewhere and he says, I'm calling you, I want to commission you to go to the mission field to pastor to begin training for some area I have for and the young and the person says, No, I'm not the one. I can't do what you're calling me to do. I can't do What we're doing saying is, God, I know better what I'm capable of doing than what you are, and I'm here to tell you, you and I do not know what we're capable of doing better than God does And how many times when they finally say, yes, Lord, all right, I'll agree with you, and then God uses them. And God enables them. And God gives them the necessary skills or whatever you want to call it, abilities to do what He's commissioned them to do. And God was all along, knew exactly what he was doing, but I stand in judgment and say, no, no, no, no, I know better what about how this should work than what you do, and I'm not the one. You're making a mistake Would you agree with me? Of those three, misunderstanding, a wrong focus, and standing in judgment of God, would you agree with me? The third is the more serious of the three. We have to be very careful about that. Questioning God's wisdom. Who am I? Why would you choose me Questioning God's power. I'm here to tell you, and I'm kind of jumping all over my notes here a little bit, but I'm here to tell you, if God wants to, he can use a literal donkey In fact, Balaam's donkey was more cooperative with God than Moses the donkey was. Right? And so we have to be very careful about saying no to God. I do not have the wisdom, I do not have the intelligence. I don't have the information necessary for me to be able to sit in judgment of God. Right? God's perfect in wisdom. My wisdom is far from perfect. Are you with me? Can I get a witness? I mean we all say that. Sometimes, here's the thing, sometimes man can sometimes let me bring it home. Sometimes we can think We know so much about something when in reality we don't know nothing. Right? I mean I know Moses putting himself and he's not doing it necessarily in an arrogant way. I think there's pride here, but we're going to bring this out a little bit. Pride can manifest itself various ways, right? And Moses said, oh, I can't do this. Oh, I can't, God, you're making a mistake. His focus is still on himself. That's pride. And so um and so he makes these objections. I can't do it, I can't do it Now think about this, how foolish. And I want to be careful about standing in judgment on Moses, because no doubt I've been guilty of this to some degree more than I'd like to admit But how foolish a man, now think about this with me, a man who had failed colossally In his plan to deliver the Hebrews is now suggesting to God Almighty That God's plan is foolish. Now, if Moses was an expert in delivering Hebrews from Egyptian bondage, I might be willing to listen to what he thinks about other people's plans about delivering Hebrews out of Egyptian bondage. But Moses is no expert. He's a colossal failure Right? And here he is standing, so to speak, in judgment of Almighty God, perfect in wisdom, perfect in knowledge, perfect in intelligence, omniscient. And a man that's totally failed is standing in judgment of the infinitely perfect God. Would you agree with me? That's pretty foolish. But the thing is, it's not unique with Moses. It's pretty characteristic of mankind. We know We know how life is. We know how mankind should be lived. We know how life should be lived. Don't tell us we've got this. Hello, let's look out in the world. How's man doing on running life. It's pretty bad. Would you agree with me? And just this one thing, and I'm I'm off the radar here now, but Just this one thing. If mankind would just do what Jesus instructed in the Sermon on the Mount, just those three chapters out of the whole Bible, if we just Then what that what Jesus said there, I'm telling you, 99. 9% of all our society's ills would be erased immediately. But we know. We know better. And that's indirectly what Moses is saying. I like what Dr. Cree. He said this so many times, and I Uh I miss having him up here. He can't travel anymore. I try to call him periodically. He said this a hundred times. I'm I guarantee every one of us that heard him speak any amount of time at all heard him say this We just need to agree with God. Anybody ever remember hearing him say that? Just agree with God. Just agree with God. You know what I've found in my few years of walking with the Lord, knowing the Lord? I found it always works better. When I just agree with God. Well, God, I don't know. I know what you say, but I don't know about that. I found it works a whole lot better if I just, Lord, I'll agree with you. I'll agree with you. And so Moses presents these objections that are, this first objection, and seriously flawed in three ways. Now we look there at verse number 12. And we have God's answer. God's answer to his objections. The problems of his objections. God responds with a simple answer, and he touches on three areas of Moses' objection. Look at verse 12. And he, this is God responding to Moses saying, You got this all wrong, God. I know better than you do. I'm not the one. God responds, and he, God, said, Certainly I, there's that word again, except this time it's God, I will be what? With thee. So God, the very first thing God does, He's redirecting Moses' attention off of himself and onto who? Onto the Lord. Moses saying, I, I, I, God says, uh-uh. It's not you. I. Look at me. Look to me. Somebody put it this way, this is divine redirection. Changing his focus. I tell you, I think a lot of our worry and our anxiety and I'm preaching myself as much as anybody, but I think a lot of our worry, a lot of our anxiety would melt away if we just get our eyes off of the problem and on to the problem solver. And then off of our situation and on to our Savior, we got our eyes on the wrong thing. God is moving Moses' attention off of himself and on to the Lord. And here's the interesting thing: we find God having to do this over and over and over all through Scripture. And those who were used of God in great ways got a hold of that truth. The people that God did great things through their life were people whose focus was not on themselves, their abilities, or their inabilities. Their focus was on the omnipotence and the wisdom and the graciousness and mercy of God that He would choose to use me. Can you think of any illustrations in the Bible where God used somebody in a great way because they saw beyond their problem and they saw they saw beyond their issue and they saw a God that could very easily handle this issue? There's one stands out in my mind immediately. Daniel the lion stand was perfect. I'm thinking of David and Goliath. Everybody else was scared to death of Goliath because their focus was on them compared to this giant. They said, who can go out there? This guy's so look at us. When when uh even before that, when Joshua sends the uh when Moses sends the spies into Egypt, or I'm really messing this up. When Moses sent the spy he didn't send any spies to Egypt, alright? That's the NIV. When Moses sent the spies into Canaan Right? Ten were bad and two were good. What was the difference between the ten bad ones and the two good ones? It was their focus. What are the ten bad ones when they came back to Joshua? They said, there's giants in the land, and we were in their sights as what? Grasshoppers! We're just little grasshoppers hopping around these giants. Who were they focused on? Themselves. They were comparing themselves to Joshua and Caleb come back. They said, Giants, God told us we could have it. Who was their focus on? God. They said, let's go. We can get them. Yeah, they're big, but God's bigger. You see the difference? And that's what God is getting Moses to do. Get your Get excuse me, get your stinking eyes off yourself and your what the what the what the job is and look at me look to me I And so he's redirecting him. Let me give you some verses here. Now keep your place because we're coming back here in a minute. Psalms chapter 25. And I want you to see these because they might help us. The people in the Bible that God used to do great things were not looking at their own abilities or inabilities. They weren't looking at the awfulness of the circumstances, they were looking to the Lord God. Psalm 25, and look with me at verse 15. Psalm 25, verse 15. David talking here, and David knew a little bit what he was talking about here. So it it behooves us, not just because it's scripture, but David knows what he's talking about. So we'd be wise to listen to what he says. Mine eyes are ever toward the Lord. Who's he looking at? Now look at the next statement. For he shall pluck my feet out of the what? Where was David's focus? On the net or the Lord? He says, My eyes are ever towards the Lord. He wasn't looking at the net he was in, the circumstance, the situation he was facing. It was a net. It was bet. But he says, My eyes are toward the Lord. My eyes are toward the Lord. And God used David in great ways. He messed up, but God used him in great ways. Come over to Psalm chapter 123. And uh we I could give we could go all night looking at verses that are along these same lines. Let me just pull a few out. Psalm 123. We go right by Psalm 121. He says, I'll lift up mine eyes unto the hills. From whence come my help? My help cometh from the Lord. I'm looking past the hills to the one that made the hills. Now look at 123. And verse number one. Unto thee lift I up mine eyes, O thou that dwellest in Now look at verse 2. I have this verse underscored in red and bracketed in my Bible. As the eyes of servants Look unto the hand of their masters, servants and masters. Which of those two is telling the other one? Which of those two is giving the other one instructions? The master has given the servants instructions. And uh uh the psalmist is saying, just like that. And as the eyes of a maiden unto the hand of her mistress, so in the same way, just like that, our eyes wait upon the Lord our God until that He have mercy on me I put my margin of my Bible there. I never I have never regretted waiting on God. I have never regretted looking to God. Never regret. I've regretted leaning on my own understanding. I've regretted trusting in myself. I regretted taking things into my own hands. I regretted making my own judgment I've never regretted looking to God. That's what the psalmist is saying here. Looking at myself, my own inabilities. Isaiah 26 and verse 3. Let me give you one more and then we'll get back here. Isaiah twenty-six and verse three. He says This is a great verse. This is another one to be underlined and memorized, stored in your heart. Look at this. Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, regardless of the circumstances, regardless of the situation. Regardless of what I'm being commissioned to do, that will keep him in perfect peace, whose mind, whose thoughts, whose focus is stayed on thee. Because he trusteth in thee. And then, well, come back to Exodus. While you're coming there, Hebrews chapter 12. Looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith. That's been our motto for over 32 years now for our church. And I hope Now I'd like to think that I as pastor and us as a church body, as a congregation, as the body of Christ, that we be very, very careful. We don't look at our circumstances, don't look at our situation Don't look at the condition of our country, but keep our eyes on Jesus. To stay focused on the Lord Jesus. And that's what God's trying to get Moses to do. So number one, the first thing God does in response to Moses' objection is he redirects his attention to himself. Second thing he does, he reassures Moses of his presence, of God's presence. Notice he says, and he said, what's the fourth word into the verse there? Certainly I will be with thee. Certainly I will be with thee. I looked up that word, certainly, like I do, and um it has this idea. The removal of all doubt or questions. Certainly. There's no question about this. What did Moses just do to God? He just what? Questioned him. Who am I? And I think it's interesting, God uses a word that means there is no question about this. Certainly. It means the removal of all doubts or all questions. Something, this makes sense, something I can be certain of. How many people are amazed that the word certainly means something I can be certain of. How many people are glad you came to church tonight, found that out? It means be confident. You don't have to doubt. You don't have to be worried about this. You don't have to question this. I will be with thee. The word, that phrase with thee caught my attention. God is saying, this is what the Lord is saying to Moses, at no point in any of this endeavor. At not one not one minute in this whole adventure I'm sending you on are you going to be by yourself? Not one point are you going to be on your own. It doesn't matter how at this point Moses, one, he doesn't think he's going to ever end up down there. And then it never enters his mind. He has no idea how Pharaoh would respond. And God's saying, Listen, remove any doubt, remove any questions, at no point in time, doesn't matter how Pharaoh responds, it doesn't matter what the situation ends up being, you will never be on your own. I will be with thee, certainly, without a doubt, absolutely confident of that See, this isn't Moses doing something for God. This is God using Moses to accomplish God's plan. God says, it's me. I'm planning this. I'm doing it. I'm going to be with you. I'm using you to get them out. What's Matthew 28, 19 says? Go ye therefore and teach all nations, right? Baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, Holy Ghost. That's our, what do we call that? That's our what? Great commission for the church. Moses has his commission. Go into Egypt, get my people out, our commission, go into the world, and win people to Christ. That's our whole purpose. But he doesn't end with teaching them to observe all things whatsoever commanded you. He ends with a statement almost Exactly what he's telling Moses. And lo, certainly, absolutely, without a doubt I am with you. And lo, I am with you. Until the end of the earth, end of the world. We have the exact Same promise for our commission as a church that God gave to Moses for his commission to go into Egypt Here's the sad thing, and I don't think, I imagine maybe some do, but I I don't think a church would deliberately say, God, you got it wrong. Our church reached the world. Who are we? You're knocking on the wrong door, Lord. You're making a mistake. And God puts that in there. I'm convinced to say, no, I'm not making a mistake. This isn't about you. This is about me using you, and I will be with you to the end of the world, end of the age, end of time Our missionary we interviewed had a give us on screen Sunday night in a restricted country He said there's two missionaries in a country of twenty million people, two independent Baptist missionaries, country of two million people. Sounds outnumbered, right? I remind you, based on Matthew 28, verse 19 and 20, they are not alone. They got the Lord there with them. And he would testify to that. He didn't sound like he was beat up and struggling, sound to me like he's winning people to Christ, seeing God do things. He got a hold of it. He understands what God's trying to get Moses to understand. We do what God tells us to do. We obey God's commission. We agree with God's commission to us, whatever it may be. We agree with them. God says, I'm with you. You're not on your own. Anybody here ever God put on your heart that to give a tract to somebody at Sheets or somewhere or at the gas station or whatever And man, you see a person, you think, ugh, I'll give them a track. Anybody know what I'm talking about? It's not an audible voice, but something inside is saying you need to give that, you need to talk to that person. You need to Sometimes I'll be here and I'll just come on my heart and mind. I need to go visit somebody. And sometimes it's a lady or something, it'll be on my heart. I'm praying. I'll tell Kathy, I'll say, give so-and-so a call, would you? They're just on my heart, she'll call them up. And almost inevitably they'll say, oh, thank you for so much for calling. Uh this was going on. And well sometimes God will put something in our heart to give it track somebody, and our immediate reaction is, oh, they went Oh, they they'll probably get mad. I'll just I'll blow it. I won't. And anybody know what I'm talking about? We have a thousand reasons. What we're doing is what Moses did. We're saying, Who am I? We've got to remember the Lord said, Lo, I am with you It's the Lord right there. We're doing that. I still love Hebrews 13, 5. I love that verse. He said unto them, uh, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee And so that's what God's confronting Moses' objection. He's answering his objection. He redirects his attention. He reassures him of his presence. We made this statement earlier. God never calls a man to an easy task. I can't find anywhere where God called somebody, I'm going to commission you. to move uh to live uh on a beach somewhere and just drink iced tea and go fishing for the rest of your life. That's my call to your life. God never does God's calls are generally, with almost without exception, challenging. Very seldom, if ever, are they luxurious They're hard. Most of the time they're impossible, what God calls us to do. But he always assures us of his presence. I like what the angel told Mary when Mary found out she was with child and she's going to give birth to the Christ, the Messiah. Mary said, how can this be? And the angel tries to explain to her a little bit. Then the angel makes this statement, with man, This is impossible. It's impossible for a virgin to give birth to a child. With man it's impossible, but say it with me, with God all things are possible. So when God commissions us, don't debate with him, don't say, oh God, you got the wrong guy. No, no, no. It doesn't matter what my abilities or inabilities are, it doesn't matter what I am God, all things are possible. He can use me. I thought about Wes Bartley. Anyone recognize that name? Wes Bartley. There are missionaries down in St. Lucia. Now he's called to a Caribbean, they live right by the beach there, but he's not sitting around drinking iced tea going fishing all the time. West Bartley, and he'll tell you He was a construction man. I think he had his own construction business up in Canada. And uh in his forties, if I remember the details correctly, he was in his early 40s, I believe And they would go down to various mission trips with their church. They had a very large church, Faith Baptist up there, Faithway Baptist, and uh they'd take mission trips all around the world and West and Lu and um Um, Faith Ann would they would go on these trips to help out with the young people. They went to St. Lucia, if I remember right, a couple times God started dealing with his heart. Forty-some years old, has his own business, established, successful. God starts stirring his heart that God commissions him You go to St. Lucian, start churches down there because they're desperate for churches. Wes Bartley says, okay. Now I don't know w if if or how much of uh objections there were initially with him. He I don't know. I can't answer that. But I know this. He agreed with God, with God's call God's commission. He agreed. Forties gets rid of the business somehow. I don't know, he handed it off somewhere. I don't know how he did it, but He goes to Bible college for a couple years, well beyond your typical Bible college age. It's Bible education. He goes down to St. Lucia, him and Faith Ann have been down there twice. I think Derek was down with us, a couple others. Went down there. I've seen his work. He started two churches now. They're both growing strong churches. One scores and scores hundreds of people to Christ down there. We did a Christian the last time we were down, Kathy went and we preached I preached a Christian discipleship conference, he called it. And man, the place was packed People we wonder the Lord. People give me testimony. Oh brother Wes, let me lord. Oh brother Wes led me to Christ. In uh ghettos, they call it Shantytown, I think, has this one little church. They just build a building They're in this ghetto town, these winning people to Christ. This one guy Construction guy, he's very good. And he says, God says, Alright, I'm commissioning you to go there. And he says, okay. And God enables him and God's used him a great way. And he's like the meekest, most humble guy. He just joke around. He's just doing his stuff, loving God and loving people, and God's using them. And that's something. There's a third answer that God gives to Moses' objection, but we will save that for next week. Alright? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us, keep our focus right. Lord, I pray, myself included, all of us, I ask, Lord, that you would help us not to sit in judgment on your plans and your purposes just because we don't understand. Your ways are higher than our ways. Your purposes and plans are higher than ours. Your thoughts. So, Lord, help us just to stay keep our eyes on you. Help us to follow your leadership, your direction. And God, I pray you'd use us as individuals. And God, I pray you'd use our church. And we would just keep on looking unto Jesus for strength, for direction. And that you would use us. I wonder heads bowed eyes closed. I wonder how many like me would say, Preacher, I tend to look at myself Rather than the Lord. I tend to see my own strengths or my own weaknesses rather than the Lord. Is there any like that? And I need to get my eyes off. I need to just get my fix my eyes on Jesus Maybe some here have a hard time claiming his promise. I know what he's promised, but I always somehow dismiss it, somehow minimize it And worry and fuss. Is there any like that? I need to start claiming God's promise. Anything like that? I just need to take God as Word. God bless you And maybe an altar is a good place just to come say, Lord, I want to fix my eyes on you. I want my mind to be stayed on you. And just trust you. Father, bless your invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen.