Two, if you would turn there and um I'm just going to give the introduction to my message this morning. Now don't get too encouraged. It's about an hour and forty-five minutes long introduction. No, not really, but uh I do I want to leave a little challenge here from Exodus chapter number 32. If you would notice with me verse 26 Exodus 32 and verse 26. And tell you what, let's read this verse together. I like to read our text verse together in unison. If you have it there, Exodus 32, verse 26, all together. Then Moses stood in the gate of the camp and said, Who is on the Lord's side? Let him come unto me. And all the sons of Levi gathered themselves together unto him. Moses made this statement. He said, Who is on the Lord's side. And that's what I want to speak about. And again, I'll just give some introductory thoughts. Maybe in a week or two we'll get to the message itself. Let's pray. Father, we ask now your blessing on our time and your word It sure is a joy and encouragement to see these young people, the potential that sat before us, stood before us here a few moments ago, and the impact that they will have on the world. And I pray, Lord, that you would use our efforts to instill in them faith in God To teach them to grow in the nurture and admonition of the Lord to serve you. We pray you'd call out preachers and missionaries. godly men and women out of our youth to serve you, win souls, take a stand for righteousness and the word of God. So we ask your blessing. And now, Lord, I ask you to speak to our hearts. And help us, Lord, to grow in our faith. I pray that you'd use some thoughts here from your word this morning to stir us to stand for you And to serve you faithfully. Lord, I have nothing, I understand, I acknowledge, Lord, I have nothing in and of myself to offer that is of any spiritual, eternal value. I know that So I yield my will to you. I present my body anew, and I pray your Holy Spirit would fill me, and that you would speak your word through me in each of our hearts and lives and help us make right decisions. God, help us to respond to what you deal to our hearts about in faith. And so, Lord, have your way, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. It probably goes without saying, I think the crowd that I'm speaking to this morning understands that the United States of America is in grave danger. We've said for years the judgment of God is coming upon our nation. I believe the judgment of God is not coming upon our nation. I believe the judgment of God is upon our nation. We're seeing the early stages, perhaps. I don't know. I'm not a prophet, but just by observing things. So America is in grave danger. Not just because of what's happening in Washington, D. C. , not just because of what's happening in the White House or in our state houses, capitals. And and what's going on there is very disturbing. But my greater concern, I think the greater danger for America is not what's in DC or in the state capitals I think the greater danger for America is what's happening in our churches, the churches of America, in the homes of Christians. In America. We are the salt of the earth. God's people. You and I that know Jesus Christ as Savior. We're the salt. We're the influence. For righteousness, for godliness, for the gospel. Nowhere in the Bible does it say politicians are the salt of the earth Nowhere in the Bible does it say that political leaders are the salt of the earth or political institutions or community uh organizations. They're not the salt of the earth. It's God's people is the salt of the earth. If there's going to be any if there's going to be any influence for righteousness, if there's going to be any influence in our world, in our communities, for the gospel, And for the spiritual well-being of the people that we live with, there's going to be any influence on those things. It's going to have to come from God's people. Ye are the salt of the earth. And my concern Is that we've are losing our Savior, that influence in the world. I'm afraid in some cases the world has more of an influence on the church than the church is having on the world. I'm afraid in many cases the world is influencing our homes, our marriages, and our child rearing, influencing our use of time and the use of our money How we're investing our lives, how we were using this gift of life that God has given to us, the world is influencing our behavior with that more than the Holy Spirit and the Word of God is. It's called losing our Savior. My concern is what's happening in our churches and in our homes and in our personal lives. So with social media comes all these conspiracy theories. You hear them, you read them. And they're flooding out. I'm not real concerned about the conspiracy theories coming out of Washington, D. C. I'm more concerned about the conspiracy theories coming out of hell Satan, Satan's conspiracy theories, trying to destroy churches Trying to dilute and distort the Word of God. Satan trying to detour the Great Commission, taking the gospel into all the world. And Satan will get us Involved in everything in the world, everything in the world. And yet we neglect the great commission that God has given to us taking the gospel into all the world. The detouring uh the Great Commission, distorting God's word, destroying our churches. Uh Satan's conspiracies out of hell to divide our marriages. As the home goes, so goes society. And it's tragic, and I I'm starting off awfully negative here, but I'm trying to get to a point. It's tragic that the Christian marriage has little, there's little difference between the Christian marriage and the world's marriages. Divorce rate among Christians is identical to the divorce rate in the world. I don't know about you, but that to me, that's losing. That's not winning. That's not a testimony. In homes where wives hate their husbands and husbands hate their wives, don't talk You tell me that's the best God can do? I'm telling you the concern for our country, we're all worked up about The Democrats and Republicans. We're all worked up about the communists. I tell you, I think our concern ought to be in our churches, in our homes. That's where the foundation is crumbling. Our nation, our world's in trouble. What's happening in our churches and our homes Satan is conspiring to devour our testimonies. And Peter, he told uh Peter wrote to the believers he was addressing, he says, be vigilant, be sober, be vigilant Because your adversary, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. We've got an enemy. We've got an enemy. And that enemy is greater than any politician or political philosophy or political party. That enemy is Satan himself. We can get the most conservative country in the world. We can get the uh we can have the strongest economy, the strongest military in the world, and I'm all for that. But if people, if we don't win people to the Lord Jesus Christ, we're losing. We're losing. I hope you understand what I'm trying to say. America is in trouble. The problem, I think, is in our churches, in our homes, and in our personal lives. Here's the problem. This was my assessment. I think God's people have forgotten whose side they're on. We've forgotten who our God is. Moses comes down off of Mount Sinai, and God's people, the nation of Israel, they're partying, dancing, rocking and rowing. Worshiping false gods. And Moses said, Who's on the Lord's side? They forgot which side they were on. They've forgotten. We've forgotten whose side we're owned. We've forgotten what God we serve. Do we serve the God of Mammon? Or do we serve the true and living God? Do we serve the God of materialism? Or do we serve the God that created all this and loved us enough to die on the cross for our sins, bury and rise again, so we can live forever in His presence in heaven? Who do we serve? Who are we investing our lives and time and attention in? We've forgotten whose side we're on. We've forgotten what God we serve. In fact, worse yet, I think in many cases we don't even consider. What God we're serving. We don't even think about what side we're on. Evidently, that's what took place With Israel, that's what happened to Israel here. If you'll remember, and if we had time, we don't we can go back and just kind of get the the history leading up to this dramatic point where Moses in in uh uh in passion cries out, who was on the Lord's side? God had miraculously delivered Israel From a violent and abuse of slavery in Egypt for hundreds of years. God had sent the ten plagues on the on the nation of Egypt upon Pharaoh and his people. And God showed in very dramatic and undeniable fashion that He was greater than the greatest nation on the planet at that point, at least one of the greatest nations. He displayed to Israel and to Egypt and to all the world that there's not a nation on this planet that can stand against the power of Almighty God. He poured out his judgment on their gods. If you would study the ten plagues that he put on Egypt, it corresponds to ten of their gods. And he displayed the fact that there is no God but Lord God Jehovah, the God of Israel. Israel saw that They experienced that. They were delivered from all that, and then they were delivered from slavery. As they came out of Egypt, the Egyptian army pursued them. You know the story. They come up against the Red Sea and they're scared to death, and they said, Oh, why did you bring us out here? We should have gone back. If we brought us out here, we're going to be killed. And God again displayed his power. Had Moses stretch out his rod across that Red Sea. God divided that water. And by the way, that happened exactly the way the Bible says Don't tell me God can't divide water. And Moses and the nation of and the people of Israel cross on dry land through that great sea. And as they come out the other side, God turns and crashes that water back down on the pursuing Egyptian army. The next morning, dead bodies floating out on the water. Israel saw that. They knew what God could do. They knew that God loved them enough to deliver them. God brought them out of Egypt, out of violent and abusive slavery. He destroyed the Egyptian army at the Red Sea. He displayed his power over the world's armies. He displayed his power over the forces of nature. And then he miraculously meets their needs. They have food to eat and water to drink. Then he directs them, leads them to Mount Sinai. There he calls Moses up on the mountain, and God gives to Moses the greatest code of law that this world has ever seen. Did you know that our our uh our government and our judicial system is based upon the laws that God gave Moses on Mount Sinai? Thousands of years later? So Israel knew who God was. They knew what he was capable of. They saw firsthand his love and concern and care for them. And Moses goes up, and lo and behold, and we don't have time, I wish we did, lo and behold, they forget who their God is. They forget what side they're even on. And they make, as Moses is up for 40 days and 40 nights, they get impatient, and they make this golden calf. This God, quote unquote, small g, God, out of gold, and they begin to worship and said, this is what brought us out of Egypt How many people ever read stuff in the Bible, a nation of Israel, if you ever read through you, read them and you saw how they act and just scratch your head and say, What in the world are they thinking? Anyone ever get that way? You know what? Sometimes I read the Bible and I look and I see it's like a mirror, and I look, what in the world am I thinking? They forgot whose side they were on. They forgot whose God they had. Somewhere along the line, they forgot. What God they served. Look with me if you would here at verse 26. It says, Moses stood in the gate of the camp. He comes down, he sees this wicked party, this horrific, immodest, perverse Celebration of a false God and false doctrine and false worship, wickedness And he stood in the gate of the camp and he said, and I can hear him just crying out at the top of the voice: Who is on the Lord's side? Let him come unto me. I got looking at that statement, and I don't think Moses was asking a question I think he was issuing a challenge. Who's on the Lord's side? Come over here. It was a challenge. It was a call to a decision. Decision. This week as I was praying and studying for this morning's message and I thought about the children that would be here, and man, what a great crowd of kids we had. Amen. Man, I just thank God for it. And maybe we get our new building done. We can double that crowd. Wouldn't that be something? None of the workers said amen there, I noticed. But as Moses, I studied this and I thought of the kids, and as Moses issued this challenge, who was on the Lord's side? And he's issuing this challenge to make a decision. He's calling on the people of Israel. You decide. Are you on the Lord's side? Or are you on the side of the world? What is it? Who's on the Lord's side? Then step over here. And I thought of these children. These children in the coming years are going to make decisions. That are going to affect them the rest of their lives. The next five, ten years, these kids, I don't know, I don't know, ten years, ten, fifteen years. Someone before one of the smart Alec men in our church um came and said to me, They said, Preacher, you know in 19 years you're going to be eighty. Now that I think about it, I'm gonna preach twenty more minutes just because he said that. Time races by so quickly. And our question and the burden in our ministry is this. We want to see these child we want everybody, but we want to see these children, these young people, our teenagers. We want to see them choose to be on the Lord's side. On the right side. Who was on the Lord's side, Moses? cried out. It wasn't a question. He wasn't taking a survey. He was issuing a challenge. He was extending a call to decision. You decide. I'm going to remind you this morning there are only two sides. There are only two sides. Either it's God or the devil. You say, oh preacher, you're oversimplifying it. No, I'm boiling it down to its very bottom line. It's God or the devil There's no in-between. There's no middle ground. It's Jehovah or it's a golden calf. Who's on the Lord's side? Come to me. It's right or it's wrong. It's heaven or it's hell. You decide. You decide. What is it? Is it heaven for you or is it hell? Is it eternity in the presence of God? There's eternity separated from God in the horrific torments of hell. Say, preacher, you ought not to preach like that. I'm telling you, we're in the mess we're in because people aren't preaching like that. Only two sides. Right or wrong, heaven or hell. It's the church or the world. It's the word of God or it's the word of man? Who's on the Lord's side? Which side are you on? I like the verse that Donna has for her life verse, and we made that little plat. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart. The other side is, and lean what? Not into thine owner saying. It's either the word of God or it's the word of man. Only two choices on the shelf, living for God or living for self. Moses issues this Challenge. Who is on the Lord's side? Who is on the Lord's side? God or the devil? Jehovah or this false God? Right or wrong? Heaven or hell? The Word of God or the Word of Man. Let me make this statement. I hope you'll get this statement because I think this is important to understand. Any indecision Any indecision concerning right or wrong is a decision for wrong. Do you get it? If it's between right or wrong, and I has and I can't decide whether it's right or wrong, I'm deciding wrong. If it's if it's heaven or hell, I I I'm uh I'm indecisive about whether it's trusting Christ and having eternal life and going to heaven. Or it's rejecting Christ and dying and going to hell. If I'm indecisive about that, well then I'm choosing the devil in hell. Say preach I had a guy one time, I was trying to win him to Christ. He said, well, I'm just not ready. Oh, just not ready. I said, so then you're going to reject Christ He says, No, I'm not rejecting him, I'm just not ready to receive him yet. I said, you're in effect rejecting him. Rejecting him. So indecision on matters of right and wrong, indecisions on matters of truth and righteousness, or Lies and unrighteousness, indecision is a choice for the lies. Indecision never saved the soul. Nobody ever found eternal life. Nobody ever was born again. Nobody ever was saved from sin in hell because they couldn't decide. Or they wouldn't decide. The only people that are ever born again, the only people who ever make it to heaven, only people who find forgiveness of sins are those who deliberately of their own free will decide to put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ Some time ago, there was this thing floating around on the computer, and it was a little picture. It had two panels. The first picture had a book, and on the cover it said this: My role in my salvation. My role in my salvation. That was the cover. And the next panel had the book open, and it was all blank. And the idea was this: that I have no role in my salvation. And as soon as I saw that, I said, that is a false doctrine. What did uh Paul tell the Philippian jailer when he said, What must I do to be saved? Paul say, Oh no, you don't have any role in your salvation. He didn't say that. He said, what? Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. You do have a role. I do have a part in whether I have eternal life or not. I do have a part in whether I go to heaven or hell. Not to earn it, not to merit in any way, but simply by faith receive what Christ has done for me, and I must decide. Whether I'm on the side of Christ and trusting him. It's only two choices. Indecision never saved the soul. Reading the Bible, folks, that would not decide for Christ. Indecision, I put this down: indecision never brings success. I mean in any category of life, nobody becomes successful in the business world or in the athletic world or in any other world. Nobody becomes successful in the in the medical world because they're indecisive At some point they make decisions. You say, well, uh what if I make a bad decision? Listen, it's better to make a bad decision and learn from it and then correct it and make a good decision than not to make a decision at all. I hope I'm making sense. Nobody, there's the indecision never brings success. Indecision never inspires others. Boy, I respect him so much. He won't make a decision. Did you ever go? I gotta be careful here, I'm treading on thin ice. Do you ever go shopping with someone and they can never decide what to buy? Oh, should I get this or should should I get this tie or this tie? I don't know. Oh for Pete's sake, just buy one. Um I told this recently, but I I like the story. Uh Ronald Reagan said when he was a boy Uh his mom took him they had this this was a long time ago. Uh they had cobblers. Anybody remember cobbler shoot shoe man cobbler. And they went down and they were going to buy them shoes and they were gonna have them made for them And the cobbler said, do you want round-tipped shoes or square-tipped shoes? And Ronald Reagan said he was just a boy. He says, I couldn't decide, so I don't know. And so they went round and round and round. He never did the sign. Finally his mother said, Oh, we'll come back later. So finally some time went by. He came back and He said, do you decide what kind of shoes you want? He says, I can't decide. The cobbler said, Well, I made a pair for you. He said, okay, one shoe had round, the other one had square. And he was emphasizing the importance of making a decision. There's people in hell right now. I hate to say this. I hate the Bible teaching on hell. Bothers me. But it's true. There are people in hell right now who knew how to be saved. Who knew that Jesus Christ died for them, was buried, and rose again, knew that he would forgive them and give them eternal life. They would just decide. To put their faith and trust in him, and they would never decide. Years ago I was chaplain with hospice I was visiting a fella back here at Dennett Road, the nursing home, and they got a call and said, we have a fella, he doesn't have a pastor, doesn't And he'd like for you to come by and that was my role. If they didn't have any church home or anything, I I would offer m to try and help 'em And so I went and visited the fellow. We sat, I'd probably spent an hour with him getting to know each other, talking. He told me his background, different things And finally, I said, listen, I'd like to show you from the Bible how you can know for sure that when you die, your sins forgive and you go to heaven. He's on hospice. He's not going to live long. And so he said, okay. And he said he believed the Bible. I mean it was it wasn't hostile. It was good rapport back and forth. I went through the plan of salvation as carefully and as thoroughly as I could. He understood. He was on board. And I said, well tell you what, let's seal the deal right now. Let's let's call on the Lord. Why don't you decide I'm just going to trust Christ as your s as your Savior. And he goes, no, not not now. I said, you know, we don't know how much time you have. We don't know how much time any of us have. And I said, I I I recommend you not put this off And I could not get that guy to trust Christ. That was probably 7. 30, 8 o'clock on a weekday evening. Next morning I had a phone call from the secretary at hospice. She said, Pastor Leatherman, I just want to let you know Mr. So-and-so passed away last night in the middle of the night. Just share the gospel with them hours. Oh, I'm not ready. I don't know. I don't know. The Bible says today is the day of salvation. Now's the accepted time. Moses looks out at this God's people of all. It's God's people. They're naked, dancing and drinking, and this perverse worship of this metal piece of metal in the shape of a calf. He says, who's on the Lord's side? That was a call to a decision. Either it's the Lord or it's this devil, false God. Indecision never saves the soul. Indecision never brings success. Indecision never inspires others. Indecision never requires faith or courage or character. It doesn't take any character not to decide. It doesn't take any faith or courage to say, well, I'm just not going to decide. If you're here this morning or you're under the sound of my voice, you've never trusted Jesus Christ, your personal Savior, and you don't have assurance of sins forgiven in a home in heaven, God's call to you is whose side are you on? You want to trust Christ, come over here and put your faith in Christ and have eternal life and forgiveness of sins Or are you going to stay over on side of unbelief, side of darkness, unforgiveness? Decision, decision. And for God's people, those of us that know Jesus Christ as Savior, if we're not careful, we'll forget that we're the children of God. We get so caught up in this world. We get so caught up in materialism and we fall in love with this world. We forget who our Savior is, who our God is. God extends a call to you and I. Whose side are you on? Who's on the Lord's side? And I can hear the Lord from heaven saying down to the churches of Jesus Christ. Who's on the Lord's side? It's a call to a decision. It's a call to a decision. All through Scripture, God calls his people to decide All through Scripture, God's calling. Who is on the Lord's side? Let me show you a few verses. If you have your Bibles, and I'm ending with this, if you would, I'm going to jump through a bunch of verses here. Here in Exodus 32, 26, who is on the Lord's side? Go with me, if you would, very quickly, to Joshua chapter 24. This is years later, some years later, 40 plus years later. Or more. Joshua 24. If you're in Exodus, Numbers, Deuteronomy, Joshua, the sixth book of the Old Testament, go all the way back to the back of Joshua. Joshua has been, has taken Moses' place. He leads the nation of Israel into the promised land. They conquer the somewhat, not completely. But at the end of Joshua's life, he issues a very similar call to the nation of Israel that Moses issued. In verse number 14, Joshua chapter 24, the Bible says, Now therefore Fear the Lord and serve him in sincerity and in truth. Look at this. And put away the gods which your fathers served on the other side of the flood. In other words, on the other side of Jordan. And in Egypt, and serve ye the Lord. Now look at verse 15. And if it seem evil unto you to serve the Lord, here it is. Choose you this day whom ye will serve. Whether the gods which your father served that were on the other side of the flood or the gods of the Amorites in whose land ye dwell, but as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord What's that? Who's on the Lord's side? You decide. Is it the world? Is it materialism? Mammon. Or is it God? Is it your will for your life, or is it God's will for your life? Take your Bible, if you would, real quickly, and go to 1 Kings. Now you just keep working your way back there. You hit 1 Samuel, 2 Samuel, then you run into Kings. In 1 Kings chapter 18, you have the prophet Elijah. And again, Israel forgot whose side they're on. They forgot who their God was. 1 Kings chapter 18. And so Elijah, under the power of God, calls the nation of Israel together and says, listen, we're going to settle this matter. And you get all your false prophets of this world's religion, and you pray down fire from Baal. And I'm going to pray to the true and living God, and the God that answers by fire, let him be God. What a contest. And notice with me, if you would, verse number 21, 1 Kings 18. And Elijah came unto all the people and said, How long halt ye between two opinions? If the Lord be God, follow him. But if bail, then follow him. What is it going to be? Who is on the Lord's side? And I think the challenge to the churches in America, at least probably around the world, what is it going to be? Is it the world or is it our God? Call to decision. We've got to decide. Come over, if you would, very quickly. Psalm 119. Go right to the middle of your Bible. You'll probably be right in Psalm 119. If not, you'll be awfully close. David is writing, we believe David is writing under the inspiration of God. The psalmist, I should say, is writing under the inspiration of God. In verse number 30, he makes an interesting statement. And every time I read through here, I just read through Psalms 119 about three weeks ago. And he says in verse 30: listen to what he says: I have chosen the way of truth. There's only two choices. He says, I've chosen the way of truth. Real quickly, I got two more passages. Come to the New Testament, if you would. And come to Luke chapter 11. The next two verses I want to look at are both in Luke. Again, this is just some introduction. Maybe a couple weeks we'll get To the message itself. How many people are glad I didn't preach the whole message? Good night. Jane raised her hand very quickly. Luke chapter 11, look verse 23. This is Jesus speaking. You say, oh, Jesus wasn't so hard-headed. Jesus was nice. Look what he said. Luke chapter 11, verse 23. He that is not with me is what? Huh. Think about that. He that gathereth not with me scattereth. You know what he's saying? He's saying you've got to make a decision. Either you're with me or not, either you're on board or you're off. Who's on the Lord's side? One more. Come over to chapter 23 of Luke. I'm sorry, chapter 16. And verse number 13. Luke sixteen, verse thirteen. No servant can serve two masters. For either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other. Look at this. You cannot serve God and mammon. Indecision never saved a soul. Indecision never produced a victorious Christian life If you're here and you've never been saved, you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven, if you're ever going to have eternal life, you have got to decide to trust Jesus Christ as Savior. And those of us that know Christ as Savior, it's either I'm living for Christ or I'm living for myself. And we have got to get to the point in our Christian lives where we make a decision: it is not me, it's not going to be the world, it's not going to be mammon, I'm going to live for Christ and Christ alone. That's the call. That's the call. Now listen, there's plenty of easy, soft, get-along, go-along Christianity out there. You can just whatever and go along and be at the world. I'm telling you, God gives a very clear call. Who's on the Lord's side? Anyone recognize the name Benedict Arnold? He was a general during the American Revolutionary War, and he originally fought for the American Continental Army, but he defected to the British Army. While he was a general on the American side, he obtained a command of the fortification of West Point in New York. Very strategic place. However, he devised a secret plan. He was going to surrender West Point over to the British, the enemy. His plan was exposed, and he defected and changed sides. Ultimately, he was commissioned into the British Army as a brigadier general Benedict Arnold made a decision. It's either America or the British. He made a decision for the British. And to this day, his name is despised. At least in America. His name is associated with shame and disgrace, treason Moses said to Israel, Who's on the Lord's side? This next generation coming up. What are we leaving behind them? Do they say, Daddy, Daddy was on the Lord's side? Mommy was on the Lord's side. Or is it just a blur, an indecisive mix of worldliness? Who's on the Lord's side? Let's pray. Father in heaven. I ask, Lord, you'd take this challenge in my life, in our church, and us as individuals, that we'd make a decision. God, you know our hearts. You know where I am and where we are spiritually. You know where our loyalties lie, where our interests are, where our commitments are, where our treasure is. I pray, Holy Spirit of God, you'd bring great conviction and you stir us to come out as Moses called Israel to come on your side, to step out publicly. Determinately, permanently on the Lord's side. With heads bowed, eyes closed, how many of them say, preacher, I'm saved. I know I'm saved. I have that settled. That's not a doubt in my mind. I've got it biblically settled. But you'd say, preacher, the line of demarcation between me and the world is not as clear as it ought to be. And my life, I don't know that my testimony would be such that I'm clearly on the Lord's side. Now we don't do it for show, but we do it because it's right. I wonder how many say Christians. I don't know how many would say, Preacher, I'm a Christian, but I need to make sure every area is on the Lord's side. Anybody, do you do you understand what I'm saying? Anything like that by the uplifted hand. Preacher, God's Holy Spirit spoke to my heart And I want to be out and out for Christ. I don't want to be a mix. I don't want to lose that savor, that influence. And I want to be all out for Christ. Any others? Many hands raised. Any others? How bound? There's some here this morning say, preacher, I'm not saved. I don't know for sure. I believe God. I believe the Bible. I believe Jesus died, but I've never made a decision. To trust him as my personal Savior, and today I need to settle that. And if there is one doubt, if there is any question in your mind, you need to get that settled. Don't play, don't gamble with your soul. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. I need to get that settled. Is there any like that this morning? Preacher, pray for me. I need my eternal destiny settled. I need to make that decision. Any at all. Uplifted hand. Any at all. Any at all Now, Father, bless our invitation. I ask you'd help us to decide wisely. In Jesus' name, amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jane's playing that invitation hymn.