It's number 13, Exodus chapter 3, and I want to read down through verse uh 18. We're right in the midst of this dialogue between God and Moses, and I'll give a little background. I think most of us here been followed along here. But um we're right in the middle of it. And verse 13, Moses uh says to God. Now Moses had made one uh objection, God answered it, now he's making his second objection. And Moses said unto God, Behold, when I come unto the children of Israel and shall say unto them, The God of your fathers hath sent me unto you And they shall say to me, What is his name? What shall I say unto them? And God said unto Moses, I am that I am And he said, Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel, I am has sent me unto you. And God said, moreover, unto Moses, so God goes on and expounds on this a little bit, thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel The Lord, the Lord God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has sent me unto you. This is my name forever, and this is my memorial unto all generations. Go and gather the elders of Israel together and say unto them, The Lord God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob, hath appeared unto me, saying, I have surely visited you. and seen that which is done unto you done to you in Egypt. And I have said, I will bring you up out of the affliction of Egypt in unto the land of Canaanites of the Canaanites and the Hittites and the Amorites and the Perizzites and the Hivites and the Jebusites unto a land flowing with milk and honey And they shall hearken unto thy voice, and thou shalt come, and thou shalt come, and thou thou and the elders of Israel unto the king of Egypt And ye shall say unto him, The Lord God of the Hebrews, hath met with us. Now let us go, we beseech thee, three days' journey into the wilderness, that we may sacrifice to the Lord our God. I've entitled this whole section, and we're going to work our way through. We'll be here in this a little while. But I've just entitled it Moses' initial objection to the Lord's Commission. He says, Who am I? And so that's what we've entitled this section. So let's pray together, ask the Lord, speak our hearts. Father, now with our Bibles open I ask, dear Lord, that your Holy Spirit, the author of this book, would open our hearts and minds that we could see what lessons are here for each of us individually Lord, I pray that you would personalize those thoughts tonight for each of us individually And however these principles apply to our lives, help us to see that very, very clearly. Lord, I can't do that. I don't know the hearts. Lord, you do. And so I ask you again in this hour that you would please fill me with your spirit. I yield myself, my will, my mind, present my body, pray you speak through me. And use these thoughts to help us tonight. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Again, this is a fascinating back and forth between God and Moses. Of course, you remember Moses had just commissioned, or God had just commissioned Moses to go back down into Egypt and lead the Hebrews out of Egypt. And I keep emphasizing this, but I think it's an important lesson from this. God emphasized to Moses that God would be doing this. Now Moses makes five objections. We have touched on these before. He makes five objections. We're taking our time looking at each of these objections. The first one he made which we looked at last week, he said, I'm incapable of doing this. He said, Who am I? I don't have the abilities. I don't have the the talent, I don't have the understanding, I don't have I don't have what it takes to do what you are commissioning me to do. And God responds to that. His second objection, which we're going to look at tonight, is he claims ignorance. He says, what do I say? They're going to ask questions, and I'm not going to have the answers. I don't have the intelligence. I don't know. I won't know what to say to them. And God addresses that. Then his third objection we're going to notice as we work our way through here is he claims what I use the term incredibility. In other words, he's going to say they're not going to believe me. My word's not credible. My testimony is not credible with them. And God will respond, and God answers that objection. He gives a fourth objection, which we will eventually look at. He says, I'm inarticulate. In other words, I can't talk good. I ain't a good talker. It's what he says to God, and God responds and gives an answer to that objection. And then the last one is the most severe, as we mentioned before. He's unwilling, I'm not willing, send somebody else. And I think that's really the bottom line of all of these And so his unwilliness in God addresses that. So the first so the first objection was, I'm incapable. Who am I? I I don't have what it takes. And if you remember, we pointed out there was three problems with that objection. First, he had the wrong premise. He wasn't the one doing it. He had the wrong focus on himself, and he had the wrong approach. He's questioning God's judgment. God answers those. He redirects his attention back onto the Lord, and we notice that. He reassures Moses that he God will be with him. He has the presence of God with him. He doesn't have to worry about his inabilities. God will be with him. Now there's a third answer. There's a third thought in God's response to Moses' first objection that we didn't get to last week, and I wanted to touch on that tonight. Notice again God's answer in verse 12. This is Moses' first objection. Who am I? I can't do this. God says, certainly I will be with thee. There's his assurance of God's presence, and this shall be a token unto thee that I have sent thee when thou hast brought forth the people out of Egypt. Ye shall serve God upon this mountain. Now there's something there. I noticed something. In God's response, there's something missing. There's something God does not say. In Moses' response. Now I'm putting myself in a situation. I ask somebody to do something. I come and say, can you do this or whatever? And somebody says to me And maybe you've been in a situation similar. If somebody says to me, Well, I don't know that I could do that. What would generally be your answer? You think somebody can? You've asked them to do this. They say, oh, I don't think I could do it. What generally would be the answer you would give them? Sure you can do this. You've got this. Ah, you're you're you're you're uh belittling yourself. You're thinking too lowly of yourself. You can do this Now, I got looking at God's response to Moses' objection. Who am I? I'm not able to do this. I notice God doesn't say that God doesn't say to Moses, oh come on, Moses, you got this. Come on, look at all your training. You can handle this We don't see any of that there. God doesn't say, oh, Moses, you're good. Don't worry about that. You're more than qualified for this. There's no rebuke on God's part for Moses saying, I can't do this. There's no anger on God's part. God doesn't get angry on him. I don't see any anger there in verse 12 on God's part. And um and I don't see God disputing Moses' assessment of himself. Can you imagine if I asked somebody to maybe take a bus route or teach a Sunday school class or uh Uh maybe uh maybe I ask them to fill pulpit for me, I'm gonna be away. Would you be willing to fill the pulpit for me? And they say, Oh, I could never do that. Can you imagine if I said, yeah, I know it You don't got it, I'm telling you right now. And I agree with them when they say that, oh, I could never do that. Well, yeah, you're right That's basically what God is doing. God doesn't dispute with Moses that he doesn't have what it takes to get the job done. But God does let Moses know that he understands Moses' concern. He goes, listen, I'll give you a token. I'll do something to reassure you that I will do this. I just want to use you. I'm doing it. The word token there, he says in verse 13, he says, or verse 12, he says, when thou hast this shall be a token unto thee. The word token means a sign or a confirmation. And he says, I promise you, you will come out of Egypt with my people. I assure you of that. You don't have what it takes. No, you're right. This is bigger than you. But I'm going to be with you, and I assure you, this is going to end successfully, is what he's saying. And I know we've kind of hounded on this a little bit, but I think it's so important. It is not our talents and our abilities that God is concerned about. It is our faith and our cooperation with God what He wants. When God instructs us to do something in His Word, It's never based upon our ability to do it. It's always based upon God enabling us to do what He instructs us to do. And so it's not our talents, our abilities. God is looking for cooperation. God is looking for submission. Trust. Have faith in him. Trust me. That's what he's trying to get across to Moses. Moses, just trust me. God calls us to cooperate with his plan. Moses had his own plan, it failed. God says, all right, now just trust me. Here's my plan. Just cooperate with me. I want to show you a few New Testament passages I think that bring this out a little bit. that would help you and I in our day and age. Come with me if you would. Let's see. Let's go to Philippians chapter 4 to begin with. Now we're going to end up back here before the we're done, back in Exodus, but I want to show you a few New Testament verses or principles here. That fit right in line with what I believe God is trying to convince Moses. He's just looking for faith. He's just looking for trust and cooperation. Philippians chapter 4. Are you there? Look at anybody want to guess where I'm going to? Philippians chapter 4, verse what? Anyone? Look at verse 13. Paul says, under the inspiration of God, now he's talking about being wealthy or being poor, I can learn to do both, verse 12. That's the context. But he makes this great statement And people use it a lot, sometimes out of context. But I want us to notice this. Now let's look at verse 13. Paul says, again, under the inspiration of God, I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. Now, I want you again to notice what he doesn't say. We can learn a lot in Scripture by noticing what it doesn't say. Notice what Paul doesn't say. He doesn't say, I can do all things, period. Would you agree with me? That would be a little bit arrogant on Paul's part. Somebody stands up in church. Oh yeah, I can do everything. Period. It's not what Paul says. He says, I can do all things, but what does he tack on there? Come on, talk to me tonight. Through Christ. He's saying Christ is the one that enables me. Whatever God calls me to do, and the context again here is You know, if God blesses me with abundance and prosperity, I can handle that. If God in his wisdom and his plan and purpose for my life is poverty and go without I can do that. It's not me. It's Christ that enables me. I'm convinced that thought is exactly what God is trying to drill into Moses' heart and mind. You can do this, but only through me. Only through what I'm strengthening you to do. Come with me over to, let's go to 2 Corinthians. Now some of these are striking home with me, these Corinthians passages. 2 Corinthians chapter 3. Kind of working our way backwards in the Bible here. 2 Corinthians 3. Again, this is Paul speaking. And I tell you, the more I Study scripture, the more I learn about Paul, the higher my respect goes for this guy. He was just a man He was just flesh and blood, but God used him. Notice what he says in verse number 5, 2 Corinthians 3 and verse 5. Not that we are sufficient of what? Ourselves To think anything as of ourselves. Look at this. But our sufficiency is of God. Then he verse 6, the first part, he says this, who also, God, the Lord, hath made us able ministers, capable ministers. What's he saying here? He's saying, listen, and it's interesting that word sufficient there comes from the same word that we have, our word comes, it's the same root word as our word competent. You know what he's saying there in the first part of verse 5? He's saying, not that we're competent. He's saying, I'm incompetent. What does it mean if somebody's incompetent? They can't do it. They're not capable of doing this. Paul says, not that we're sufficient of ourselves. We don't have what it takes. I don't have what it takes to serve God like this and live this Christian life, victorious Christian life, and be an influence and s see God, see people's lives changed, souls saved. Sunday school class grow, a bus route, grow. I I don't have what it takes. He says, my sufficiency isn't of myself. But what's he say? Our sufficiency is what? Of God. God enables us. God empowers us. That's one of the burdens and concerns of my heart. Not a concern, I don't think it's a good word, but for what with our Sunday school teachers, our church workers, is get us to understand it's not what we're capable of doing, it's what God is capable of doing through us I think so many times in much of my ministry, much of the results of my ministry, what I work up, I don't want what I work up. I want what God can do through me We saw what Moses was capable of accomplishing in and of his own self, and he was not sufficient of himself. He could not do all things. God's saying, that's right, you can do all things but through me. You're not sufficient of yourself, your sufficiency is of me. One more passage I want to go to, and this one really encourages me. 1 Corinthians And chapter number three. I tell you, there's so much going on here between Moses and God in these objections and these answers, this back and forth, back and forth. And I think we see principles of Christian living and Christian service here. 1 Corinthians chapter 3, verse number, or I'm sorry, 1 Corinthians chapter 1, and verse number 26. Notice what again, Paul speaking here under the inspiration of God. Verse 26, he says, Ye see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh Not many mighty, not many noble are called. Look at this. But God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. I stop right there and I say, Praise the Lord. I like to read a chapter of Proverbs every day Today I read Proverbs 12. Tomorrow will be 13. Yesterday was 11. I just worked my way over and over and over through Proverbs every month. And I'd be honest with you, and I'm not trying to put on or anything, but I read Proverbs sometimes and he describes the wise man and the foolish man. And I don't know if you've ever done this But there's a lot of times I feel like I'm more in line with the foolish man than I am with the wise man. Good night. I'm glad I don't have to be wise in this world and have worldly wisdom and all that for God to use me. God can use me, even the foolish. He has chosen the foolish things of the world, of course. To confound the wise. And he goes on. He says, God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty. The base things of the world, which are despised, hath God chosen. Yea, things which are not, to bring to naught the things that are. Why? Verse 29. So that no flesh should glory in his presence. Isn't that good? So I think God is trying to drill into Moses' mind here in this first back and forth that he right, you're right, Moses. Who are you? Who are you anyway? You're just a man. But I'm God. And I can use you. If you'll just cooperate with me, and if you'll just trust me, I can use you. So then we go on. So Moses isn't satisfied, so okay. God's not angry. I don't see God frustrated with him at all. I don't sense any frustration on God's part. It was a Question, God answers it. I'll take care of it. I'll do it. You got me. I'm with you. I promise you this is going to come out successfully. Just cooperate with me. Then Moses throws this second argument or objection, I should say, up. Look at verse 13. We read it a bit ago. And Moses said unto God, all right, here we go, round two. Behold, when I come unto the children of Israel and shall say unto them, The God of your fathers has sent me unto you, and they shall say unto me, What is his name? What shall I say unto them? He's pleading ignorance. He says, I don't know what I'm going to say. I don't know what uh what to tell him. They're going to ask me questions. They're going to want to know ans. They're going to want to have answers before they follow me, before they rise up and and uh take this great adventure. And pfft, I don't know what to tell them. And so I use the word ignorant describing Moses here, and I don't, I'm not using it in a derogatory term. Right? You understand. Nowadays we use ignorant as a derogatory term. She's so ignorant. You know? He's such an ignor, he's such a uh ignorant That's not the way I'm using it. Ignorant here simply means he doesn't have, he says, I don't have sufficient information. I don't have enough knowledge to do what you're commissioning me to do. And so here's his concern. The first concern was, who am I? His second concern is, who are you? I don't know what to tell him. They're going to ask, who sent you? God, who are you? Who am I going to tell him say, I don't know. I don't have the information. So I think Moses, under his objection here, I think, first of all, he has a point. I don't think this is a stupid objection. At this point in their history, the Hebrews were very particular about their loyalty to God. They were very particular that they worshipped the God of the Hebrews and no one else. They were very concerned about following only the God of their fathers. Later on, not so much. In fact it's not too much later after they get out. Uh Moses goes up on Mount Sinai and they're down there and Moses takes longer than they anticipated. So what's the very first thing they do? They got Aaron to do what? Make a calf and they worship a calf. So later on not so much. But at this point in time, they're not just gonna some guy shows up. And says, oh, the God of your fathers told me that you're supposed to follow me and we're going to come out of here. They're going to say, all right, who is this God of our fathers? So I think Moses has thought this through a little bit and he has a point here. He anticipates they're going to interrogate him as to who sent him, who exactly is this God That you're wanting us to follow. And no doubt Moses is anticipating this response from the Hebrews because that's how he was raised When he was small, remember his biological parents, Amram and Jacobed, raised him to worship the true God and only the true God. Right? We worship God and God alone. And that's the way Moses was trained. That was the attitude, and it was correct. of the Hebrews at this point in time. Egypt was filled with false gods. And we're going to look at them a little bit here in a little while. a little later. Um and they had this God and that God and they had all these gods. So Moses shows up and says, Oh, the God of your fathers. All right, tell us who is the God of our fathers And um and so he was trained to worship God in God alone. We had a fellow years and years ago, I wasn't here too long, and there was a family king. And if I remember correctly, his wife was hospice. I was hospice chaplain at the time. And she had trusted the Lord. She had passed away. Her husband was Native American I don't know if you remember Helen and I I can't remember the names. Big fella, very friendly and and just a a gr a great God. And so I got talking to him about his soul, his salvation, about going to heaven. And um there was just something as we're going through this, and we had visit I had visited them numerous times, and then finally she passed away, and I could talk to him. And um I was wanting them to trust Christ. But there was something there that just didn't ring right. And finally, after we had a lengthy conversation, he made a statement along these lines to me. He said, He says, you know, I worship the spirits of my people. And I'm going to be true to the faith and the spirits of my people. But I also want Jesus Christ to be my Savior. Listen, it's not Jesus is not a God, he is the God. Jesus is not a savior, he is the savior. And I told him, I said, listen, it's Jesus and Jesus alone. We don't just tack Jesus on to a number of other spirits or whatever we worship. Thessalonians says they turn from their false gods, their false idols, and worship the true God. Brother Gary Forte, who's with the Lord now, but he was founder and director of Points North Baptist Missions, and we still have a number of missionaries with that mission board. And he said one of the challenges in the far north was they worshiped these spirit gods, and they had multiple And he said, what was the tendency among a lot of them was simply pull Jesus in and put him along with all their other gods. And he said One of the challenges was get them to their eyes to be open that see, these are all other false gods, Jesus, and Jesus alone is the Savior. And so that's what Moses is anticipating when he comes down to Egypt. The Hebrew leadership is going to come to him and say, we want to know for sure that this is the true God. The riba, not just one of these tongues that the Egyptian had. And so he no doubt was trained growing up in this way, and that was a correct training And if he could not confirm that the God he was speaking for, he was representing, was the true God of the fathers, they would never follow him. They would reject him just as much as they rejected him when he tried to deliver him by violence. He messed up once and he did not mess up, did not want to mess up again. And he says, God, I don't know what to tell them. How do I tell them who you are? Who sent me? Who do I say is this God of their fathers? So he has a point in his objection, but there's a clear problem here with his objection. Although he has a point, there's a problem. He isn't objecting to this commission God's giving with this argument Well I don't know who ha who who it is that's sending I don't know who what to tell them, I don't have the information. He's not saying that because he wants to cooperate with God and God use him and he just wants to clarify things. He's using this objection as a what? An excuse. He's wanting out. He's not sincere. Although he has a point, it's a good point. He's not sincere in it. He's just wanting to get out of doing what God is telling him to do. Do you think there's anybody in the 2025 in the church of the Lord Jesus Christ that looks for excuses to get out of doing what God has told us to do? Yes. We can have a thousand reasons why we can't attend church. We can have a thousand reasons why I can't read my Bible We're going to have a thousand reasons why I can't give a track out. I can't go sowing. I can't work in the ministry. I can't do this. I can't do that. We have a thousand excuses Now listen, sometimes we have legitimate points. But our motive behind it is what is concerning. Do I just want out? Or do I sincerely want to do right? I'm not convinced Moses was really that concerned about whether they would listen to him or not. I think he just thought, I got a good excuse here, I can get out of this. And we have to be very, very careful about that. I've got some news for myself and all of us. God knows our motives. Right? Not only does he know what I'm doing or what I'm not doing, he knows why I'm doing it or why I'm not doing it. Right? And we could illustrate that and go down a whole long list of where we can come up with reasons why I can't do something God's instructed me to do. And my motive isn't because I really want to be right. My motive is I just want out of what God's telling me. I just don't want to do that. I don't feel like it. It's not convenient. I I get I gotta do this And so there's a problem here with his objection. He's pleading ignorance as an excuse to get out of God's commission. I put it this way, it's a good point with a bad motive. So, number one, I believe he has a point. It's a legitimate question, but his motive is not right. He's just wanting out. And then I put this down, and I'll end with this, because I want to be thorough on our God's answer to them. But I think there's an element of pride involved in this. Now, I may be reading a little bit in here, but Moses, like most of us, and we're going to see this throughout his life, all the way up until the end, Moses, like most of us, struggled with the pride issue. Can I get a witness? That old stinking pride. Just about the time we think we've got it licked, it raises its ugly head again. It's like a snake when I was down in Texas with my son years ago. We were killing rattlesnakes. By the way, I think that's a good thing to do. But uh we were killing rattlesnakes, and um that old rattlesnake, you kill that thing, that thing will keep wiggling until the sun goes down. And some of them were still wiggling even after the sun went down I mean we're killing like five, six, seven foot rattlesnakes. They're huge. And by the way, I killed them with my bare hand. Well, I mean with a Shotgun, but it was basically bare hand. No, we beat him over the head with uh axe handle. Boom, boom, boom, boom. How many people are very, very impressed with your pastor? Not one. Okay. But anyway You think they're dead. And they are dead, but man, those things are still going on. You've got to watch out. And that's kind of the way pride is. Just about the time you think you got it licked, man, it starts moving again. It starts getting active again. Anybody, can I get a witness? About the time I think, man, I'm pretty humble. Guess what? I'm not being very humble. Moses, like most of us, struggled with pride. And we see it throughout. He has this, Moses has a besetting sin. Anybody want to guess what his besetting sin was? Anger, temper. He loses it over and over and over and over and over again. At the root of a temper, at the root of anger is always pride. Pride was the root problem. Anger was the fruit of pride. And so I think there's a l element of pride here saying, Listen, I've got to have all the answers If I'm going to be able to serve God, I've got to know I have to this and I have to know that. I think he's coming right back, and he's looking at his lack of intelligence And assessing his ability to serve God based upon what he has and what he doesn't have. He might not have had all the information, but he did have God. And that changes everything. Sometimes people say, well, I don't witness to people, I don't talk to people about Jesus because I don't know what to say. I wouldn't know what to tell them. I don't know what verses to use. I don't know this, and I don't know that. Listen, that is not an excuse for being a witness, for not being a witness for the Lord. Doesn't justify it. Now we do a lot around here, I think, to try and help people know how to share the gospel. January we do training and have tracts and talk about it But that's not an excuse. Say, well, I just don't know what to do. Every single one of us said, no, Jesus Christ is Savior. We can tell other people what Christ did for us. Amen or not? Read study John chapter 4. You have this Samaritan woman that's out of well. Jesus meets her. She trusts Jesus as her Messiah. She's not even raised in Jerusalem in a temple. They have their variation, their religion, variation of true Judaism. And so, but nevertheless, she trusts Jesus Christ. The old girl gets saved out of a life of sin. And what is the first thing she does? She does, she sets down her pots, and what does she do? She goes back into town and tells everybody what Jesus just told her, what Jesus just did for her. She has no soul winning trading. She's not memorized any verses. She doesn't have any sermons that she has. She doesn't have any great soul-winning illustrations She's just saved and she's excited about it, and she goes back and she tells everybody what Jesus did for her. In fact, she exaggerates a little bit You look at it, she goes in town and she tells everybody, Jesus told me everything I ever did. Well, he didn't really tell her everything she ever did. He just pointed out her sin. And what happens? The whole town comes out. The whole place gets saved. Now what if she would have said, well, I don't know what to tell them. What do I say? Just go and tell them what you know. If you know enough to get saved, you know enough to be a witness. If God saved your soul, then you have what it takes to be able to point others to Christ It's kind of ironic in Numbers chapter 12 and verse 3, God says that Moses is the meekest man on earth. And yet, Moses struggled with pride. Isn't that something? His strength and his weakness were polar opposites. Moses still is focusing on his own intelligence. He's focusing on his own abilities. Moses did not have all the answers, but he did have the Lord. And when it comes to serving God, we begin with the Lord. Amen? We begin with the Lord. And then God's going to equip them, he's going to grow, and he's going to figure things out, and God's going to lead them, and God's going to use them in a great way. But at this point in time, all he needs to do is agree with God. And quit these objections. And I got news for you. He doesn't quit with this second objection. Next, not next week, we have revival. The following week we have Thanksgiving. So the following week. We're going to come back and look at how God answers Moses' objection here. Father, I pray you'd help us, Lord, to just do what we know to do, to just trust you and just cooperate with you. You've given us clear instructions in your word, and Father, I know I'm speaking for myself. I feel so inadequate so almost all the time. But God, you've given us a Holy Spirit that indwells us. You've given us a Bible. So I pray you'd help us to just trust you, cooperate you, and let you use us. Open our mouth, give our lives, give our hearts, and let you take us and use us. Wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, wonder how many like me say, Preacher, I got to constantly get my eyes off myself and get them back on the Lord And just trust him to use me. Any like that by the uplifted hand, sure. If anybody's going to be used of God, it's because they got their eyes off themselves and they got their trust in the Lord. And God does it. God does it Father bless now as we give an invitation in Jesus' name, Amen