The Book of Acts, chapter 9, thank you so much for letting me come. Thank you for the nice room and all the goodies and the bag of chocolates I got from the preacher's wife. Last night, Lindor Linz, one of the best ways to get fat and have a heart attack that you'll ever find in your life. Good stuff. And thank you, ladies, for the good meals, and thank you everybody for working so hard and for being here. Now how many of you are members of this church at Mount Lakes Independent Baptist Church? Rate wonderful, great. Good representation from the church family How many are not a member of this church? Would you raise your hand if you're not a member here but you wish you were? Okay, good. Pastor Leverman will get you straightened out before too long Well, I'm supposed to get up, speak up, shut up, and get out of the way, because there's a preacher coming through here in just a few minutes. So stand with me as we look at Acts chapter 9 And verse one, and Saul yet breathing out threatenings and slaughter against the disciples of the Lord. Went into the high priest and desired of him letters to Damascus, to the synagogues, that if you found any of this way, I like that. Christianity is not a religion, it is a way of life. We follow the way, the truth, and the life, and we live the way that He tells us to, God helping us Whether they were men or women, he might bring them bound unto Jerusalem. And as he journeyed, he came near Damascus, and suddenly there shined round about him a light from heaven, and he fell to the earth. And he heard a voice saying, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? And he said, Who art thou, Lord? Our Heavenly Father, would you guide our minds to be attentive to your Spirit and help our hearts to be open and direct me and empower me by your Spirit that I would say what would most help the most people. Bind the devil and his demons. Bless Dr. Smith as he comes to bring the main message. Thank you for this good meeting. What a good crowd of preachers, what a good spirit. What a good work we have seen you do in our hearts. Thank you for the wonderful privilege of being involved in your work. Help us, I pray, to listen and obey in Jesus' name. Amen. Let me say the least I can about the materials at the back. Uh everything was out except one book and some C Ds. And I took what was up here and put it back there, same deal tonight as there was last night and this morning. If I'm out of something and you want to have it If you'll pay the regular price, I'll mail it to you and I will pay the postage. Now, I have a really good arrangement with my publishers Uh the main publisher is sitting over here on my left. And so I can make some deals to you. I don't have the same arrangement with the U. S. Postal Service, all right? So I'll have to charge you the regular price and then I'll pay the postage if I'm out of anything wants you to get it. Thank you for that. And I want to tell you a story before I preach this sermon. I was talking to my dad on the way in tonight. My dad is eighty-seven years old, uh, went to his kidney doctor. She said everything is fine, but He described some symptoms of tiredness and lethargy and so she sent him to the heart doctor and they're doing some tests. He has a pacemaker that he had put in a few years back. They're checking some things of that if you think of it. You pray. And be part of our Church Triumphant Conference that we have there each October And uh my dad many, many years ago was preaching in a church in Illinois. The preacher was a good man, uh Dr. Smith would know his name. He was a little dry. Great writer, not such a good preacher And uh my dad was preaching, and there was a young married man in that church, a firefighter, and he got all excited. Had three sons, three daughters, and he said, Man, wouldn't it be great to be able to preach like that Boys, wouldn't you like to be a preacher like that? And in that meeting he got on fire, became a soul winner, later became a deacon, later on went off to Midwestern Baptist College, where he and all of his children attended, and all of them ended up in the Lord's Word. His one son, Eric, said to me a few years ago, there is no doubt we are all in the ministry because of Ken Willet. Now here's the interesting thing. I didn't know this part of the story until tonight. I was preaching at Gaylord, and brother Phil Farp, the fireman's granddaughter, played the piano for me when they asked me to sing. And I told her that story. She said I've heard that story many times. You're up hearing that story. And my dad said he didn't know it for 20 years. He was preaching at a church and at a testimony time and Phil Tharp stood up and he said, Now Brother Willette doesn't know this. Let me tell you something. You serve God. He's doing all kinds of stuff you don't know about. And later on you get find out about we get little glimpses down here. But when you get up there you can say, wow, I didn't know that. And God always blesses his word and his servants and the faithful application of his truth We just don't always see what's happening. Well, here's the story of one of the most remarkable conversions in the history of the world. A man is on his way to persecute the followers of the way, the believers in Christ. And while he's walking there, he sees a big light and he hears a big voice. And I like what he says, he says, Who art thou, Lord? He did not know who he was, but he knew he was the boss. If I went to you tonight and I said, uh tell me five things you are, tell me five things you are, I am Christian, good. Baptist, good. A machine is good. Safety special is good Father. Okay, glad Father made it on there. Sorry, wife didn't get on there, but I assume that's on there somewhere. Husband and I. Uh now. If you have a little time to think about it, and he didn't know we were going to have a quiz, so don't don't bust that up. They say if something doesn't make it on the list, it's probably not very important to you. I said if you have a lot a little time to think about it, you judgmental people. So I wonder how the Lord will answer. He could have given the answer of creation. Who art thou, Lord? I am the everlasting Father. I am the creator of the ends of the earth. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. All things were made by Him, and without Him was not anything made That was made. Hey, I got news for you. Darwin doesn't know what he's talking about. Well, he does now. Did you know that the fossil record does not support evolution? Did you know that observed facts do not support evolution? Did you know that evolution is so unapprovable and illogical by any scientific method that Francis Crick, who was with a man named Watson, the co-discoverer of DNA, I think it stands for something like dinonucleic ribolic acid, is the building block of life Francis Crick and won the Nobel Peace Prize for it fifty-seven years ago, and when he saw how complex and how detailed life was, he said there is no way that could have happened by a happenstance. So Francis Crick came to believe that life on Earth came here from another planet. I never had the opportunity to speak to Dr. Crick, but if I had, I would have asked him one question. Dr. Crick, where did the life on that planet come from? I heard about a lady years ago, Dr. Henry James was speaking and and it she said afterwards, she said, you said the earth hangs in i in by gravitation in space and he said yes ma'am she said no it doesn't it rests on the back of a giant turtle but we thought he let her down gently said well ma'am what does that turtle rest on she said another bigger turtle Well what about that turtle? She said another bigger turtle. They said, Well man, what about that turtle? She said, It's no use, Dr. James. It's turtles all the way down. Yeah, they don't make any sense. Why do they fail to accept the obvious that in the beginning God created the heaven and the earth? I'll tell you why. Because if he made everything, then he's in charge. If he made everything He's the boss. Now, Darwin's theory's falling the month disrepute that they came up with another idea, the Big Bang Theory. There was this gigantic explosion and it brought everything into existence. How old is this building, Dr. Levins? Alright, so that'd be uh twenty-eight and fourteen, about forty-two years old. Now, some of you weren't around, but let me tell you how they made this building. They got together a bunch of materials. They got some wood and some drywall and some plumbing supplies and some electrical supplies and some paint. and some paneling and they got some carpeting and they put it in a big pile and then they put about fifteen sticks of dynamite underneath it and they blew this building up into existence. You say that's crazy. Nobody believed that. Well I got news for you the universe is way more complex than this building. And anybody believes it blew up excuse me, I'm sorry. They're supposed to step on people's toes when you preach, but not that way? Anybody believes it blew up into existence believes that because they deliberately want to be ignorant and they don't want God to be in charge of their lives He could have given the answer of creation. He didn't. He could have given the answer of coronation. Who is the blessed and only potentation the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. It could have said what it says in Revelation seven fourteen, these shall make war with the Lamb, and the Lamb shall overcome them, for he is the King and King and the Lord of Lords. He could have said that hey, you know What every once in a while uh somebody gets the idea that they are in charge. Adolf Eather was gonna bring in a A thousand year Reich, a rule uh of his idea of a master race for a thousand years and he ended up taking his life down in the wolf's lair because his ideas didn't last quite as long as he thought they were going to Every once in a while somebody says we are in charge and we've taken it over. The Democrats say, well we we now have had a permanent majority and then they lose. And the Republicans say, Well, we think we got a permanent majority and then they lose. And somebody thinks They got all these kind of schemes and plans and then they lose now. Listen to me, aye we ought to fight all the evil we ought to fight all the wickedness we oughta stand against it. But don't be too upset about it because I read the last chapter of the book and the good guys win and they can huff and puff all they want to. They're not gonna mess God's plan up and we serve the King of Kings. And the Lord of Lords. He said, Remember David, we're not fighting for victory. We are fighting in victory. We already know the outcome. We're just serving faithfully until it comes to pass. Dr. Hudson used to always sing, Well I'm on the winning side. Yeah, he was too. And so are you. But he didn't give that answer He could have given the answer of incarnation. Who art thou, Lord? Well, on my mother's side, I'm the son of man. And on my Father's side, I'm the Son of God. He could have said, but the centurion said, surely this man was the Son of God. Now don't get confused about this. Our Savior is not part God and part man. A bunch of people get made the dumbest doctrinal mistakes because they misunderstand the most basic Bible truths. They're not talking about real snazzy people. I got a paper one time from a theological seminary in Detroit. And they argued that the blood of Christ was mere human blood. And so I called the man up because I hadn't thought he was that far off And I asked him about it, and he said, Well, he said that was just the human part of the Lord. He said, And I said, Well the Bible says we're born again not of corruptible things, of Like silver and gold. By the way, silver and gold are used for jewelry because they are largely not corruptible. They don't rust and they don't turn us like brass and other metals, but compared to the blood of Christ, they are mere corruptible things. Well, he said if his blood wasn't corruptible, what about his other body parts? What about his fingernails? Well, isn't that a deep theological issue? You will never know how many sleepless nights I spent pondering what happened to our Lord's fingernails. Now you listen to me. You can't say that was the human part of Christ. You don't have a human part. He always has been God, and in Bethlehem's manger, he became man, and he's as much man as if it'd never been God, and as much God as if it'd never been man. He's not part man and part. God, he is all God, and all man at the same time he's the God man. There wasn't man then who was lying in Bethlehem's manger If he wasn't God, then of whom do the angels say, unto you is born this day a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. If he wasn't man, then he was baptized by John in Jordan's River. And if he wasn't God, of whom did the voice from heaven say, This is my beloved son, in whom I'm well pleased If he wasn't man, then who was tempted in the wilderness for forty days? Well after forty days of fasting. But if he wasn't God, then Of whom did the Bible say who made him to be sin for us who knew no sin? If he wasn't man, to whom did the leper bow down and say, Lord, if thou wilt thou canst make me clean, and if he wasn't God, who said I will, and cleanse him? From his leprosy, if he wasn't man who touched the hand of Peter's wife's mother, and if he wasn't God who made the fever leap, if he wasn't man, who was that asleep in the bottom of the boat, and if he wasn't God that who rose and said to the winds and the waves, peace be still. If it wasn't man that who went up to pray on the mountaintop all night, and if he wasn't God who came walking on top of the water to the ship, if it wasn't that man who stooped down and rolled into the sand, then if he wasn't God who could say with authority, Neither do I condemn thee, go. And sin no more if he was a man who stopped in the midst of the crowd and said, Somebody touched me If he wasn't God who turned to that woman who'd had an issue of blood for twelve years and said, Go thy way, thy faith hath made thee whole. If he wasn't man, who Did they laugh at when he said, The damsel is not dead? Jair's daughter's not dead, she's just asleep. If he wasn't God, then who took her by the hand and said to Litha Kumai had raised her back from the dead? If he was not man, who stood all day and taught the multitude? And if he wasn't God, who fed that crowd with five little loaves and two fishes? If he wasn't man, who washed the disciples' feet? And if he wasn't God, who was the one who said, This is my body which is broken for you, and this is my blood, which is shed for you? If he wasn't that man who in Gethsemane's garden sweat, as it were, great drops of blood. If it wasn't God, who said, Father, nevertheless, not mine will, but thine be done. If it wasn't man, whose beauty did they pluck out? And if it wasn't that God who said, destroy this temple and in three days' time. We'll raise it up again. If he wasn't man who hung on the cross and said I first, if he wasn't God, who could say to the thief, Today thou shalt be with me in paradise. If he wasn't man who said to Mary, Woman, Behold thy son, and to John, son, behold thy mother. Father, if he wasn't God, who said it is finished? If he wasn't man, who cried out, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? If he wasn't God, who said, Father, into thy hand and command my spirit. If it wasn't man, who's Hey, don't be too disturbed that our Savior only had a borrowed tomb. That's enough if you're only going to be there three days But if he was not God, who rose from the grave on the third day? He's all God. He's all man. He's the God man. But he didn't give that answer He could have given the answer of creation, he could have given the answer of coronation, he could have given the answer of incarnation. But you know what he said? I didn't preach the sermon for a long time, and the hardest thing I have to do is not to say what I'm about to say up until now. He said, I'm Jesus. Jesus. His name shall be called Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sin and our. Lord gave to the apostle Paul the answer of salvation. It's as if he's saying, now Paul, there's a lot you need to know about me, and I'm fixing to teach you. I'm going to take you to the backside of a desert and I'm going to instruct you. And you'll have a little theological seminary. It's just you and me preparing. About three years and you're gonna write, but by my instruction and my moving you, I will inspire the words of some of the greatest doctrinal treatises that will be part of my word. But right now, before you find out That I am the Creator, and before you find out that I am the King, and before you understand that I'm all God and all man at the same time, you need to know this: I'm Jesus, and I came to save you from your sin Did I tell you all around this area, every place that anybody here works in every neighborhood where you live, there are people The needs and all kinds of things. They're messed up on doctrines of all kinds. They're messed up on their understanding of life. They're messed up in thinking. But what life is about, they think like that. Rich man, that if they get stuff and put it in the barn, they'll be all right. And then you learn that a man's life consists not in the abundance of the things which he possesses. But before they get straightened out on any of that, somebody needs to tell. His name is Jesus, and he came to save you from your sin. I have an attorney friend named Mike Thomas. Mike Thomas' dad worked for Jenner Motors. He uh was sitting in the stall of one of the restrooms one day. Now his parents, Mike Thomas's grandparents, the parents of his father were immigrants from Syria. He was sitting in the restroom and tucked in behind the toilet paper dispenser was a little tract bigger than a tract, smaller than a pamphlet entitled What Must I Do to Be Saved by Evangelist John R. Rice. And he read it. He didn't quite understand it. Folded it up, put it in his wallet. Within the next week or so he took it out, read it two or three more times. Now Mike Thomas said, my dad never spoke to me except to yell at me, and he never touched me except to hit me One night when Mike Thomas was 11 years old lying in his bed in Flint, Michigan, he heard his father begin to sob, and then he heard him say, I'm saved! I'm saved! I'm saved! And Mike Thomas had pulled the covers over his head. He got up the next morning. The kitchen counter was filled with empty beer and whiskey bottles. He thought, whoa, dad tied one on last night. He said, Mom, what's the old empty bottle? She said, son, your dad threw all his alcohol, poured it all down the kitchen sink. Well mom why'd he do that? Well he says he's saved. Mom, what's saved? I don't know. It's got something to do with Jesus. Yeah, it does. It has everything to do with Jesus. Next Friday night there was no poker game. Next Sunday his dad came and got him up. He said, Son, we're going to church. And they didn't go to the Greek Orthodox Church. They attended twice a year. They went down to the Bible Baptist Church on Red Arrow Highway in Flint, now called the Great Lakes Baptist Temple, relocated to Maple Road and after a couple of weeks Mike Thomas got saved. Now as an attorney, he's conducted Bible clubs in the public schools. He's led people to Christ and those Bible clubs are now pastoring churches and he's gone on to do marvelous things for God because somebody wanted to put a little tract and arrest you. Say his name is Jesus, he'll save you from your sin. There's more to the story than that. One day Mike Thomas was dealing with one of his clients and he said, you know, I I've known you from church that I don't know your testimony. What's your testimony? He said, Well, used to work for John Waters One day I was in a restroom, somebody put a little pamphlet behind the toilet paper dispenser. What must I do to be saved? He said, I read it, I got saved. I got in church and living for God since then. One Wednesday night the preacher was gone. He asked Mike Thomas to conduct the service, and Mike Thomas always likes to hear people's testimony. And so he asked different people to give their testimony. And then somebody said, Mike, I've never heard your testimony. He said, You never heard my testimony No, he said he told the story. I'm telling you, there was one visitor there that night and his eyes got wide and his mouth began to drop open. When Mike Thomas got done, he hold his held his hand up. He said, I know why I'm here now tonight He said, I used to work at General Motors. I was in the restroom one time. There's a little pamphlet behind the toilet paper that's been to entitled, What Must I Do to Be Saved? By evangelists John writes, don't you fail to pass out those tracks? Don't you fail to give those gospel witnesses and leave them behind someplace. Maybe they won't sit down and let you tell them the whole gospel, but give them what you can. Let them know his name is Jesus. You'll save them from their sins. My wife and I were out shopping one day. It doesn't happen real often. I try to take her shopping about every ten years. They say that when men shop, they measured it, they feel stress, this is going to say today, equivalent to what a fighter pilot feels when he's flying his flight. They say women never feel stressed when they're shopping unless they're with a man. So do us both a favor and leave us home, but God shopping is a long time ago and we hadn't started our deaf ministry yet. And I saw a couple that had visited our church. They were deaf and by signs and writing they let me know they had a relative that they wanted me to go talk to about Christ Said his name was John Breithauer. So the next Thursday morning, my wife and I got in the car and drove out in the country, and there was John Breithauer, and he let us in, and he was real sick with cancer, he was dying I didn't know he was dying, I just knew he was real sick. He listened to the gospel and he got saved, and I never saw him again People always say, where are all those people? I don't know. Uh he knows. Sometime later, years later. Maybe a couple years or so. One of my men said, preacher, I led a couple of Christ last week, Sold Winning. I was real sure if they're going to come and they didn't show up. I can't go this week, Sold Winnie. Would you go check up on them? I said, sure I went to see Teddy and Jean Partlow. I said, hey, I'm Pastor Willetta. I'm from First Baptist in Bridgeport. We ain't got here. Told me he came by last week. Told me you trusted Christ. I'm so glad about that. And he was sure you're going to be in church. I hope everything's alright. I don't know what I got sick. And the lady looked at me and she said, it's a bad week for us, preacher. She said, on Friday, I had a miscarriage, and on Saturday we buried my father. Oh, I said, I'm so sorry. And then I said something stupid. I'd never met this lady before, and I said, was your father saved? But what if she said no? What would I say then? And she looked at me strangely. She said, yeah, my dad was saved. She said, you saved my dad. I said, who's your dad? She said, my dad's John Breathower. She said, I was there the day you and your wife came by. I didn't want to talk to you, so I hid in another room. She said it was the strangest thing. She said, my dad used to cuss all the time, but after you came by that day, he never cussed again She said, my brother always cussed, and my dad told him to stop cussing, and he wouldn't stop cussing, and my dad kicked him out of the house. And he used to cuss himself all the time and she said it again, yeah, my dad was saved. You saved my dad. I know I didn't save him. But before you get too critical, remember there was this guy that wrote down and it was chosen by God to be kept as a part of Our holy Bible, I am all things to all men, of all means I might save some. But I went out in the car and looked up through the sunroof of the little Volkswagen beetle that I or Volkswagen rabbit that I was driving in and I said, dear God, I don't really care if I pastor a big church or little church or no church. I don't care if I'm infamous or famous, well known or unknown. Just let me tell people about Jesus for the rest of my life. First thing he said about himself, first thing he wants us to tell others about him. Somebody gave me a cassette tape one day I met a testimony of a man named Dave Reaver. Now if you know anything bad about him, do not tell me because I love this story. I was preaching in Seagull, Illinois, and a man came up to me afterwards. He handed me a little piece of paper, and on that he said, there is the room and the ward number, he said, I was with that man in Walter Reed Hospital, and he said, what you just said is absolutely true. So I have confirmation of this. I heard somebody gave me this tape. Dave River is a Christian. Young man, about 19 years old, married, got drafted in the Vietnam War, and one day he was holding a phosphorus grenade. They use it to clear out swampy areas and they don't know if the sniper's bullet hit him or if the grenade malfunctioned, but it went off and blew off all the fingers on that hand, all but two fingers on that hand, blew off his nose, blew off his ear. They put him in a helicopter and they thought he was dead. They were trying to force the dog tags into his teeth and he went, eh, and they figured he was alive. During the hospital cut his chest open, and that material was exposed to the air and it began to burn again right there in the hospital It was a long, long time before he ever looked in the mirror, and when he did, he was totally depressed and despondent for days. He watched another man come in to see his wife uh another wife come in to see her husband in that same ward. This man lost, I think, a leg and an arm, and when that wife came in, she looked at her husband and she took off her wedding ring She said, I married a man, not a cripple, and she threw it down on the bed and walked out. That was my wife gonna say Now the day he both longed for and gretted came and she walked in. She looked at the little name at the end of the bed because she would not otherwise have been able to recognize her husband. She walked up to the head of the bed and she leaned over and kissed the only part of his face that wasn't bandaged up or badly scarred. And she said, Welcome home, baby. He apologized for his appearance and she said, Oh Davy, you never were very good looking anyway. There's a lot more to the story that I heard and that I found interesting. When I think of that story, I think about what the Lord Jesus must see when he looks at me. He didn't get much when he got me. But he loves us. And he saved us. And he said, I want you to go tell some other people what I did for you. Tell them my name is Jesus. I'll save them from their sin. One of my faults is that I say about too many verses in the Bible. This is one of my favorite verses. Here's one of my many favorite verses. John did no miracle. How about that? Neither have I. Neither have you, neither has Benny and Paul Croach or George Myers or any of the rest of them John did no miracles. I wish I could do miracles. I wish I could give sight to blind people, make the deaf people in our church here. I wish I could heal the cancer. Now I prayed for people and God's healed them, but I'm not a healer. Leave there's anybody else. I've never done a miracle. Never had a funeral where the corpse was resurrected. Never had a magical appearance of mounds of money or piles of food. But neither did John the Baptist. And Jesus said, Among those born of women, there's none greater than John the Baptist. John did no miracle. But all things that John spake of this man were true. I can't do a miracle, neither can you, but we don't have to. What we can do is tell the truth about Jesus. His name is Jesus It'll save you from your sin. Lord, thank you for being a wonderful Savior. Help us to share who you are with everyone we can. In Jesus' name, amen.