Well, on our on the last night, you know, I um I could uh I could tell you a story. of a message that I was preparing and I found out at the last minute that I just preached that one last year here. So I couldn't do it again. So uh you're just gonna get whatever I can kinda dig out here tonight. And if you'll take your Bible and turn to me to the book of Numbers in chapter fourteen. character that I've always you know appreciated uh in the Word of God. Whenever the nation of Israel came out of uh out of captivity out of Egypt crossed the Red Sea, started to go into the the promised land, they came to to uh Kadesh Bardia And they were getting ready to go into the promised land. Well, they decided to send some guys over to get a a report of the land to find out about it, you know. Uh that would be good for uh most armies, most generals want to know what they're facing when they go into a new area if they're going to fight. And so as a result, why they uh Uh they k the spies came back, they sent uh representatives of each of the twelve tribes of Israel, and uh Joshua and Caleb were two of them that was sent And uh when they came back they had the the you know they gave the report of what they found there and I think most of us know what the story was there. They you know the cluster of grapes it took two men to carry in between you know, on a r on a uh rod or on a stick. And uh I mean they they just bragged it up, said it was just n just what God said it was gonna be. It's the you know, land flow uh floating with milk and uh honey and it was just uh uh everything. And then all at once uh Mr. But came in and Mr. But said uh But there's There's giants in the land and so they went into this thing about what was you know uh all the negatives they could think of. And uh but there was only ten of them that that brought this evil report And uh the two that didn't was of course Caleb and Joshua. And uh so I just want us to talk about about Caleb. I uh d there's just something about somebody who just kinda stick with the stuff. Now the preachers talked about us, you know, I've been preaching uh well since I I got saved in sixty two and And uh we started teaching, you know, in Sunday school class probably the following year, so I've been doing some teaching before I did some preaching. And uh uh but it's uh you know it's just uh uh um What can I say? Something. I have to say something because we're on uh TV or whatever. But sometimes you just you know you go blank and that's all there is to it. But anyhow, uh uh Caleb and and uh Joshua came back, they gave a good report. And this is what was said in in uh Numbers chapter 14. If you'll turn there with me, I'll we'll read this verse. I'm going to ask you to stand with me and do reverence to the Word of God and uh I'm looking at verse 24 of Numbers 14. I'll give you a second to find it. You found it. The Word of God says In Numbers 14, verse 24, it says, But thy servant Caleb, because he had another spirit with him, And hath followed me fully, him will I bring into the land whereinto he went, and his seed shall possess it. Our Father now as we uh uh get into the the message, we just we pray for your leadership and your help. Lord you uh you can bring to mind that we've read these stories over and over for for years and uh it's not unfamiliar to anyone in the room most likely. But Lord we just uh we need you to just add your touch to it. Uh for it's not by might nor by power uh but but thy spirit, saith the Lord. So we want to rely upon your spirit, and uh we trust that uh you'll do a work here in the hearts of the people And we'll praise you for it all in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. Seven times uh we are told that Caleb holy followed the Lord, or more correctly the term holy is found in in association with Caleb seven times And once the the same Hebrew word is rendered in uh uh Numbers fourteen twenty four And it's of interest to know that the word holy is the same as uh it is uh rendered it is rendered uh uh uh same word means c to consecrate. In other words, he gave himself totally to to this uh uh to serving God. Uh So the essential to the wholly following the Lord. Look in in uh Deuteronomy chapter 1 and verse 6, uh 36. Deuteronomy chapter 1 Verse thirty-six says this. Uh oh we'll read a couple of verses ahead there. Yet uh see, verse thirty-two thirty-two, yet in this this thing you did not believe the Lord your God. who went in in the way before before you to search you out uh a place to pitch your tents in. In fire by night, to show you that uh by what the way we should go and in a cloud by day. And the Lord heard uh the voice of your words and was wroth and swear, saying, Surely there shall not one of these men of this evil generation uh s uh see this good land which I swear to give unto their fathers, save Caleb. In other words, uh He's not going to allow anybody to go into the promised land except k uh Caleb, of course Joshua. Save Caleb, the son of uh Jephunah. And he shall see it, and to him will I give the land that he has trodden uh upon, and to his children, because he hath wholly followed uh the Lord So we're talking we're talking about a uh an individual here that had determined his life uh at a young age You'll find that as we read about about Caleb in in the book of Joshua there, uh he's one you know that was eighty some years old. and uh t told uh Joshua he said I want that mountain uh and uh the the song that we sing, you know, I want that mountain is a good testimony to a man who is totally and holy, completely uh sold out to God. The one thing that uh that is needed today more than anything else in the in the Christian church is Christians who will who will decide that they they're s not satisfied any longer with just having a mediocre Christianity. But a Christianity that uh uh is uh Uh how can I put uh uh is dedicated to a positive faith Faith ought to be an act uh an active faith. It ought not be a a stagnated stagnated faith. It ought to be an active faith a faith that does and works and and is involved in the process of of winning people to Jesus Christ. If uh Caleb was alive today, he'd be right in the middle of a meeting like this. He would be inviting, he would be trying to win people to Christ. Uh Caleb uh he you know, he just holy follow the Lord. That's a it's a good thing to to think about in your life. The meaning of the whole the holy following the Lord Uh Caleb followed me fully. That's what it signifies. We are so close to him that there is nothing between him and us. That's the idea He uh we talked about uh you know denying self and taking up your cross and following Christ. Uh the nearer we follow him, the less apt we are to trip and fall The nearer we follow him, the less we are uh apt to uh uh get involved in sin or something wrong that that would uh lead us astray. Caleb is seen in contrast to those who did not wholly follow the Lord. In verse chapter 32 and verse uh Numbers 32, verse 11. Says this, you want to flip over there with me? Thirty two eleven. Surely none of the men that uh came up out of Egypt From twenty years old and upward shall see the land which I swear unto Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacob, because they have not wholly followed me, save Caleb, the son of Jephanah, the Kenneshite, and Joshua, the son of Nun, for they have wholly followed the Lord There's the term again constantly throughout the the life of Caleb is a man who was wholly or totally following the Lord. The Lord delights to uh commend the thoroughness of uh uh wholeheartedness And Numbers 32 at 12 is one of the many places where Caleb is commended for holy following the Lord. God delights in all men with the love of compassion. But it's only those whose hearts and lives are right with him that he can delight in with the love of complacency. In uh Colossus one five or one ten All right. I didn't have that one marked. How are we getting there? The scripture says in Colossians 1:10, it says, that you might walk worthy of the Lord and to all pleasing. being fruitful in every good work and increasing in the knowledge of God, strengthened with all might according to his glorious power uh unto all patient and long suffering with joyfulness, giving thanks unto the Father, which hath made us uh meet to the partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light. So the Lord delights in commending those who are uh given to to uh uh to the Lord. The courage of wholeheartedness is found over in Joshua chapter 19 verse 8. Joshua 19 verse 8. Go over there with me so I won't feel alone. That is in the Old Testament, right? Uh nineteen eight. And all the villages And all the villages that were around about these cities to uh Baothvir Ramoth of the s of the south. This is the inheritance of the the tribe of the children of uh Simeon according to their families. That didn't make sense to me Sorry about that. It's uh I think that's the wrong verse. But anyway, as Caleb says, the rest of those excepting Joshua who went to spy out the land were entirely over overawed by what they saw. But not so with Caleb. I guess the thing that was a was amazing was the willingness of these two men to stand up against the h the whole crowd when everybody was crying well there's giants in the land and and uh it's just too big, too powerful and we're not uh people of war and and they have great armies and and uh giants in the land and they were uh as they s the scripture says they they saw themselves as as uh you know, as ants. They saw themselves as insignificant by comparison with what was out there, because they had decided that uh uh God wasn't uh big enough to take care of his the giants in the land. And that's tragic because the one thing that you learn as a Christian is that uh God can do anything One thing that you can understand about God is that that uh he likes a challenge. Those things which uh uh we have a tendency to uh to you know uh put off uh as something too difficult for God to handle. Those are the very things that challenges his uh his his uh uh His abilities in our life shows our faith. So we need to learn to simply trust God in every aspect of our life. The possession of the wholeheartedness. Caleb then promised that he would see the land of Canaan, and now he claims that land. That's in the middle part of of Joshua chapter fourteen. This is where he he also comes up to Joshua and says, uh Joshua, uh I'm I'm uh I'm I can still even uh I think uh I think it was like What, eighty-five, I believe it was. And he said, uh, I'm just like I was when I was forty years old, going in and coming out. I mean I can fight just like I could then I wish I could do that. Well, I can't do it. But uh but one thing about it, uh here was a guy that was wholly uh uh gifted giving himself holy for uh to God. And so uh he was willing to test God by just simply saying, I want the mountain that that has the giants on it. He didn't just want to climb a mountain and fight a battle. He wanted to climb the mountain and find it find a giant. And that uh that in itself uh is uh quite a you know uh uh It's quite a task. Anyway. So here's what here's the where the story uh ends up. It's in in Joshua and chapter 14. In Joshua chapter fourteen It says that uh and Hebron therefore became the inheritance of Caleb, the son of Jephanim Jephunim, the Kennethite, and to this day because that he wholly followed the Lord God of Israel You know, our faithfulness down here in this world does not necessarily mean that he's going to um give us great wealth or you know things that we we enjoy. There's no promise of that in the in the Bible. Well he does promise though Is that if we'll be faithful to him, if we'll give him ourself, if we'll uh allow him to run our life, that he'll take us to the right places and he'll take us and lead us to do the right things And the Spirit of God will be uh abiding with us forever. And that uh when the time comes when uh it's time for you to to uh move off of this scene and and into the next realm of uh this spiritual life that we have in Christ. Uh that uh that the glory of that city and the presence of God Himself will be sufficient for any negative that you might have uh inherited throughout this whole thing, this whole trip on earth. God is uh God is is no uh uh how can I say it? He's uh uh E note uh Yeah. I I can't remember the the words I want to put out. But the point that I'm getting at is is simply this. Uh God has something for you on the other side. You may you may not uh uh have much here in this in this life And uh maybe this life has given you a a body that won't function too well. Maybe this life has uh uh taken you down the road of uh where there's been a lot of tragedy in your life And uh not everybody has the same problems, but everybody has problems, but the point is that he he's looking Uh he's gonna he promised to never leave you north nor forsake you and he's uh uh he's waiting for you to go on the other side so that he can take you down the golden streets and uh introduce you to the Apostle Paul. And over here's Peter, and here's Andrew. And he'll just go down the line of all these fellows that we've read about. know about. And no doubt Caleb will be right there with him. Joshua will be right there. And Moses, you know, and all these these prophets, all these guys He's gonna be right there just to uh to introduce us to the to them. Uh Do you wholly follow the Lord? Is your uh is is your life dedicated To God. You know that you know how can if you've been saved, that's one thing. I was looking for a bottle of water. If you've uh if you've trusted Christ as your Savior, that's one thing But the next step is this matter of consecration, a willingness to give yourself wholly to God. Heavenly Father, as we show this chalk drawing, I pray that you uh that chair you would uh turn our minds to this uh uh this whole thing of of total service to you. Uh I pray, Lord, that you'd just help us as we uh uh get through this next part of it in Jesus' name. Amen.