Psalm chapter 119. I would like for you to notice verse number two is what we're going to get started with this morning. Just one little phrase, two words in verse number two Because blessed are they that keep his testimonies and that seek him with uh what? Whole heart Wholehearted. I want to speak this morning about being wholehearted Christians. Being wholehearted. Let's ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, we come to you this morning and we are grateful for your blessings. And Lord, this time of year it seems we um kind of emphasize in a in a special way the fact that uh we are grateful and you are very good to us. Lord, we'd like to have this frame of mind year-round. But uh as we come to you today, we thank you, as the choir sang, for filling our lives with such blessings. And I ask now, as we look into your word, dear Lord, that you would open our hearts and minds, open our eyes that we may see wondrous things out of your law. I pray that you challenge us where we need to be challenged in our lives. Pray you'd confront us where we need to be confronted. I pray you'd encourage us where we need encouragement. Instruct us, and Lord, have your way I yield my will to you. I do not want to impose my understanding or my will on your word. I pray that your will would be expressed in the message. I yield my body to you. I present anew. I ask that your Holy Spirit would fill me and use my tongue, my gestures to communicate the truth that you have for us now. So please bless us, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Someone has said that Psalms 119 is an extended meditation on the excellence of the Word of God. Psalms 119. An extended meditation, or you could word it this way, a lengthy focus and study of God's Word, Psalms 119. As I always do, particularly in Psalms, I try to find out who the man is behind the psalm. Of course we know the Lord Is the author, but who's the penman here? Who did God use to record this down? And the fact of the matter is, we're not told We do not know. I read various Bible scholars to see what they thought and pretty much come to the conclusion none of them know either. Several that I highly respect suggested that perhaps David was the Penman behind this. I tend to agree. It sounds like David in a lot of ways. But we don't know. God didn't tell us. We don't know who the penman is, but we do know what the subject of Psalms 119 is And the subject of Psalms 119 is the Word of God. And for 150 verses, God, through whoever this penman was, records for us the significance and the excellence of the Word of God. You study through here, and of course we don't have time for the whole chapter. You study through here, we find that he emphasizes the power of God's word in the lives of those who believe. I've seen it firsthand. There's no doubt in my mind. I'm absolutely convinced in the power of this book right here. The power to change lives. I've seen it. Many of you have also I've seen old drunkards come to the Word of God and they believe it and they receive what it has to say, and God changes their life and sobers them up. Gives them a new life. I've seen it multiple times. The power of the Word of God can take somebody that's living in impurity, living in fornication, which is very addictive. And if they will come to the Word of God and just receive it, what it says, and believe what it says, and receive its instructions, and claim its promises. A person that is impure in fornication can find a new clean life in the Lord Jesus Christ through the pages of this book. Never underestimate the power of the Word of God To change life. I've seen old liars. Can't tell the truth if their life depended on it. They come and receive this book, believe what it says about the Lord Jesus, receive them, and God gives them a clean, honest heart. A pure heart. I tell you, this book has changed lives. Can I can we get a witness morning? Anybody here? God's word has changed your life. Anybody at all? Amen. All around. Churches all across this country, churches all around the world could stand up and testify to the power of the Word of God. Psalms 119 is a is uh is a praise of the power of the Word of God. Psalm 119, he expresses the protection that God gives when his word is heeded, when we heed his warnings. If you would, look with me at verse number 11. He says this, and a lot of times we apply this to a young man, but it applies to all ages and men and women. Thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not sin against thee. The Bible is powerful to help protect us from getting our lives, getting involved in sin. The Bible is powerful in helping protect us from letting us get involved in things that not only God forbids, but getting involved in things that are destructive to our lives. God's word can change life. God's word can protect us. By the way, that's one of that's one of several reasons that we take one verse every month and we try to memorize that verse. And I want to encourage you and challenge you if you don't already, apply yourself to trying to memorize these verses that we give and even others on your own It's a powerful defense. It's a powerful protection against sin. And we allow sin to creep into our thinking. We allow sin to creep into our the way we talk. We allow sin to creep into our behavior. I tell you, if we let that go, it'll destroy us. It'll destroy a marriage. It'll destroy a home. It'll destroy a ministry. And the power of the Word of God to protect us. The power to change a light. The power to protect from sin He tells us in the book of Psalms, in Psalms 119, if we had time, we could go through it. But he tells us about the prophet that comes to those who follow its instructions. If we believe what this Bible says, if we do what this Bible instructs us to do, we will get what God promises us in His Word. The promises of God's word, the prophet. Then he tells us about the peace that comes when we rest in his promises. Again, we don't have time to look at it, but I would like you to notice a couple verses here. Look at verse number 24 of Psalms 119. Thy testimonies also are my delight and my counselors. Come over to verse number 165. Again, this is a lengthy ver uh uh book, a lengthy chapter, 176 verses. 165, notice what this says. Now I have this verse underscored in red in my Bible. I have the numbers circled, I have brackets around it, because this is a blessing to me. This verse is a blessing to me, it's a challenge. Psalms 119, 165, great what? Great peace have they which love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. Do you notice we live in a society that gets offended about everything? Am I right or wrong? It's like people get up in the morning and say, All right, what am I going to be offended about today? You know, I found a cure for that. I found a cure for not being offended by every little thing somebody says or does or doesn't go my way. You know what the cure is? It's in this verse right here: Love the Word of God. He says, Great peace have they which love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. Somebody says something that That offense is offensive. By the way, people are going to be offensive, but I don't have to be offended. You got follow me Somebody's offensive. I say, oh well, God's still on the throne. I'm still a child of God. I still have all the promises of God You can be offensive as you want. Doesn't change my destiny. Doesn't change my standing with God. Doesn't change my uh God's love for me. One iota. I don't have to be offended. And so the Word of God is powerful. That's the message of Psalm 119. God's Word is powerful If your life needs changing, the Word of God can instruct you and lead you with how to see your life changed. If there's sin you're struggling with, temptations, the Word of God can help us protect us from the sins that would destroy our lives. Say, I'm discouraged. I'm hurting. I tell you, I was a blessing yesterday. We visited with Glenda. We had a wonderful time visiting. And she did something bless my heart. She goes, Pastor, I want to show you my Bible. She got her old Bible out, didn't she, Glenda? She opened that up. I'm telling you, all through that Bible was underlined and marked. She had notes She said she had this written there. It says, if you don't say anything, nobody can repeat it. That's good advice right there You know what? That Bible's a comfort to her. This Bible's been a comfort to men and women in this church over the years. You lost a loved one, maybe a spouse, a child, a parent We read God's word and God speaks to our heart and he encourages us and he helps us. Power, the word of God. Psalms 119 is such a precious chapter in the Bible. It's a unique psalm, not just in its length, 176 verses. It's not just unique in the fact that it's the longest chapter in the book of Psalms, it's the longest chapter in the Bible But it's not only in its uniqueness and its length, it is unique in its structure Now I don't know if you ever paid attention in your Bible there. I'll venture to say most, if not all, of our Bibles that you have open right on your lap there right now in front of you It has some information about this chapter that we don't pay attention to. If you would, come back to verse 1. Well, actually, has anybody noticed this whole chapter is broken up into 22 segments? Anybody notice that? It's in segments. It's not just continuous And every one of those 22 segments consists of eight verses. Anybody ever notice that? Twenty-two segments, each segment consisting of eight verses. You won't find another chapter in the Bible like that. It's the only one. It's unique. And if you look in the notes, look in your Bible, and just above verse number one, and just above verse number nine, and at the right above the first verse of each segment. It has a strange word. How many people see that? You see it right now in your Bible. You say, what in the world is that word? I'll tell you what that word is. Each segment has at the top a letter from the Hebrew alphabet. There are 22 letters in the Hebrew alphabet. Aleph, Beth, Gimel. That's the only three I know, ABC. But um I I knew a little bit I knew a little Hebrew years ago, but he passed away a long time ago. I don't Now here's the interesting thing. You say why in the world would it pit a Hebrew letter a different Hebrew letter, 22 uh letters of the Hebrew alphabet, why would it put that on top of each of these segment 22 segments of eight verses? Why would we do it? Because In the Hebrew language, what this was penned in, it's translated into English from the Hebrew language, every verse in that segment begins with that Hebrew letter of the alphabet. So the first eight verses in that first segment, every one of those verses in its original language, begins with the letter, Hebrew letter Aleph. And then the next one and the next one all the way down through there. So if you want to learn the Hebrew alphabet, you've got it right there in your Bible. Each of those little words at the top is a different Hebrew alphabet. Hebrew letter. So this the the Psalm 119 is very unique in its length, in its subject. But even in its structure. Some uh one of the books I was reading, I was reading some Bible scholars about Psalm 119. And the question came up in one of the articles, one of the chapters, the question came up, why would they do that? Why would God have this recorded alphabetically like this? And one of the suggestions, and I think they're probably are correct, was so that those Hebrew children would be able to memorize this. It would aid in the memorization of this chapter. You know all the letter A's and you go down through there. By the way, how many people here remember Brother Billy Foster? I remember he went to be with the Lord, great man, gracious man, man of God. He had Psalm 119 memorized And I've sat down with him a number of times and he would just quote that whole chapter, just boom, boom, boom, boom. He had it memorized. So Psalms 119, it's a fascinating chapter. Nearly every verse in Psalm 119 has some statement about the significance of the Word of God. I mean you go through there. Every verse references the word of God or makes some significant statement about God's word. Let's just look at the first Eight verses real quick. Look at the terms. Now he uses various terms to refer to the Word of God. Verse number one, he notice he says, Blessed are the undefiled in the way Who walk in the law of the Lord. He's referencing the word of God. He calls it the law of the Lord. Look at verse 2. He says, Blessed are they that keep his Testimonies, he's referring again to the Word of God. The testimonies of God, God testifying to us of the truth, of who he is and what he's like and what he wants Look at verse 3. They also do no iniquity. They walk in his ways. Again, a reference to the Word of God, a synonym for the Word of God. The ways of God. This is the way that God would have us to live. This is the way that God would have us to believe, the Word of God. Verse number four: Thou hast commanded us to keep thy precepts Diligently. A precept is an authoritative instruction. It's a precept that God gives us that we live by. And the Bible is God's precepts, his instructions for us how to live our lives. Look at verse 5. All that my ways were directed to keep thy What is it? Are you with me? Statutes. These are uh instructions put in place, a synonym for the Word of God Again, we'll go quickly here. Verse 6. And then shall I not be ashamed when I respect unto all thy commandments. Another reference to the Word of God. I will praise thee with uprightness of heart when I shall have learned thy righteous judgments. The Word of God. I will keep thy statutes. And all through, 176 verses, he references the Word of God using various terms. Psalm 119 is a unique chapter in the Bible in so many ways. Some time ago, I think I'm I was trying to remember when, it was maybe the beginning when we first got down on our mission trip two weeks ago. May have been around that time, I was reading through Psalm 119 in my devotions, my personal devotions in the morning. I wasn't preparing a message. I was just, open my Bible, God, I want you to speak to my heart. I want you to instruct me. Lord, I want you to help me. Speak to me I was reading verse 1 and 2. And as I was reading down through verse 2, that little phrase caught my attention. They that seek him with the whole heart. That caught my attention, that little phrase, the whole heart. I thought, what is a whole heart? The word whole means exactly what you think it would mean, all of it. The totality of the total heart. Everything, every bit My whole heart. And of course, heart we understand in scriptures refers to what we are, the core of our being. I like the way one person put it, is the command center Of our life and who and what we are, our heart. We say sometimes to our spouse, I love you with all my heart. You have all my heart. What do we mean? When he says the whole heart here, he's talking about our emotions, our love. God has all of it. He's talking about our understanding, our mind. Our mind is state on me. He has all our thoughts. He has all my focus. Our will is all my desire. I think it was David, as one of the psalmists said There's no, and I'm putting my own words, I'm not quoting direct uh exactly here, but he says this, I have no desire but thee, O Lord. You say my whole heart. My whole heart. That caught my attention, my whole heart. Every aspect of my being. is committed to understanding and loving and desiring and living for the Lord every part of me My whole heart, the very control center of my life is the Lord's, is the Lord's. Then I got reading. I read down through the chapter, and lo and behold, I come to verse 10. With my whole heart have I sought thee. I read on and I got over to verse number thirty four. Give me understanding, and I shall keep thy law. Yea, I shall observe it with my, say it with me, whole heart. I read on and I come down to verse number 58. I enshrink thy favor with my say it whole heart. Be merciful unto me according to thy word. I get over to verse number 69, and I find it again. The proud have forged a lie against me, but I will keep thy precepts with my whole heart. I come down to verse 145. He says, I cried with my whole heart. My whole heart. God stirred my heart that morning in my devotions. Bowed my head. And I said, Lord, I want you to have my whole heart. I want to be wholehearted. I was saved, as you know, many years ago. I can honestly say Stand before God's people with an open Bible, I can honestly say that from the moment of my salvation, I sincerely desired to live for God. And many all are the same way. I'm not unique in that, I know that. But I sincerely desire to live my life for the Lord, for what He has done for me. Lord, I want to live for you. I want to serve you. That's been my desire all these years. And many of you, as I said, are the same. From my salvation, I wanted to, my life to be dedicated to the Lord Jesus Christ. And it really wasn't some And I think hopefully, I believe many of you will relate to what I'm saying. It wasn't some decision I had to make. It was just the natural thing to do. But what God had done for me was just I live for him. I serve him. Dedicate my life to him. But what he did for me, it wasn't a difficult, oh, should I do that? No, no, no. It just came, it was just the natural right thing to do. It wasn't a struggle. As I read in my devotions that morning a couple weeks ago, I look back over my life. And broke my heart. I looked back and I saw there were areas where I was serving God and I was living for God, but not with my whole heart And what I mean by that is this, and I hope you understand what I'm trying to say here. What I mean by that was this: I was serving the Lord and I was living for God. But so many times there was some area of my heart and life where I held on to for myself. Oh, it's Limit God, Sermon God, and the ministry doing all that. But I had some areas that these are mine. It reminded me of a great preacher years gone by, one of my favorites, F. B. Meyer. You can ever read any books by F. B. Meyer Sermons, tremendous man of God. I love his writing And he said he imagined in his mind one time, and I don't know the specifics, but he said in one of his sermons or one of his books, he said he imagined in his mind one time that his life was like a house And the various areas of his life were the rooms that made up the house. He had a room for his family, a room for his ministry, a room for his occupation, his room for his personal things, his room, and he had all these quote-unquote rooms that made up the house of his life And he saw in his imagination, he saw the Lord come to him, approach him, and said, F. B. Meyer, I want the keys to all of the rooms of your house of your life. And he said, I gladly took the keys to the rooms of my life, and I handed them over to the Lord one by one. The different areas of my life, and I handed them over to the Lord. But he said, I came to one key, one area of my life, one corner room in the house of my life He said, I kept that for myself. I wanted to be in control of that part of my life. I wanted to have that part of my life. And he said, I handed them all over to him, but I kept that one. And he said, And he saw in his imagination tears in the eyes of the Lord, and the Lord said, F Meyer, I want them all. I want them all. He said he struggled a bit. He took that last key and placed them in the hands of the Lord. You know what he was doing? He was being wholehearted. Every area of my life, every corner of my life. Is the Lord's. Is the Lord's. Wholehearted. I think I'm talking to a heap of folks this morning. Along with me, say, preacher, I'd like to be wholehearted for the Lord. I want all of them. I want them to have all of me. No holding back. No hidden closets. Everything open, handed over, in complete submission to the Lord. God challenged me that morning to be wholehearted for the Lord. Now, what does it mean to be wholehearted? I got a few minutes. Let me give you. I jotted a few things down. I think to be wholehearted, number one, it means I love God with all my heart. I love the Lord with all my heart. Loving the Lord is not some feeling. I tell you, there's large segments of Christianity today That place their faith and even their doctrine not upon the Word of God, but upon their experiences and upon their feelings. And I'm here to tell you: feelings come and feelings go. And loving God with all my heart is more than just a fuzzy feeling, and a little woozy feeling comes over me. I love the Lord with all my heart. Listen, I'm not against feelings, they have a place, but they are not the basis. Of my love for God. They're shallow. They're fluid. The love for God that the Bible talks about is solid It's unmoving. It's a decision. And I love God with all my heart. It's more than just lipping the words. I love you, Lord. Now uh we tell the Lord, I say that, and that's fine. But it's much more than that. Anybody can say, I love you, Lord. I'm here to tell you, it is very simple to put on a show like I love the Lord. It's a simple thing to do. We do it Sunday morning. Uh when you come in, uh, oh boy Praise the Lord. I joke about this, but you know, Carl, I'll be back there shaking hands. The car a family comes pulling in, and boy the windows are all steamed up And you can feel the tension. They pull in and they sit out there for a while and you hear and the windows steam up more. And then they open the door and get out, hey preacher! We love the Lord. God bless you. When we say loving the Lord with all our heart, we're more than just saying words. You go to church, put on a show, I love the Lord, go home, be as hateful and You can be a devil. Act like devil, right? We say loving, being wholehearted means loving the Lord with all my heart. It's more than just some feeling I have or some l words I lip. It's more than singing a song, and I'm all for songs. I like songs that express our love for the Lord. Oh, how I love Jesus. What a great song. More than we used to sing when I first got saved, there was a little camp chorus. They say I don't think people sing it much anymore, but they used to sing back then. More than life I love thee, Lord, more than this world can afford. It's a powerful statement. But if all it is is a statement, that's not loving God with all my heart. I believe loving the Lord with all our heart is a decision we make. It is a conscious decision that the Lord has priority in my affection, in my devotion, in my love. It's a conscious decision that my relationship with the Lord is top priority. If you would come with me to Mark chapter number 12, real quickly. Mark chapter twelve, Matthew, Mark, New Testament You come down to verse 29 in this verse 28. This fellow comes to the Lord Jesus, and I think he was sincere. And he said, which is the first commandment of all? Now the Pharisees had come up with all these laws and regulations. I mean, just ridiculous stuff. It was just a burden on God's people. And this guy comes to Jesus, I believe sincerely, and he says, Lord, in verse number 28 of Mark 12, he says, which is the first commandment of all? He says, Where do we start at? If I want to please the Lord, I want to do what God wants of me, where do I start? Notice how the Lord answered him. Jesus answered him, the first of all the commandments is, Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord, and thou shalt love the Lord thy God. with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind, with all thy strength. This is the first commandment. And the second is like Namely, this, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. There is none other commandment greater than this. Loving God with all my heart. Top priority. I believe when the Lord has the top priority in my life, all other priorities fall into place. You say, Do you love the Lord? Is your love for the Lord a higher priority than your love for your wife? Yes. Yes, it is. In fact, I think loving the Lord as a top priority enables me to love my wife in a purer way than I could if I didn't love the Lord. A deeper way If I'm going to love the Lord with all my heart, I need to know the Lord Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. Loving the Lord with all my heart begins with trusting Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. Jesus is more than just a name, He is more than just a religious term. He's the Son of God, He's the only Savior of mankind. And we come and trust what He's done for us in that cross, receiving Him as our personal Savior. Then we can love Him. 1 John 4:19 says, we love Him. Because he first loved us and gave himself for us, paid the price for our sins. Romans 5. 8, but God commendeth his love toward us, in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. I tell you, if we fully grasp what Jesus Christ did for us on that old cross 2,000 years ago, we're not going to have a problem loving the Lord. I don't have a problem giving the Lord all my heart. I look at that old cross and realize what he did for me. What he did for you. In fact, my response is, how can you not love him with all your heart? And he did that for us. So I need to know Jesus Christ, my personal Savior. Loving the Lord with all my heart means spending time with the Lord and getting to know Him. It's hard to love someone you don't know anything about. Someone says, do you like so-and-so? I don't even know them. How can I like them if I don't even know them? It's hard to love someone, you spend no time with them. If I'm going to love the Lord with all my heart, I need to get to know about him. I need to spend some time with them. That's why daily devotions are so important. Opening your Bible, preferably, ideally, in the morning. Lord, speak to me, teach me, help me to see about you. I learn more about the Lord and I understand him. I understand his heart, what he's done for me, and what he plans for me, his promises And I lift my heart up and say, Lord, I love you. By the way, that's true in a marriage. You don't ever spend time with your spouse, you're going to have a hard time loving them like you should. Come on now. Say, well, I gave her a bunch of money. Great. But you can't buy love. You need to spend time with her. You need to spend time with them. Same thing with kids. And we get so busy we just say, well, we'll buy the kids $7,000 worth of gifts at Christmas. And all the kids said, Amen. But I tell you, loving your kids is more than just throwing gifts at them. Spending time with them. Get in the know then, let them know you. So grateful for 15 months God gave me before my daddy died, I could spend time with them. Spend more time with my dad in that fifteen months than I did probably the rest of my life before. If I'm going to love God with all my heart, I've got to spend time with him. I gotta get in his word and let him speak to me and teach me about himself. I need to talk to him and tell him what I need and what I struggle with and my fears and my loves and my hopes and my dreams and tell them to the Lord. He speaks to me from his word. And love is kindled. And it grows and it deepens and it strengthens. That's why church is important. We get with people who love the Lord. We get the word of God. We sing these songs. It stirs our heart. Anybody here ever come to, now be honest Alright, we don't want to hear lying this morning. How many people ever come to church and you were just a little itsy bit not I'm saying this morning, it's sometime, you come to church, you were a little itsy bitsy teeny weeny bit grouchy. Anybody here ever do that? Anybody here ever say, you know, I just as soon stay at home in bed today And then you come to church and you sing the psalms and you talk with God's people and you laugh and you pray. Maybe God, the preaching, God stirs your heart, you kneel in order, and you walk out the back, you say, Boy, I'm glad I went to church today. Will that help me? That's spending time with the Lord. That's developing this love for God. If I'm going to be wholehearted, I've got to love God. With all my heart, and that love has to be nurtured, it has to be developed, it has to be fed. That comes with spending time with God and interacting with him, talking to him, interacting with God's people. If I'm going to be wholehearted, I've got to love the Lord with all my heart. If I'm going to be whole-hearted, I've got to long for God's word with all my heart. Look with me. Are you come back to Psalm 119? I should have told you to keep your places. Let me show you a few verses very, very quickly. Psalm 119, verse number 9, he says this, Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? By taking heed thereto according to thy word. You want to clean up your act? Get a hunger in your heart for the Word of God You hear this morning say, preacher, I've got some things in my life I made a mess. I tell you what, come to the Word of God. God will help you clean that mess up. I can testify to that. Look with me at verse ele uh that was verse eleven. Come up to verse nine. What did I just read a moment ago? All right, let's go to verse 11 Y'all are laughing at me. Y'all do the same thing. I know you do. Verse 11. Thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not sin against thee. Look at verse 18. Open thou mine eyes, they am me Behold wondrous things out of thy law. Look at verse thirty. I have chosen the way of truth, thy judgment have I laid before me. Verse thirty four Give me understanding, and I shall keep thy law. Yea, I shall observe it, your law, your word, with all with my whole heart. Look at look at ch look at verse 111 Thy testimonies have I taken as a heritage forever. They are the rejoicing of my heart. I have inclined my heart to perform thy statutes always, even unto the end. Look at 165. I referenced it earlier. Great peace have they which love thy law, God's word, and nothing shall offend them. I get the impression this old boy loved the word of God. I get the impression this old boy longed, he had a hunger for the Word of God. I want to understand and I want to read. I want God to speak to me. One of the greatest delights, and I've said this before, I'm telling you the truth, one of the greatest delights in my Christian life is the time I can spend just alone in my Bible, early in the morning, late at night. The most precious time of my day, I am telling the truth, is when I can get alone, have this Bible open, God's speaking to my heart. Psalm 1 verse 1 Psalms 1 verse 1 says, Blessed is the man that walketh not in the council of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the stormful, but his delight. is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. He loves the word of God. The Lord said he shall be like a tree that's planted by the rivers of water. And his leap also shall not wither, and whatsoever you do, it shall prosper. I'm going to be wholehearted for the Lord. I need to love the Lord. I need to long for His word. Number three I need to lower myself in humility. James tells us: God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble. There is no room for pride in a heart that's wholly given to the Lord. I want to make some dogmatic statements. God will not bless a proud man. God will not bless a self centered person. God will not bless an angry, bitter, selfish person. I'm going to be wholehearted for the Lord. I put all that aside. I die to self. I humble myself. God will bless a humble man. God giveth grace to the humble. He that humbleth himself shall be exalted. God will use a humble man You might think yourself not very talented. You may think yourself I don't I'm not that educated. I'm not wealthy. I don't have all these things that you need. To serve God, to be used of God, I'm here to tell you you don't need anything to be used of God other than a humble heart. Just humble myself to the Lord. Lord, here I am, what I am. Take me, use me. Whole-hearted means to be humble-hearted. I pray the Holy Spirit of God would open our eyes to our pride. I pray the Holy Spirit of God would open our eyes to our selfishness. We see it in others so clearly. But we fail to see it in our own hearts. We need the Lord to show us. We were down in Dominican. There's a fellow, I met him a number of times in previous trips, several years I've known him, Pastor Philo. He's an older man, he's older than I am He got saved under the ministry of Brother Steve Siddler, our missionary, a number of years ago. He was a businessman, successful there in Santo Domingo. God saved him. He began to grow. He went to the Bible, little Bible college they had there of the evenings. God stirred Brother Philo's heart. And God called him to preach. He got his training, he sold the business, took his wife of of older years, they were in their fifties, I'm sure. And they moved up to the northwest corner of the country, right along the Haitian border. Got a house up there, just a little. If you see their houses, they're very minimal. Cinder block building, basically, one floor, bedroom, a bathroom, a kitchen, basically it. He began witnessing out in that little town Telling people about the Lord Jesus. People got saved. They assembled together, organized a church, began baptizing, Lord's Supper, doing the ordinances. They organized a good, solid Bible Baptist church. He's now, he's down this week with us at the fellowship. He doesn't speak English He's starting another church out of that. By the way, our church sent a significant amount of money down about three, four years ago, to help him build the church building they're in now, you remember It's up and running, buildings done. He's starting another church out of that church up in that area, untouched area of the country, just untouched. I'm telling you, I wish so badly I could bring Brother Philo here, you'd meet him. He is the most humble, gracious man you ever meet. Of folks that were down there with us, so you know what I'm talking about. None assume he just smiles, gracious. I'm here to tell you God is using them in ways you and I can never even imagine. Souls getting saved, lives being changed, marriages being healed, homes being blessed. Because one humble man gave his whole heart to the Lord. Last of all, being wholehearted means living my life for others. When I began to understand all that God has done for me. When I begin to appreciate all that God has done for me, I want to live my life to help others. I want others to come to this Christ that has been so good to me. I want others to come and know him. I want my life to be a blessing to other people. I want others to, I want God to, I want to give my life to help others grow in their faith in God. Does anybody here recognize the name D. L. Moody? The white Lyman Moody. Anybody recognize that name? He was an evangelist of a little over a hundred years ago, about hundred 25, 30 years ago in the United States, perhaps, and in fact I'd take away the word perhaps, without a doubt, the greatest, most most used of God evangelists in the history of our country Millions came to Christ. D. Al-Mudi, after he got saved as a young boy, his Sunday school teacher led him to the Lord, by the way. He began to grow, he began witnessing right away to others. As a young teen, began winning others to Christ, bringing them to church. Never underestimate God's ability to use a young person. And he was in a meeting, and the preacher's name at the meeting, now he was a fairly young Christian at this time, and a British preacher by the name of Henry Varley. Was preaching, and he made a statement that gripped D. L. Moody's heart. And it changed his life as a Christian. This was the statement. The world has yet to see what God can do with a man fully consecrated to him. The world has yet to see what God can do with a man who is fully consecrated, who God has his whole heart. That statement struck the heart of D. L. Moody. And he said later, he said, I bowed my head, and I said, By God's grace and with his help, I will be that man. God used them miraculous way. Listen, I'm no DL Moody, you're no DL Moody. I am who I am And you are who you are. But I'm here to tell you, if God could get our whole heart, we seek him and just, he has our whole heart, every corner of our lives. We might not shake the world, but I'll tell you this, God can use us to make a difference in our community. God could use you and me to make a positive impact on our family, our children, our neighbors, and maybe our world. Wholehearted. Wholehearted. Father, I ask you to stir our hearts this morning like you did mine on that early morning devotions. That we'd be wholehearted. You have all of us. That our relationship with you would be the top priority relationship in our life. Holy Spirit, speak to us. I wonder this morning, heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, my heart stirred? I want God to have all of me. Every area. I've been holding back. I've got this little area, this little area. I just want to yield it all to the Lord. All to the Lord. Not my will anymore, but the Lord's will. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God has stirred my heart. God bless you. Hands all around. Now sometimes that's an easy concept, but it's not an easy practice Sometimes it's hard to let go. I want this. I want to hold on to this. I want to have control of this. But we're going to be wholehearted. All of it, fully consecrated, over in the hands of the Lord, then God does what we could never dream. I wonder if there's some this morning say, preacher, I'd like to be wholehearted, but I'm not certain That Jesus Christ is my personal Savior. I don't have assurance that my sins are forgiven. That God has accepted me and forgiven my sins. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. I need to know that I've been saved. I go to heaven, not to hell. Is there any like that this morning? Preacher, pray for me. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know that God has forgiven me and saved me. I'm on my way to heaven. Now I want to ask this question. This is personal, so I don't know how you might respond to this. But I wonder if there's some this morning say, Preacher, I know I understand what you're saying about being wholehearted, but there's an area of my life And it's difficult to give up. And it's a struggle in my heart and soul. And maybe you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me. I don't know that I'm able to let go, but I I know I need to, I want to, but it's hard. And you'd say, preacher, pray that God will help me. Would there happen to be anybody like this? And I know it's a little personal. God bless you, a number of hands around. God's dealing with my heart. He's speaking of my heart. But it's hard. It's hard to give him it all. But I know I want to. I'll pray. I'll pray. Father, have your way. Bless us. Help us. I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.