Joshua chapter fourteen. I'm going to begin reading in verse five. And just a just a quick uh background here, this is uh Joshua has led the children of Israel into the land of Canaan. Uh they're going about the process of of driving out all the peoples that live there that God said, get rid of them, drive them out, fight them out of the land. He didn't want their hearts being turned towards the idol worship that those heathen peoples would inevitably have that effect on God's people. So this is what they're doing. And at this point, they're ready to divide up the land. And each tribe of Israel is getting a particular plot of land that corresponds with the size of that tribe, and God has a specific area that's given to each group of people. So that's what we're going to begin reading in verse 5 of Joshua 14. As the Lord commanded Moses, so the children of Israel did, and they divided the land. Then the children of Judah came unto Joshua and Gilgal, and Caleb, the son of Jephuna, the Kennesite, said unto him Thou knowest the thing that the Lord said unto Moses, the man of God, concerning me and thee, in Cadash Barnea. Forty years old was I when Moses The servant of the Lord sent me from Cadish Barnea to espy out the land, and I brought him word again as it was in mine heart. Nevertheless my brethren that went up with me made the heart of the people melt, but I wholly followed the Lord my God. And Moses swore on that day, saying, Surely the land whereon thy feet have trodden shall be thine inheritance, and thy children's forever, because thou hast wholly followed the Lord my God. And now, behold, the Lord hath kept me alive, as he said, these forty and five years, even since the Lord spake this word unto Moses, while the children of Israel wandered in the wilderness. And now, lo, I am this day fourscore and five years old. As yet I am as strong this day as I was in the day that Moses sent me. As my strength was then, even so was my strength now for war, both to go out and to come in Now therefore, give me this mountain whereof the Lord spake in that day, for thou heardest in that day how the Anakims were there, and that the cities were great and fenced. If so be, the Lord will be with me. Then I shall be able to drive them out, as the Lord said. And Joshua blessed him and gave unto Caleb the son of Jephunah Hebron for an inheritance. Hebron therefore became the inheritance of Caleb, the son of Jephuna the Kennesite, unto this day, because that he wholly followed the Lord God of Israel. And the name of Hebron before was Kerjeth Arba, which Arba was a great man among the Anakims, and the land had rest from war. I'd like to draw your attention to three different verses that record the exact same phrase describing, really summarizing the life of Caleb. Verse 8 Verse 9 in verse 14, all record the phrase, he wholly followed the Lord. What does it mean, as God's people, for us to wholly follow the Lord? Before we get into what that means, I'd like to go back and turn with me, if you will, to Numbers chapter 13. Numbers chapter 13, and as we look at what it means to wholly follow the Lord, I'd like to get the background for this particular account and what led up to Caleb being given this particular plot of land for his inheritance and how he lived his life 45 years prior And how he was continuing to live his life as he was an older man. Numbers chapter 13, and we're just going to skim through a few verses here to kind of get an overview of what what was taking place. Verse 1 in in Numbers 13, and this is God talking to Moses. And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Send thou men that they may search the land of Canaan, which I give unto the children of Israel To every tribe of their fathers shall you send a man, every one a ruler among them. And Moses, by the commandment of the Lord, sent them from the wilderness of Pare and all those men that were the heads of the children of Israel. So God here is having Moses send out uh a search party, uh uh a survey group, if you will, into the land of Canaan. And these men are going into the land to search it out So they can bring back a report to the children of Israel, this is what's going on, this is what we need to do, this is how we can plan to take over the land. And so this is what they do, and they send these men through. And if you'll notice verse 6, we have recorded for us Caleb as being chosen from the tribe of Judah to represent his tribe as one of those twelve men that goes, one of those spies that goes into the land of Canaan and spies out the land. Go down with me, if you will, to verse twenty-five. So these men return from spying out the land. Verse 25 says, And they return from searching the land after forty days. That's a long time, but it was, remember, a big area they had to survey, a big land they had to spy out. Verse 27 says, this is the men giving a report to the children of Israel, and they told him, they told Moses, and said, We came unto the land whither thou sentest us. And surely it floweth with milk and honey, and this is the fruit of it. Now remember, when God continued to promise to his people that they were going to get to occupy the land of Canaan, he said it was a land what? flowing with milk and honey, and they're coming back and saying, guess what? It's just like the Lord promised. It's a land flowing with milk and honey. What does that mean? That simply means it was a fertile land. There was plenty of places to grow crops, animals could thrive there. This was a place, if you were back in those days, you lived off of the land, this is the place that you wanted to live because of how fertile the soil was. And all these things God promised to them, and they they bring back, if you remember, a cluster of grapes, a huge cluster of grapes, and they say, This is the fruit. This is the proof that this is a good land to live in. These grapes grew there when we brought them back to show you. And that's what they say in verse 27. Now, if they had stopped there, that would have been a good report. But they continue on, and notice the first word of verse 28. They say this: nevertheless, there's something else we have to tell you. The people be strong that dwell in the land, and the cities are walled. And very great. And moreover, we saw the children of Anak there, and Caleb uh the these men describe later who the children of Anak were were, and we'll get to that in a moment. Verse 29 says, The Amalekites dwell in the land of the south, and the Hittites and the Jebusites and the Amorites dwell in the mountains, and the Canaanites dwell by the sea and by the coast of Jordan. Now the names of these particular groups of people don't mean a whole lot to us in twenty first century America, but to the Israelites, when they mentioned the names of these people, these fierce Canaanite people It struck fear in the heart of every Israelite that heard that. And they're describing how they're not just in one area, they're spread out all throughout the land. This group of people lives by the sea, and this group of people lives in the mountains. They're saying they're all over the place. This is not going to be easy. There's a lot of people there. They have big cities. They have walls around these cities, very well defenced. This is not going to be an easy thing to do. And you can imagine this stirs the people up, they're starting to be anxious. And in verse thirty, Caleb still the people before Moses. Caleb Is is one of those spies that went out. Remember the the little song that we learned in Sony School, twelve men went to spy on Canaan, ten were bad, and two were good. Who were the two? Joshua and Caleb, right? So Caleb now is about to take a stand, even though he's one of two out of the twelve that stands up for the Lord and stands up for the cause. And Caleb still the people before Moses and said, Let us go up at once and possess it. Notice his confidence, not in themselves, but in God, for we are well able to overcome it. Caleb has confidence not in what he can do, not in what the people can do, but what God can do through them. We are well able to overcome it. But the men that went up with him said, We be not able to go up against the people, for they are stronger than we and they brought an evil report of the land which they had searched into the children of Israel, saying, The land through which we have gone to search it is a land that eateth up the inhabitants thereof. And all the people that we saw in it are men of a great stature. What does that mean? That means they were tall people. They were giants. Verse 33. And there we saw the giants, the sons of Anak. This is the Anakin people that they were talking about before. Which come of the giants, and we were in our own sight as grasshoppers, and so we were in their sight. The Anakims are the ancestors of a giant that shows up later in 1 Samuel When David goes out to fight him, I'm sorry, 2 Samuel, when David goes out to fight against Goliath, Goliath was descended from these giants, these Anakim, that used to roam the land of Canaan. This is the report that the spies bring back. And by the way, the things that they're saying, a lot of it is true. There were defensed walled cities. There were Canaanites all around the land. There were fierce people there. There were giants there. But they're focusing on all these negative things, and it stirs the people up. In the beginning of chapter 14, all the people of Israel say, you know what? It's not worth it. We're going to find a new leader. We're going to get rid of Moses and find someone else who will take us back to Egypt. And so rather than just trusting in the Lord and going into the land, rather than staying put where they are, they say, you know what, we're going to go back all the way to Egypt. And just give up on what God has promised to us. And we see in chapter 14, we're just going to read a few more verses as we continue looking at the character of Caleb and what it meant for him to wholly follow the Lord. Look down in chapter 14, verse 6. And Joshua the son of Nun and Caleb the son of Jephunh, which were of them that searched the land, rent their clothes. They're grieved at this decision of the people to overthrow Moses and find someone who will lead them back into Egypt. Verse 7, it says, And they spake unto all the company of the children of Israel, saying, The land which we passed through to search it is an exceeding good land. If the Lord delight in us Then he will bring us into this land and give it us a land which floweth with milk and honey. Again, Caleb and Joshua's confidence is not in their military ability, It's in the Lord. And also keep in mind, the children of Israel at this time don't really have an army. What was their occupation in the land of Egypt? They were what? They were slaves, right? That's not really an occupation, it was just their their status. They were slaves, but they're not trained warriors. Now there's a a large number of them. Some historians estimate there were probably around two million people. We don't know exactly, but there's a lot of them. I'm sure that some of them knew how to fight, but they didn't have an army. They're not equipped in the sense that they have a ton of armor and weapons to go and do this task. And so Caleb says, listen, it's not about the ability that we have He says, if the Lord delight in us, then he will bring us into this land. In other words, nothing can stop God. Nothing can stand against the power of God, and through him we can win the victory. And this is Caleb and Joshua standing up against everyone. They're the only ones that we read about who are willing to follow the Lord by faith and to do this thing that God had called them to do. Caleb is a man who wholly followed God from the very beginning Verse 9 says, Only rebel not ye against the Lord, neither fear ye the people of the land, for they are bred for us. Their defense is departed from them, and the Lord is with us. Fear them not. This requires not just an amount of courage to stand up to the children of Israel, their own people But it requires such faith in God and confidence in what He can do, even though they haven't set foot into the land to start conquering it yet. This is what it looks like to holy Follow the Lord. I'd like to give you the first thing this evening. What does it mean to wholly follow the Lord? It means complete faith in the power of God, no matter how hard the task. 100% complete faith in the power of God, no matter how hard the task. Caleb uses these words, we are well able to overcome it. He doesn't say, no, it'll be a fair fight. He doesn't say, no, I think we can do it if we have enough men. He says we are well able to overcome it. He sees this challenge in front of him, and he doesn't back away like these other spies. He's ready to charge for it. He says, God has promised this to us, God is able to do it, and his power Is what we can rely on, no matter how hard the task. As God's people, we are to learn to trust the Lord, to have full confidence in what He can do. A lot of people wonder, well, what is God doing today? I don't see him at work. How many of you want to see God do something great? I want to see God do something great. God is at work in this world today, and he's still the same God today as he was in the day of Joshua and Caleb. He has not changed. His power is just as great now as it was then. And God's still looking for people like Caleb and Joshua to stand up and say, You know what? This is an impossible task This is a difficult challenge. This is something that we cannot do on our own, but with God's help, we are well able to overcome it. That is what it means to wholly follow the Lord, to have complete faith. And the power of God, no matter how hard the task. The second thing I'd like to look at is confident footing on the promises of God, no matter how long. The weight. Go back with me, if you will, to Joshua 14, and we'll spend the rest of our time back here in Joshua 14. Confident footing Standing on the promises of God no matter how long the way. Now, if you'll remember, as Caleb was reminding Joshua about what had taken place years before, decades before He's saying, this is what God promised to me, and I was this old then and I'm this old now. And if you'll remember, what was the punishment that God gave to the children of Israel? After they lost faith in God's ability to take them into the promised land, what did they have to do? They had to wander for 40 years. Why? What had to take place during that 40-year time period? Yeah, all those who were older than twenty years of age at the time of that, those spies being sent out, all of them had a die-off. That meant the younger generation had to wait. Until those forty years were up, that was a long time to wait. But who had to wait with them? Caleb and Joshua They were a part of that judgment, even though they were not themselves being judged. Because remember, Joshua and Caleb were the only ones older than 20 Caleb says I was forty years old at the time. They were the only two who were left alive to go into the promised land. So at this time when the children of Israel were going in, Joshua and Caleb are a good 20 years or more older than the rest of the children of Israel. They're the elder statesmen. And that brings with it, you know, honor and prestige and things like that. But they had to wait just like everyone else did. And I wonder, and I don't I don't know if this is true or not, but in my own thinking I'm wondering. I I wonder how often during those forty years Caleb had to remind himself, you know what, God promised this to me and it's going to happen. He had confident footing on the promises of God, no matter how long the wait. Caleb tells Joshua that he was 45 years old. And then he forty years old, and then it had been forty-five years ever since the Lord spoke this word unto Moses while the children of Israel wandered in the wilderness, and through all that waiting Through all that time of wandering, Caleb stayed faithful to God and wholly followed God because he was ready when the time came. I can think of other people throughout the Word of God that had to wait. What about Moses just a generation before He spent how many years watching sheep in the wilderness? Well, there's a little bit of a pattern there, isn't it? God had him On the backside of the desert watching sheep for forty years, so he could learn how to lead the children of Israel out of Egypt. What about Elijah? In the services we were in this morning, we looked at Elijah a little bit. He went and told Ahab there was going to be no rain for three years, and the God said, Go hide by the brook Cherith. And Elijah waited for God to do something for three and a half years before he challenged the prophets of Baal on Mount Carmel. Elijah had a time period where he had to wait too. I'm beginning to learn, Pastor, through our own period of having to wait through COVID. God has us all go through periods where we have to wait God has us all go through periods of time where we have to trust God's promises even though they haven't been fulfilled yet We have to go through those periods of waiting for God to grow us and mature us and to help us be more like Him through those periods of waiting, but for God to help us remember His promises, and then God fulfills them. Go with me, if you will, to Romans chapter 4. Romans chapter 4. There's someone else who had to wait a long time. Someone who was given a promise of God and had to wait years and years to see that promise fulfilled. As God's people, we are to remember God's promises. If you have forgotten them, they're right here. This book has never changed. God's word does not change. His promises are true. And I want to give you show you another example of someone else who had to wait a long period of time. Romans chapter 4. And Paul so clearly writes about the faith of a man who had to wait years for God's promise to be fulfilled. Verse 18 of Romans chapter 4, he's referring to Abraham, who against hope Believed in hope that he might become the father of many nations. According to that which was spoken, so shall thy seed be. Remember, God promised Abraham he would make of him a what? A great nation How many people do you have to have in order to make a nation? A lot, right? And at this point in time it was Abraham and Just two. And God said, Abraham, I'm going to give you a son, and you're going to become a great nation, a father to many people. And when Abraham was younger, that sounded pretty good. That sounded like a great promise. And he held on to that. And he forty years old, fifty years old, sixty, seventy, eighty, ninety. And I'm sure Abraham, like Caleb, maybe begin to wonder, I wonder if God's going to fulfill his promise. But notice what Paul says in verse 19, and being not what? Weak in faith, he considered not his own body now dead. When he was about a hundred years old, neither yet the deadness of Sarah's womb, he staggered not at the promise of God through unbelief, but was strong in faith. giving glory to God, and being fully what? Persuaded that what God had promised he was able also to perform. Here is another man who had to wait years to see God's promise come to fruition. And God fulfilled his promise through that son Isaac that Abraham had. And again, Caleb had to wait decades to see God's promise fulfilled. What does it mean to wholly follow the Lord, to be all in on what God is doing? It means to have confident footing, standing confidently on the promises of God, no matter how long the wait. Our Christian heritage tells us of a man named George Mueller who had orphanages in England. How many of you are familiar with the work of George Mueller? God used him such a wonderful man of faith. I can't help but when when you read some of his writings, you just you get convicted because you see a man who had nothing and lived every single day by faith in God. Did you know, Pastor, that George Mueller gave to Hudson Taylor's ministry in China? I just discovered that recently. I've been reading Hudson Taylor's Spiritual Secret, and George Mueller gave out of the gifts that he was given to support Hudson Taylor, George Mueller had a prayer list. He was praying for a number of people to get saved. And as he got older, some of those people began to get saved. And after, and when he passed away, there were still three people on his prayer list that had not yet trusted in Christ. But during his lifetime, George Mueller didn't stagger at the promise of God like Abraham. Like Abraham, he he was confident what God can do. And over a process of time after after George Mueller had already gone to heaven, all three of those people that he had been praying for all those years came to know Jesus Christ as Savior. I'm here to tell you that God is a God of promises and God keeps every single one of them. He is faithful to his people. He's faithful to keep his promises and we can trust him What does it mean to wholly follow the Lord? It means complete faith in the power of God no matter how hard the task. It means complete a confident footing on the promises of God no matter how long the wait. And lastly, it means continually following the path of God no matter how old we get. Continually following the path of God no matter how old we get. Do you know that starting well is no guarantee of finishing well? The Word of God is filled with examples of men who had such promise when they started out, and then somewhere in life they lost their way. Just because you you have a promising start doesn't mean you'll finish well. And past victories do not guarantee future results. The children of Israel had a great victory won when they crossed the Red Sea, and God drowned the Egyptians in the Red Sea, and they they they celebrated this victory when they got to the other side. Maryam sings that song and they they they they had this great victory and God leads them through the wilderness but when they got to the promised land they still had to follow God. That past victory didn't didn't prov didn't guarantee those future results. They still had to continue following God by faith. We cannot rest on victories of the past. Yes, we look back to them. Yes, we draw encouragement from them. But God says there's new victories to be won in the future. And it's up to us to wholly follow God, to be all in on what he's doing by continually following his path, no matter how old we get. Look with me, if you will, at verse 10 again in Joshua 14. And now, this is Caleb saying again, Behold the Lord hath kept me alive as he said, these forty and five years, even Since the Lord spake this word unto Moses while the children of Israel wandered in the wilderness, and now lo I am this day. How old fourscore and five years old? How old is that, church? Eighty-five years old. Anybody here eighty-five years old or older? Okay, okay, a few people. Notice what Caleb says about how he feels, and I believe this is more than just a feeling. Verse 11. As yet I am as strong this day as I was in the day that Moses sent me. And I believe that Caleb was He had to wait 45 years, but he didn't waste those years. He didn't sit down and do nothing. He was continually following God's path even through those years. So that when the time came for the promise to be fulfilled, he was ready God's not going to bless a people who just sit and wait for God to do something. God's going to bless a people who are continually following his path all throughout their lives. And as we are faithful to God, we reap those blessings and those benefits. And Caleb was as strong at eighty-five as he was at forty. He was as ready to fight and and to claim that land as he was at eighty-five as he was the day he set foot as a spy into the promised land. The end of verse 11 says, As my strength was then, even so is my strength now for war, both to go out and to come in. Now therefore, give me this mountain, this this land that has been promised to me Whereof the Lord spake in that day, for thou heardest in that day how the Anakems were there, and that the cities were great and fence, if so be the Lord will be with me, then I shall be able to drive them out, as the Lord said. What is Caleb asking for here? He's not saying, you know, I'm 85 now, and if you could just give me a nice beach cottage, something that's easy to maintain, I'll settle down and live the rest of my years in retirement. No, Caleb said I don't want just any parcel of land. I want the land where the giants are. Caleb said, the Anakims, remember how the spies gave a bad report about them, how giant they were. Caleb says, that's where I want to go. That's where I want to live I don't know about you, but if you've reached an age of retirement, you're not going to want to go out and do the most difficult task. And Caleb says, don't give me the easy places, give me the hard place. He says, I've been waiting for 45 years for this victory, and I want that mountain. I want that parcel of land. I want that victory where those giants are. And it says that God gave him the strength For war, both to go out and to come in. And he trusted God to do this. He says, If so be, the Lord will be with me, then I shall be able to drive them out as the Lord said. Here's that that confidence in God's power and the ability to of God to use him. And this is what it means to wholly follow the Lord. As God's people we are to keep on following God. And to finish well. And notice, if you will, in chapter 15, verses 13 and 14, God finally fulfilling that promise to Caleb, verse 13 of chapter 15 of Joshua, and unto Caleb. The son of Jephunah, he gave a part among the children of Judah, according to the commandment of the Lord to Joshua, even the city of Arbah, the father of Anak Which city is Hebron? And Caleb drove thence the three sons of Anak, Sheshai and Ahiman and Talmai, the children of Anak. I don't believe that Caleb sent his sons to do the job for him. I don't believe that he sent anybody else on his behalf. I believe he led the charge. I believe that he said, come on, follow me, and we're going to take this mountain. And that's exactly what God did. God used Caleb because all those years he faithfully followed. I'd like to finish with an illustration that has has stirred my heart, and I I hope the Lord uses it to stir your heart as well. I heard this illustration, Pastor. During an another sermon from another pastor, and it took me a while to hunt it down, but I finally found it. For several decades, Dr. Charles McCoy pastored a church in Oyster Bay, New York. And while he was pastoring there as a single man, he had time to continue his education, and he eventually earned several doctorate degrees, postgraduate degrees. When he turned 72, the bylaws of his church stipulated that he had to step down from pastoring. And so he reluctantly stepped away from the pulpit and the people that he faithfully pastored for many decades. But in reality, he wasn't quite sure what to do with himself. He told his biographer, I would lie on my bed at night thinking, my life is over, but I haven't really finished. I haven't done all that I want to do for Christ. One week after his retirement party, he met a missionary who invited him to come to India to preach. And Dr. McCoy deferred. He cited his age. Besides, he was already planning to move to a retirement home in Florida. He'd never been overseas before, he'd never traveled around the United States, he'd never even been on a plane, and he couldn't imagine traveling to India. Not the least of his concerns was the fact that he didn't have the money that it would require to do something like that. But the thought, however, continued to nag at him until finally seventy-two-year-old white-haired doctor Charles McCoy announced that he would indeed go to India. He sold his car. And a few of his possessions, and he bought a one-way ticket to the city of Bombay. His friends were horrified, as you can imagine. Dr. McCoy's congregation in Oyster Bay, New York thought that he lost his oysters The chairman of the deacon board challenged him and said, What if you get sick and die in India? Dr. McCoy responded, Well, I suppose it's just as close to heaven in India as it is in America When he arrived in Bombay, he discovered that the airline had misplaced his trunk somewhere along the journey. It would never show up. Dr. McCoy arrived with his billfold, his passport, a satchel of clothing, and his Bible, all of which were taken in a matter of minutes by some very clever pickpockets. He was left with only the clothes on his back, along with the address of the mission station in Bombay that he had clipped from a newsletter The man who had originally invited him to come and preach in India had decided to stay in America. And when Dr. McCoy showed up at the mission station, the people who were there didn't quite know what to do with him They eventually invited him in and gave him a small guest room. So here he is, 72 years old, just left everything behind, lost everything along the way. The person who invited him is not there What's he going to do? He was anxious to do something for Christ, and after two days of getting acclimated, he announced to those in the mission station that he was going to visit the mayor of Bombay. They said, don't waste your time They had tried for years, unsuccessfully, to have a meeting with the mayor of Bombay, and they said, it's not worth it. We've never been able to do this. And Dr. McCoy said, God brought me here for something I don't know exactly why, but I'm going to the mayor's office unannounced. He had prayed about it, and he went anyway without any appointment When he presented his business card to the receptionist, she saw all those PhDs and she assumed that he was an important dignitary from America. So she asked him to wait while she hurried off to tell the mayor He assumed the same thing the secretary did and decided to delay meeting with this man until he could plan a reception for this guest of honor later that afternoon, so they said come back at three o'clock. When Dr. McCoy returned, many of the political and military leaders in Bombay had been assembled. Dr. McCoy simply presented the gospel along with his personal testimony. Among the guests was the commanding officer of the National Defense Academy for India. This was India's version of West Point. He was so moved by Dr. McCoy's preaching and testimony that he invited him. Uh excuse me, I lost my relationship. He invited him to come and preach at the academy the following week. From that reception, invitations began arriving from all over India, from churches, political leaders, military officers. missions agencies, universities, and businesses. For the next sixteen years, Charles McCoy traveled throughout India and accepted invitations even to other countries. Today, there are churches in India, in Hong Kong, in Egypt, and even North Africa that were started as a result of his visit and of his preaching the gospel. His biographer wrote these words. Charles never had enough money more than to get him to the next place that he was invited to preach. As God unfolded these new plans for his life a day at a time, Charles never returned to the home of his birth. He never once came back to America. Finally, at the age of 88, as he was resting in his room for a worship service he was to preach that evening, Charles McCoy passed into glory. He discovered that it was true that he was as close to heaven in India as he was in America Dr. Charles McCoy had wonderfully embodied the words, the final words of Psalm 92, the righteous shall flourish like the palm tree, he shall grow like a cedar in Lebanon. These those that be planted in the house of the Lord shall flourish in the courts of our God. They shall still bring forth fruit in old age, those who have wholly followed God They shall be fat and flourishing to show that the Lord is upright. He is my rock, and there is no unrighteousness in him. Do you know, Church tonight, there is no age barrier to serving the Lord? We often get the chance to talk to junior church age kids, and we ask them, how old do you have to be to serve God? And sometimes they'll throw out an age number, but sometimes someone will say, it doesn't matter how old you are, and that is the truth. Whether you're in junior church or whether you're a senior citizen, there is no age barrier to following the Lord. No matter how old or young you may be, Jesus is calling you and I To serve him faithfully, to wholly follow him. God isn't finished with us yet. Are you willing, like Caleb, to wholly follow the Lord? Let's bow and prayer. Father in heaven, we're so grateful to you. For your love for us. And that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us, that greatest commendation of your love. Father, we don't deserve heaven and we don't deserve a place in your work in this world, but Lord, you've called us to do that. Lord, I'm so thankful for salvation and for a testimony of seeing how you have worked in my life, but Lord, help me, like Caleb, to realize that what we've done in the past is not enough. Past victories are no guarantee for future results. Father, would you help us to go out today, this week, this month, this year, and win some new victories for you? Would you help us to, in our hearts, once again recommit to you a heart that's willing to wholly follow you 100% to be all in on what you're doing in this world? Father, we thank you For your mercy and for your grace, please continue to speak to us now. We pray in Jesus' name.