Isaiah chapter 6, and uh let's just want to look at one verse to get us started here. My wife and I were out yesterday. Gathering some wood up from firewood and uh there's a little snake under the log. And I said, hey, come here, look at this. I was gonna scare her with it. And uh she came over and says, Oh yeah, that's a blackneck, ringneck, uh ringneck black snake. And she wasn't scared at all. She knew more about it than I did And so uh I've been introducing her this morning as the Snake Woman. And that's my wife. Uh how many people noticed that the media, the news media likes to s try and scare us to death. Has anybody noticed that? I mean you're all gonna die in ten minutes, stay tuned, details at 11 You know, well a guy out in uh Eagle Rock, Idaho, uh a high school student, picked up on that and he did a project for the science fair In Idaho Falls, and uh he attempted to show how conditioned we've become to this type of media And uh spreading fear for everything in our environment. In his petition, he made a petition up and he urged people to sign this petition demanding strict control Or total elimination of the chemical dioxydrene dihydrogen monoxide Put this petition. He went out into this public arena. And he had sever he had seven reasons why dihydrogen monoxide should be eliminated. Number one, it can cause excessive sweating and vomiting. Number two, it is a major component in acid rain. Number three, it can cause severe burns in its gaseous state. Number four, accidental inhalation can be fatal Number five, it contributes to the erosion of our planet. Number six, it decreases effectiveness of automobile brakes And number seven, it's been found in tumors of terminal cancer patients. So he went out and did this survey. He asked 50 people if they supported a ban of this chemical. Forty-three said yes, signed it immediately, this should not be allowed. Six of them didn't know. One of them knew that the chemical was actually water. He got one first place. The title of his prize-winning project was How Gullible Are We? And uh I read that and I thought, boy, is that not the truth? And um we need to let me just throw this out, and this is not the message, praise the Lord, but uh Uh let me throw this out. Do not swallow everything Tom Brokaw and all these people on T in the news. Do not swallow everything they say stop and think about it a little bit. And so um uh that's just free. We threw that out there as a freebie. Look at Isaiah chapter six. I would like for us to read together verse number eight. Read it out loud together with me. If you would please. Ready? Also I heard the voice of the Lord saying, Whom shall I send, and who will go for us? Then said I, here am I, send me. I want to preach on that one little phrase, whom shall I send? Let's pray together and ask the Lord to speak our hearts this morning. Father, I thank you for the Word of God. Lord, I'm thankful that when uh we come to your word and there's warnings, Lord, we they're not junk science, Lord, but it's true. We need to take it to heart. God, we ask now that you would speak to our hearts. I ask that you would speak to all of our hearts through this portion of Scripture and the truths and the principles given here. I ask, Father, you would help me in my preaching to be true to your word. Help me, Lord, and direct me and to present it in a way that you can apply it to our lives. And that we would grow in our faith and our obedience to you would become stronger, and your blessings on our lives would become more evident. God, I know and I publicly acknowledge that within me, there is nothing of eternal or spiritual value that I have to offer. So God, this has to come from you. With that in mind, Lord, I yield my will to yours. I present my body anew. For this hour I ask you to fill me with your Spirit, that you would speak through me, dear Lord. To all of our hearts and have your way in our lives. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. There is only one way. There is only one way for man to find forgiveness of his sins. We're all sinners We have all broken God's law. You don't have to read far into the scriptures and see that we have come short of God's glory, that we have come short of His holiness, of His standard, of His expectation for us. We are sinners, and we must find a way to be forgiven for our sins. Because of our sin, we're under the judgment of God. There has to be some way to be forgiven our sins. And praise the Lord, there is a way. But there is only one way. For us, for mankind to find forgiveness of sins. There is only one way for man to have new life. I remember as an 18-year-old young man under the conviction of the Spirit of God, I was lost, I was in sin, and I knew it. I was reading my Bible as I've given my testimony so many times And um one of the things that the conviction of the Spirit of God on my life, showing me how sinful I was and showing me what my life was just so empty. And uh so uh there was no purpose there, and it was just on a I was on a collision course with life. And I would read my Bible, and it would just I was just even more condemned And one of the effects that the conviction of God had upon me personally was this longing in my heart. To be able to go back in time, to be a young child again and start over and try and do things right That was that was an effect on me. In fact, it affected me to such a degree. Whereas an 18-year-old young man, I lived with my dad at the time and Uh he'd be uh many times Sunday morning he'd go to church, I wouldn't go as I didn't want anything to do with it. But I was under conviction. And when he'd be gone, I'd go down and dig through the old photo albums And I literally would take all the pictures of me as a child and pulled them out of the photo albums, kept them my the the the uh attic was like my apartment up there, uh it was my place and I took them up there, I'd spread them out, I would just cry and cry and cry. If only I could somehow go back and start over. You know what? There is a way that we can have a new life. That we can start over. That we can be born again. And have a new lease on life. But there's only one way that that can happen. There's only one way to find forgiveness of sins. As I said at the beginning of this introduction, we're all sinners, and because of our sin, we're under the judgment of God, therefore, we need to find forgiveness of sin. Along with that, that judgment of God on mankind, because of the fact that we have violated God's standard of holiness, we have violated God's commandments Because of that, the judgment of God results in man being separated from God for all eternity in the lake of fire in hell and then ultimately in the lake of fire for all eternity. You say surely in the year 2009 there's nobody that still believes in hell and judgment and the eternal suffering. Uh God still believes it The Bible still teaches it. And so yes, we do believe God's word as it's presented. We take it word for at face value. And so my point is this: there's only one way. There's only one way for man to escape the judgment of God. Upon us for our sins. There's only one way to escape eternity in hell, the lake of fire. There's only one way to find a new life and a new lease on life. There's only one way to have my sins forgiven. One way. Now keep your place here in Isaiah. If you would, and I trust you have your Bibles with you. If you would, take them and turn with me to the Gospel of John. Gospel of John. Now, this first verse is going to be very familiar to all of us, and then we're going to look at a few others. The Gospel of John and chapter 3. Keep your place in Isaiah there. We're coming back to that in just a moment. The Gospel of John, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, New Testament. Chapter 3, and of course verse 16, the golden verse of the Bible, most famous verse in all the world. For God so loved the world. That he gave his what? Only begotten Son. That whosoever believeth in him should not perish Shall not find themselves in hell, eventually the lake of fire. Whosoever believeth in him finds forgiveness, a new life. Whosoever believeth him should not perish, but of everlasting life. Now we're familiar with that verse, but drop down to verse 18. He that believeth on him, who is the him? Jesus. Go back to verse 16: the Son of God. For God's Lord gave his only begotten Son, which of course we know to be Jesus. He that believeth on him, Jesus, is not condemned, but he that believeth not is condemned already Why? Because he hath not believed on the name of the only begotten Son of God. Come down to verse 36. And he restates it. He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life He that believeth not the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth, present tense, abideth on him. If you would turn over to chapter fourteen of the Gospel of John. John chapter 14. Notice with me again, this is a fairly familiar verse for many of us. John chapter 14, verse 6. Jesus saith unto him, speaking to Thomas, I am the way, the truth, and the life. Now, this next statement from the lips of our Lord Jesus Christ, a lot of religious people have a difficult time with. A lot of your progressives, as they like to be called today, your liberal thinkers have a difficult time with this. But notice what it says. Jesus saying them, I'm the way, the truth, and the light. Look at this last statement, very specific. No man cometh unto the Father but what? By me. Jesus speaking, of course. Do you understand what Jesus is saying here? You understand the exclusiveness of these verses we've noticed. And Jesus says it point blank. There's no doubt, there's no question as to what What Jesus is saying here, there's no question as to the truth he's conveying. There is only one way to approach God the Father There is only one way that we have access to God the Father. And to make application, and we'll look at other verses, there is only one way to find forgiveness for me breaking God's law so that I can approach him. There's only one way I can find a new life, a life lived with God in fellowship and communion with God. There is only one way to escape the eternal judgment of God, and Jesus says, that is by me. No other way. There's only one way. Now, come over if you would to Acts chapter 4. If that isn't clear enough, it's restated. And as Christ, after Christ ascended to heaven, and as the Church began to grow and go out like a marching army across the Middle East there, proclaiming the gospel of Christ. Look at verse number 12 in Acts chapter 4. And this was their message, the early believers. Neither is there salvation in any other. Look at this. For there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. One way, one name, the Lord Jesus Christ. If you would turn to one more passage with me, then we'll get back to Isaiah. 1 Timothy chapter number 2 First Timothy chapter number two. And verse number five. First Timothy two five. Well let's look at verse four. Let's look at verse three. For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior, who will have, what's that next word? All men to be saved. And to come to the knowledge of the truth. Now, would you agree with me? That verse is telling us that God wants everybody to be saved. You agree with me? God wants every single person to find that forgiveness of sin. God wants all of men to He wants their sins to be forgiven. He wants all of man to have a new lease on life. That's what salvation involves. He wants all of mankind to uh uh escape the eternal judgment of God in the place uh uh called hell. Uh God, that's his desire. He would have all men to be saved and come to the knowledge of the truth. Now look at verse 5 For there is one God and one mediator between God and men It's only one go-between. There's only one access to God. The man, Christ Jesus, who gave himself a ransom for all. To be testified in due time. So my introductory statement, the truth, the basis So we look at Isaiah chapter 6 and verse 8 as this. There is only one way for man to be saved from sin, from judgment, from a life lived without God. And that is through the Lord Jesus Christ, the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, all around our world, this entire planet in the Arctic Circle Australia, all the countries of South America, and the millions and millions of people, Central Asia, Europe, the Far East. North America, there are men, women, and children who, as I speak to you, are dying in their sins. As I speak, there are people all around this world on their deathbed right now that will go out into eternity before I finish this message. And their only hope of escaping hell, their only hope of finding forgiveness is through the Lord Jesus Christ. Men, women, children, without God, and without hope in this world. And there's only one way for them to be saved. In our own community, there are men, women, children. Without God, without hope. And there's only one name through which they can find salvation. Now, as we made clear already That name is not that way to be saved, that one way to be saved, is not the Baptist way It's not the Brethren way. It's not the Buddhist way. It's not the Catholic way. It's not the charismatic way. It's not the Hare Krishna way. It's not the Mormon way, it's not the Methodist way, it's not the Try think of another one that starts with M. Mor Moravian way. It's not the Mennonite way. The fact of the matter is there is no salvation in a church We took a lot of heat a few years ago. We put an ad in the paper and we said that salvation is not true. We put a list of church. Then the bulk of the article was it's not in the Baptist church either. It's not in any church, it's in Christ. And some people put some people took offense to that. But the fact of the matter is, our church cannot save a soul. Our church cannot give anybody new life. Our church cannot offer forgiveness to anybody. There's only one way. And by the way, neither can any other church. There's one way for man to be saved, whether they're in whether they're in Japan or if they're in Elkins. Or if they're in Puerto Rico, there's only one way for them to find forgiveness. There's only one way for them to find a new life Lived in fellowship, commune with God. There's only one way to escape hell. That's through the Lord Jesus Christ. The gospel of Jesus Christ. The name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now we know studying scriptures, it's clear. God loves mankind. God loves man as a whole, but God loves man as individuals. He loves us. God, the creator of all of this, the God who is so immense, the heaven of the heavens cannot contain him This blindingly holy God that is powerful beyond our ability to comprehend. He loves me. He loves me. He loves you. He loves all of mankind as a race and as individuals. Now we come to Isaiah chapter 6, verse number 8. I heard the voice of the Lord saying, Whom shall I send? And who will go for us? I think here we see the heart of God. He loves mankind. Mankind has of his own free will chosen to rebel against God, to break his commands. To live a life in disobedience to the principles of Scripture. And God loves them. And He says there's only one name whereby man can be saved. Who shall I send into all the world? Who will go for us? To tell these folks to share the message that their hope is in Christ, not in Buddha, not in Confucianism, not in Hinduism. Not in baptism, but in Christ. In Christ alone. Who will go? Who will go? I think there's the heart of God longing. Have people go to the unsaved, to those without God, without open the world. Take that message to them. Share that truth with them. God's heart is who will do that for me? I think the most important question in the Bible, and Brother Mike made reference last Sunday night to it, is in Acts 1630. It's our whole project going on now. Where the Philippian jailer, under tremendous conviction of God, falls in at Paul's feet and he says, What must I do to be saved? Definitely most important question in all the Bible. What must I do to be saved? I think Acts uh Isaiah chapter 6 and verse 8 is the second. Most important question in the Bible. And that is this Whom shall I send? Who will go for us? What must man do to be saved? Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved. Who will I send to man to give them that truth? Who will go for us? To tell man, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved Who will go to Kazakhstan? Who will go to Antigua? Who will go to Kenya? Who will go to Hawaii? I'll go to Hawaii, I'm something about it. I thought of that, yeah, that sounds good to me But the fact of the matter is that's a powerful question that God asks. That's an important question. Who will go? Who will go? They can't be saved if they don't believe, and they can't believe if they haven't heard the truth what to believe, and they can't hear it if somebody doesn't go. Who will go? I think little town Baird. Who will go to Baird and tell them? Who will go to McHenry? I think it's the second most important question in all the Bible. I think there's two great concerns of our God, the true God. And that is one, that all men, women, children be saved. God wants them all to be saved. And number two is that someone takes the message of salvation to all the men, women, and children throughout the world. Locally and globally. I think if you would look here at verse eight. I see an urgency in this Also, I heard the voice of the Lord saying, Whom shall I send? But he doesn't stop there. He repeats it. And who will go for us? God does uh I teach uh Bible Institute, which by the way begins a week from tomorrow night. Everybody ought to get involved. I teach my institute. We have papers due. And uh we write a report on different things, and it's fun for me. And um Inevitably you have a student or somebody will become very, here's a word for you, verbose in their writing. In other words, to use a lot of adjec you know, we need a 500-word taper. Well 425 of those words are, it was very, very, very, very, very, very, very, you know, they just throw words in And anybody, can I get a witness? Anybody ever do that? They just fill it all up with meaningless words. God doesn't do that. The Bible isn't the volume that it is because God just wanted to throw a lot of words in and fill space. God doesn't have to do that. So when God puts a statement like Isaiah chapter 6, verse 8, and then he repeats it, he's not doing that just to make a little longer verse there. He's doing it because there's an urgency. He's doing it when God repeats himself. It is because he wants to understand. He wants us to understand how important this is to him. And so he says, Whom shall I send? And then he states it again, rewording it a little bit, and who will go for us? Now, as I was studying this, I read this in my devotions a week or so ago. I thought, boy, that's a powerful verse there. That's I see the heart of God here. I see a very important question here. But then a word stuck out in this to me. I thought, well, that's interesting. Let me read it again. Also I heard the voice of the Lord. Alright, who's speaking here? It's who? Talk to me now. Who is it? It's the Lord, it's God speaking. And look what he says. And let me ask you this before we how many gods are there? One God. Alright, now pay attention. Look. Whom shall I send? Alright, no problem there. And who will go for us? What is that word us? Is that singular or plural? That's plural. Who will go for us? Us It's the Lord speaking, and he wants to know who will go for us. How many gods are there? There's one God. Now, just as a footnote, what we have here is a reference to the Trinity of our God. The triune nature of our God. In other words, there is one God, but he is plural in the sense that God is Is manifest in three individual, distinct, and complete persons. You have God the Father, who is complete and totally God in and of Himself. You have God the Son, who is complete and totally God in and of Himself, and you have the Holy Spirit, who is complete and totally God in and of Himself. Yet there is one God In three individual distinct personages. You say I don't understand that. Welcome to reality. If truth is dependent upon our level of understanding, then there's not much truth out there. The fact is, the Bible clearly teaches. In fact, there is a number of times throughout, particularly Old Testament, where God is referred to as us or we. I hope you brought your Bibles, and if you would, turn with me now to the first book of the Bible, Genesis. And I want you to notice a few instances so that way you don't just take my word for it. You can mark it down here and take note of this. Genesis chapter 1, and notice with me verse 26. God is creating the earth seven days and he comes to his master creation, man. And uh, Genesis chapter 1, verse 26, notice what the Bible says. And God said, so God's speaking here. Let what's the next word? Us make man in our image after our likeness. And let them have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the fowl of the air and so on. God refers to himself in the plural. Us. We come over to chapter 11 of Genesis. And God is dealing with man, is there Building the Tower of Babel. And verse 5 of Genesis 11, the Bible says, And the Lord came down to see the city and the tower. Which the children of men build it. And the Lord said, Behold, the people is one, and they have all one language And this they begin to do, and now nothing will be restrained from them, which they have imagined to do. Now God speaking here, go to, let what us go down And there confound their language so that they may not understand one another's speech. So when you come to Isaiah chapter 6, the Lord said, Who will go for us? He's referring to all three persons of the Godhead. And this is it. Here it is. God the Father cries out, Who will go? Who will go to lost mankind and tell them of my Son? Who died a horrible death in man's place, a substitution for man? Who will go and tell the price that my son paid for their sin? Who will tell the lost throughout the world? Communicate to them the truth that my son Suffered the judgment, my judgment, on himself for man's sin as their substitute in their place. Who will tell them? The heart of God the Father cries out for mankind to know of the price of what he did to his son on their behalf I don't know about, I have two sons. I don't know about you. I love my children dearly. And of course, God being God, we cannot comprehend. But to be honest with you, I cannot fathom. Loving someone so much that I would be willing to do to my son. What God did to His Son for you and I. He said, I don't want it to be in vain. I love mankind. Who will go? God the Father, who will go and tell this old sinful world, lost without God, without hope in the world, what I did for them. So they can find forgiveness. So they can find new life. So they can find escape from hell, the lake of fire. God the Father says that. Who will go for us? God the Son asks. Who will go? Who will go to the regions of the world and to their neighborhoods and to their neighboring cities and states? Who will go and tell what I did? So that they can be saved. Who will tell them of the price I pay separated from my father? My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? In the darkness of the judgment on the cross, he cried out, Why hast thou forsaken me? She said, Who will go and tell anyone that I suffered hell for them? God the Father asks that. God the Son cries out, Who will do this? And then you have God the Holy Spirit, who will go for us. And the Holy Spirit asks, who will go and tell of my indwelling in the life of a sinner, God Almighty? God Almighty. In the person of the Holy Spirit, indwelling in the body of man. Holy Spirit says, who will tell? Of the life-changing power that the Holy Spirit brings through the blood of Christ, who will go for us. Now there's another word here that stands out in my mind. I heard a voice of the Lord saying, Whom shall I send? And who will go for us? That's an interesting word. The word for means in the place of. Or on behalf of us. God says, God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit says we need somebody to go on behalf of us. We need somebody to go in our place, representing us, and tell folks of the one way that man finds forgiveness in new life. He's saying who will go and be our ambassadors. Everybody alright? Everybody out there okay? What's an ambassador? An ambassador is an authoritative person, somebody is given authority To go to a foreign country and to represent the interests of that country, to communicate the concerns of the home country to that foreign nation. God says, the Father, the Son, the Holy Spirit says, who will go to earth and represent our concerns. Who will go to earth and communicate to the lost people of the earth? Our Concerns for them. Who will represent my values and communicate my message to them? Who will do that? Who will go for us? That same concern is expressed in the New Testament. I'll just find it real quick in 2 Corinthians chapter 5, one of my favorite verse chapters in the Bible, and verse number 20, let me read it real quick to you. Paul speaking about Christians, and he says this. Now then, we are ambassadors for Christ. As though God did beseech you by us, we pray you in Christ's stead. In place of Christ, standing here on behalf of Christ, be ye reconciled unto God. Paul is saying in 2 Corinthians chapter 5, verse 20, you and I as believers are exactly What God was looking for in Isaiah chapter 6 and verse 8 when he said, Who will go for us? Who will be our ambassadors? Who will stand before the lost on the behalf of Christ and say, Here is the message from heaven. Here is God's concern for you. Here is God's word for you. Who will go? Whom shall we send? Who will go for us? There are two categories of those who can answer this call. There are two categories of people who can stand up and say, I'll go. And in a future message, Lord will, we'll look at the answer here, my send me. But these two categories are First of all, those who are called to full-time ministry. God still calls people to the ministry. God will touch a heart, He'll put an intense desire in that heart, He'll make it clear to that person, I want you in the ministry. I want you in a what we call full-time ministry. That's pastoring a church, preaching in a capacity as an evangelist. or missionary, but that is my life's vocation is to represent God To mankind. So that's one aspect. And that, to be honest with you, is the minority of believers Not everybody's called to that capacity. Do you agree with me? If everybody was called to pastor, there'd be nobody to pastor So the minority of Christians fit that capacity. But there's another category of those who Answer the question that God gives in Isaiah chapter 6, and that is this: simply individual Christians in all walks of life. In other words, every one of us. As an individual believer, fit the call of God to represent him. To be his ambassador. That's the vast majority of Christianity. And I'll be very honest with you. I believe the individual Christian, not necessarily the one that's called to in the type of position I hold, the individual Christian who's out in the work-aday world. Is much more effective in representing God than what I could ever be on a Sunday morning, Sunday night, and Wednesday night, or in the various preaching and teaching ministries of this. Because The individual Christians out there infiltrate society, infiltrate the lost world, rub shoulders, work day by day by day, and us as individual Christians have a far greater influence potentially than the individual evangelist or missionary or preacher So that's all of us. So the question I believe that God presents to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church on this morning, right now, God Whom shall I send? Who will be a representative for me in your workplace, in your neighborhood, in your county, in your world? Who will go? Who will represent that? God's call to his people is a call for volunteers He doesn't make us. Isaiah chapter 6, verse 8 is God, God's not making us He's saying, who will do it? Here's my heart. Here's the need. Mankind is lost. There's only one way to be saved. I'm asking you, who'll step up? Who will communicate that message? Isaiah answers, and again, this is another whole message. Here am I, Lord. Here am I, Lord. Send me. We go back and look earlier in the chapter where he says, I'm a man of unclean lips. What's he saying? He says, I'm a sinner like everyone else. And the angel takes the coal off the altar and touches his lips. He says, You've been cleansed of the pitcher of salvation. And he says, because I have been forgiven, because of what God has done for me, in saving me from hell, in giving me a new life, in forgiving my sins. I'll go. I volunteered to go. How about us? We have a tremendous opportunity the next few months. Take the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ to every home in Garrett County. Every single home a witness And I believe God is leading in this and directing us where that no matter where you would drive, no matter what neighborhood you would go into, no matter what street Or alley or dirt road you drive in Garrett County, every house you go by, you know that somebody on behalf of God has been to that door and shared in printed form at least the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. Who'll go? Who will do that for our community? What about Kazakhstan? We know of zero missionaries here. What about the hundreds of other thousands of people groups around the world? Who would go? It's not gonna do anything. Oh well somebody else will. It can't be that way. It can't be that way. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us To be faithful to your call, to go to a lost world with the gospel of Jesus Christ, the only way for people to be saved. With our heads bound and with our eyes.