The book of Ruth, where Pat read from a few moments ago, and uh we're going to get right into it this morning. And just a few thoughts from the book of Ruth. And if you wouldn't notice with me, verse number five of Ruth chapter 2. Then said Boaz unto his servants, that was the servant that was set over the reapers, Whose damsel is this? I want to use that for the title of my message. Whose damsel is this? Who is this woman, Ruth? And what significance does her life and experience have? for you and I today. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father, thank you for a good service and the music. Oh, we're so grateful for the mothers and folks visiting. God, I ask your blessing on each and every one. We're so grateful. Now as with the word, I pray you would speak our hearts, apply the scripture to our hearts. I present my body anew, I yield myself to you and pray that uh you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit and speak through me in Jesus' name. Amen. I failed to recognize Teresa back there, Phyllis's daughter. God bless you. I was so excited about Doug being here, I completely forgot. God bless you. We're glad you're here. Uh this the book of Ruth, the story here of this lady by the name of Ruth, a bittersweet story. It begins in chapter one with what I would guess is a happy little family. You have Elimelech and his wife Naomi. They have two boys. They're living in Israel. Part of God's people, and hardship hits the land, though. If you would turn back to chapter 1 and notice verse number 1 with me. It says, Now it came to pass in the days when the judges ruled that there was a famine in the land. And then it goes on and introduces us, as I just said, to Elimelech, his wife, and their little children. I would assume they're an average Jewish home back in those days. He worked hard, no doubt. Mother Naomi took care of the home. The two little boys were born. And they were just a happy family, as I said. We have no reason to doubt that. But a difficulty came, hardship came to their land and of course to their home, as it often does. And even in our day and age, we're not immune to difficulties and trials, financial setbacks, tragedies strike Uh even as it did then, and I want to th throw this out here just as we go along. Uh Christians are not immune from difficulty. Believers, strong faith, are not immune from heartache, tragedy that strikes, and so it was here. Now, we really don't understand what it means when the Bible talks about famine. I really don't think I think it's very difficult for us to even comprehend what that involves. A famine was a time of widespread hunger. It involved severe hardship, where just to get enough food to keep yourself alive was a full-time 24-hour endeavor. This famine that struck Israel here produced widespread starvation. Now we use the term sometimes, boy, I'm starving. We're really not starving We don't know what it means to starve to death. And that's what they're facing. Elimelech, Naomi. Apparently at this time, their two boys are very small. And suddenly there's no food. Go to the marketplace, there's nothing. To put it in our context, you go down to food land, everything's empty. Nobody's even going in there. All the convenience stores, Walmart, everything, nothing. You go out to your garden, it hasn't rained, it's been dry, your garden's dead. Refrigerator is empty, there's nothing, your kids are crying, your wife is hungry. What are you going to do? It's a challenge. Elimonek, Elimelech, the father, makes a decision. We're told in the first verses here He decides he's going to leave the land of Israel where this famine hits, and he's going to go to the country of Moab And there, see if there's food, see if he can take care of his family. Looking back on it, I see it as a tragic, tragic mistake. Now, I understand, no doubt, his thinking. I've got to do something My family, people are dying all around us. I'm not going to, and I no doubt I would think the same way. I am not just going to stay here and watch my family die. And so he makes a decision to leave the land of Israel as one of God's people and go to the land of Moab. Now stop with me and think for a moment. The land of Israel was the land that God had promised that he would take care of his people. The land of Israel was the land where God had promised He would protect them. It was the land of God's will for God's people And I do not believe that I am violating Scripture when I say, when Elimelech. Now this is easy for us to look back on and critique. But I don't think I'm violating Scripture when I suggest that when Elimelech took his family out of the land of Israel into Moab, he was taking his family out of the will of God. Israel was the place God's people were to be. That was the place God had promised to take care of them. God promised To take care of his people. Now, he did not promise they would never see trials. But God does promise to see us through the trials. Hey, God has never promised that you or I will never have the possibility of having someone dear in our family pass away. God's never promised that's not going to happen to a believer. But God has promised that He will give us grace to deal with it and carry us through that. God has not promised that if you're a Christian and you have a Christian family and you're trying to do right, that you will never lose your job. God hasn't promised that. But he has promised that he will see you through that difficulty, that he will take care of you. And so Abimelech left the land of promise. And he went to the land of the Moabites. Now, as I said before, it's easy to look back and to criticize It's easy to look back and critique. If I was in his shoes, uh I hate to admit it, but no doubt I may think the same way he did. I do not believe, as I was studying this, and I don't have any basis for this other than just the first few verses of Ruth chapter one. I don't believe necessarily that Abimelech was a real strong spiritual man. I get the impression that he may have been his relationship with the Lord May have been somewhat superficial. And thus he made this decision. As I study the book of Ruth, I find, on the other hand, Abimelech's wife, Naomi The mother of the two boys, I see her to be perhaps a very godly woman, a very strong inner faith And we'll see that a little later on on her influence on her daughter-in-law. And so they made the decision, a bad decision. They went to the land of Moab. And it had tragic results. Here's the thing: the very thing that Abimelech was trying to avoid in Israel, he ran into in Moab The Bible tells us early on in the book of Ruth that he left, the famine hit the land of Israel, he packed his bags, took his family, he went to the land of Moab, and in the land of Moab he raised his boys. They met Moabitish women. They married them. And in the process of time, Abimelech died, and his two boys died. The thing he was trying to avoid in leaving the will of God, he ran into. He made a tragic mistake. I believe he was very sincere. In his decision to leave Israel and go to Moab. But the fact that our motives are sincere does not remove the tragic consequences of bad decisions. Young family. Children show up. Young man, young lady meet, fall in love, get married, children show up. And they want what's best for their kids. And they want what's best for the family. If somebody comes and knocks on their door, two young men come by and knock on their door. And they say, hey, we have a church in the area here. We emphasize family. We can help you raise your children. We can help you have a happy marriage. We can help you. The emphasis of our religion is on the family. The mother and the father sincerely think, you know, we want a good family. We want our children to grow up and be good people. Maybe that's something we should look into. And their motives are sincere. But they find themselves involved in a tragic cult. And they got taught wrong doctrine. And they die, end up dying without Christ. A very sincere but mistaken decision The sincerity of the decision does not remove the tragic consequences of that bad decision. You follow what I'm saying Abimelech's decision to leave the will of God, if you will. His decision to leave the will of God and go to this country of Moab, which we'll look at here in just a moment. Had tragic consequences. His decision to go outside the will of God affected his children Now, here's a sobering thought, and I'm talking to mothers and fathers here this morning. We're going to zero in on Ruth here in a moment. But our relationship as parents Our relationship with God and our obedience to God often has a direct effect upon the spiritual health of our children. The decisions we make as parents often affect and have consequences in the lives of our children I tell you, we need to, as a parent, we need to stop and think for a moment before we deliberately disobey the scriptures. Is it really worth hurting my child and their future? To engage in this whatever it is God has disobeyed. Is it really worth it? Abimelech, very sincere. No doubt. But he made a decision contrary to the clear will of God. And it had devastating consequences on his family. That is why it is so important that we as parents get our wisdom from the Bible. That is why it's so important that we as parents do not lean on our own understanding, but we look to the Lord and a difficulty comes and we face a difficult decision. And whatever we decide, it's going to have consequences on our family and on our children and on our future. We need to go to God. We need to seek the Lord and say, God, I need your wisdom What should I do? Not what I think I should do. I say this all the time. We should never do what you think is right, always do what God says is right. And so we find this tragedy. They're in the land of Moab, a place outside the will of God. Abimelech and the two boys die. Apparently, they lived there a long time. They raised their boys there. They married two Moabitish women. They married two women outside of the faith. These are not Jewish girls. These are not girls who knew Jehovah. They married outside the faith. And now Naomi and her two daughter-in-laws are widowed. Now Naomi makes a significant decision In chapter 1 and verse 16, Naomi, her husband's dead, her two boys are dead. She's got the two daughters-in-law apparently living with her, and she says, you know. I need to go home. I need to go back to Israel. And so she packs up and she travels back to Israel. Now that brings us to our story here. And what I see in the book of Ruth is how God can take a horrible decision. And its tragic consequences, and turn it around and bring something good out of it Now, I know one thing, talking to a crowd this size, I know one thing. I'm talking to folks who've made some decisions in the past that you regret. Huh? I don't think there's a person here, myself included, that would say, oh no, I've never made a decision in my life that I regret. Uh sometimes folks say, you know, if I go back I won't do a thing different. I always say, you're a knucklehead, you can learn a thing. There's a lot of things we do different. If we we learn the outcome, say, boy, that was bad. But here's what I learned from the book of Ruth and from the life of Ruth: God can take the most tragic decisions. And God can take that and turn that thing around and bring something good out of it. I like to view it as God being a master chess player. Now when I was young I I used to play chess a lot. I was really good. I beat everybody. Did you ever notice I just spent a day or so down in Birguit, a bunch of older guys? Did you ever notice back in years gone by, they were the best at everything? Did you ever notice that? Oh yeah, I was So anyway, I played chess. And I enjoyed it. I was very good. I haven't played for years. But uh a very good chess player, a master chess player Will approach that game and he'll have a he'll have a game plan, so to speak. He'll have an idea of how he's going to go about capturing that king and winning the game He has it in his mind. Strategy. The opponent, on the other hand, has his own strategy of going about and capturing his king and winning the game The master chess player, he makes his move. The opponent makes a move That on the surface, that immediately on the surface appears to foil the master chess player's plan. But if he's really good, he can take that move of his opponent and turn that thing around and use it to accomplish what he wanted to do in the first place. You follow what I'm saying? God had a plan for Abimelech and Naomi and their children. Abimelech made a tragic decision to go outside of the will of God. And go to the land of Moab, an ungodly land with ungodly people. There there was tragic consequences. Not only did his boys Marry outside the faith, but they lost their lives. Abimelech lost his life. And Naomi comes back in deeper poverty than she was when she came And you and I would look at that at that point in the story and say, man, total failure. Total and complete failure. But God wasn't done yet. God can take the worst decisions. God can take the most horrific circumstances and turn that around. Bring something good out of it. And in Ruth chapter 2, we are in the early stages, the beginning stages of God working in this family's life. To bring something good out of this tragedy. And if you go to the end of the book, which we won't in this message, but if you would go to the end of the book and look, you find that Ruth becomes the mother of the forefather of our Lord Jesus Christ. A Moabitish woman. So, oh, it's good that Abimelech made a bad decision. It's good that he went outside the will of God. Oh no, that was tragic. But God is good and can take our tragic mistakes and bring something good out of it. And that's what we see in the book of Ruth. Now, this question is asked in chapter 2 and uh and uh verse number 5, whose damsel is this? Now let me set the stage for that question. I'm going to give you a few brief answers and then we're going to be done. Naomi comes back to Israel. She's widowed, her boys are done, she has two daughter-in-laws. One of them opts to stay, just to abbreviate it here, one of them opts to stay in Moab, Uprah. Gives her a kiss and stays. But Ruth says, I want to go back with you. I want to go and live in your land and be with your people and worship your God And so Naomi comes back with Ruth. They are poorer now than they've ever been. They have nothing. And Naomi sends her daughter-in-law, Ruth, out into the fields to glean in the fields. And I'll explain what that is in a moment. Ruth is out there gleaning in the fields. Unbeknownst to Ruth, one of Naomi's. Family members, kinsmen, is the guy that owns the field where Ruth is gleaning. Isn't this fascinating? Praise the Lord. How many folks glad you came to church today? Hey, man. God bless you. It gets better. She's out there gleaning. Boaz, kin to Naomi, has no idea who Ruth is. Ruth has no idea who this Rich guy is that owns all this land and has all these hired all these people to reap his crops. And uh Boaz looks out and he sees this woman out there and he doesn't recognize her She's following behind, picking up what's dropped. And he makes the, he asks the question, whose is this Sanzel? He may have been asking whose wife is she? Whose family is she from? He's trying to get a little background on her. Now He is answered by the folks around who found out who she is, got to know her, and the answers are very interesting. Who this damsel is and her relationship is a beautiful picture of who you and I are in our relationship with God. So what is this? Well the first thing they tell him that she is a Moabite woman. Look at verse number six. Whose damsel is this, verse five, and the servant that was set over the reapers answered and said, It is the Moabitish damsel that came back with Naomi out of the land of Moab Now you need to understand a little bit about the land of Moab and who these Moabites were. The people that inhabited Moab were the descendants. Now this gets a little ugly They were the descendants of Lot's incestuous relationship with his daughters. That's who these people were. You go back, if they're going to trace their family history, that's what they run into. So that tells you a little bit about these people, these Moabites. They were History describes the Moabites as very vile, wicked, perverse people. Filthy, not just in their appearance and how they cared for themselves, but filthy in their morals. That was what they were known as. They were regarded by God as the enemies of God's people. God's people were to have nothing to do with them. God's people were not to be like them, not to be around them, not to associate with them. They were the enemies of God's people. That's who Ruth was. She grew up in a perverse, filthy, vile, blasphemous hole, worshiped false gods. In fact, the religion of the Moabites exalted prostitution to the point of being a priest in their religion. That gives you an idea of their mentality. That gives you an idea of their morals. Who's that damsel? Her? She's a Moabite. She came back with Naomi. Bruce As a woman of Moab had no right to the provisions of God's promised land. Ruth, as a Moabitish woman, had no claim to the promises of God. She was an outcast. She was, in every sense of the word, a sinner. Defiled and unclean. That is exactly what you and I are in and of ourselves before a holy God. There is nothing good. The Bible says in Jeremiah, the heart of man is deceitful and desperately wicked. The most vile and perverse sin you can imagine in your mind finds its source in the heart of mankind. People like to blame society. People like to blame the environment that somebody grows up in for what they are. Listen, there's no doubt the environment a person grows up has an influence on them. But our sin, our condition as wicked, ungodly sinners, is not because of our environment, not because of the society we live in, it's because of the condition of our heart The heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. The Bible says in Romans chapter 3, there is none righteous, no, not one. There's none that doeth good. There is none that seek after God. For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Like Ruth, the Moabitish woman, we have no Claim on God's promises. Listen to Ephesians chapter two and verse twelve. Listen to it. are aliens to the Commonwealth of Israel, strangers to the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world. I may be talking to someone this morning. You have never trusted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. You've never been born again by faith in Jesus Christ. The Bible says, if you in that condition, you are in your sins. You are under the judgment of God. You are outside the promises of God. Not one person outside of Christ who's never trusted Christ can come and claim the promises of God given in the Bible. Not until I trust Christ as Savior A person can be very religious and still be without God. A person can have religious feelings. And come out of a religious service very emotional and still be without God Ruth was a Moabitish woman. She had no claim to the promises of God. She was wicked and vile and undone, just as you and I are before a holy God without the Lord Jesus Christ. So he points out, it's pointed out to Boaz here, whose damsel is this? Huh? She's that Moabitish woman. Hmm. But then that he goes on, and we find that not only was she a Moabite, but she was very, and I'm using this word for alliteration here, she was very meager. In other words, she was in poverty. She had nothing. She had no money. She had no goods. She had nothing to offer Boaz or anybody else that would benefit them. Nothing. Now we're not familiar with what gleaning is. Years ago it was a very common practice. Gleaning was an ancient form, a primitive form of Welfare. It was society's way to care for the poor. And so it was a form of organized welfare. And this is how it worked. The law stated that when you would reap your harvest, as of course they didn't have the machinery we do now, you would go through and you would reap the harvest. Inevitably, there would be grain that would fall That would miss the wagon or miss the bundle or that would be knocked off. And it was illegal to go back and pick up the grain that had fallen as you were reaping it You were required to leave what fell in the field, and then those who were in poverty would come along behind the reapers, and they would gather up, they would glean that which was left behind. It was against the law for a farmer to clean up his field completely without leaving something behind In fact, they're told in some places not to glean the corners of the field, to leave standing grain in the corners of the field for the sole purpose of those in poverty could come by and they could reap that and they could use that to sustain themselves. It was a form of welfare. That is what Ruth was doing. The fact that she was gleaning tells us she was in extreme poverty. She had no money to buy things, she had no money for anything. Now I kind of like the setup there in that they had to work to get it Now if that was modern society in this type of situation, you'd be required to go pick it up for 'em, cook it, package it, and uh slice the bread and butter the bread and give it to them. That's just my opinion. But nevertheless, she was very meager. And this is what I thought was interesting. Ruth had nothing to offer to Boaz. Boaz was everything Ruth could ever dream of. Wealthy. He had provisions beyond her ability to ever consume it all He could protect her from every danger known to man at that time. He was everything she could hope for in a man. And she had absolutely nothing to offer him. Nothing He would not be richer for having taken her in. He would not have a higher standing in society by taking her in. In fact, he would no doubt be criticized. No doubt in the restaurants and homes. Did you hear who Boaz was talking to? What? You know why we laugh at that? There's a little bit of truth in there, isn't there? She had nothing to offer him. And that's exactly the way we are before God. Nothing in my hands I bring. But simply to thy cross I cling. There's nothing I have to give to God for Him saving me and accepting me and taking me in as one of His own. I have nothing. I'm not going to make God richer. I don't raise God's standard. In fact, the sad fact is you have a lot of Christians who, rather than exalting God in the eyes of man, are bringing shame to his name. I've nothing to bring to God. You say, well, preacher, you know, I'm a pretty good person. I do this and that, and I don't do this and I've got a lot of good works that I can give to God. He'd really be impressed. Yeah, he's real impressed. You know what he says in Isaiah? He says, even your good works are as filthy rags And the term filthy rags there is talking about the rags that the lippers would use to wipe the pus flowing from their rotting flesh. In other words, there's nothing, even what I consider to be good to offer to God, is staked in his eyes, as far as my salvation or my acceptance to him is concerned. And so just like Ruth was to Boaz, you and I are to our God. We're sinners. We've broken his law, we've done things and said things that if people knew, we would be so ashamed. Yet God knows. We've had thoughts in our hearts and minds that are absolutely vile in the eyes of God. We're no better than this Moabitish woman. We're as meager as she was. We have nothing in our hands to bring to God. I have nothing I can stand before God and say, God, I've got all this. Now will you accept me? Nothing there. Now I got studying this and I got thinking. There was something that Ruth had That could be of enjoyment to Boaz. She could, and she eventually does, gives him her affection. She gives him her fellowship and her commitment. And that brought pleasure to Boaz. I have nothing good to offer God. I have nothing in and of myself. I have nothing that benefits God in any way. But you know, the Bible says that we were created for God's pleasure. And I got thinking about it. Like Ruth can give her affection and her commitment to Boaz, I can bring pleasure to my God by trusting him. And committing myself to him and loving him. And that pleases God. You know what God wants more from his people than anything else? Say, our offerings! No, not our offerings. Now you hang around in Baptist church, you might get that impression. But it's not our money. It's not our ability. Boy, didn't Jennifer do a great job. That was beautiful. But you know that's not it. It's not our talents, the choir was great. It's not those meet that meal was great. We forgot to recognize the guys that cooked that. Amen. Wasn't that great? It was okay, guys, I But it's not our gi it's not our abilities, our talents, our possessions that please God. You know what God wants above everything else? He wants us to simply love Him. Paul came to Jesus and said, What's the greatest commandment? Jesus said, That's simple. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy strength, with all thy might. And the second's like unto it, love your neighbor as yourself. We don't have anything to offer God to save our souls or make us acceptable unto Him, but we can please Him. If we will just, like Ruth, just trust them and commit ourselves to them and love them and fellowship with them. And that brings pleasure to God. Who is that damsel out there? She's a Moabitish woman. Huh? She's awfully meager. She's gleaning. She has nothing that can offer to benefit you, Boaz. Okay. But one last thought. She made a very important decision. Look at verse number 16 of chapter 1 with me, would you? This is Ruth in the land of Moab, wanting to come back with Naomi. Chapter 1, verse 16. And Ruth said. Entreat me not to leave, uh, to leave thee. Actually, Naomi was telling the girls, girls, you go on back Now, I don't know what her motive was. Maybe she felt like they'd be better off with their people or something. No doubt that was a part of it. I tend to think maybe there was an element in Naomi's mind where she might have been ashamed to come back to Israel with them. That would be a scandal. Maybe she didn't want the family to know that her boys had married some Moabitish woman Whatever her reasoning was, whether noble or self-preserving, she told the girls to stay. Oprah decides to stay with her people. But Ruth, look what she says. Entreat me not to leave thee, Naomi, or to return from following after thee. Look at this. For whither thou goest, I will go. And where thou lodgest, I will lodge. Thy people shall be my people. Look at this. And thy God, and thy God, my God. There was something about Naomi that caught Ruth's attention and stirred her heart. And she said, The God that you worship, Naomi, is the God I want to worship. I was raised in this wicked perversity. I was raised in this blasphemy and filthy language. I was raised in this filthy and fornicacious living. I don't want that. You've got something. Your God has something better to offer me than the gods of this world has offered. There's more meaning and purpose in the true and living God than there is anything this world has to offer. I want your God to be my God. I'm tired of this sin. I don't want to live this way. I don't want to just live for the flesh and for self. I want something better than that. And the God that you worship, Naomi, I'm convinced is the true God. And the standards That your God has are far better than the standards of this world. And the purpose and meaning that your God brings to life is far greater than anything this world has to offer. Come over to chapter 2, if you would, and look with me at verse 12. And people picked up on this, and they saw there was something different about this Moabitish woman And look what Boaz says. The Lord recompense thy work. This is Boaz speaking to Ruth. A full reward be given thee of the Lord God of Israel, under whose wings thou art come to what? Trust. Thou as says you're a Moabite. I know what the background is. I know where you came from. I know that lifestyle, that mentality. But obviously, change has taken place. You are not living for the world and the flesh and the things that it has to offer. You are obviously living For the true and living God, you have obviously come to trust and obey Him. And Ruth had made a tremendous decision that she was going to trust the God of Israel. Isn't that the way you and I are with God? In and of ourselves, we're sinners. Our hearts are deceitful, desperately wicked. Hey listen, don't tell me your heart's not sinful. Not one of us here would not one of us here, we would want to die before we would have all the thoughts we've ever had put up on a screen for everyone to see. Don't tell me you don't got a sinful heart. Don't tell me you've never disobeyed God's law. Or no better than the Moabody swoman for God. We have nothing to offer God. Some folks, and we I touched on this recently in several messages. Well, I've got more good works than I have bad works. Listen, that ain't going to fly We come to God, we come empty-handed. We're poverty. Anything we have, listen, those gleaners, question, the person gleaning, did they plant that crop? No. Did they water it? No. Did they did they uh weed it? Did they buy the original seed? No. All they're doing is taking They're just taking. They have nothing to give back. You say, well preacher, I've I've got a I've worked hard and I got a job. Hey ever