To bring uh a very simple message, uh but a message that I think we all need to be reminded about, and especially as we kick off tonight this uh World Outreach Missionary Conference here at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. I want to bring a message that I've entitled Why Missions Matters Why why does it really matter? What what's so significant and so interesting about the missions, outreach of a local church. We're going to talk about that. But before we do, let's bow our hearts together in a word of prayer. Loving Father, we do thank you and praise you for the privilege of being here tonight And I pray that you would speak to our hearts as we look into the precious, perfect word of God. May the Spirit of the Lord lead us and direct us. Uplift the Lord Jesus, save the lost, and encourage and bless your children, and may this mission's conference be a real challenge and blessing to our hearts. And we'll thank you for what you do because we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Every church must eventually ask themselves the question Why do we have a church? Why do we assemble and gather together at a place that we call the church? Some think that the church is nothing more than a place to gather for encouragement. And certainly it ought to be a place of encouragement Uh you get in and you come and you sing the great songs of the faith. Uh you are with friends and family and uh it's an encouraging time that we're not only going to enjoy here But one day we're going to enjoy throughout all the ceaseless ages of eternity. There's some people that think the church is nothing more than a shelter, a place to gather from a broken world And certainly this world is broken and in much need of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. It's only the gospel that is able to change a person's life. There's others, I believe, that think that it's nothing more. The church is nothing more than a place where we pr preserve the traditions that we've made over the many years that the church has been in existence. And there's some, I believe, that gather for nothing more than to go through the routine of things and it's business as usual, week after week after week. But can I say to you this evening? Could I say to you without apology, the church exists because our God is on a mission Now, if I have to do the preaching and the amen, and I think I told you this before, gonna cost twice as much So let's try one of those amens again. Just just say amen. All right. It didn't hurt, did it? Oh, right here. Oh yeah. I like that. Well you can see that one better. I I think I'll just keep that handy right there. But the church is here because our God is on a mission And if you get in your Bibles and you begin to search the scriptures from the book of uh Genesis to the book of Revelation, you're you're going to you're going to find a God that is seeking lost sinners The Bible tells us in Luke chapter 19, 10, I've come to seek and to save that which was lost. So our God is on a mission. He's searching and looking and willing to save sinners. Not only is he looking for them, but I I believe our God is on a mission and he calls sinners to repentance and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. The Bible tells us in the book of Luke, chapter 5, and in verse number 32. I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. And I got good news for you tonight Our God is calling sinners in your neighborhood. Our God is calling sinners in your town Our God is calling sinners in this state of West Virginia and Maryland and Pennsylvania and surrounding areas Our God is calling sinners from all over this world because He's on a nation not only to save the lost, but to call those lost people to faith and repentance in our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. And I've got good news for you tonight. He wants to save everybody. The Bible tells us in the book of First Timothy, chapter one, and in verse number fifteen, this is a faithful saying and worthy. Of all acceptation that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners You search the scriptures, and the scriptures reveal to us a God that wants to save the lost You'll search the scriptures. You'll find God calling sinners to repentance and faith in Christ Jesus You search the scriptures, and you're going to discover that God sends people into the world with the good news. Aren't you thankful that this couple and this couple heard that call, responded to that call, and was willing to go to these different places of the world in order to tell others about the Lord Jesus? After the resurrection of our Savior from the dead, and he appeared to his disciples, one of the things that he said, as God sent me, so send I you. And oh how we need to be mindful of that, that every one of us Saved, kept by the power of God, secure in Christ Jesus, have all been sent to be a witness for him. Some have to go to the Dominican. Some have to go to Guatemala. Some have to go to some different part. But one thing is for sure. God called us to our neighborhoods And he called us to our town, and he's called us to our state and these surrounding areas to tell others about the Lord Jesus Christ. Missions Is the heartbeat of a New Testament church. Can I run that by you one more time? Missions is the heartbeat of a New Testament church. Did you know what's alarming? It's easy to drift from that mission. It's easy to drift from that. It's easy to get to the place that we're more interested in buildings, uh we're we're we're more interested in budgets. We're more interested in programs, and we drift from the very mission that God has assigned to you and to me. And when the church forgets its mission It's forgot the very reason that we exist. Think of our forebears, those that have gone on before us. They crossed the ocean to reach the lost. They were individuals that set an example for us and endured the persecutions of the world in order to reach the lost. Our forebearers and those that set that example for us sacrificed comfort in order to reach the lost. They were willing to leave family and friends in order to go to a distant field. To tell somebody about the Lord Jesus Christ. Would you say they had devotion? Would you say that they had diligence? Would you say they had dedication? Would you say they had determination? They were convinced that the gospel must be preached. In order for an individual to come to know Christ as personal Savior, they were convinced that sinners need to be called to faith and repentance in Christ Jesus. I say this without apology tonight. If we claim to love Christ, then we're going to love what Christ loved. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. If he loved the world, so should we. If he loved the lost, so should we. If if he was willing to give his all for the lost in order for You and I to be saved by the grace of God, then we ought to be g willing to give our all in order to tell someone else about our wonderful Savior. If we follow Christ, and I hope that you are. Then I believe you're going to have to go where Christ sends. Wherever that call might be, wherever that urging might be, wherever that drive might take you, if we really follow him Then we'll go where he sends. And if we are the church, and we are, then we must not neglect The mission that he sent us on. I think we ought to be engaged in missions. Every member of this church Ought to be engaged in the missionary program and outreach of this church simply for several reasons. I believe first and foremost is because God has spoken God has spoken very clearly, unmistakably, that we ought to be involved in some level of mission outreach of the local church because God spoke. I think also we ought to be involved because Christ has commanded. If He's commanded us, then certainly we want to be obedient to Him and follow Him. And then I also believe We ought to be involved in missions because eternity is at stake What an awesome responsibility that we have. Why does missions matter? Missions is the mission of the church. I want to give you three simple things tonight that I trust will challenge you and help to move you in the direction of missions. The first thing that I would say to you and remind you of is the commandment of our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Missions doesn't begin just with compassion, although compassion is necessary. The Bible talks in the book of Jude about compassion making a difference, and certainly it will, but missions does not exist simply because of compassion Missions begins with the authority of our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. The Bible tells us in the book of Matthew, chapter 28. And in verse number 18, that all authority or all power has been given to him. He didn't seize that power. He was granted and given that power And with that power, he's given us a very clear, unmistakable command. It's the foundation of the very great commission that we have been called to serve. It establishes the right, that designated, delegated authority to our Savior, the Lord, has given him the right To command the church to do what he wants us to do. So what did he say? Go. Is it hard to understand that? If I said to you, get up and go, no nobody moved. And I think sometimes that's the problem that we have today. We've missed that little simple command that he's given to us, go. It might be a next door neighbor. It might be somebody in this town. It might be somebody in this state. I found out one thing. Everywhere I go, there's people. Have you noticed that? There's people everywhere. And the Lord said, Go. He didn't say that just to these two couples. He didn't say that just to your preacher. He didn't say that just to me. He said that to all of us. And he has the authority and the delegated power in order to command us to go. Not only did he say go, but he also said teach them. I think one of the the downfalls of many of our churches today is simply we we've not d designated uh a a teaching program to develop discipline and discipleship into the hearts and lives of those that know Christ as their Savior. Our Savior said, Teach them. Our Savior said go. Our Savior said baptize them. We're in a good Baptist church. I I think I passed a church that was called a Methodist church down the road. They don't practice the same type of baptism that we do. We practice a biblical baptism. We get down into the water. We dunk them under the water. We bring them up from the water. Jesus told us to do that. And he said disciple all nations. We just can't be concerned about this little spot of the world or that little spot of the world or This little place of the world. We're we're to be concerned about the nations of the world. Who told us to do that? The one that has the authority to do that. Who has the authority to do that? Our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. It's universal in scope to all nations. It's not only universal in scope, it's evangelistic in aim. We are sent to reach lost sinners with the gospel of Jesus Christ. Not only is it universal in its scope, and not only is it evangelistic in its aim, but I'd have to say the Great Commission is inclusive in its outreach. All nations, none to be excluded It's unfortunate that a lot of our our mission outreach is is just in certain areas of this world. We need to reach the whole world. for our Savior Jesus Christ. And it's enduring in responsibility. Our Savior's never changed his mind. He's never taken back his word in his command. We're to go, we're to teach, we're to baptize, and we're to disciple all nations. It's a command. that is non-negotiable. The people that make up this church, uh the the the pastor of this church, it's a non-negotiable responsibility that God has placed upon our heart. So your preacher's not asking you to do something that the Lord has not only told him to do. And he's not asking you to do something that God has not already commanded you to do. And so it's a non-negotiable responsibility. The command is very simple: go. That sends us. The coverage? All nations. That stretches us. The ceremony baptism That identifies us. Could I say to you this evening, the curriculum? Teaching them? That forms us, molds us, makes us more like Jesus every day. And the continuance of that, I'm with you always, that sustains us. That gives us the power to go and represent our Savior. When Christ has spoken plainly, the church is called upon to respond faithfully The second thing that I would say to you this evening is not only reminding you of the command of the Savior, but I also say to you the conviction that we need to have as a church. When I talk about conviction, I'm talking about that inward persuasion, and I'm talking about that moral clarity that's produced by God's wonderful truth. Where do we find his truth? In his word. In his word. That needs to be a conviction that we hold and hold very dearly to our heart. And I believe it's not merely believing something strongly I believe it's holding it as a conviction in our heart and our life, being aligned inwardly, what God has spoken so clearly from His Word, walking in that truth. And there's some convictions that we have tonight. I hope that you have the conviction, first of all, that all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. That's a conviction we hold. For all have sinned, and all have come short of the glory of God. You don't have that conviction, you're not going to be convinced to reach sinners It's our conviction as an independent Baptist church, as a preacher of the gospel, as missionaries. As people of God, it must be our conviction that there is a penalty for that sin that has condemned us. The wages of sin is death. But the gift of God is eternal life. That's your conviction? You're never going to go. You're not going to be involved in faith promise giving. You're not going to be concerned about the people in your neighborhood and your town and your states and this world If you don't have that conviction that all of sin that comes short of the glory of God, and you have that conviction, that conviction of heart and life, that there is a penalty for the sin that the world has committed. Could I say this to you tonight? It's our conviction that God is long suffering. And not willing that any should perish. There's not a person that you'll meet that Jesus didn't die for. Not a person you'll ever meet that God doesn't love. There's not a person that you come in contact with that God isn't willing to save. It's our conviction that our God is a long-suffering God And is not willing that any, any, should ever perish. You know that verse in 2 Peter chapter 3 and verse 9, where the Bible says the Lord is not slack concerning his promise. But as some men count slightness, but it's long suffering, long suffering, and not willing that any should perish. That's our conviction. That's what we stand by. A conviction is something that can't change. A conviction is something that we hold dear to our heart. A conviction is something that molds us and makes us and compels us to follow the footsteps of our Savior, the Lord Jesus. It's our conviction, our conviction, Jesus is God's perfect sacrifice that paid for the sins of our of this world, paid the penalty debt that you and I owe Can you say amen to that? I I feel a shout coming on right now. I I've been set free. If you had a mortgage on your home tonight Someone walked into this building and said, I'm going to pay your mortgage off. By morning, you're going to be debt-free. I guarantee you you wouldn't be sitting there like a bunch of dead wooden engines You'd be jumping up and down. And oh, how excited the church ought to be that our Savior, the Lord Jesus, walked up to the heavens above and put down the blood and said, payment in full! That's our conviction. We stand by that. It's unnegotiable in our life. It's unchanging in our life. Jesus paid the price to set us free. It's a perfect, perfect plan of redemption. It's our conviction Our conviction that salvation is found in Christ and Christ alone. You might be a member of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, but that's not going to get you to heaven. You might have been baptized in that pool That's not going to get you to heaven. You might be the biggest giver of this church. That's not going to get you to heaven. Jesus said, I'm the way, the truth, the life. No man, no man. No man comes to the Father but by me. That's our conviction. Acts 4, verse 12, neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved. That's our conviction. That's what we stand by. And it's our conviction. That people must repent and place their faith in Christ, in Christ alone, for that salvation, that gift of eternal life The Bible tells us in Luke chapter 13 and verse number 3. He's commanded, he is instructed, I tell you, except ye repent. Ye shall all likewise perish. And aren't you thankful for John chapter 1 and verse 12? But as many received him. To them gave he the power to become the sons of God. Not not to those that joined the church. Not not to those that were baptized in the pool. Not to those that dump money in the offering plate, but he's promised that gift of eternal life, that wonderful gift of salvation to those who simply believe. He didn't say improve your life and then come. He said come just like you are. There's not a one of us in this auditorium tonight saved by the grace of God and kept by that power Sealed and secure in Christ that didn't come as a dirty, rotten, hell-deserving sinner. Maybe you bowed at an altar, maybe you bowed by a bedside But I guarantee you, you come that way on bended knee, and you call out to God in repentance and faith in his Son, the Lord Jesus. And we have that conviction that whosoever Oh I feel another shout coming on right here. We have that conviction that on movable Conviction that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord might be saved? Could be saved? We'll be saved. Aren't you thankful for that? You mark it down. When when convictions weaken And when our convictions begin to drift away from us, missions will no longer be important to us. So we've seen the command of our Savior. We've seen the conviction the church ought to hold to Then I want to challenge you this evening with the completion of the task. Missions is not only sustained by a command, Missions is not only sustained by conviction, but the missionary outreach of the local church is sustained. By that confidence that God will fulfill his redemptive plan. God's promised that He's promised that. And you mark it down. The task is very clearly defined in Scripture. The Bible tells us in Matthew chapter 28 and verse number 19, all nations are to be reached. He tells us in the book of Mark, chapter 15, and in verse number 15, all the world. Is to be reached. He tells us in Luke chapter 24 and in verse number 47: Among all nations, we're to go. And he tells us in the book of John, chapter 20, and verse 21, As the Father sent me, even so send I you. And then we see in Acts chapter 1 and verse number 8, we're to go to the uttermost part of the world. Any difficulty understanding that? And any hardships in comprehending that? Any struggle to uh apply that All the world, all the nations, all the peoples, none to be overlooked or excluded And that task requires of you and requires of me persevering faithfulness. I love that verse in the book of 1 Corinthians, chapter 15, and in verse number 58. I'm sure most of you, if not all of you, know it. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be steadfast. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be unmovable. Therefore, my beloved brethren, always abound in the work of the Lord. Therefore, my beloved brethren, your labor is not going to be in vain. You know, we need tonight as a church, as a people, a steadfast stance, uh, a settled Commitment that's grounded in the resurrection of our Savior. We just recently come through the Easter season and we we celebrate and sing those songs of uh of the faith about his resurrection. Up from the grave he arose. I I I think sometimes uh we overlook how important that resurrection really is It's what separates Christianity from all the religions of the world. We're the only one that can point to an empty tomb. Well we're the only one that can say the stone was rolled away and he's no longer there. And he didn't roll that stone away in order for him to get out He rolled that stone away so that you and I could take a good look inside and see that our Savior's alive and lives forevermore We need that kind of a steadfast stance that is solidly anchored in that glorious truth of the resurrection of our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. We also need an unshakable stability. An unshakable stability, refusing to be moved by opposition or persecution or ridicule, hardships, difficulties in life. I've got news for you. Life comes baggaged with heartache If you're looking for an easy way to walk this earth, you're not going to find it in Christianity We need that unshakable stability that irregardless of what we're going through, what hardship we might be facing, what persecution we might be going through What the Lord has called us to do. We need that unshakable stability that we're going to stay at it and not quit. We need a super abounding service, an active, growing investment in the work of the Lord that honors him. You know when you give to faith promise giving, you know what you're doing? You're honoring him. You're honoring him. Mm. Every every penny, every nickel, every dime I guess it won't be long till we can't say penny anymore And have you noticed how they want to round everything off all of a sudden? And it's never down, it's always up Can we just bump this up to a complete dollar or a complete $20 bill? We need that kind of super-abounding service. That we render to our Savior an investment in His work that honors Him and pleases Him. And I believe when we're concerned about the nations of the world, we're pleasing Him. We're pleasing Him. And then I think we need a sure significance, a confident assurance that faithful labor is never vain. Can I make an ad uh uh a confession to you? I get tired. Ken, do you get tired? Yeah, you look tired Some of us do a pretty good job at it. We practice being tired. I was talking to a fellow here the other day and witnessing to him and He was telling me about how tired he was and how how easy it is for him to sli slip into his easy chair and and before long he's gone. He's out. He's snoring And uh the wife is uh I I think some husband uh husbands just got an elbow in their side. It's interesting that the wife is always awake and can poke at you when when you're trying to get a good sleep Because you've labored hard and long today. Oh, how we need to have that growing commitment in our life that we'll labor long and hard and get tired. in the work of God, not tired of the work, but tired in the work, in our labor of love for our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. We do not quit because the task is hard. We continue because the promise is sure. Christ has not revoked his command. It's still the same. Go. And if you can't go, send Send. Send someone on your behalf. Here's two couples that just about have their bags packed. Charlot the bit to get to the field. I talked to them early and they're excited about that. They're eager to do that. If you can't go to the Dominican and do the job there, then send them. You can't go to Guatemala. If you're not able to go, send them That's what faith promise is all about. I can't go, so I'll send someone on my behalf To fulfill what? The great commission that I've been told to go and to teach and to baptize and to disciple all nations of the world The nations are still lost. They need the Savior. The gospel is still powerful and will redeem the lost. I like what Paul said. I'm not ashamed of the gospel. It's the power of God into salvation. To the Jew first, to the to the Greek. It's the power of God unto salvation. The tragedy tonight is not that the mission is unclear. You know what the tragedy is? Our obedience is too slow. Have you ever bowed on bended knee? Said Lord, I'll go wherever you want me to go. And if I can't go, Lord, could I send somebody on my behalf? That's your decision. Either go or send somebody that'll go for you. Let's stand with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. The truth of the matter is Missions matters to God, and it better matter to us. Father, we thank you tonight for thy precious word. I pray that you take this simple message and powerfully penetrate my heart And the heart of every person here tonight, concerning the call and the command, and the conviction that we ought to have. Because missions really matter to you. Oh God, I pray I pray that it would matter to me, that it would matter to your people that are part of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. While our heads are bowed and our eyes are closed. If you're here tonight and you don't know the Lord is your personal Savior, We would invite you and encourage you to come. Let's take a Bible and show you how to become God's child. Maybe you're here tonight and somebody's on your heart, somebody that needs the Lord, somebody that's lost, maybe it's a family member, maybe it's a next-door neighbor, maybe it's somebody that you work with You need to come and just pray for them. That the gospel would get to them and God would open their eyes to help them see their need of a Savior. Maybe God is tucking tugging at your heart tonight. And He's calling you to go. Would you come and surrender? Would you do that? Or maybe you've never taken part in faith missions giving. And you'd come and say, Lord, please help me to do my part. In reaching this world for Christ. As the pianist plays, if God has spoken to your heart