We're going to look at that here in a minute. While I was down there, the thought came to my mind. I was doing some reading. The thought came to my mind. Why do we have a city, for instance, Santo Domingo with three million people? Why have we not reached that city with the gospel? Why do we have entire countries that have little or no gospel witness in them? Why why is that? Here's my message, my question. Why have we not reached the world with the gospel? Look with me at John chapter number 4. If you have that. And time is limited. I hope I can get the a bunch of these verses. I don't know if we will or not. John chapter four, and look with me if you would at verse number thirty-five. John 4 and verse 35, just a statement the Lord makes. This is Jesus speaking. He says, Say not ye there are yet four months, then cometh the harvest. Behold, I say unto you, lift up your eyes. Look on the fields. Now look at this last statement. For they are white when already to harvest. What does that mean when he says they are white already to harvest? What does that mean? Right now. The harvest is right now. The harvest is there. Let's pray. Father, I pray you challenge us now, Lord, in just the few moments we have. And stir us. And Lord, however, you can use our church up here in the hills, and Lord, however, you can use each of us as individuals, I know my desire is that you would use me and us somehow, some way to get the gospel to people around the world. So challenge us, I pray. Fill me with your spirit. Speak through me, I pray, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. I am absolutely convinced, I've said this many times before, I am absolutely convinced that there are people in Kazakhstan, there are people down in Santo Domingo, there are people in India That right now, tonight, while I'm standing here, if somebody would go to them with the Bible in their language and explain to them from the Bible how to be saved, they would get saved. I'm convinced of that. Right now, if they had the Bible and somebody would show them how to be saved, tonight, right now, all around the world, how many would that be? Tens of thousands of people would could be saved tonight if somebody was just there to show them from in their language how to be saved. I think it's more than thousands and tens of thousands. I think it'd be hundreds of thousands of people would be saved from sin and from hell. If there was just somebody be able to sit down with them and show them in their language how to be saved. I think it's more than hundreds of thousands. I believe there'd be millions of people If there was somebody to come in Kazakhstan, in Almadi, Kazakhstan tonight, if somebody could go by, show them how to be saved, many, many thousands to be saved. Come over to John chapter, or I'm sorry, Romans chapter number 10 with me. Romans chapter number ten And I want to begin reading in verse 13. We're all familiar with verse 13. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Amen. And we use that in soul winning. We preach that. We believe that. But that's not the end of that passage. It goes on. In Romans chapter 10, verse 13, for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. That means anybody, anywhere, at any time, they come to Christ, of course, you know, in faith, repentant, believing. But look what verse 14 says. How then shall they call on him of whom they have not believed? You don't believe on someone, you're not going to put your faith in them. And how shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard? You can't believe in somebody you're not heard of. And how shall they hear without a what? Preacher. We could say missionary. A Christian, somebody. And how shall they preach except to be sent? Man, what a challenge. What a challenge. You have that little paper I handed out. I came across these statistics, oh, about a month or so ago And um I don't know how they come determine all this. It's pretty reliable uh organization put this together. But if you notice it says worldwide population. How many people see that? You're looking at it right there, worldwide population. Look what it says. In the world as of August 2018, not quite a year ago About a half a year ago, according to their calculations, there are approximately an estimated seven billion 7. 56 billion people in the world. I thought this was interesting. The average age of the person living on planet Earth is 29 years old, almost 30 years old. Average age. Around the world, the average life expectancy, 68 years old. That's something. I thought those were interesting. Then they went on and they determined people by people groups. And what we mean by people groups, and you've heard it mentioned in missions conference and things, but people groups are folks that speak the same language, they have the same culture A lot of it they have the same lineage, background, and um they live a lot of times by the same laws. Uh there it's a people group, not necessarily a nation. Within a nation there could be scores of people groups Um, I believe if I remember correctly, uh there's like 70 people groups in Kazakhstan, different cultural culture, subcultures. That speak the language, they have a common culture together. There are 16,000, according to this, 591 people groups in the world. Now look at this: unreached people groups. Total unreached people groups, 6,741 people groups. That's a population of 3. 14 billion people. Now, what do we mean by unreached? These are people that have if little, very, very little, or no access to the gospel. Now think about that. That is 42% of the world's population, listen to this, has almost no access, little or no access to the gospel whatsoever. Means they live, they get old, they die, never hear the message of Christ. Generations. Why is that? 2,000 years ago, Jesus Christ gave the church a great commission. That commission was to take the gospel into all the world. Every single creature. 2,000 years have gone by. Why in the world is it that 42% of the world's population has little or no access to the gospel? Just under half of the world has little or no access to the gospel. Why is that? How can that happen? Why would that be? Why would in 2,000 years, why would we have not have reached the world and maintained that gospel witness? Well, I think there's several reasons. Several reasons. Oh, let me give you a couple other statistics that are on here on here, just real quick. According to this same group that put this together, they said, now they're called they're referring to evangelicals. Now, by that they mean this: people who believe the Bible. Now this is any stripe, but they claim to believe the Bible. They say there are five hundred and fifty million evangelical Christians in the world. That was of 2015 There was three million in A B fifteen hundred and it went to five hundred and fifty million as of the fifth uh 2015. Um I'm trying to sort out here what I want to say. There are 4. 19 million full-time Christian workers. Preachers, missionaries, full-time Christian workers make their their living, so to speak, in the ministry 4. 19, 95% of those that are in full-time Christian ministry are working in nations that already have the gospel. You follow what I'm saying? The population of Christian workers are all in countries that already have the gospel. Now, why is that? Jesus told us to go into all the world. Why are we all congregated together in countries that already have the gospel? They said there are 900 churches for every one unreached pre-people group. A people group that has no gospel witness whatsoever. In Christianized countries, so to speak, there are 900 churches for every one people group. That has no witness at all, no church, no gospel preaching. My question is, why is that? When Christ commanded us to take the gospel into all the world, why are we all congregated together? Why are we all bundled up? I think there's a couple reasons. I'm going to give these real quick. And then we're going to pray that God that God will raise up missionaries to go around the world. God will raise up Christians to go. I think one reason we haven't reached the world that we have have this type of situation is because of demonic opposition. Satan is opposed to the gospel getting out. Missions and soul winning is above everything else, I believe, a spiritual warfare. It is front lines, spiritual combat. Winning people to Christ, getting the gospel around the world. I wanted to, and we don't have time, if you just jot this down and read it in uh sometime on your own, Daniel chapter 10, verse 12 and 13 And I've referenced this before, but Daniel was praying to God, and he had asked the Lord, he's confessing sin. He needs the Lord to answer some questions for him. And he's praying to God. He's praying, and 21 days go by, and he gets no answer. And in Daniel chapter 10, verse 12, Gabriel, the angel Gabriel, shows up. And he speaks with Daniel, and he says, God, and I'm putting this in my own words here now, so you have to read it yourself. But he says, God heard your prayer the first day you began praying. But the prince of the nation of Persia fought us, and I'm putting this in my own words, fought us and hindered us and kept me from being able to come down here. And answer your prayer until Michael, who we refer to as a warrior angel, he came down, and in that conflict he defeated the prince of Persia, this demonic Being, and he was able, I was able to come down and answer your prayer. Now that sounds a little bizarre, but I'm telling you, there is spiritual warfare, and I am absolutely convinced that Satan has devils assigned to nations around. the world to keep them in spiritual darkness, to keep them bound by unbelief And we've seen it how many times we support a missionary, we send him out to some country, and inevitably well I shouldn't say that, but m so often They get there and there's an accident, there's some sickness hits, there's something that gives them reason to pack up and come home. I'm telling you, that is not coincidence, that is demonic warfare. And Satan will fight the gospel coming into nations of darkness. He will fight that light every way he possibly can. We refer to nations as closed nations. How many people understand what we mean by a closed nation? That is a nation where the political makeup is such a way they do not allow missionaries in, they do not allow Christians in. It is closed You are not welcome here. Now here's what we think. We think that's just a political situation. It's a political condition I'm telling you it's far more than a political condition. That is a spiritual condition where Satan has those nations bound in darkness, and through the political leaders, he is able to try and do everything he can to keep the gospel out. So one of the reasons we've been hindered and not been able to reach the nation is because of their spiritual warfare. Now, is that an excuse for not obeying God? No. I'm how I wonder how many of us would say, you know, if our nation was under attack and they were going to take our nation, I wonder how many of us would say, yes, I'd go to arms. I would give my life to help defend my nation. I feel that way. I'd like to believe I would. Now if we do that for a physical nation, a temporary nation down here on earth, why would we not do that for the gospel? I'm not talking about taking up arms, but uh what I'm saying is be willing to give myself to spiritually fight. That spiritual battle, that spiritual conflict through prayer and devotion and going out into the battlefield, so to speak. You follow what I'm trying to say? So there's demonic opposition to the gospel going around the world. There's no doubt about it. That's why it's so important for us back here to pray for our missionaries. That's why it's so important for us to be right with God. So that we can get a hold of God and God can empower and protect and defeat these spiritual opposition to the gospel. A second reason I think we haven't got the gospel around the world is because of a deficient workforce. A deficient workforce. Jesus said in Matthew chapter 9, verse 36 through 38, and again we don't have time to go there. I wish we did. He says he saw the multitudes. He was moved with compassion on them because they were as sheep without a shepherd. And he said to his disciples, he said, The harvest is great, but the Laborers are few. Pray ye therefore, the Lord of harvests, that he would send forth laborers into the harvest. One reason we're not reaching the world is we don't have enough workers. There's not enough people going. There's not enough people giving themselves to take the gospel around the world. Just here in our own church we have when we discuss things we want to do and the things we're looking forward to. Our biggest one of our biggest issues, hindrances, we don't have the workers. The harvest is great, but the laborers are few. We have a deficient workforce. And then, last of all, I put this down. I thought of this flying back on the plane. We have demonic opposition, is one reason. We have deficient workforce. And I think another one is this distracted Christians. Turn with me, if you would, to Mark chapter number four. Jesus is told this parable, the fellow went forth to sow, and he sowed the seed, and some of it fell on the wayside, and The birds came and ate it up and flew away, and it never even took root. He said some of it he sowed and it landed on rocky ground. And the seed took root and it grew up. But um It was nowhere to take root, and when the sun came and persecution came, it withered away and became unfruitful. That seed grew, but it had no root when persecution and opposition and difficulty came because it didn't have any root, it just withered away. And never bore fruit, never won any souls, never had an impact on this old sinful world, never contributed to the advancement of the gospel. It was unfruitful And then he said some of it fell on thorny ground, and that's where I want to pick up here. Oh well let me let me finish it. He uh he some of it fell on thorny ground and the thorns and the weeds grew up and choked it out. And he says again, he said, it became unfruitful. What is an unfruitful Christian? Somebody has little or no influence on this world for the gospel. Somebody that never wins anyone to Christ, never witnesses, never say, they become unfruitful. They have no impact on this world with the gospel. They're unfruitful And the thorns grew up and choked it out. And he says some of it fell on good ground and boy it grew and bore fruit a hundredfold, some a hundredfold, some uh tenfold, a hundredfold. I thought of Steve Siddler, man, he's bearing fruit down there. I thought of folks in our church that are winning souls and sharing the gospel, bearing fruit. Praise God for that. There are some But of the four different soils, only one of them bore fruit. And what caught my attention was in Mark chapter number four and verse number 19. He's explaining what these different scenarios are with this seed. And when he gets to the one, verse number 18, where they are sown among the thorns, and they hear the word, verse 19 And the cares of what? This world. And the deceitfulness of what Riches and the loss of other things entering in, choke the word, and it becometh what? What is it that keeps these, this seed, these people, what is it that keeps them from bearing fruit for the gospel and for the kingdom of God's sake? the cares of this world, the deceitfulness of riches, the lust for things. I need to fill my garage up with stuff, and then I need a I need a self-storage unit to keep more of my stuff in. And I need a bigger truck to haul more stuff, and I need more of this, and I want some more of that, and I want to have this and and uh And they get we get distracted by the things of this earth And we're so captivated with enjoy. I've heard, and and I don't please don't misunderstand what I'm saying, but I've heard in the last couple months so many preachers say stuff like this: we're here to enjoy this life Listen, I enjoy life. I want people to enjoy life, but that's not what we're here for. We're here to take the gospel to every single person on this planet because people are dying and going to hell. I never, I can't imagine a fireman standing outside a fire. People are trapped in there. He says, hey, I'm just here to have a good time. It's not what it's about. And we get so distracted, we get so caught up. And I talked to I was just down at the Bible time meeting with the board and we were talking to different there was a couple different presidents, Bible college presidents, and Brother Koontz gets in with these guys And they say we our colleges are filled with young people studying business and studying finances and CPA. And they said those going to the mission field and going in the ministry are getting less and less and less. And they're scrambling to try and keep their ministerial schools open and functioning. Why is that? The cares of this world, the deceitfulness of riches We get to the end of a very brief life. It's a vapor. We stand before God, and all we invested our life in was stuff. We have nothing to offer. Why is there billions of people that have little or no access to the gospel? Satan opposes it. There's deficient workforce, and we're so distracted. We're so caught up in enjoying stuff here. We fail to see what God has called us to do. I put this down. How many people agree with this? The gospel's free. We don't sell the gospel. It is free. We offer it free. The message of the Lord Jesus Christ. We send it out on the internet. We send it out on the radio. We put out tracks by the tens of thousands. We witness the people. We try and do everything we can. We give stuff away to policemen and anybody else. We'll give them gifts, so I have an opportunity to give them a gospel. It's free. But getting the gospel to the lost is costly. It's costly. Requires money to get them there. Sometimes it requires a life. How many missionaries have given their lives on the mission field? Because they want to get the gospel to somebody. Free to them, but it cost them their life. I thought of Josh. Gave his life trying to rescue some boys drowning. Missionaries around the world give their lives. Even ones that don't give their physical life and die, yet we have missionaries we support that have given away, uh put given their whole life, not living for stuff here and now They say, I'll go to a foreign country. I think of Brother Adams, I think of Brother Phillips, I'll go to a foreign country that is pretty much hostile to the gospel, and I'll vest my whole life to try and give the gospel to these people. The gospel's free, but getting it to people is very, very costly. And I think that's a factor. And not reaching the world. Amen? So we've got a great job. We have a tremendous responsibility that Christ has given us. And I'd like to think we're doing all we can I know we can do more, but I'd like to think that we're at least trying to fulfill that great commission. I'm asking the Lord to show us what we can do. Maybe God will raise up some young people, give their lives to go to the go to the mission field somewhere. Maybe God would stir us to give and pray like never before and get this gospel out. Let's pray. Father in heaven Lord, we're a church that you're established. This is your body, Lord. You've given us a phenomenal, overwhelming Job to do. God, we need you to help us. The devil is fighting it. Lord, we're own our own hearts are so distracted so easily. Mine. Lord, we just need workers around the world. And so you told us to pray. And we want to do that. I want to do that. And make us, if nothing else, a church that prays for labors to be sent forth into the harvest We pray for people all around the world, Pakistan, everywhere, that if just someone would sit down and show them to be saved tonight, multitude, thousands would be saved. Lord, we don't, it's not happening. So help us. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, my heart is burdened with you about this tremendous need? Is there any like that tonight? My heart's burdened with you on this. And maybe we would just pray and ask God to do something. Star us, help us, to see. Let Him lead us and direct us. I'm not asking anybody to do anything God doesn't lead and direct you to do, but I'm saying this Let's do what God does call us to do. And put aside this world and and let God use us. Father, bless now our invitation, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.