First Peter four, look with me if you would at verse number three. For the time past of our life may suffice us to have brought the will of the Gentiles. When we walked in lasciviousness, lusts, excess of wine, revelings, banquetings, and abominable idolatries. Now look at verse 4 Wherein they think it strange that ye run not with them to the same excess of riot, speaking evil of you. Who shall give an account to him that is ready to judge the quick and the dead. I caught my attention there in verse number four. As I said, we're working our way through. And it says, they think it's strange that you run not with them. I entitled the message. My official title for the message is Why They Think We're Strange. Why they think we're strange. My unofficial title is this, Why the Unsaved Think the Saved Are Weirdos. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you would bless our study of your word tonight. It's been a good day. And Lord, my heart is just so blessed by the fellowship and the spirit. Decisions made, folks responding to the Word of God. I do pray for revival. I pray for revival in my own heart, revival of a love for you, of godliness, a burden for the lost. I pray that you would stir our hearts and prepare us for the week ahead as we finish out this Lord's Day. Please help give us open hearts and open minds to your word. Help us make good decisions. I yield my will to you, Lord. I present my body anew with all my heart. I ask you to fill me with your Spirit And Lord, you speak through me your word to our hearts and minds. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Peter's writing to these believers. We understand they're pretty young in the faith, no doubt. But they're being intensely persecuted for their faith. They've been run from their homes. They've been run out of their communities. They're scattered throughout that region. Asia Minor there. And they paid a heavy price for their faith in Christ and their commitment to Christ. Some of them had family members reject them, run them out of the house. Uh others had gave their lives, some did. Um lost jobs, income. And they're they're being afflicted for their faith in Christ. They're being intensely persecuted. It's hard for you and I to grasp and relate. to what these dear folks were going through. But Peter's writing to them and he's encouraging them and he's challenging them and he's giving them instruction. And the first couple verses of chapter 4 there, as we noticed, he's emphasizing the importance of the will of God in the life of the believer. And um I would I suggest that what and the fact of the matter is the big conflict in our Christian lives, the big conflict in our Christian lives is my will versus God's will. Would you agree with that? Doing my will or doing God's will. My old sinful nature, my old sinful flesh, boy, it wants to do things a certain way, it wants to be involved in certain stuff. And the will of God often. is contrary to my will, and I have to make a decision. Am I going to yield to the will of God or am I going to do my will? And so that's the big conflict. In fact, that is the deciding factor to whether my Christian life is a success or not. Whether I'm going to have God's blessings or not. I can live my life by my will. Paul told the Corinthians it's it's a carnal Christianity, living for myself, my flesh. Carnal. Or I can live for the will of God and have the blessings and have victory and and uh have success in my Christian life. And so this conflict there Last week, if you remember, we looked in verse number three at the will of the Gentiles, and we said that that is the will of this world, this old sinful world. um puts pressure on us and we saw the characteristics of those that live by the will of the Gentiles. Now he says in verse 4 He's following up that statement. He says, for the time past of your life suffice us to have brought the will of the Gentiles. You lived for the world long enough. You live by the world's standards, you've lived by the world's principles, you've lived by the world's values long enough. He says, now it's time to live for God. It's time to live for God. And he lists, as I said, the characteristics there. Then he says in verse 4, and they'll think you're strange when you decide to live for God. The Gentiles, the world, the unsaved world, they're going to think you're strange. That you're not living the way they live, the way you're doing the way what they do. They're going to think you're a weirdo. They're going to think you're an oddball. May 7, 1979, as most of you know very well, Monday night at 10. 30 at night, I bowed beside my bed, a drunken. Drug-addicted teenage boy, 19 years old. I mean, messed up. By the way, I thought of this this afternoon as I'm looking over notes again. I looked at verse 3 and I said, You want to know what my life was? Coming up to May 7, 1979? Read the description there in verse 3. And I'm not exaggerating. That was me. To the T and my the people I hung around with. I bowed my knees that night, 1030 at night, and I cried out to God in desperation I asked God to have mercy on me and save my sorry soul. I didn't want to be the man that I had become and where I was going. I didn't want that. I wasn't thinking necessarily about heaven and hell. That wasn't really my concern. My concern was that I was a wretched sinner and it was destroying me. I needed somebody to deliver me from my sin. Of course, I read the Bible, how Jesus died for my sin, buried, rose again. I called on him. I trusted him as my personal Savior. And you know what I found out? God keeps his word. And when I called in the name of the Lord, God saved my soul. There wasn't any bells going off, wasn't any lights flashing? Wasn't any smoke? There wasn't any big angels show up. I crawled off my I got off my knees and crawled up in that bed in the attic of our house. And I went to sleep, a new man. I didn't understand everything, but I knew something. God saved me. I got up that morning completely transformed. And God did a work in my life. Up to this point, as I said, I lived in the will of the Gentiles, verse number three But now, and I don't know why God did this for me. So please understand God has works differently in different people's lives. I don't know why God did this for me, but He changed my life instantly I mean dramatic transformation. I went into that meatpacking plant on Tuesday morning, and I wasn't there long and everybody there knew something was different about Leatherman. They come up, Leatherman, what got into you? What in the world? What's up? And uh I said I accepted Jesus as my Savior. Oh brother, that set things off And uh I became, well there was two others in the meat pack implant there that on the floor where we worked There's about thirty, maybe forty people worked on that floor there. Two others had gotten saved right around that same time. Unrelated to me, just in their own God's they got saved also. And so their lives were changed, and they began witnessing, and I began sharing the faith. I mean that week. And uh, brother, the name started coming. Making fun. Leatherman got religion. Oh, he's joined the Klu Klux or not the Klu Klux Klan. Um Wha who were the folks in the in the airports that uh wear the things? Hare Krishna, ah, Leatherman's turn into Hare Krishna. And all this stuff they started throwing. And then the two others that were saved, we s you know, we kind of gravitated to get to each other And uh they called us, anybody remember that old stupid TV show, Mod Squad? They called us the God Squad And they began to make fun of us. And uh and uh the names started coming. And I noticed something, I learned something. My friends started avoiding me. I had no teaching on separation. I think the most neglected teaching in Scripture is the teaching of separation from the world. I think that's the most neglected. I had no teaching on separation. Nobody was telling me I need to separate from the world. I need to separate from sinners. Nobody taught me that. God changed my life, and now the will of the Gentiles, what I was living before, was no longer a factor. The most important factor of my life now was the will of God. Not that I was some hyper-special thing, but God changed me. God saved me. I was so enthralled by what God had done for me. And I noticed over time my friends quit inviting me and quit coming around And I actually, you know, that first week, a couple nights, we'd had certain places we'd hang out and they'd go smoke dope and everything and do all this stuff. A couple times, you know, I I was I was just saved. I don't know, I went over there and I sat there and I wasn't smoking dope, wasn't smoking cigarettes, wasn't drinking, I wasn't uh doing any of that stuff and they Come and sit down, hey, what's going on? I'd talk, oh I got saved. I accepted Jesus as my Savior, huh? And I'd sit there by myself, so I quit going. They quit inviting me to stuff, and there was, uh I got thinking about it this week. There was a period of time there from May of 1979 probably to July, August. And I didn't think about it at the time. It wasn't a factor. Just hook him back. I didn't have any friends. I mean, not one. Nobody to go hang out with. Nobody to go do anything with. I was coming to church at this point, and I was learning, getting to know new people, and I was developing new friendships But they and then they started calling names. And some of y'all have been through this same thing and started making fun And then there was even some in the meat pack and plant, there were a few guys that were so threatened by my changed life that they would begin to threaten me with violence. It's one fellow in particular. They thought I was strange. They thought I was a weirdo. Why in the world aren't you coming out Saturday night? Why in the world aren't you going over to Jersey Friday night? Hey, you're not selling any dope. What why in the world? What's going on? They thought I was strange. And by the way, even now you get around some people and they find out you're a Christian, they're uncomfortable around you. Anybody know what I'm talking about? They're just uncomfortable. I was visiting down here in Mount Lake Park and uh knocked on a door down in the bottom end by the train tracks down there and Uh it was a family member of a church member years ago. And I knocked on the door and I said, Hey, and they said, Hey, come on in. And there was about five or six people there. They're having a little get-together And it was winter time as dark, so they invited me in, we got talking a little bit. I said, Hey, let me ask you a question. Do you know for sure when you die your sins are forgiven? And you know and you go to heaven, and they're all sitting around there, and I had this this fella cornered a little bit, and I asked him that, and I said it loud enough so everybody could hear me, and it was like you turned a light on in a room full of cockroaches Man, they started disappearing left and right, and he was as uncomfortable as can be. They think we're strange. They think we're weirdos. Look with me at your Bible there, in verse number four. It says, wherein they think it's strange that you run not with them. Now I told all that about myself, not to draw attention to myself, but to say this: I know exactly what Peter's referring to there. I've experienced this I know what he means. I looked at that word strange and it means this: a novelty. I thought this was interesting. Part of the idea of the word strange there means entertaining. I don't think they have these anymore, but years ago they used to in the carnivals they would have freak shows. Any anybody know what I'm talking about? They would have like a two-headed goat, you know, or um Uh the bearded lady. Uh I saw one the other day, but um no. That was not nice. I'm sorry. I didn't You know, they have all these odd things, and people would come by and look and say, oh, that's weird. Ooh, that's strange. You know what I'm talking about? That's what he says here. The world looks at us and says, ah They're oddball. It's almost like we're entertaining to them. Then he says there they think it's strange, you run not with them to the same excessive riot, speaking evil of you Word speaking evil there has this idea to revile you. Remember when Jesus hung on the cross, the Bible says that they reviled him. They said horrible things about it. They blasphemed him and they ridiculed him and called him names and said, made accusations. They reviled him. That's the idea. They speak evil of you They say awful things about you, say terrible things about you. I thought it's interesting. I wrote in the margin of my Bible, the world speaks evil of those who will not do evil. You don't run with them and do wrong, then they'll say hateful things about you. By the way You and I aren't the only ones that experience this. Paul did. If you would keep your place here and go with me to the book of Acts and chapter number 26. You know, we knock on a door to try and share Christ with someone, and they cuss us out and slam the door, and we think we're persecuted. I'm telling you, we are not persecuted. We've got it very good. We have somebody make fun of us, or we maybe lose a promotion at the job because we're Christian trying to do right, and we think, oh, I'm suffering such intense persecution. No It may be inconvenience, it may be unpleasant. These guys are suffering persecution. Look with me, if you would. At Acts 26 and verse 24, Paul is before Festus. He's being in court. He's appealed to Caesar. And he came before King Agrippa, and then he had Spestus come in there, and he's given his defense in verse 22 and 23. He's saying, you know, what what he's all about. And look at verse 24. Look what Festus says. And as he thus spoke for himself Festus said with a loud voice, now Paul's there in court, so to speak, and he's giving explaining what he's about, preaching the gospel, preaching the resurrection of Christ. And Festus speaks up, interrupts him And says with a loud voice, Paul, thou art beside thyself. Much learning doth make thee mad. You know what Festus was saying? Paul, you're this You're a loony, you're crazy, man And Festus, let me suggest this, Festus was speaking on behalf of the world towards Christians. World says you're nuts. You're mad. Come with me, if you would, over to Mark chapter number three. Not only did Paul face this, and along with the other Christians in the book of Acts. But none other than our Lord Himself face this same thing. Mark chapter 3, and look at verse 21. Verse 20 says, and the multitude, Mark 3, verse 20, the multitude cometh together again, so that they could not so much as eat bread. I mean its place is packed. Everybody's coming to hear Jesus. And look at verse 21. And when his friends heard of it, who? Who is it? His friends. Jesus' friends. Heard of it. They went out to lay hold of him, for they said he is what? He beside himself. He said, Lord, you're going crazy. You're nuts. You're weird. You're being strange. So when you and I decide I'm not going to live in the will of the Gentiles, I'm tired of living for the world. I'm tired of living for the world's pleasures. the world's values, the world's principles, the world's priorities. No more of that. I'm going to live for God. God's will is the only will for me You step out and start living like that, you mark it down, this whole world's going to start calling you names, this whole world's going to start mocking you, and they're going to think you are strange. A weirdo Now, my question is this tonight. I want to try and answer it as quickly as I can, just my thoughts on it, is why does the world think Christians are strange? Why do they think we're weirdos? Why is it we walk in and open a Bible and start talking about Jesus? They scatter I put a few reasons. Why does the world think Christians are strange? Number one, this is the first one, and I just want to get this one out of the way, first of all, okay The world thinks Christians are strange, number one, because some Christians really are strange. It's true. I mean some some Christian some people uh th they're just weird. Anybody ever again anywhere you met some Christians and you think, man, that guy's weird. I mean, you know what I'm talking about? They do weird things. For instance, for a number of years ago there there was this movement across our countries where they suggested that if you got the Holy Ghost. You would get on your hands and knees and crawl around the church barking like a dog. Anyone remember that thing? And uh just walk around barking like a dog. And I saw a video of it, and they wrote Now I don't know about you, but that's weird. I'm not trying to be unkind to anybody, and I know a lot of good people probably got caught up in that. But I'm telling you, there is nowhere in the Bible or even remotely suggests that being filled with the Holy Spirit is going to make you act like an animal. Of any form, in any way, shape, or form That's weird. And the world sees that and says, man, Christians are weirdos. Right? You follow what I'm saying? They must they lump us all together. And so that, and then there was this other, a laughing revival. And I and you've maybe seen videos of this where man, the Holy Ghost showed up, everybody's laughing uncontrollably. I mean, bizarre I can't find any I find in the Bible that we have the joy of the Lord. I find the Bible singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs and making melody in your heart to the Lord. I find rejoicing in the Lord. But I don't find anywhere where you lose control bizarre. Now, if you know me, you know I like to laugh. I like, I enjoy having fun laughing. That has nothing to do with the filling of the Holy Spirit like that. That's weird. That's weird. And we can go down the line And so sometimes the world thinks Christians are strange because there are some strange Christians I was down south. I was I lived down southeast Tennessee for uh six years. We got down some of those country churches bound in the hills. And don't misunderstand, this is where somebody wants to criticize me, they can Don't misunderstand. These are good people. They love the Lord. But I'm telling you, I heard some weird preaching when I was down there. Just strange. Just I mean in style and everything. I'm glad I learned years ago. I found out you can just talk in your normal voice and still preach with the power of God. It don't have to be some bizarre, weird thing. I heard a preacher say this years ago, if everybody thinks you're a weirdo, something's wrong. But if nobody thinks you're a weirdo, something's wrong also. And so sometimes the world thinks we're strange because there are some strange Christians. I want to get that one out of the way. Now, what's another reason the world may think we're strange? Sometimes the world thinks we're strange because they cannot explain the supernatural change that has taken place in us It can't explain it. Who can tell me what 2 Corinthians 5, 17 says? If any man is a new creature He's a new creature! All things become new. One of the truths of Christianity is when a person gets saved, they're a new creature. God changes from within, he brings about a change. And the world sees that And they they cannot explain that. Uh I remember when I got saved that next nov that next December we went up to we used to hunt up in north central Pennsylvania. And I'm telling you, before this, it was go up there. And there was a couple other young guys. There was probably about 35 in the hunting club, 20, 35, 30, somewhere around there. And it was a bunch of younger fellas my age, uh, and we'd go out, we'd hit the bars at night. As soon as we got there, boom, we were out partying and carrying on. Now I got saved in May, and that next year we went up and we got there and uh there was a lady there who would do the cooking for us And I went there about a day and she my dad told me later she pulled my dad aside and she said, What in the world got into Denny? That was me. And um and uh he said my dad said Jesus got into him. I didn't understand I thought that's strange. What in the world happened to Leatherman? And they don't understand that when God saves a soul, he makes a new creature. They're a new person. And that doesn't make sense, and they can't grasp that. In Psalm chapter 40, verse 3, it says, He hath put a new song in my heart, even praise unto our God. And many shall see it and fear. There was a fellow at the Meat Hiken plant, I'm referenced him before, Mark. He was a short guy, long straight hair, long well I mean just real long down this way so most real real long. And he was, if some of you older folks remember this, he was what they called a deadhead. Anybody remember the deadheads? Hey well man. You know, they're just stoned all the time. And uh one day I was uh I'd been saved for a little while, I'd been there for a little while and been trying to witness people and God was changing my life and growing. He came up to me and said, hey Leatherman. I said, hey Mark. He said, uh, you scare me, man. Said I scare you. Why don't I scare you? He said, it's freaky. He saw God had changed me. God had transformed my life. I was a different person. And it blew his mind, man. Many shall see it in fear. Listen, hey you go to work and you're trying to live for God You're carrying your Bible, you're trying to be a witness, you're not saying the nasty stuff they're saying, not going to the places You're trying to be a godly uh a man of God, or maybe ladies in the office, or wherever you go, and uh you're in the market, you're trying to be a godly or in school, you're trying to live for God in school and be a good Christian. And others start making fun, and others start thinking, just keep in mind, they just don't understand what has happened. They don't understand the power of God. And what it means to be a Christian. Number one, some Christians are strange. That's why they think we're strange. Some Sometimes it's because they can't explain the supernatural change that takes place. I put this one, sometimes they don't understand biblical values. Again, verse number four, they think it's strange that ye run not with them to the same excess of riot. Why? Why aren't you out having a good time? No, why aren't you why aren't you uh living it up? You only got one life. Live it up. Kill that bucket list before you die, or you'll miss out. That's the world's taking. Listen, we got, I said this last week, we got one life. It flies by. Don't waste it on the temporal things of this world. Invest it in the things of God and eternity. And the world doesn't understand that. Biblical, the world's values are not the biblical values, the world's priorities are not the priorities of Scripture, and they don't understand it And they'll say evil things about us. Number four, I put this down. They're spiritually blind. If you would turn with me to 2 Corinthians chapter 4. 2 Corinthians chapter 4, if you would, notice in verse number 3 and 4, notice what Paul says to the church under the inspiration of God. 2 Corinthians 4. And verse number 3 says, but our gospel, but if our gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost. 2 Corinthians 4, verse 4. In whom the God of this world hath what? Blinded the minds of them which believe not Lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine forth unto them. All they can see is the physical. All the unsaved worlds see is the physical and the temporal What they can see, that's it. They don't see the fact that there is a spiritual reality to life. And you and I are spiritual beings. We're not just flesh and blood. And that there's eternity beyond this life, and that there's a real heaven and a real hell, and there's a real God and a real devil, and they're blind to all of that. And they see us coming along living for eternal values, living for seeing and understanding the spiritual realities of life, and they think we're weirdos. Solomon addressed this in Ecclesiastes when he said he was going to look for pleasure and fulfillment and purpose under the sun. And he completely blinded himself to the eternal realities. And this whole world is blinded spiritually. And let me end with this, Ephesians chapter 2, if you would come over there real quick. Number one, some Christians are weird, and so the world thinks all Christians are weird Sometimes they can't explain what's happened to us, what God has done in our hearts and lives, and they think we're strange because they don't understand what God has done. By the way, I'd far rather have what God does for me. I'd rather have what the gospel provides and think the world and have the world think I'm strange than miss out on what the gospel provides and be loved by the world They think it's strange. They don't understand. And they think we're strange because they don't understand biblical values and they're spiritually bind. And Ephesians chapter 2, look at verse 1. And you have to quicken to or what? Dead in trespasses and sins. I want to tell you, every unsaved person, I may be talking to someone tonight, you've never trusted Jesus Christ as saved you, you've never been born again And I'm here to tell you the biblical truth is the reality of the matter is you are spiritually dead. You have no eternal life. You can be very religious. You can be baptized 95 times. You can memorize the whole Bible You can sing in a choir, you can teach a Sunday school, you can pastor a church, but if you've never been born again by trusting Jesus Christ as Savior, you're spiritually dead. And if you die physically in that condition, separated from God for all eternity, all eternity. By the way, getting baptized never saved the soul and doesn't give s it does not give a spiritual life, eternal life. Joining the church, putting money in the bucket, serving, giving out gospel tracts, none of that Ever gave anybody eternal life. Only Jesus Christ gives eternal life. And every unsaved person is spiritually dead. And you have somebody that knows Christ and they're living for the Lord and the presence of God is in them and it doesn't make a bit of sense. And they think we're weirdos. And they think we're strange. Say, well, preacher, what do we do? These old worlds think we're strange, thinks we're weirdos. What do we do? I'll tell you what we do. We give them the gospel. And we live for Christ. And those that curse us, we bless them. And those that revile us, speak evil of us, we bless them and pray for them. And those that treat us unkindly, we're kind back to them. And we be sure to point them to Jesus Christ so that they can join us weirdos. And be one of us. Amen. Wouldn't you rather be a weirdo in the world's eyes and be a child of God than be loved by the world and be a child of the devil? I would Listen, I lived nineteen years in the will of the Gentiles, lasciviousness, I I lived that. I know what it is And brother, I wouldn't give one minute of Christian life for a thousand years of that life. I wouldn't do it. So let him laugh. Let them think we're weird as that's fine. Don't get offended. I was uh I I wasn't here a week 1993, September, we showed up. I went over to Lockley and I was knocking on doors. I think I could still take you to the house. I was just going down down door to door and say, hey, I'm Pastor Leatherman from the Mount Lake Baptist Church. I'm the new pastor over there And uh want to introduce myself. If you don't have a church, I'd love to have you come visit. Here's one of our tracks and uh and um uh and then I try to witness the people And so I knocked on this one. I said, I'm Pastor Leathermouth from the Mount Lake Baptist Church. And man, her face got hard right away. It's always the ladies. I don't know why. And um and uh I said I'm new pastor there. I said just want to introduce you, let you know, and uh uh here's a gospel tract, and brother sh it broke loose She just laid into me, I mean the language would make a sailor blush. She chewed me out, I don't want nothing to do, and just went on. And slammed the door. That was the first door I had slammed on me here in Oakland, Maryland. I s I'm still bitter about that now. She slammed that door, and I'll tell you, for a second there, the old dentist raised its head. Uh who does she think is? I'm the new pastor here. I'm a guest. I'm new in the area. You treat me? Boy, I was gonna toilet paper her house. I got so mad By the time I got out to the sidewalk, walked out, the Holy Spirit of God convicted me so bad. She thought I was weird. She didn't want nothing to do with me. Holy Spirit convicted me. I said, God, forgive me. She's lost. She's blind. She doesn't get it. She doesn't get it. I didn't go back and knock on the door, but I bowed my head and I said, God, please save this lady. Have mercy on her. Help her come true. I don't know whatever happened to her. But God taught me a lesson. People think we're weirdos. That's okay. Let's love them to Christ anyway. Amen? Amen. So we're going to finish out the Lord's Day. We're going into the Christmas week now. People's all excited. Christmas, Christmas. Let's get a handful of those Christmas tracks back there. Let's try and give them all out this week. How about that? And let's just love people. And when they're mean and rude and hateful and they treat us like we're a freak in a carnival show, let's just smile. And praise God. Oh, by the way, Jesus said, when you're reviled here on earth, rejoice exceedingly, because great is your reward in heaven. God sees it. God takes care of it. Father in heaven, please bless us now. Help us not to let this old world rattle us. Help us not to worry about what the world says or thinks about us. Help us to live for you and you alone. And Lord, give us that grace and the filling of your Holy Spirit. That we can bless those that curse us and do good to those that despitefully use us and pray for them. And help us be a good witness. We'd love to see more people come to Christ. And we want you to use us. Heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I need the Holy Spirit to fill me and empower me, enable me to be that witness in a world that thinks I'm a weirdo. Any like that? Any like that? That's what I want. I pray for it all the time. And maybe as we finish out this Lord's day, kneeling at an old altar, I'm just saying, God, here I am. I want your will done in my life. I want to be a witness for you in a world that thinks I'm a freak. And give me that boldness, give me that joy, that contentment, that confidence that only you can give. And I believe God will give it. For any say, preacher, I'm not sure if I die now and go to heaven. I don't want to go to hell I want to know that God has forgiven me and saved me. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? We'll pray for you. God will help you. Anybody at all? Now Father, bless our invitation, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed.