Brother DeLong a blessing. I thank God for this man and uh let's ask the Lord to speak our hearts tonight. Thank you, preacher. I appreciate that. Yes, don't uh let me forget those pop tarts. Don't tell my wife about it. I told her I was eating so much up here couldn't breathe. You folks know how to eat, amen. So I really want to say thank you for all the cooks. Who's the ladies did all that? No, Mrs. Leatherman. Who else is back in there running that kitchen? Just everybody, let's give a round of applause for all the cooks. I don't know about the sign language and stuff. You guys kind of got that Shouting thing in the Amen. Hey, listen, seriously, you pray for them, the Dava Kotas. That's a tough thing they're doing. It's a new thing. And she has to do all the talking. You know s some guys n need to volunteer to make some phone calls. You know, hi this is Snowy DeLakota calling And uh because I know we us pastors sometimes we don't catch on real quick and if it's a woman calling what in a meeting, eh, it's not gonna work. But uh you pray for 'em because they're doing a ministry I don't think anyone's ever done before And I'm honored to be part of that. So amen. So I'll see you guys in about a month. I won't see you because you're done, right? You're still out there and You guys will be moving, so pray for them. They're the they're old veteran deputation guys. These guys are just starting out. So they have to go come to my school. uh every summer and then once they get their stuff done they're ready to roll. Pray for them for safety, not to be discouraged. And carry a lot of heartburn medicine with them. Amen. A lot of coffee, a lot of miles, a lot of blueberry pop-tarts. It adds up. Amen. Let's turn in our Bibles tonight a little different What to encourage you? Let's go to John chapter 3 verse 16. And as we go there, the pastor again he covers this faith promise so good I don't need to say anything. Amen. And uh but I want to say this that this is one of the most vital ministries of the church. And it's probably, uh I can say it, one of the easiest ministries to get in and to be part of. All you gotta do is write a check. I didn't get oh me. Did I have the head of nerve? What's going on? Or in Australia we have direct withdrawal. The new thing over there and the young yuppies that joined our church, yuppies though they don't call it that, but the guys twenty-five, thirty below got jobs and they said, Pastor Dan, in our last church we planted We don't want to carry money around, but can your church make a withdrawal from our bank account every month? And I said, well, we want to tithe. This is what we've got coming in And for the missionaries, we'll just bring it in cash. You know, that adds up if you don't watch it, you know, and and uh and uh we'll keep records. Now, also in Australia, you do not get any credit When your taxes were given to nonprofits. Did you know that? That's why they don't give much over there. And uh it's just a different world, but I've never heard of that. And our young couples, we had four or five of them under the age of thirty, their yuppies, they'd just just go uh they'd say, Pastor, it's it's in there, here's my account statement, and we'd sure enough they'd go right to our account. It's like making a house payment, they'd make a payment to God And uh then when God stirred their hearts they'd make more. So uh just give you an idea, you know, we can bring the whole bank in here next year and and get it going. John 3, 16. Who knows that? Let's say it together, all of us. For God that He gave. Have everlasting life Let's see the context of this. And I asked this question: why the world? Why does God want us to reach the world? There's a lot going on in the Bible. If you just believe the first seven chapters of Genesis, you don't need to believe a whole lot more, because it's all from there. Believe that, man, that you're well on your way. But in John, my favorite book in the Bible is the book of John and the book of Philippians. And I will look at John 3 tonight, just a little bit, by way of introduction. Why the world I want you to see this. God never reveals a need to a church unless he has a supply. In reserve. And I want you to see this. Verse 15: that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have eternal life. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. For God sent not his son unto the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. He that believeth on him is not condemned, but he that believeth not is condemned already, because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. Why the world? You know, God is talking about the 7. 3 billion people. 300 million are just here in the US of A and there's Over 500 English groups around the world, and there's over 5,000 different dialects around the world. And there's over 200 nations. B I M I alone, we're trying to get in 100 nations. I think we're in 92. We're opening up two new ones this year, Lord willing. And we've got we have a goal to have a thousand missionaries and we're hovering about nine sixty-nine seventy. That's our goals, but God's goal is not just ninety-two nations, not just a thousand missionary units or families. But he wants to reach the whole world. But it won't happen unless it comes through the local church. And God uses the local church to reach the world. You know, why does God move in the missionary's heart? Why does God move in the church's heart? Why does God move in the pastor's heart to invest in the lives of these missionaries? Why Why the world? Let's look a little deeper and turn to our left hand here, to the book of Mark. If you'll go to Mark with me for just a moment, let's go to Mark, the last chapter in the book of Mark. And I want you to Keep in mind with me as you go there that uh I'm gonna give you four reasons tonight as we look at this basic question, why the world Jesus says in the book of Matthew, go ye therefore into all the world and preach and teach the uh teach in all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost. Teaching him to observe all things, whatsoever I've commanded you, and lo I'm with you all the way, even to the end of the world. The world, the world, the world. No one's left out So I'm going to give you four thoughts tonight. You're in Mark chapter 16. We're going to look at our first thought tonight. Why the world? Here's the answer. Because there is a command by God. Okay? Now I've watched the Webbers this week and I've watched the Grinsteads and I've watched the Devocotas and they got all their kids on the line. I've watched some of you other folks in here too. You got your kids on the line Some of the kids have learned to read mom and daddy's body language. I was watching out there in the kitchen tonight, somebody was eating. One little boy went to do something he wasn't supposed to do, and mama did this. You ready? He froze in time. Cross the way when dad was drinking a cup and the boy was reaching in to get more dessert, the boy turned and caught the dad's eye, and the dad went Finished his coffee. Y'all know what I mean, amen. And I want to tell you something. You don't have to say it verbally, but they know don't take the dessert, don't do that. It's a command. My daddy, when he would look at me, I'd be goofing off during church, he'd just reach around and peck on the pew once. One time in a church service like this I got my uncle's big old remember the old pocket watches we used to carry? Got one of those big old pocket watches out and the sun's coming through the back window side window there and I got that watch and got that you know that little bright thing you know like little ticker bell on the ceiling My other uncle was leading a song leading and I was putting Tinkerbell right in his mouth, you know. We have a rule, command, no mess around the church My dad saw me walk back there about 10 years old. Pick me up by the ear. See this right here, watch it. Still moves today because of that. Had a little pine tree out in front of that Baptist church wasn't big as the flag. He took that old belt off, 52-inch one, doubled it. He was quick. Spanked me all the way around that time tree. Every time he was hitting me. He said, son, I've got a command, don't Mess around in church. The rest of my life, I'll just hear that little thing. So when you see watch my fingers going tick, tick, tick, tick, that means you better sit still. The bomb's gonna go off on you We are commanded by God to go to the world. Look what it says in Mark 16, verse 15. Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. Now that's not rocket science, is it? Now this week I drove it home to you. Listen to this real tight. See the left foot up, hands up in the air? It's a command by God for us to be a witness and to send the witnesses and to establish the witnesses. and not disciple the witnesses and then establish the Baptist Church, independent Bible believing church that happens to be Baptistic, amen. Now listen very carefully. It's a command. Now, we must spread the gospel because God simply tells us to. You know, in all these groups, I mentioned over 200 recognized nations around the world And we're not hitting, uh we're not hitting half of them. Yes, we're the largest Independent Baptist mission group in America Yes, we probably have more support coming in the other Baptist group in America, but we're not doing what we could do because the bottom line is people are not following God's command on this. And God's not mean about it. He just wants you to do it Now when going back when I was younger, and my uh one sister Becky's a doctor of medicine, the other one's got her doctorate from Ohio University in math, and I didn't get the brains like th they did But when I was being raised, my twin brother and I had a room on this side of the hall upstairs and Kay and Becky was over here. We was in fourth and fifth grade and we would fight all the time. Now we didn't fight with my big sister because she was big and strong at that time. And but Becky was always sticking her nose, coming in, messing our room up, you know. And so I made a sign up, and we wrote on our sign, No Girls Allowed. A-L-O-U-D. We didn't know how to spell. In case there was any confusion, underneath that I said, Becky, this means you Now tonight when I preach this thought, why the world, God has commanded us to reach the world. Not the church down the road, not the Ladies Aid Society over in Hagerstown or the Flower Society at Oakland. God did I say Oakland? Maryland, is that where we're at? God said Use the independent Bible-believing church, church of the Lord Jesus Christ. So we're commanded to go. That's pretty good. Now, how many folks in here have not obeyed your parents Wishes. You may have not got spanked around the pine tree, but you have your story. You know the Bible tells me this very clear in in 2 Peter chapter 3 says that God is not slack concerning his promises that some men count slackness, but that he would have all men come to repentance. He wants us all. And then the next verse says, as a thief in the night, or when two lie together, no one knows when God's going to come. You know, I was like we've been in Australia for about two days and I just rented a house and all we we bought an ironing board to eat off of and some some uh a couple of sheets and some mattresses that lay on the floor camp mattresses. Our container did not get there for 60 days And uh, you know, and God's called us there, and second day I I I uh go out on my yard and my neighbor root looks over the fence Hey, where are you from? Oh, my name's Dan DeLong. And oh you're a Yank. I couldn't get another word out. He says, what do you do? You work for the military? And I said, no. Oil companies, uh-uh. What do you do? Well I'm in the people business, I'm a pastor. He goes, you're a what? I'm a preacher. He said, I lived down in Sydney for 20 years and had a na a pastor from an Anglican church. And man, I moved up here to get away from him. And I and you move in next to me? I said, God's after you, man. He said, not my lifetime nor yours. I said, well, hey, I'll pray that uh you get interested in God. Never happened. About a month later, his wife gets sick. Takes her to the hospital. He never came to her church, knocked on the door. Hey Reverend, yes. My wife's in the hospital down in Kansas. Can you pray for her? What's her name? I I couldn't remember, but and I said, I'll pray for her. Thank you. He went right back to the street. And he never said a word to me for the next two years. And but he appreciates met me at the store one day and said, I appreciate you praying for my wife, she's doing all right. You know, I and I tried to witness to him and invite him, he never came. But what I tried to witness to him. And when you do faith promise missions, you have missions outreach, you have soul winning in this. Did you say 35,000 tracks? Good night, you had to hit some of these houses ten times. But God blesses that because you're doing what he tells you to do. I just want to encourage you. We're commanded to do it. Number two, let's look at the second thing. Why the world? Because there are consequences for our sin Look at Matthew or Mark chapter sixteen. Look at verse fifteen. Go ye to all the world and preach and teach the gospel to every creature. Why? He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved, but he that believeth not shall be what? Damned. We're in trouble, folks, if you're not saved. You know, if you'll do this with me, turn back, turn to your right and go back to 1 John chapter 5. I want you to see this with me. You know, I hope, you know, we talk about over six thousand two hundred were killed in Nepal this last week. And it happened very quickly. A very basic thought in Haiti a few years ago, 200,000 died in 14 minutes. In 2006 a Tussa a tsunami hit Indonesia and 246,000 people died when a hundred foot wall of water hit their coast. Let me tell you something. There is a consequence for our choices. And we need to make choices ahead of time. Amen? Now, let me ask you this question. When your car starts sliding on ice, do you turn the wheels in the direction that you're sliding or in the opposite direction? You better know that before you get in the slide. How many think we need to turn, as we're sliding that way, turn in the wheels that way? How many think we need to turn it the other way? How many have no idea? Illustration. That's what most of our Baptist churches are. We have no idea we're supposed to be a witness We have no idea. Why should we witness to people? It's amazing. It's amazing if you'd run a survey, not in this church, but if you'd run a survey, how many people that have not witnessed to anybody personally in the last five years, it would shock you. Our missionaries going to uh around the world. I asked a class last year, I don't know if you guys were in it. Was you in my discipleship class? Yeah, 80%, we had about 40-some students, going out around the world had never discipled anybody in their life. Yet they are missionaries. Now they're just training. They've never mentored someone along for the cause of Christ. I just want to encourage that's not a bad thing. But a very basic thought here. People make choices. We make choices about maybe turning the wrong way to get us in trouble. We make choices about not coming to church. We make choices about trusting Christ as our Savior and not trusting Christ as our Savior. Look at this thought, the consequences of sin. 1 John 5, verse 10 says, He that believeth on the Son of God hath a witness in himself He that believeth not hath not hath made him a liar, because he believeth not the record that God gave of his son. And this is the record that God hath given to us eternal life, and this life is in his son, and he that hath the Son hath life, and he that hath not the Son of God hath not life. Now folks look at verse thirteen These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that ye have eternal life. And that ye may believe on the name of the Son of God. Hey, let me tell you what. I am so glad that I figured out the consequences of sin is hell. I figured out at the age of sixteen, I should have learned it sooner, that if I didn't have Christ in my heart, there was going to be consequences. at the end of the day. You know, keep your hand turn to the right. Revelation chapter 20. Verse 12 makes this statement. And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God, and the books were opened, another book was opened. Which is the book of life, and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books according to their works. And the sea gave up the dead which in them, and death and hell, delivered up the dead which are in them And they that were judged every man according to their works, and death and hell uh were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death. Now here's the key. And whosoever was not found written in the book of life. was cast where I didn't write this. I'm just a delivery boy. There are consequences. Amen? There are consequences. If I can encourage you tonight We need to go out and do it, God, why the world, because of the consequences of their sin. Go ye into all the world You know I was in Australia there and name of a family come to our church from Romania, the AST AST And boy, they were the most lively family. They're Italian, Romanian, Gypsies, about ten of them They would argue in the driveway. They would argue at their house. They would argue at church. And they had never been in the church before. But the dad got saved. than the mom. They had teenage daughters and sons and part of their clan would come and one afternoon the a 19-year-old had been dating a guy and and she called me and said, Pastor, I've got to see you And uh she heard me preach on abortion the week before and and I met her at a coffee shop with her dad and and she said dad doesn't know this and and uh and mom doesn't know it and mom's at the house, she can't let her know this And I'm gonna let you know I'm in a pickle, but she said, I've committed murder. Dad sat there stunned and I sat there stunned and I said, What'd you do? She said, I had an abortion last week. Baby was four months along. My boyfriend doesn't know it. My dad doesn't know it. And with that the dad, in shock, knocked a picture in the restaurant off on the floor and got up and walked out. She looked at me, tears going down her face. What am I gonna do? What am I gonna do? Do you have a certificate that the doctor performed an abortion? It's legal in Australia. It's legal here, by the way. So let's don't get feel too bad for that lady And she said, Pastor Dan, will God ever forgive me? I said, I believe He will. You need to get this straightened out. I went and got her dad out of the parking lot, made him sit still and quiet, and all I did was open the Bible and went through these verses. Went and got the mom, fainted right there in the driveway of the house. Got her back on her feet. We dealt with that. Our church didn't know about it. The next week that little girl came and said she'd gotten saved. And she met a Christian boy. They dated for two years, got married, and I was there the night she gave birth to a little girl. But she says that'll always weigh on me. There's consequences for our choices. Are you listening? When you have an opportunity to do what God puts on your heart, And you don't. And it deals with the loss of this world. There are consequences thicker than you think about Those that never get reached, or those get reached by the occult, because of soul-winning Bible-believing missionaries. Won't go. Number three, not only was uh the yet I want to get across this to you, it's a command. That's why the world. Consequences, that's why the world. Number three, the compassion. Compassion should drive us, it should move us, the love for the lost does not drive us, but the love for the Lord should. I want you to look at Jude Since you're back in Revelation. Look at Jude uh there in verse twenty-one. I want you to see this with me. The Lord Jesus Christ wants our witness for him. And he wants us to be a witness for him. But there's a real hell and there's a real world. But and there's a really, really lost. And what he wants us to witness to them for is because of this is the love for him. The Bible says in verse 21, keep yourselves in the love of who? In the love of who? Looking for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ and to eternal life. God's going to show his mercy if you love him. For when you witness the people, and some having compassion, making a difference, and others saved with fear, pulling them out of the fire, hating either garments spotted by the flesh And others save with fear, but some having compassion. You know, how many of you folks have uh had a hard time with compassion sometimes with for the lost like me? I ran a bus route that had been Indiana for 20 years and it grew. Marley's route ran about 150, and her and I'd always be on both sides of this town. This one family I worked with, they were as poor as Job's Turkey, and they didn't have much, but it was a single lady with about seven kids, and I was after souls. Her name was Pointer And uh my helper Joe Reed and I, we collect furniture through the year and put it in our garage. Maybe a lawnmower, the yard sale, or I got a refrigerator for ten dollars at work, you know, and maybe a freezer and a couple of beds and some old mattresses and we'd go to yard sales and we was making a collection for people didn't have anything. So we knocked on those ghettos and stuff, we'd see they didn't have any furniture. We'd say, hey, we want you to come to church and well God's going to bless you with some furniture if you come This lady had lost everything and she had a house but it was empty. Joe and I prayed. We took some two college boys and two pickups after the bus route and we took a refrigerator, a couch. Uh a t a little table, four chairs, uh, and uh four mattresses for seven kids. They only had one bed. Oh she was so thankful, she's so grateful. And Joe went out and got fifty dollars worth of groceries. That was a lawn back in the eighties And he put him in there. This was on a Saturday afternoon as I was going out the door. I said, Miss Poynton, we'll see you all in church tomorrow. I'll bring by the bus. We'll be there. Drove up the next day Little skip of snow was on the ground, and I came off my bus and went over there and knocked on the door. She swung that thing open and called me every name in the book, as a sailor would. And she said, you give me a refrigerator, it doesn't work. We'll never come to your church. And I said, well, I'll just take my stuff back then. No, I didn't say it, but I wanted to. And she says, you're no good, and you're a liar. You said this thing worked. And I said, let me see. And I went inside, looked around, and saw that it wasn't plugged in. And I plugged it in. And she's still yelling at me as I was going out. I never said a word, but I got on that bus. Looking straight ahead, doing this with my neck, going, why in the world am I doing? See, I was doing it to try to get them to love me And I should have been doing it because he's already loved me. Are you with me on this thought? Where's our compassion today You see, God wants us to reach the unlovely. You know, and back here in Cairns when we got this thing going, the church started, our first Sunday we had seven people. The next week we were sitting there at the house and still eating off the ironing board and we saw our neighbors move in. They were in the Navy. I'm picking on the Navy tonight, brother. Don't take it personal, but they're all a bunch of drunks, okay? And and and his name was Jonathan Edwards. And he had pornography tattooed all over his body. And all he had on was a pair of shorts And he came over there and does himself and I said, Sir, I've got a wife and daughter inside. If you're my neighbor, I'm a Yank and I know you're an Aussie and you're in the Navy. I heard you talking over there. But you go put a shirt on before you come talk to me, okay? And well you're awful bossy. I just don't believe in pornography, okay? And he said, Oh, I never think of it as that because I can't see it. It was on his back. Well everyone else does. So he went and put a t-shirt on and came back and introduced himself and I told him I was a missionary. Ha! I met a missionary once and I got thrown into prison. You know, and I said, Why'd you get thrown in the prison for? Uh I got in a fight at uh you know at a bar and knocked a couple ladies out and I ended up in my I was like fifteen in the boys reformatory. I was underage And that's where I got my first Bible. He got a Gideon's Bible. Now he's unsaved as this pope was. But he was my neighbor. And you know what? Make a long story short. He got saved six months later. And then his wife got saved. She's from Canada, named Sabrina, two weeks after he got saved Then his best mate in the Navy named Boz got saved. Then Boz's wife Shauna got saved. Then Shauna's friend Haley got saved. Then Boz's sister Alicia got saved. Then Jerry got saved. Jerry's wife Ella got saved. Then Iram got saved. Then Mary Jane got saved. Nicole got saved. Ace got saved. Then Adrian got saved. All All starting with that drunken Jonathan Edwards that had a confrontation with me my first day. And I wasn't mean to him, and he knows I loved him. Still love him today. If I would have shown my presentation, you would have seen all those people getting baptized after they were discipled. They're all still in that church today over there. It works when you show some compassion. You show some time. The last thing is this that I've got to hurry. I want you to see this with me May God put a drive, a compassion for us to invest our lives, our money, our treasure. And like I told Becky on that old sign, this means you. How many can somebody in here remember? Can you remember with me the person that brought you to Christ? What was their name? Yeah. For him. Brother Grinstead, you remember the name? Your dad. Kathy B. Crest. Pastor Lathman. Aaron. You'll never forget him. Amen. Guy's name was Jim Beaver. He goes to Twin Rivers Baptist Church, Marietta, Ohio, has a cane. Walks in, he's potbellied as I am, got a little mustache. He's 86 years old. I had not seen him since 1971. I met him last year. What if what what's he important to you for? In 1969, on the seventh year that he paid my way to camp and took me to the Christian camp. I got saved when Hal Webb preached the message. The Russians are coming, the Russians are coming. I remember Hal Webb in Thurman Babcock. Man, Hal Webb had me scared to death, man. I thought the Russians were going to come in the back door. But I didn't get saved at the service. I was too proud. I waited until I got to my cabin and I wasn't I just laying in my bed under deep conviction and and there were six of us senior high guys in there and and I'm telling you Like a tornado went through that holler where that camp was. Lightning, thunder striking. Cabin was bouncing. I jumped off that third bunk, run about from here to the clock, across the driveway. And Jim Bieber sitting in the kitchen drinking a cup of coffee at 1130 at night on a Wednesday night. And he said, What's wrong with you? Man, I need to get saved. He said, I've been praying for this for seven years He paid my way to camp and he prayed for me for seven years before I got saved. You know what that is? That's compassion. That's compassion. And he's hooked every one of those ones that I just explained to you that got saved back in cans, amen. Australia. It's all connected. One man's compassion. It's got me where I am today. And last year I went to his house, knocked on his door, he answered it, and he said, Dan, is that you? I said, Yeah, this is the old verse And I give him a hug. I'm not a hugger, by the way. I said, I want to thank you for having enough care to take me to camp. Folks, do you have somebody like that in your life? That's what this mission is about, somewhat. Getting these missionaries out there doing what God's put in your heart to do. Don't forget this morning's message, that boy got saved because of he saw whose faith? Their faith. And then that faith was compassion. The last thought is this tonight and I've got to go quickly. As I went to get into this, it's our companion We're commanded by Christ to do it. There's consequences for our sin. The compassion that drives us. But lastly, the compassion that we all have, or the companion that we all have. And that's the Holy Spirit. Go with me back to Mark chapter 16. And I want you to understand that you and I, uh as soon as we trust Christ as our personal Savior, we all know that that moment the Holy Spirit comes into our heart. He comes into our home, he comes into our world. As soon as you trust Christ your personal Savior. And I want to see chapter 16, book of Mark, verse 20. And when they went forth, that's the disciples When they went forth doing what God told them to do, preached everywhere. Now watch this, the Lord working with them. Did you see that? And the Lord working with them and confirming the word with signs following. Amen. Every time you step out and do a witness for God, the Holy Spirit is working with you. How many believe that? How many goes throwing and he's scared? I still do it today. I get the lump in my throat. Don't know if it's going to come outright or not. And you know, but the Holy Spirit's always with me on this. I want us to look a little closer at this thought, and I want to show you how Christ pushed and guided, how the Holy Spirit pushed and guided and drove this early Christians and how they gave in to what Christ was doing because they loved Christ. And how Christ put this compassion into them. And how Christ uh uh showed them the consequences, the world's in sin, and how Christ commanded them, and why did they follow it Look at Acts with me chapter 13. For time's sake tonight. I want you to see how, show you how our companion runs the show. You know, the Bible says in Acts 13, too, that, and they ministered to the Lord and fasted. The Holy Ghost said, Separate me, Barnabas and Saul, for the work where I have called them. Well, who got Paul and Barnabas into ministry? The first church there at Antioch, or was it the Holy Spirit of God? Holy Spirit of God. And these Christians were these people were were ministering. They were fasting, they were praying. They were calling out to God, and the Holy Spirit said, Here's what you need to do. Look a little closer. Look at verse 4. So they being sent forth by the Holy Ghost departed. Thus starts our New Testament church planning ministries. Amen. Let's stay with that thought and theme. Go with me to Acts chapter 16 and verse 5. Yeah, I want you to see this with me. We're talking about missions tonight. And the importance of it. You know, uh Paul and uh getting ready to go out. The Bible says in in chapter 16, look at verse 5, and so were the churches established in the faith and increased in number daily And when they had gone throughout Pergira and the region of Galatia and were forbidden by the Holy Ghost to preach the word in Asia. Who's guiding this thing? The Holy Ghost. After they were coming to Maiza, they essayed to go to Bethenia, but the Spirit suffered them not. No, no, no, no. See, they had to, remember I preached this morning, in order to give right, you've got to be right. Remember that thought for Sunday school? Paul said, this is my advice. You'll never give right unless you're right with God first. These guys are right with God and God's in control. Look how the Holy Holy Spirit does this here. We look a little closer. Look at verse eight. And they passing by Aesia came down to Troaz, and a vision appeared to Paul in the night. There stood a man of Macedonia saying, Prayed him saying, Come over to Macedonia and help us. And after he had seen the vision, immediately we endeavored to go into Macedonia, assuredly gathering that the Lord had called us for to preach the gospel unto them. That's where we get that called thing. God's called us. He's our companion. See, sometimes we think we're driving the bus when our companion's in charge of it You know, I want to encourage you that let the Holy Spirit that dwells in each and every one of you, let him touch your heart tonight. As you have already gone out to the world with the gospel through you missionaries and on your personal work here with the good news, let God continue this and grow it. Amen. Be part of this. You know, we looked at the command, the consequences, the compassion, and the companion. I drove home this week, Lord, listen. Obey, respond, and do. Why did he say the world? For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. Wow. And Christ did not come into the world to condemn the world, but do what? Seek and say that which was lost. He tells us to go ye therefore to the world and preach and teach the gospel to every creature. Not a great thought. We get to be part of this. As you close your Bibles tonight, I want you to keep this thought in mind. God has given you an opportunity in this church. Grasp it. Own it. Invest in it. While in Australia, you support us there. Your prayers have been answered. And while I was in Australia, I'd knocked on doors on average of 12 hours a week, eight of them by myself. I had one of those treadmills like a little rabbit running, you know, what do you call those elliptical trainers? I just trained every morning to keep keep the weight off because I love blueberry pop-tarts And I'm going like that and an hour every morning, hard as I could go, and I would tape a prayer sheet on top of that machine. 5 a. m. in the morning. Pray for the seaborns. Pray for the Bedfords. Pray for the Delongs, and that was it. Second week. Pray for the Joneses, the Seabornes, the Bedfords. Third week. And after four years, I had 170 families' names on that sheet. Just praying for them We still only get 40 people to come. These were my contacts. Right in the middle of this, all of our cell phones go off. Not in church, but at home. There's a tsunami coming. There's been an earthquake in Indonesia that's going to hit the shore. No, no, no, that's that's a uh not a earthquake, but a cyclone. What do you call we call it a hurricane in this part of the world The hurricanes here turn right to left, the ones over there turn left to right. But anyway they're gonna kill you, cyclone. We have like a a seven bearing down on cans and the biggest one they've ever had is five. And they said you have eight hours to get under protection or get behind the mountains. And this was 7 a. m. in the morning And they want us out of our house in thirty minutes in a shelter and an hour locked down. We couldn't get to the mountains. So we're getting everything and and they said only take your passports, your visas, cash No dogs, no hats, no cats, no nothing can go with you. Let them fend for themselves. And we had a little Shih Tzu dog. My daughter, Dad, our dog's gonna die. What are we gonna do? I said, I'll put it on top of the refrigerator And I did in the little cage. We got our stuff. Sandy and Slee's coming out with this uh suitcose of clothes suitcase of clothes. We're throwing stuff and And my Filipino neighbor lady, she walks up, would never come to church. She said, Pastor Dan, they said we're all gonna die. And she dropped her knees And we're all going to die. What are we going to do? I said, get up. Don't let my wife and daughter see you. I'll talk to you about salvation later. Follow us to the shelter. And she did. We got there, Selena's still crankles there's dog stuck on top of the refrigerator. All of our church stuff's in our garage, 20,000 tracks. uh uh 10,000 church flyers, uh a hundred Bibles, uh five hundred uh discipleship programs for Papua New Guinea, and the water is supposed to come five feet in my house, it's all going to be ruined We drove to a place where they ordered us, escorted by the police into a gymnasium, put us in there. We locked our cars up. I put mine behind a tree, put a chain around my tire. I didn't want the thing to blow away if it if it come through. So I go inside, hope my insurance were paid up, and there was 300 people on lockdown. Eight cops in the back with their automatic rifles. Doors are locked. Everything's covered up with plywood. The guy in charge says you're locked down for the next 24 hours. No one's allowed to go out at this point. We have restrooms, we have this and this and this. If electricity goes out, we have one generator to keep the water flowing. If that ends, then we're done. Okay? No one out. Boy, I'm sure glad I wasn't a smoker. You ought to see the next people going nuts in an hour, you know. And uh and uh the guy in charge of it, the Red Cross I went back to get a bottle of water. They had tons of water. He said, listen, we got the food, we got this, and we got this, we got the people to work and he said, I forgot the plates. We had 24 hours of meals, had the food but nothing to eat on. And I had over 300 people on lockdown, and I did not bring one track with me or one Bible in my haste. How dumb can I be? God hit me. I said, hey sir, I got over 2,000 plates back at the house. If you'll take a squad car, let me ride in it and go get it. He said, you do. I'm just 15 minutes from here. Yeah, you'll beat the storm. That'll be great. I said, there's a catch. What's that? I can invite everybody in your doubt to church. I'll never speak out. Just hand them a piece of paper. You don't tell anybody I won't, okay? Jumped in a squad car. Man, we're going fast. Lights are going. Trees are blowing. We get to our house. I go inside, little dog's still sitting on top of the refrigerator. There's no electricity at this time. Yeah, I get in the garage. I get the plates and I get the tracks and I get the things to church to light them to church and went back Give him the plates. He let me eat first in the line. Amen. And that evening on lockdown, I hand it out everybody. Everybody's laying on the floor. Cyclone came, tornado, whatever it was you want to call it, hurricane. Missed us by 50 miles. We just got the dirty side of it. Praise God. We was out of there at 8 o'clock in the morning When I went home I was so excited. I said and the dog by the way the dog survived, okay? People don't worry, I never tell about the dog, but kids are going, did it live? Did it live? I thought the next Sunday morning preacher we'd have a hundred people in church visitors. Man, that's going to be packed. I said, Sandy, get some extra food. Get some extra. I mean, it is going to be unbelievable. Not one person came Not one. Man. And I did that because I loved the Lord. And I did it for the Lord. Six months, not one visitor came from that thing. One Sunday a couple from New Guinea came in, 42 years old, 43 years old, been Catholics their whole life, sat in the back, heard me preach, I got done, they took off. The next week they came and I started the invitation, they took off. The third week I told my man helping me, you start singing and you close in prayer, and I went out the side and caught them going down the road. And I talked to them. They liked my preaching. They were Catholics. Come on back. And you know, Maria was the first one to get saved. Then her husband got saved. Then her 21-year-old son got saved. And then her 18-year-old daughter got saved. There were six of them coming every Sunday. Then they all discipleship for a year. Then they all were baptized and joined the church. They all still live in Cannes today. And when I was coming back to the States, on my last meeting there to church, it was packed and And Maria came up and said, Brother DeLong, man, we we've learned so much. Praise God for you. And she said, You don't remember when you met us, do you? I met you church. Maybe you tried to run from me three weeks in a row. She says, oh no, no, no, no, no. First time you met us was during the storm Yassi. And you was handing out this piece of paper with your daughter. And she opened her Bible. And she had the date of that storm and the date I gave her that piece of paper. She said, that's when we first met you. Hey folks, why the world? Because it's dying and going to hell. And God does not have these appointments by mistake. He doesn't have a mission conference by mistake. So why the world, God commands it, why the world the consequences of their sin? Why the world? Because the compassion we have for the Lord Jesus Christ. Why the world? Why the world? Because we have a companion that speaks to our heart to do this. Father, we come to you tonight. As we end up this conference this week. This basic thought. And just like I wrote on the sign to my sister, Lord, this is about us. And Lord, I prayed as we looked at the hearts this week. of the lady of Zarephath, the Shumanite lady, the law uh the lad and you know, Moses and David, and this morning services of those four young men as we look at their hearts. We look at Paul's heart as he explains faith promise giving in 2 Corinthians 8 and 9 in the book of Philippians. May you touch our heart for the world tonight. Lord, you want us to do this. And I pray we have a heart to be part of it. Lord, this church loves you. These people love you. They express this love and this dedication and commitment to you through their outreach in this church, through the encouragement and the helps ministries of this church, and missions, worldwide missions as part of it And I pray, Lord, that you'll remind us again and again that our companion, you, the Holy Spirit of God, drives us and guides us in this. And may we listen to you and let you work in our hearts. Pastor Leatherman.