Named Francis Bellamy wrote a pledge to the flag. Do you all know the pledge? I pledge allegiance to the flag. 1954, it was altered. They added two words to it It became official in 1942 during uh World War II. It became official of our country, the national pledge. But 54 we added two words. Anybody know what those two words that we added were? Under God. You know why it was added? Our leaders felt like that we were getting away from the Lord. Well, 2011, what do you think? I think we've about forgotten him. Most of Maryland has not turned a smiling face toward him today. But now we have. We've come to his house. And we're glad to be here, are we not? And I want us to stand tall, and I want us right now put our hand over our heart and we're going to pledge the flag Attention, salute, pledge. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America. And to the Republic for which stands, one nation under God, indivisible, liberty, and justice for all. Let's pray a moment, Lord. Lord, it's just great to be in your house. These songs have helped us. Singing I am blessed and praise him, praise him. Lord, we want you to get all the glory. We want you to be exalted. We want you to be magnified. And what I'd like, Lord, if I may ask this of you, I'd like for all of us to demonstrate that we love you. By me and these folks obeying you. And by our country obeying you. I know if our country will do what your Bible says, that you will bless And there is no doubt that you have been generous with our country. There's no doubt that you've blessed us, you've guided us, you've protected us You've come to our aid. You've come to our defense. Lord, you've just been sweet and good and kind. Now Lord, I know that me and a lot of our country, just all of our country, have not been doing everything we ought to be doing. I'd like to apologize, Lord. I'd like to repent for our whole country. I know what you say about sin and how you hate it and how you You hate lying and oh sin is awful. And that there's consequences for sin In a person, in a family, in a church, and in a country. So Lord, we've come here on Sunday morning to meet with thee To repent, to confess, to acknowledge our sin, and to ask for forgiveness And then the Lord asked for help. I know me and my family, we need your help. We need your direction. We're trying to acknowledge you so that in all ways you could direct our paths. I know that's what you said, that if we'd acknowledge you, you would direct us. I pray you'd direct this very sermon. I pray you'd direct the whole sword conference. Oh God. We've read about glory days in the past. Where Welsh Revival took place over 100 years ago, but in just a little time, 200,000 people were saved. Now, Lord, I know you're the same God. I know you can do that again. If we'd let you, if we'd humble ourselves and pray and seek your face. Lord, would you grant it here? Please do a mighty work. I pray In Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. Psalm 33. Open your Bible. Psalm 33. Great to see you. Thank you for being in church today. Psalm 33. Pastor. Pastor, thank you for letting me come. Psalm thirty-three is where everybody's turning. I'm glad to hear the good report about your 9-11 service and uh the great attendance that you had and your the mayor and all that being here. Praise God. And there in Charleston was tremendous service. God will, in February 1, 2, and 3, we've got the God Bless America Crusade in Hampton, Virginia. Be the 40th anniversary of me being saved. And I got saved in a citywide crusade. And I got on my knees this past April and I told the Lord, I I said, Lord, if you're calling me to try to do these citywide crusades, I'll try. I said, I don't know what I'm doing. You'll need to educate me. And the Lord has given some direction. I I at least know a little bit what the questions are now. I don't still don't know all the answers. But I'm learning. The Lord is educating me. And so we're trying a few of those, especially in 2013. I'd do four or five of them. They're a lot of work. But we saw many, many, many lost souls come September the 11th there in Charleston. I mean thousands of lost people come And they heard the gospel of Jesus Christ that night. It was no mystery who we're preaching about and singing about. It was God and country, and God and country Uh country's not on the same plane as God. He's God Almighty. And we want to look to Him even this morning. Hope you'll be back tonight. Be back every night, Monday night, Tuesday night, be in your place I think it's going to be a great meeting. Psalm 33, verse 12, blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, and the people whom he hath chosen For his own inheritance. Read it with me. Begin. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, and the people whom he hath chosen for his own inheritance. I love America. I love our documents. You know the the uh Bill of Rights, the Declaration of Independence. I love all those documents. I love our songs, My Country Tisothy. I love America, don't you all? I'm glad to be here. I I'm going to Israel next month. I've been to uh Hungary, I've been to Austria, I've been to um Romania, I've been to England, I've been to Japan, I've been to China. I've been to the Philippines. I like preaching around the world, all that, but man, I love America. And I'd love to see our country have revival. It is possible. Any country, any church, any person who wants revival can have it if you want it, if I want it. Now, God has blessed America. Why is America a great country? Why has God blessed America? Is it just because He likes us? Or are there some Bible reasons why God has blessed America? There's some Bible reasons I'm going to give you seven Bible reasons quickly on why God has blessed America and any country who will obey these seven directions Will get God's blessings. And any country that quits doing these things will lose God's blessings. Here are seven Bible readings. Number one Because America believed in the dignity of human life. One reason that God has blessed America is we have believed in the dignity of human life. Now the Bible says, Thou shalt not kill. That's what the Bible says. And Jesus repeated that in the New Testament. It's not just the Old Testament, book of Exodus, and Book of Deuteronomy, but the New Testament, Matthew chapter 5, Jesus told us, Thou shalt not kill. It's the most basic law. No one, no individual has the right to take the life of anyone else save in the cause of self-defense. You do not. I do not, you do not. No way are we allowed to take somebody else's life saving the cause of self-defense And, you know, our country believed that. Do you know that everyone, without one exception, every one of our founding fathers were pro-life? That's that's documented fact. You know, abortion didn't get started in nineteen seventy-three. It's been around for thousands of years. But when our country started, now the term pro-life wasn't even around. We just believed in what's called life. Life, liberty, and pursuit of happiness. You ever heard that? You know that one of our founding fathers, I've seen the book with my own eyes. Do you know that one of our founding fathers wrote a book, How We Believed in Life and How We Stood Against Abortion? 1973, some things changed, didn't it? I was just a boy in 73. I was nine years old. I'm 47. Don't do the math. I look a lot older. Yeah. They give me a senior discount. They don't even ask Hey, it saves money. Anyway, I was nine years old when our country decided we didn't quite believe the way we used to. And abortion became legal. And now over 50 million babies have been killed. The Bible says it still says, thou shalt not kill. Now I'm not going to name one sin today that cannot be forgiven. My wife and I, I remember this distinctly. I was out there preaching a meeting in Missouri. A lady wanted to be saved named Michelle. She came forward. My wife talked with her, dealt with her. Michelle didn't think she could get saved. Because as a 15-year-old, she had an abortion. She felt so overwhelmingly guilty before God. She knew what she had done was wrong. And I'll tell you something right now. Sin can do harm that cannot be undone. No matter how hard Michelle wanted to take that back, she couldn't Sin can do harm that cannot be undone. Now God could forgive it. But the act had already been done. I want me and you to remember that. That sin can do harm that cannot be undone. Well, Michelle got gloriously saved that day. Praise God. I'm glad he's a God of mercy this morning That he's had mercy on me. He'll have mercy on you too if you'll just let him. One reason our country has been blessed of God is because we believed in the dignity of human life. Well, some people say, well. Well when does life begin, preacher? You know the Bible gives the answer to that. Psalm one hundred thirty nine, verse thirteen, Thou hast possessed my reins. Thou hast covered me in my mother's womb Thou hast covered me in my mother's womb. Psalm 71, verse 6: By thee have I been upholding from the womb. Life begins in the womb. That's common sense as well as just the Bible. So one reason God has blessed America is because we believed in the dignity of human life. Why else has God blessed America? Number two Because we practiced the biblical blueprint for marriage and family. Because our country practiced the biblical blueprint For marriage and family. Well, what is the biblical blueprint? Here it is. Genesis chapter two. The Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he slept And he took one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh instead thereof. And the rib which the Lord had taken from man made he a woman, and brought her unto the man. And Adam said, This is now bone of my bone And flesh of my flesh, she shall be called woman, because she was taken out of man. Therefore, the Bible says, shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife And they shall be one flesh. The Bible says in Ephesians chapter 5, verse 22, wives Submit yourselves unto your own husbands, as unto the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church, and he is the Savior of the body. And it says in verse 25: Husbands, love your wives. Even as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for it. So, what is God's plan for marriage? It's one man and one woman. Amen. And we all knew that, and we all believed that. But here lately things have gotten a little muddy on that too. And New York State, where I've held a number of meetings Has now become the sixth state to say that two men can get married. And that's not according to the Bible. And I promise you I don't hate people today But I'll tell you what, me and you better stick with this Bible right here. If we want God to bless me and you, we better stay with it. And our country better get back to it. It's time for God's people to be the salt and be the light that we're supposed to be. And I've got to just name it according to the Bible. I was a young man. I was about 25 to 27 years old, about 20 years ago. I was a young, young husband, got married at age 19. Woo! That's too young. That's too young. I thought I was a man. I'd lived out on my own two years. I was a man. I thought. I was pretty smart back in those days. I'm not as smart now as I was then. You know that. We got married, ten and a half months later, had a boy named Micah. A couple years later had Rachel. Got two of these two children. We'd prayed for six. We had two, and we thanked God for both of them. And I went on staff at a church and Had a great time serving there. I was about 25 to 27 years old when a mama said, Preacher, will you please go and see my son? He's dying of AIDS. If your boy was dying of AIDS and he is lost, wouldn't you want somebody to go talk to him about Jesus So me and my buddy Marty we went up there to see him. Man, back in those early days I didn't know all about AIDS. I knew it was terrible. I went inside that room and there was a young boy twenty three three years old, couldn't see out of one eye, could barely see out of the other, his disease that he had contracted because of his wicked lifestyle was robbing that boy of all of his potential. He had the cotton mouth so bad. I mean he wanted something to drink off of Just a few drops is all he could take. Well, I could hardly sit down. I thought about all the germs in there. I thought about my two little children. But I talked to Eric about the Lord. Well, he didn't want anything to do with the Lord. Went back, talked to him again. He didn't want anything. To do with the Lord. In fact, he told the nurse, said, Don't ever let that preacher in here again. Next time we went up there, we couldn't get in. I found out that Eric liked lobster. Well, I still have never cooked a lobster in my life. I talked to Marty and said, hey man, cook a lobster. I got Marty to cook the lobster. I still haven't cooked one, you know. I just do eating, you know what I'm saying So Marty cooked the lobster. We went back up there and you know he let us in. He could barely, he just gave a little taste of that lobster. Just trying to make friends. Everybody needs the Lord. Everyone. And there's no one so bad that Jesus can't save them Where sin abounded, grace did much more abound. I'll make a long story short. Eric, nine days before he died He got saved. And that's the grace of God. That's the grace of God. But now I'm telling you that two men are not supposed to get married. Amen. That's wrong. That's sin. It's immoral. And why has God blessed Mary? Because we did practice the biblical blueprint for marriage and family. Number three, why has God blessed me? Number three, because our country had an expectation of common decency We just believe that all of our citizens ought to have some common decency about themselves. The Bible says it this way, Genesis chapter 3. Mount Adam and Eve, after they sinned, it says, the eyes of them both were opened. And they knew that they were naked. And they sewed thick leaves together and made themselves aprons. And it goes on and says this. Unto Adam also and to his wife did the Lord God make coats of skins and clothe them Jesus said it this way in Matthew chapter 5. He said, Ye have heard it said of them of old time, thou shalt not commit adultery. But I say unto you, Jesus said, but I say unto you that whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery with her already in his heart. Now, when our country got started, we all believed that we ought to have some common decency about ourselves. But today, in 2011, that's almost a lost concept. Modesty is just about gone. Decency is just about gone. Decorum and culture is just about gone. And we have taken, as a country, we have taken what is uh uh the treasure of the sacred relationship and we've taken it and perverted it. And twisted it and made it a public spectacle. And it's just debauchery all across our country. The Bible says it this way in Ephesians chapter 5: fornication and all uncleanness. Let it not be once named among you. As become of saints, neither filthiness, nor foolish talking, nor jesting, which are not convenient, but rather giving of thanks. For this ye know that no whoremonger, nor unclean person, nor covetous man who is an idolater, Have any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God? I want to say that I'm proud of all of our ladies. I am proud of all of our ladies in our church who dress modestly. And I'm thankful to God for it. And I want our men to keep themselves clean before the Lord. Amen. Unsquatted from the world. And ladies, you don't have to dress like Hollywood to have good taste. Amen. And I'm proud of our ladies for conducting themselves right. Why has God blessed America? Because we believed in the dignity of human life, and because we believed and practiced the biblical blueprint for marriage and family, and because we had an expectation of some common decency Then number four, here's another reason why God has blessed America. Because we believed it was normal to have a work ethic. We used to just believe it was normal, that it was just plain old normal to have a work ethic. Now here's what the Bible says on that. Genesis chapter 3, it says, In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread. Exodus chapter 20, there in the Ten Commandments it says, six days shalt thou labor and do all thy work. 2 Thessalonians chapter 3 says, even when we were with you, this we commanded you, that if any would not work, neither should he eat. You know our founding fathers took those principles. Our founding fathers took those principles and made it the basis for our economy. And God blessed it. The result, we had this thing called the free enterprise system. Woo! How smart it is. The free enterprise system, based on scripture, the free enterprise system. I mean we're that if you work, you gain. Huh? And if you work harder, you gain more. And if you work smarter, it has more benefits. Woo! Pretty smart, isn't it? Based on scripture. Now, what about those? Here's a Bible word. How about those that are dumb? Does the Bible command us to do anything about about those folk? Absolutely. We're supposed to be charitable. And we're to help those that truly are helpless. And by the way, that's one of the things that America does the best. In fact, we do it to a fault. We've had a few people, and you know it's true, and I know it's true too. We've got some folks who cheat. And I'll say this this morning. Any able-bodied man who refuses to work, any ab-bodied man who refuses to work is a bum. Amen. Get out of bed, man, and get a job. Go at it. And it bothers me this cheating. And I'll tell you what bothers me. I was in a city recently, a city that's down and out on the east East Coast, preaching meeting there, preached by 14 services, had a great time I see in that city, so downtrodden, I see so many people cheating on government programs. And now I see grandchildren, third generation, that all they know is dad and granddad cheating. You know what it's doing? It's robbing those kids of their potential. It's teaching them absolute wrong. See, at one time, all Americans just believed that it was just normal to have a work ethic, and God blesses that. Number five, why is God blessed America? Number five, because we had respect for the Abrahamic covenant. Amen. One reason that God has blessed America is we have had respect for the Abrahamic covenant. Well, what is The covenant with Abraham. What is that Abrahamic covenant? Genesis chapter 12. It says, the Lord said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country. And from thy kindred, and from thy father's house, unto a land that I will show thee. And I will make God says, I will make of thee, Abram, I will make of thee a great nation And I will bless thee and make thy name great, and thou shalt be a blessing. And it says this: God said to Abram, I will bless them that bless thee. And curse him that curseth thee. He said, Well, Brother Fox, so that is talked about there in the book of Genesis. And yes, it is uh uh cited throughout the the Old Testament, but uh is it in the New Testament? Well of course it is. Romans chapter 11, have you not read? That Abrahamic covenant is still in place. And one reason that God has blessed America is because we have been a blessing to the Jews And because we have stood with Israel, historically, we have stood with Israel against her enemies. And that's a main point of hatred by the terrorist. I know that. But we've protected Israel. We've stood with them. Now, do we want God's blessings? Well, of course we do. Then we must obey his commands. And the relationship right now between Israel and America is under pressure. And you know that. I want America to be blessed. So I want America to obey. Believe in the dignity of life, yes. Practice the biblical blueprint for marriage and family. Yes. Got a government today can hardly define what a family is. It's not that hard. Mom, dad, and the kids. There it is. It's family day. You know, I can define what a family is. And uh the expectation of some common decency. And uh just being normal to have a work ethic, and uh having respect for the Abrahamic covenant. Number six, why is God blessed America? Because we've had a God-centered approach to education. Historically, for the first 150 years of our country, we have had and practiced a God-centered approach to education. You say, well, Brother Fox, where does it say in the Bible that all of the children should be taught algebra? Well, it doesn't say that. So what about social studies and chemistry? That it doesn't say that. But it does say this, Deuteronomy chapter 6. It says, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy might. And these words, which I command thee this day, shall be in thy heart, thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children. Teach them diligently unto thy children, and thou shalt talk of them. What the commandments of God. That thou shalt talk about the commandments of God. Thou shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thy house When thou walkest by the way, when thou liest down, and when thou risest up. Well, that's just talk about them all the time. And and teach them to who? Teach them to our children Teach God's word to our children. Amen. Ephesians chapter 6. Ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath. But bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. Amen The first 150 years of our existence, God and the Bible were an integral part of the education of America's children. They learned the prayer of example. You know, the Lord's Prayer, our Father, which art in heaven. Oh, the children knew that. They knew the beatitudes. They knew about creation. Amen. I still know about it. It's the truth. I love the truth. And I hate lies. Anybody in this room, let me ask this right now. Anybody in this room ever heard of a man named Abraham Lincoln? Well, yeah, of course we have. 16th president. He had a nervous breakdown early in his life. He failed in business a couple times. He lost elections. He finally became president. He just stayed with it, you know And we remember him by a little nickname, Honest Abe. Y'all ever heard about that? Honest Abe. Why was he known as Honest Abe? Because he's honest. Well, where'd he get that from? Do you know what happened at the Lincoln household when he was just a boy? His mama. Would get little Abe up in her lap, and she'd get a Bible and read the Bible to Abraham. And explained to him what the Bible was teaching. And he said that the passage my mama read to me the most Was the Ten Commandments. Now his mama died when he was just nine years old. But his mama, when he was six and seven, and eight years old, hit him up in her lap Now, Abraham it says here, thou shalt not bear false witness. Abraham, do you know what that means? Thou shalt not bear false witness. Abraham, that means you're supposed to tell the truth. Son, you're supposed to be honest, Abe. Yeah He grew up knowing the Bible. I want all of our children to know the Bible. Those Bible songs for kids CDs back there, we brought up volume six. I was intimidated to do this. I'd seen people try to put scripture to music and it'd be halfway awkward. You couldn't sing it. And I thought, I don't know if we can do that. And we finally got the first 25 songs done with the Romans robe being part of it. John 3. 16, 4 God so loved the world that he I personally, at my own expense, have given away 10,000 of these to children. Why? Because we got a famine in our country A famine of what? A famine of the Bible. We want revival? We better get back to the Bible. We better get our children knowing the Bible. The Bible still says in Psalm 9, the wicked shall be turned into hell, and all the nations that forget God. One more reason I want to give you this morning. Why has God blessed America? Well, because we recognized the divinely ordained institutions. Well, what are they? The home. The home is God made. God ordained the home. And then God ordained another institution. What is it? The government. God ordained that. Romans chapter 13. Let every soul be subject unto the higher powers, for there is no power but of God. The powers that be Are ordained of God. Whosoever resisteth the power resisteth the ordinance of God There's one more institution that God ordained. The home, the government, there's one more. The church. Amen for the church. Praise the Lord for the church. Matthew chapter 16, Jesus talking to Simon Peter says this I say unto thee, thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church. And the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. See, America, we all used to recognize home and government and church And uh we felt like there ought to be some accountability in the home. And there ought to be some accountability in government, and there ought to be some accountability to God's house. Well, let me ask you seven questions today. If you believe in these things, say amen. If you don't, don't don't say amen. If you don't believe in these things Do you still believe in the dignity of human life? Well, amen. Do you believe our country ought to still practice the biblical blueprint for marriage? Amen. Do you believe we still ought to have an expectation of some common decency? Amen. Do you still believe it's normal to have a work ethic? Well, amen. Do you believe we ought to still have respect for the Abrahamic covenant? Amen. Do you believe we ought to have a God-centered approach to education? Amen. Do you think we still ought to recognize the divinely ordained institutions? Well, yes. Amen. Would you stand with me? Let me keep talking to you for a moment. All seven of these principles are right now diminishing in our country. All of them. And if our grandchildren are going to know the America that me and you love and have loved, right now we better get back to these Bible principles. And right now, the men of this church, we better start letting our light shine. And every one of us had better start living a little more outwardly, speaking loud Praying loud. Praying what? If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways Then will I hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and will heal their land. Heads bowed.