That really broke my heart when I heard that. Everybody needs a Bible. Everybody needs to hear about Jesus. I was speaking to a preacher here just recently that he was witnessing and talking to this individual about his need of Jesus here in America, here in this country And the man looked at him and he said, Who are you talking about? Who's Jesus? Had no concept or understanding of the Savior of the world. Right here in our own country. So not only do we need to reach out to countries like Mexico and Haiti and and over in Africa and Russia and places like that, but we need to reach them right here in our own country as well. And we don't want to ask the missionary to do something that we're not willing to do ourselves. So we thank God for the opportunity. We're taking a group uh next month, the month of July, down to Brownsville, Texas. And there's hundreds and thousands of Spanish-speaking people that come up out of Mexico and go to the uh flea markets that are there And we're going to be distributing these scriptures. We're going to be telling people about the Lord Jesus. And we want to make many trips down there, and that might be a good thing for Mountain Lake to consider as well. Uh some of you have made mission trips and come down the beacon of which we are ever so grateful and uh the the the some of the faces that I see here this morning are are good workers And uh we thank the Lord for them. And I'm not going to mention them because uh I memory goes too I'm laboring under a great strain this morning, so you lose weight and lost your hair. I lose my brain and can't see. So But thank you for what you're doing and and thank you for the opportunity to work with you in touching this world with the gospel of Jesus Christ. We're just a small team of people. There's Brother Chip and Vicky and D and I and Dan and Donna and Doug and Janice, just a small group of people that want to do something for the Lord. And God just keeps opening up door after door after door after door, opportunity after opportunity to touch this world with the gospel. And that's where our heart is, and our passion is there. And I'm thankful that we can work with you in fulfilling a a dream that has been in my heart for a long, long time. I want everybody to have a Bible. I want everybody to be able to read the Bible that that we read and know the Savior that we know. And have the experience of having Jesus in your heart and life, and knowing that when you kiss this world, I feel the shock coming on right now When we kiss this old world goodbye, we know where we're going. I'm going to be absent from the body and present with the Lord. I'm going to walk on streets of gold and I'm going to I'm going to see a mansion like you've never seen before And that place, that place is an eternal place. A place that Jesus has prepared for all the saved and the redeemed of mankind. He's prepared that place. And he said, if I go and prepare it, I'm going to come again. And receive ye unto the self that where I am, there ye may be also. And if that doesn't make your shout or come alive, I don't know what will. You need to get with it. Don't be a dead Presbyterian. Be a shouting Baptist. That's what we're all going to be when we get to heaven. And the Bible says we're going to do it with a loud voice. We're not going to be Mickey Mouse about this. You read it. You know, when we get to heaven, we're going to sing. Starts out with just a small group, a quartet. Read it in Revelation chapter 5. And then it's not long until that quartet turns out to be a great multitude of people And then the angels get excited as well and join in with the singing and hallelujahs of heaven. And the Bible says they did it with a loud voice When we see Jesus face to face, we'll fall down at his feet and love him and adore him and praise him for who he is. Ah, what a day. What a wonderful day that's going to be. We come close to singing my favorite chorus if Miss Kathy hadn't changed that in the middle of the stream. But like he said, when the wife speaks, we know what to do. This morning I want to bring a message on this subject. Why the Bible? Why the Bible ministry? Why have we come here these last couple of days and joined hands and worked and labored and boxed these scriptures and After the service, we'll be loading them up on the truck and taking them down the road and further down the road all the way to Brownsville, Texas. Why why do we do that? Why do we place such a strong emphasis upon the Bible? I'm glad you asked me that question because I'd like to answer it. Let's bow our hearts together in a word of prayer. Father, We do thank you and praise you for the blessed word that we hold in our hands. A Bible that you've inspired, a Bible that you have preserved. A Bible that all the world needs to see and read and understand and be able to comprehend what you have put in thy precious word. And I pray this morning, Lord, that you would help me to be a blessing and a challenge to each and every one that is here. Lord, without your help, without your blessing, without your power, we are absolutely nothing. And we call upon you to work in us and through us to accomplish your will in this service for the glory of God. Save the lost, I pray. Encourage and bless your children. And we'll thank you for what you do because we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Why the Bible? Why the Bible ministry? You would think that every pastor would be on board with that. That they would see the need of getting God's word into the hands of people around the world, but they're not. You would think that every saved person, every Christian, would be on board with getting the Word of God uh to people all around the world so that they could know Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. If I understand this book properly, I understand that a person cannot be saved apart from this book called the Bible. Born again, not with corruptible seed, but of incorruptible. That's what the Bible says. And you would think that every missionary would be on board and would be burdened for his people that he's trying to reach You would think that they would be on board wanting to make sure that the Bible was translated in that language so that they could help those people understand that there's only one way to heaven, but they're not I would be the first to confess to you this morning that that really confuses me and really breaks and burdens my heart. I want everybody to have a Bible in their language that they can read, that they can follow, that they can understand, and the Spirit of God has opportunity to work on that individual's heart to draw them to a saving knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. Could I explain it to you this way? These books, as they go, give opportunity to the Spirit of God. To take the Word of God and begin to work in that individual's life to draw them to the Lord Jesus Christ. And without the implanted word of God, the Holy Spirit's hands are tied in order to draw them to Jesus Christ. The importance and the value of being able to read the Bible, being able to have the Bible, gives opportunity to the Holy Spirit to draw individuals to the Lord Jesus Christ. There's over seven billion people in this world, staggering amounts of individuals, and over half of them have never had one verse of scripture translated in their own language. I would venture to say that most of us have more than one Bible at our disposal. I would venture to say that most of us have multiple Bibles at our disposal And yet most of the world, half of this world, has yet to have one verse of scripture translated in their language. You show me where the Bible has not been, and I'll show you a place where false religions flourish. I'll show you a place where false gods are worshipped. And many parts of this world people are going to bow down to a god that cannot hear, an idol that cannot respond. A hand that cannot touch and feel, and they're going to pray to that God and give their allegiance to that God, and that God can absolutely do nothing for them whatsoever And it's all because there's a lack of scripture to show them that Jesus is the way, the truth, and the light, and that no man comes to the Father but by me. The heart and soul of effective evangelism begins with the Word of God. Can I run that by you one more time? The heart and soul of effective evangelism begins with the Word of God. That's why the tracts that you pass out ought to have Bible verses in them. It's not our story. It's his word. The Spirit of God convicts and draws sinners to Jesus Christ. I'm thankful this morning that we have a complete Bible. Are you? There's nothing missing. Everything that God wanted you to know and everything that God wanted me to know is recorded in that book this morning. It's a complete Bible. Not only is it a complete Bible, but I'm thankful that it's a correct Bible. Are you thankful for that? It doesn't lead you astray. That very first verse in Genesis chapter 1 unfolds for us. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. You stumble over that one, you might as well close the book and read no further. And the reason that we are being indoctrinated with this idea that we have evolved, because the moment that we admit there's a creator We also admit that we're responsible to that creator. So the best thing to do is eliminate the creator, and therefore we're no longer responsible. I'm thankful this book called the Bible is a complete book. From Genesis to Revelation. There's nothing that He's going to add to. There's nothing that He's going to take away. There's not going to be the discovery of a brand new manuscript that is not a good thing. Never been seen or read or heard of before. It's all complete and recorded from Genesis to Revelation. It's complete and every word is correct. Not only do we have a correct Bible, but we've got a current Bible. Even though written many centuries ago. It's a current, up-to-date book that is good for you and good for me and good for the world. Not only is it a current Bible, but it is a convincing word that God has given to us. It convinces us of our need of Jesus. It convinces us that there's a better place to go. It convinces us that there's a place to shun and stay away from. This book called the Bible is complete, it's correct, it's current and convincing. I want everybody to have it. I want everybody to read it. I want everybody in this world to respond to it and follow it and allow it to be incorporated into their life. Have you stopped to consider what the Bible claims for itself? The Bible claims for itself absolute perfection. No flaws. No discrepancies. Nothing that you can read or come to the conclusion that this verse is saying one thing and this verse is saying another thing. It claims for itself absolute perfection. Take your Bible, if you would, please, and go to the book of Psalms. The book of Psalms, chapter 19 The book of Psalms, chapter 19, and notice what the Bible says in verse number 7. The book of Psalms, chapter 19, and beginning with verse number 7, the Bible says the law. The law of the Lord is perfect. He talks about law and he talks about testimonies and he talks about statutes and he talks about commandments and he talks about judgments. He's talking about the Word of God. And the Bible claims for itself absolute perfection. There's nothing missing in the Bible. There's nothing lost and yet to be discovered when it comes to the Bible. This book is absolutely perfect. Not only does it claim for itself perfection, but it claims for itself purity. It claims for itself that it's right. It claims for itself that it's clean and true and righteous. As you read down over those verses, you see that. Written in God's Word. It's a book that is absolutely perfect. It converts the soul. The same men or only. If you're saved here this morning, it's because of the Bible and the work of the Spirit of God that drew you to Jesus Christ. Not only does it convert the soul, but it makes wives the simple. I've met some mighty dumb people in my life, have you? I know there's none here, but I've met some of them. And this book will take a a stumbling idiot and make you smart, brother Ed. It really will. Now don't conclude that I think he's dumb and ignorant. I know what you were thinking. That's terrible. These people Are you with me this morning, Brother Ed? This book will make you smart, won't it? This book will make you wise. It takes people that need to be made wise And gives you some smarts about you. The Bible says that it rejoices the heart. You need to be lifted up and encouraged and blessed. Start reading your Bible. The entrance of His word will give you light. It'll make the joy bells ring in your heart. It'll make the gloomiest, darkest, desperate day of your life Bring forth praises to the Lord. And it's all because of this book called the Bible. Not only does this book rejoice the heart, but it enlightens the eyes. The Bible, the Word of God, will endure forever. It's not going to pass away. I think because of that The Bible says that it's priceless. We ought to treasure it. Psalms 19 tells us that it's pleasure-filled, sweeter than honey in the honeycomb. I like biscuits and honey. Do you do you free you can't have them Next time I eat one, I'll think of you. The Bible says that this book is sweeter than honey out of the honeycomb. This book called the Bible says that it's revealing in verse number 11. Moreover, by them is thy servant warned, and in keeping them there is great reward. Therefore, if it's revealing, then we ought to follow it. And it's rewarding, then we ought to pursue it. This book called the Bible claims for itself absolute perfection. Not only that, but this book called the Bible claims for itself power. In the scripture reading this morning from the book of Romans, chapter one. Paul said, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. That word power there is the Greek word dudemos. And that's where we get our dynamite from. So what we're doing is sending sticks of dynamite To the Spanish-speaking world, and we're trusting the Holy Spirit to light the fuse and bring forth an ex An explos I feel a shout coming on right now. An explosion that's going to result in multitudes of people coming to know Jesus as their personal Savior. So your fingerprints are about to be blown up. Your labor is about to be blown up. And when the Spirit of God lights that fuse, the power of God, the doodleness of God, begins to work on that person's heart, and it explodes into a revelation that they would know other way understand or be able to comprehend apart from the Bible. This book claims for itself perfection. This book claims for itself power. And this book called the Bible claims for itself permanence. It'll never pass away. We're holding in our hands a book that will endure kings and kingdoms, penknifes and balms can't be done away with. Can't be done away with. God has given us the assurance and the promise that He's going to preserve His word and keep it intact. And we are able to have it, to read it, to understand. I want everybody to have a Bible. I want everybody to have a Bible because of what it does for the Savior What it does for the Savior. Take your Bibles and go to the book of Romans, chapter 11. The book of Romans, chapter 11, and beginning with verse number 33. This book called the Bible positions God as the father and sovereign Romans chapter eleven and beginning with verse number thirty three, Oh the depth of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unspearchable are his judgments And his ways past finding out. For who hath known the mind of the Lord? Or who hath been his counsellor? Or who hath first given to him, and it shall be recompensed unto him again For of him and through him and to him are all things, to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen. This book called The Bible Positions God as Father and Sovereign. This book called The Bible Positions the Son as Savior He's the one that said, I'm the way, the truth, the life. No man comes to the Father but by me. The Bible tells us in Acts chapter 4 and verse 12 that there's no other name given among men whereby we must be saved, apart from the Lord Jesus Christ. As many as received him, that is Jesus, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. This book called the Bible positions Jesus Christ as Savior of the world. This book called the Bible positions the Holy Spirit as the seeker. In the book of John, chapter number sixteen, and beginning with verse number seven, and in verse number eight, the Bible says, Nevertheless, I tell you the truth. It is expedient for you that I go away For if I go not away, the comforter will not come unto you, but if I depart I will send him unto you. And when he is come And he has. When he has come, he will reprove the world of sin and of righteousness and of judgment. Do you know what that means? The work of the Holy Spirit in the heart of an individual begins to reveal to them their sinners. Begins to show them their need of righteousness. The Holy Spirit begins to reveal to them, apart from the admission of your sin. And apart from being made righteous in Christ Jesus, you face the judgment of God Almighty. That's the work of the Holy Spirit of God. I'm thankful that it positions God the Father as sovereign Positions God the Son as Savior and positions God the Holy Spirit as seeker. Not only that, but I want everybody to have a Bible because of what it does for the sinner. What it does for the sinner. This book, when you begin to read the Bible, it positions the sinner as rebellious. We say amen to that? Rebellious. If you're here this morning without Jesus Christ, you are a sinner that is rebellious. In the book of Ephesians, chapter 2, and beginning with verse number 1. The book of Ephesians, chapter 2, and verse number 1. And you have the quickened who were dead in trespass and sin. Wherein in time past he walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience Among all also, we had our conversation in time past in the lust of the flesh, fulfilling the desire of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature the children of Rep, even as others God unfolds for us in those verses, positioning the sinner as rebellious and showing him that he's dead in his sin Showing the sinner that he follows the world. Showing the sinner that he's influenced by the devil. Showing the sinner in that verse that he's controlled by the very flesh that he's robed in, and showing the sinner That he's appointed to wrath to come. This book positions the sinner as rebellious. But it also provides for the sinner redemption. Redemption. In the book of Second Timothy, chapter three, and in verse number fifteen The book of 2 Timothy, chapter 3, and in verse number 15, the Bible says this. 2 Timothy 3, verse 15. And that from the child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith, which is in Christ Jesus. This book positions the sinner as rebellious, but this book provides for the sinner redemption. Not only that, but it produces in the believing sinner righteousness. The Bible says, for he becomes sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God. That's what the Bible will do for you. I want everybody to have a Bible because of what it does for the Savior. I want everybody to have a Bible because of what it does for the sinner. And I want everybody to have a Bible because of what it do for the saint What it does for the saint. It produces in the saint a song. We've got something to sing about. Joybells can ring on your darkest, cloudiest day. Joy bells can ring in your heart. Amen. You can look up from the doom and gloom of this world and the dirt that's under your feet, look up into the portals of glory, into the clouds above, and see the sun shining upon you. The SON. It produces within us a song. Psalms 40 tells us he takes us out of the mire and the muck and puts us in the choir to sing a song. It puts a new song in our heart. Didn't the fellows do a good job in singing this morning? Didn't the choir do a good job in singing today? Didn't the congregation do a good job in singing those songs? We lift up our voice and sing, and do you know why we can sing uh the the the great songs of the faith? Because I've been redeemed. I've been saved by the grace of God, I'm kept by the power of God. I know where I'm going when I die, and therefore I can lift up my voice and sing. Sing praises to the Lord. God puts a song in our heart. Oh, the body might be aching, but we can sing. The heart might be hurting, but we can sing. It might look awful gloomy and doomy out there, but we can sing. There's always something to praise the Lord about because He's put a song in our heart, and we sing it to His honor and to His glory. It produces In the saint of song. But it produces in the saint a service. We're able to serve God. The Bible tells us in 2 Timothy 2 and in verse number 15, study to show thyself approved unto God a workman A workman, that means that we roll up our sleeves and we work. We work, we sweat, we toil, we labor in the work of God. Every saved, born-again, blood-bought believer ought to be busy in the service of the king. We sing about it, but do we do it? We want others to do it, but do we do it? Every one of us have a responsibility to be actively involved in the work of the Lord. God didn't save anybody to sit on the sidelines and just cheer everybody else on. It's amazing to me the one that knows how the preacher ought to do his job is the one that sits in the pew and does absolutely nothing. Hello. Amen. Now I've told you before if I have to do the preaching and the amen and it costs twice as much. What am I saying to you? Every saved, born-again, blood-bought believer has been gifted. I don't know what your gift is, but you better discover what it is and start using it for the glory of God. If you claim salvation, there's a service for you to render. There's a job for you to do. There's a ministry that you ought to be involved in. And our time is so short that we don't have time for people to be sitting on the sidelines criticizing. Hello? Condemning, pointing an accusing finger of others and saying, They just do that, so they're going to be liked by the preacher I need to move on. I might dig that deep that dish d ditch too deep and not be able to get out of it. I'm telling you this morning, when you're saved by the grace of God, I want everybody to have a Bible because of what it does for the saint. And this book puts a song in the saint's heart. And this book puts a service. That you and I can render to the glory of God and serve him all the days of our life. And it produces, it produces in the saved sinner, it produces in the saints of God a surety that they can bank on. I know whom I've believed and I am persuaded that he's able to keep that which I've committed on the I feel a shout coming on right now I told my wife, if I kick the bucket, bite the dust, don't you come by and shed tears over my grave. I don't think I have a whole lot to worry about there. If there's any shouting, it's probably gonna be, man, I'm glad this one's over with I'm gonna be kicking out the slats of glory. I'm gonna be running over those streets shouting the praises of the Lord. Bowing humbly at the feet of Jesus, loving him and adoring him and thanking him for what he's done in my life. I know the wretched wretch that I was. And I know the work that God has done in my life. And I'm thankful. I am thankful that I'm kept by that power reserved. And I know whom I believed. And I am persuaded that he's able to keep that which I've committed unto him against that day. When I'm laying on my deathbed. Join around and sing praises to the Lord because this old body of mine is going to be laid aside and I'm going to get a brand new set. I'm going to get a brand new outfit. I'm going to get a brand new makeup. And I'm going to walk into the portals of glory, shouting the praises of God, because of Jesus Christ and what He's done in my heart and life. Amen. I say to you this morning, because of that, let's work heartily to make sure that everybody gets a Bible. Amen Not only do I appeal to you to work heartily to get the Word of God to people that so desperately need it, but I ask you to pray earnestly. Our job just begins now. These books are going to meet the contentious spirit of the devil, trying to prevent them from getting to their place of destination and reaching people that need Jesus Christ. It's only through prayer, prayer of God's people, that we combat the forces of evil and lift up the name of Jesus So I ask you to pray earnestly that we can get a Bible into everybody's hands. And not only that, but I ask you to give generously. Give generously, wholeheartedly, so that others can have a Bible. If you cherish your Bible Do you cherish it enough and love it enough that you'd want someone else to have it as well? That they'd be able to read it in their language And may God help us this morning to do what we need to do in order to give the Bible to everybody in this world. Would you stand with me, please, with your heads bound and your eyes closed?