The second slot I preached, I think I was like an hour. And uh so uh my I'm I don't plan to necessarily keep y'all here all night, so I'm gonna I'm gonna do my best uh keep an eye on the clock and uh and and uh mine my uh mine my my my spot, my slot and Other men preaching tonight, looking forward to hearing Brother Matt's message, Brother Copeland's message. And they got to meet him briefly before the service and looking forward to tomorrow. So anyhow Now you can see I've got to get started. I've got to jump right in. Luke twenty-four. If you'll turn with me to Luke chapter twenty-four, and uh let's go ahead and stand. We'll go ahead and stand for just a moment And we'll jump right into the scripture reading by Luke chapter 24. And we'll give you a chance to stretch your legs. And And then we'll have a seat here in a moment. But Luke chapter number 24 and verse 1. We'll start there and we'll read to verse number 9. So Luke twenty-four, verse one, the Bible says, Now upon the first day of the week, very early in the morning, they came unto the sepulchre, bringing the spices which they had prepared, and certain others with them And they found the stone rolled away from the sepulchre, and they entered in and found not the body of the Lord Jesus. And it came to pass As they were much perplexed thereabout, behold, two men stood by them in shining garments, and as they were afraid and bowed down their faces to the earth, they said unto them, Why seek ye the living among the dead? He is not here, but is risen. Remember how he spake unto you when he was yet in Galilee, saying, The Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and the third day rise again. And they remembered his words, and returned from the sepulchre, and told all these things unto the eleven and to all the rest. I'm going to give you the title, and we'll pray, and we'll let you be seated. There's a question in verse number 5, and that is the title to the message. Why seek ye the living among the dead? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you tonight, and Lord, what a blessing it is to be in your house, to be assembled. uh with other uh churches, other other Christians, fellow believers, thank you for the next generation, the opportunity to make an impact and make a difference in the next generation for the cause of Christ. And Lord, I pray that you would bless these next few moments as I speak. I pray that, Holy Spirit, you would use me, guide my thoughts and the words that I'll speak, and the Holy Spirit, would you speak to hearts? And pray that you would be lifted up, honored, and glorified through this message. May it be a help, a challenge, and a blessing to us all. And we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. You may be seated. This is perhaps a familiar story to most of us. This is the resurrection story, of course. Jesus Christ has been crucified and buried in a tomb. And uh and of course this is the uh the third day, very early in the morning, the Bible says that these women came to the tomb to uh treat the body of Christ. The Gospel of John tells us that it was Mary Magdalene, Mary, the mother of James and Siloam, who went to the tomb to treat the body of Jesus. They arrive at this sepulchre. Which is um it's another word for a grave. They they they in a borrowed tomb, if you will, and uh he was placed in there three days early. They arrived here only to find that the stone has been rolled away And uh to their surprise, they find two men standing there. Now, I don't know if you've ever been in a situation where you walk into a room or or or somewhere in the in the building, maybe at church or or at the teen center or you know wherever And you weren't expecting to see someone and then you walk in and somebody's just standing there? Yeah, kinda like you know maybe one of those knuckleheads in the youth through that, you know, you walk in, they're just like standing there. We have we have um Uh uh I I'm gonna tease my guys all all the rest of this message. They're not here to defend themselves. We have uh a fellowship hall and um we have accordion doors if you're uh if you're familiar with that, you know, separate the fellowship hall into different sections And there's different light switches for the different sections of the um fellowship hall. And uh when I'll leave my office and I'll go to the foyer or when I'll have to go through the fellowship hall, especially like on Sundays, because that section kind of gets closed off It's not being used Sunday afternoon right before the 6 o'clock service. I've got choir practice going on and and some of the teens are there because their parents are in the choir. And I'll walk I'll walk and I'll and I'll peek just out of the corner of my eye and I'll see. And there's Ben and Elijah just standing there in the dark You know. And what are you guys doing? Oh we're just hanging out, you know. So you know, probably scrolling their fantasy football team or doing something silly, you know, they're there and there. You know, these women come to a grave And and and they're expecting, you know, not to make light of the situation, they're they're very sad. They're very heavy hearted. Uh Jesus has been crucified, uh it's which is an ordeal in and of itself. They buried him, they laid his uh his body in the tomb, and they they've come to the tomb. And they're not expecting to find people there. Usually you go to a graveyard, you don't expect to find people walking around. Uh that that might creep you out a little bit. So they walk and and there's two men You know, I don't think they look like that, but they were there there's two men, they're angels, messengers of God, and he they asked them a question. Now, the this is something that I've I've learned. Anytime you see a question in the Bible, I I would encourage you to take a close look at that. Especially if Jesus is the one asking the question. Because a lot of times If Jesus is asking the question, do you think he knows the answer to the question before he asks it? Yes or no? Yeah. Does anybody know what that's called? That's a certain type of question. Uh uh a rhetorical question. Right, right, right. Somebody asked the rhetorical questions like, you know, now why did you do that, Ben? I'm not I don't need the answers, just like you know it's just I'm trying to get you to think now. Why did you do that? You know, that reminds me when I was in college, I was a sophomore and uh and and I don't know if this is true or not, but I was told that sophomore means wise fool. Can anybody confirm that? I think that's what that means. I'm not sure. But anyway, I was a sophomore and uh and I I I did uh I I did something really, really dumb. Um I probably shouldn't tell this story. I Probably shouldn't. Now I got the f test out of the bag. Well let's put it this way. I pulled a prank on a fella uh in my dorm room and uh and and and and I'll stop at that. And uh the the the the Dean of men uh found out about it because the uh well anyway, the the security guard was doing room check and he and he saw what was going on and he was like, Yeah, I gotta write you guys up. So And word got to the end of man and brother Derek Young's like, Danny, what were you thinking? I I wasn't. Anyway, um when you see a question in the Bible, a lot of times it's it's worth looking at and realize, okay, why is this question being asked? And so I was reading this and and I stopped and thought, okay, why why why are they asking this question? Why seek ye the living among the dead. They remind them that he told them, Jesus had told them while he was alive that he would be rejected, that he would be crucified That three days later he would rise from the dead. We see that in Mark 8, verse 31, where Jesus actually specifies this. And so they could have known and expected Jesus to rise from the dead. This shouldn't have come a surprise to them. This shouldn't have and I don't know why. I I I maybe I haven't looked into it enough. I don't know the answer to this question, but I don't know why. The disciples They it was like they were fatalistic. They thought he's dead. Story's over. It's done. What do we do now? Jesus told them during his ministry. He said, Now listen. I'm going to be rejected. They're going to reject me. I'll be turned into the hands of sinful men. They're going to crucify me, but I'm going to rise on the third day. And these women come and they find these angels and the angels ask them this question, and the question is the message Why seek ye the living among the dead? Now I'm going to draw some application here, so I want you to follow with me. We're going to look at a couple of passages of scripture. So keep your Bibles ready. Let's look at 1 John Alright? 1 John chapter number 2. 1 John chapter number 2. I'm going to establish some some groundwork and Give us some give us a way of thinking as we as we answer as we look at that question. And teenagers, this is maybe perhaps a uh an example of You ever heard somebody say you ought to think biblically? I don't know if you ever heard that before, but as Christians, we should let the Bible influence the way we think. We should let the scripture, the word of God, the Holy Spirit, who helps us understand the Bible, we should allow the Word of God to help formulate our opinions. to help formulate our our our our thought processes, how we view life, how we make decisions. So here's an example of how we could do that. 1 John chapter number 2. Look at verses 15, 16, and 17. The Bible says, love not the world. Neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world. The lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life is not of the Father, but is of the world. And the world passeth away, and the lust thereof But he that doeth the will of the Father, or excuse me, the will of God, abideth forever. Now, the Bible gives us very clearly three things that the world consists of. What are they? The lust of the Flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life. And the Bible says all that is in the world. So the world, this is this is what sums up the world. You could put it in And to these three categories. Now let's turn to James, all right, chapter number one. A few pages back, James chapter number one, and look at verse thirteen James 1, verse 13. The Bible says, Let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God, for God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. But every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed. And verse fifteen is key Then when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin. And sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death. So Three categories of uh of the world, all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of light. Now the Bible says that when we make mistakes, when we sin It is our lust that draws us to sin. But so lust brings forth what? Sin, and then sin when it is finished, brings forth what? Death. Okay, so here's the picture I want us to paint in our minds. And this is taking the Bible, taking it at face value, and saying, okay, this is going to help formulate my opinion of the world. Okay? So the world is a place lust of the flesh, lust of the eyes, and the pride of life. Those three things lumped into one bring forth what's next. Sin. And then the end product of that sin is death. A lot of times the world presents its own picture. And we will By its advertisement. And the truth is, God wants us to look at the world this way: it's a graveyard. It's a graveyard of sin and a graveyard of death. These women went to the tomb, went to a graveyard looking for the body of Christ, looking for Jesus, still thinking his body is lifeless. A lot of times, Christians go to the world or look to the world For life, for joy, for fulfillment. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. He is our source of fulfillment in life. And so the contrast is this we can either look to him Follow his word and allow his word to guide us and direct us in life. Or we can look To a graveyard where the Bible is very clear. All you're going to find in the world, ultimately Is death. It may not be physical death, although it it may not exclude that as well. There have been tragic stories of People it a one tragic mistake could it could end someone's life. It doesn't always end that way necessarily. It could be a death to your testimony. It could be a death to Your purity. It could be a death in many ways, many forms, where all we're going to find is sin and ultimately death. So that's the picture, if you will And again, if we buy the sales pitch of the world, it looks enticing. It looks appealing. It looks fun. It looks Enticing to our to our sinful flesh. But again, if we let the Bible formulate our thoughts, formulate our opinions, we we don't see that. We don't see what we see on social media We don't see what we see on Instagram, Facebook. I don't know anybody on Twitter. I'm on Twitter but probably not many teens on Twitter. Uh yeah, whatever you might see on YouTube, whatever you see on on entertainment, whatever you see through the the music industry That's what they want you to see. This is what God wants you to see. Now, let me give you Just a few basic statements found from the Bible. Number one God has a will for your life. I'm gonna go somewhere with this, but I want to say number one, God has a will for your life. Teenager, I don't know what your background is, I don't know where you come from, I don't know if you've been going to church since you were uh In the nursery, or you just started coming this month, this year, and maybe some of this is relatively new to you. I don't know your story, but I do know this. God has a plan and a purpose for your life. You're not an accident, you're not an uh oh, you're not a mistake. God didn't say, oh boy, I wasn't expecting that person to be alive. I wonder what I could do with that person Now, there may be some guys in my youth group that I may say, man, I wonder if God had that crossed his mind. But if I take the word of God at face value, every single person has a special and specific purpose From God. And I would say two things. Number one, God's will includes for you to be saved. The Bible says God is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. Every single young man, every single young lady needs to be born again. And if you're not saved tonight, if you've not trusted Christ as your Savior, if you've not Ask him to forgive you and to save your soul and place your faith and trust in him to go to heaven. Then you need to get that taken care of tonight Don't go home without that being settled. Don't go to bed tonight without that being settled. There have been young people that have gotten saved in the middle of a service and got saved after an invitation, got saved on the way home, got saved uh in their bedroom, they prayed and got and and got that Right between them and God. And at the end of the day, it is between you and Him. So I challenge you, I encourage you, if that's not settled in your heart, get that settled tonight But secondly, I would say this: God's will includes not just salvation, but service. Service. And this goes in line with God has a plan and a purpose for your life. The Apostle Paul, how many of you have heard of him? His name before it was Paul was what? Saul. And Saul was on the road to Damascus. And the Bible says that Christ uh appeared to him as in a in a in a bright light and and it blinded him for three days and he said this after he he he said who art thou lord he's he he's wondering what is your name who are you and he recognized this is God Who are you? And he said, I am Jesus, whom thou persecutest. And this man was a murderer. This man would would would travel. That's what he was doing. He was on his way to a city to find Christians to throw into jail Talk about a bad dude. This guy was not somebody that the Christians really liked a whole lot. In fact, after he got saved, a lot of Christians were really nervous about accepting him into the church because of what he was known for doing. But here's what Paul said After he recognized who this was, he said, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? Salvation, and this is a statement I've heard before: salvation begets. service. We're saved to serve. I wonder how many of you, if you're are you active? Are you engaged in your church? Are you serving in some capacity? Perhaps it's being an usher. Perhaps it's we saw several up here singing a little while ago. Perhaps ladies Uh not guys, maybe ladies helping in the nursery. Again, not the guys. Uh scare all the children away. Halloween come early that's and if that happens. Um I don't know what it might be. We have guys that that help usher every once in a while. We've got some young men that are learning to operate in the sound booth and and and service can come in a lot of different ways It's being a witness, being a testimony for Christ. Maybe in your school, maybe there's people that you go to school with. And you can invite them to come to church and say, hey, why don't you be my visitor? Why don't you be my friend this Sunday at church? And help them get saved. Maybe you can't give them the gospel yourself, but you know somebody who can. Every Christian should serve to some degree. And that sometimes that takes time, sometimes that gets you know you you you you you you depends on maybe joining the church or whatever the case is for your church, for your youth group, but everyone has A purpose. God has a will for your life. Let me say statement number two. God's will contains everything you need to live a fulfilled life. God's will contains everything you need to live a fulfilled life. Teen Andrew, you don't have to look towards the graveyard of this world to find fulfillment. You don't need to look to what they have to offer, to what the culture has to offer, to what the world, the the entertainment The music industry, the the w whatever you want to fill the blank with, uh it's it's money, uh fame and power and and uh and all the things, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life, all that is in the world ends here And you don't have to look outside of the will of God for your life to find fulfillment for your life. Did Adam and Eve Have everything they needed in the garden? Yes or no? Absolutely. Do you think That the world became a better place when sin entered into the world? Absolutely not, right? One of those rhetorical questions, right? It wasn't a better place. And yet it's the sin that appeals to our flesh. The very thing that we would say this made the world a worse place. is what we're drawn to. And part of that's because we we have a sinful nature. It's a every single person, I don't care what what suit a person is wearing or what nice dress a certain person is wearing, we all bleed red blood. We're all sinners. Saved by grace. But the will of God contains everything, everything you need to live A purposed and fulfilled life. God had everything that Adam and Eve needed. It was one tree. Just one tree that God said, now don't eat that one. You know, we got little ones. I've got a four-year-old crazy little heathen runs around, uh, drives us, drives us bonkers. We've got four six and an eight-year-old. And you you could yeah, I could tell Ryan, he's four, he's the four-year-old heathen, I mentioned that. Uh I could tell Ryan now, Ryan, you can play with you can play with all this in the playroom. But don't touch daddy's tools. Guess what he goes to? Running around with a nail gun. Yeah! Get the circular song. All he needs is like a hockey mass or something. Anyway, it was just the one thing, just the one tree. You know, and and this this teaches an important truth. God wants to know that when given the choice, we'll choose Him. Some people will ask, well, if God if God you know you hear those questions? If God knew that man was going to sin, then why did he make man? If God knew the devil was going to do what he did, then why did he make the devil? You know, you hear those kinds of questions You know, love cannot be given unless offered freely. You have you have to choose. I mean, uh I'm married I forced her. No, I just can't. I'm kidding. I would not be a good husband if I said now, Sarah, listen, you're gonna love me And I'm gonna be your favorite guy in the whole world. Yes, sir. Oh yes, sir. That wouldn't work. You'd be like, no? Imagine, imagine we we met in college. You come here. We're going on a date And you're gonna have a good time. And you're gonna say yes. And in about a month, I'm gonna ask you to marry me. And you're gonna say yes. And in about six months we're gonna get married. And you're gonna say I do. Does this sound like a good plan? I'm digging my own grave. No. I I no, I I earned her love, her trust. I won her heart. We dated. We would get to know each other. And believe it or not, somehow, she she she she liked me. Then one day, somehow, she said, I love you. And I fainted. I couldn't believe it. I was like, oh my goodness. You know, God, God wants Could God just say, okay, everybody's gonna I'm gonna make everybody stay inside my will? No, you you have the capacity to leave God's will. He's given you that choice. He's given you the ability to choose between Him, His Word, His will for your life. And what else is out there? You know, I uh you know we played press play racing game I don't know what's the most updated stuff now but but you know when I was a kid it was Playstation two and and X just the Xbox. Just just Xbox, not Xbox One, three sixty or one eighty, I don't know what else they have You know, uh you know that the you know and there's certain roads, you know, the the game will not let you there there's boundaries, right? You you you you you you have to stay on the track. That's not real life. You you you can You know, you know, within reason. Step outside of God's will for your life. God has a will for your life. Everything that you need. Is contained in God's will for your life. Let me say number three. Number three. The devil has a counterfeit for everything that God has for you. The devil's not original teenagers. He doesn't come up with anything new. All good things come from God. I've heard this said before that the name God means the good one. You ever heard that phrase? God is good? All the time. All the time? God is good. Used to say that on a bus route when I was in school. You know, God Has given us all things good. You know what the devil's done? He's taken something good that God created. So you know what? I'm gonna I'm gonna change this. I'm gonna create a shortcut to a here. You know, he told Eve in the garden He said, did God say that? No, no, that's not what he said. Actually, you'll be a God. You'll be as gods if you if you eat that fruit You'll be like him. He told evil lie. Now, isn't it true that we are a little bit empathetic towards someone if they make a mistake because they were told a lie. You ever seen that happen? You know, it's like um I'm gonna tell him myself. I was about four f uh I was six or seven. And uh we were in the van, me and my younger brother, he's two years younger than me, and we were with my dad and he was making some visits for the church. And uh we had these these church tracks And back then they w they weren't like this. They were just paper. These are newer it was just simple little paper. And little black and white church tracks. And we had one left We're in the back seat, and uh David goes, Danny, I got one trek left. What do I do with it? I say, well, tear it up. And he's like, And you know what I did? Now I don't I don't hardly remember this. My dad tells a story when he when he likes to com compare me to the devil because he said this. He goes I I I I was I was hit after he tore it up, I said, Nat David tore up the church rat And David's like, what you just told me to do this? What are you doing? You're telling on me now. And and and fortunately for my brother, my dad was watching the whole time. And uh he didn't get the whooping, I got the whooping. I'm the one that Told him a lie. I kind of tricked him. I deceived him. And we would we would kind of be more empathetic towards the one that was lied to. Now let me now think with me. Eve was Eve was deceived. And I've heard it put this way, he was deceiving, Adam was dumb. Because do you know who God told? Between Adam and Eve, who did God tell directly, hey, that tree don't eat. Who was it? Adam. Adam knew. Adam knew better. And that's what we do. It's probably a bad idea, but I'm going to do this anyway. You know, the famous last words of of of the kid in the on the farm, hey mom, watch this, you know, and jump a bike off a ramp and He's in heaven now. Uh anyway, yeah. Guys, sometimes you know, we're we're we're dumb. We just we just we man, this sounds like a good idea. It's like when I was in college I thought I had this idea. I watched the clock. I had this idea. I was like, I wonder if a firecracker will blow up underwater. It's like, or will the water put it the fuse out? And the the the the nearest source of water that I could find was the toilet. I thought there's a little there's a little pond in there, yeah It's probably my sophomore year, the same year I did that dumb prank. And so I'm I'm like, so my my roommate's like, yeah, yeah, you should do it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So I mean so happens, you got eighteen, nineteen, twenty year olds living together. So like, you know I I got my hands on a little b uh little black cat I think is what it's called. It's like different kinds and I was like, you know, so I got who's got a lighter? I got a lighter in the toilet and I step out and Psh, you know, water goes everywhere, you know, it's like, wow, that's awesome, that's cool. Well a friend of mine heard that I did that. He's like, Oh, I'm gonna try it too. So he he goes and He goes to his dorm room. He lights a firecracker. And it must have been more powerful than the one I use, because it went off and the toilet blew up. Come off the wall, porcelain everywhere, water is just sliding into the restroom and they got a lot of trouble. It wasn't it was not and there was a and there was a guest speaker staying on the bottom floor underneath that whole thing going up. It was it was crazy. It was wild. Yeah. Y'all like man, I'm really discouraging you all from going to Bible college, aren't I? This is not what we do, I promise. Um Where was I going? Guys are dumb, that's right. So here now here's the here's the here's the truth though How many times do we make decisions and we're deceived? We believe a lie. We believe that we can do this and get away with it. We believe we can do this and not get have uh suffer the consequences. We can do this long enough and we can go a day, we can go a week, we can go a month, we can go a year, we can go Throughout the teen years, we can go into our adult life living and by by certain certain actions and we're and we're hiding sin and we're doing things and we believe the lie that we'll never suffer the consequences of those decisions But the Bible tells us you reap what you sow. Being tricked, being deceived, does not exempt us from suffering the consequences of our actions. Now I told you a you know funny story but but there are there there are true stories of of guys doing dumb things or young people just having having fun And people die? I I I I I heard a story this week. Some fellas just throwing rocks off of a freeway, off of a bridge, throwing rocks as cars are coming through. One went right through a windshield, killed a man. Instantly. Thirty-two-year-old man, father of four. That's and I'm 32. With three little I couldn't imagine. Widowed wife and fatherless children. They were 14, 15, and 16. Teen boys. And afterwards, we didn't think it would. We didn't mean to The devil doesn't fight fair. He'll lie to you, young people. He'll lie to you. And being deceived doesn't exempt us from the consequences of sin. You need to know this. The devil has a counterfeit for what God has for you. I heard this statement. You don't always live what you profess, but you will always live out what you believe. Sometimes we'll, you know, we profess to be Christian. We profess to love God. We'll say, I'm I love the Lord. I love the Bible. I love church. But how many times have we seen young people go to Christian school, even go to Bible college? And and and talk the talk, and they and they profess, but uh over course of time their actions show what they truly believe in their heart. They never really owned this. They never really owned. Their relationship with God, his house, the church, being the Christian they ought to be. The devil will give you a counterfeit. He'll tell you He'll promise you happiness and that'll bring regret. He'll promise you joy and it brings depression. He'll promise you peace. And it brings sleepless nights. He'll promise you laughter. And it brings tears. He'll promise you pleasure. But it brings pain His promise always comes with a price, young people. And I guess what I'm saying is this uh that I'm trying to just wave a flag in front of you and say You need to understand this. You go through this thing called life. You need to be aware. There is a devil. There is a a a lion, as he's compared to, that that seeks to destroy each and every one of us. He wants to ruin the lives of God's children. So let me now, I'm going to wind things down with some now practical statements. What can we do? How do we live this life without seeking for what God has for us in the world Why would you seek for life in a graveyard? Why would you seek for Jesus, the source of life? Why would you seek for the fulfillment in life? Where there's sin and death. Let me just give you four things, and I'm done. Number one, determine To live in the will of God for your life. Determined to live in the will of God for your life. You say, Brother Danny, I don't know what God's will is for my life. And here's what I would say to that. Oftentimes we think that the will of God is a destination sometime in the future. But rather As much as it is and includes a destination, perhaps in the future, every bit of part of God's will for your life is the journey between now and there. It is not just finding God's will for my life when I'm an adult. Finding God's will for my life for one day when I when I get married. F finding God's will for my life one day when I when I pursue a career or and and God's will, by the way, doesn't necessarily mean that you are called to preach That you were called to the mission field, that you were called to full-time Christian service. Now, God is still calling young men to preach, God is still calling young women to serve, God is still calling young people to be servants of God in some capacity in a church or in a mission field or to teach a class or to be a youth pastor or to do whatever they can for the cause of Christ in their church But God wants you to serve him in some way, shape, or form, whatever that might mean. It may mean you're a plumber, it might mean you're a welder, it might mean you're a lawyer, it might mean you you you you're in the uh uh get Get a nursing degree and may mean w whatever that might mean You ought to, every single Christian should make the decision, I'm going to live in God's will for my life. Let me let me ask you this couple questions. What what do you think because today of God's will for your life is just as important as tomorrow. What do you think is a part of God's will for you right now? Somebody give me a An answer. Just whatever's off top of your head. What is something that, teenagers, what is something you can do today that would be a part of God's will for your life? How about reading our Bible? What else? Going to church. Being here, being being at church. Being at being at a youth conference. What else? Some somebody else. Somebody else. What's that? Amen. Great answer. Telling somebody about Jesus Christ. Teenagers can lead people to Christ. Yes, ma'am, one more. Passing out tracts. There are things, then these are just a few, but there are things you can do to be in God's will for your life today. And tomorrow. How about being a good son? You think that's God's will for your life? If you're a guy. Or a good daughter. Or a good sibling. Oh, that's tough. Yeah. Heard some groaning over here. Hey, God's will for your life. God's will again is not just something down the road. Is there something down the road? It's today. Now here's my question. Now you're here. So some you know you can answer you can answer yes. Are you are you doing God's will for your life right now? Yes, by by being here But beyond that, are you living by God's will for your life? Are you reading your Bible? Are you Maybe getting giving out gospel tracts? Are you being the son or daughter you should be, the sibling you should be? Are you there are things that you can consciously do on a daily basis to be in accordance with God's will for your life. Let me see. Number two, I'm going to hasten here. Number two, determined to walk with God. Determined to walk with God. So Brother Danny, what does that mean? It simply means I live my life. I live my life every day with the conscious awareness that the Holy Spirit lives inside of me. As if Jesus was there. What if I told you, hey, those doors are going to open in about five minutes and Jesus is going to walk through? He's going to come and sit right next to you for the rest of the conference. Might change a little bit of how we view things. If You know, everyone knows teacher leaves the room at school. Oh boy, we get to maybe have some fun. spit water or something to the the other guy down down you know, I don't know. Whatever you guys do, I don't know. The authority leaves the room and kinda changes things. You know what the the word of God tells us to live in the fear of the Lord. It just basically means I'm aware of His presence. We're day in and day out. When you're at school, when you're at home, if you work a job, when you're at work That you're conscious that he's with you. Christians can ignore God. Could you imagine if you know we're we're married We're married and and could you imagine if I I went weeks without talking to her? Could you imagine if I you know I come home from work and she's cooking supper and I don't even say hi? I just sit down at the table and wait for my food. I mean, could you imagine if we never we never dialogue? That'd be a pretty rotten kind of marriage. You know, but what do we do? Sometimes we'll go days Weeks and longer without talking to the Lord. I'm just gonna give you one more. Um I have two, but I'll I'll I'll I'll give you one. Live with eternity in view. Live with eternity in view Number one, determine to will and live in God's will for your life. Ephesians 5. 17. Wherefore be ye not unwise, but understanding what the will of the Lord is. Number two, determine to walk With God. Eli told Samuel, Speak, Lord, for thy servant heareth, and then live with eternity in view. Psalm 39:4 says, Lord, make me to know mine end and the measure of my days. what it is that I may know how frail I am. Where I live not for the here and now, but I live for Eternity. If I told you that you have one week before Jesus comes back Jesus is coming in one week. I wonder what we would do with that last week. I'll tell you a quick story, I'm done. My cousin Megan, she was fifteen, sixteen years old at the time, and uh playing volleyball on a Friday night. Felt a little sick, and uh so she went to the doctor, got some medicine, and got sent home Saturday. Sunday morning woke up not feeling well still, so she went back to the hospital and Um this is gonna accelerate rather quickly. Uh things got really um really bad really quick and by Monday morning early she was in heaven. Uh playing volleyball Friday by Monday morning was with the Lord. And I I we I went to her funeral and they had her Bible there. And uh amongst other things that belonged to her. And she was only about 15, 16 years old, but I looked at her Bible and it had marks, notes, thoughts. Highlights, underlinings, sermon notes, prayers. She wasn't perfect But she walked with the Lord. She handed out gospel tracts. In fact, her parents wrote a tract And wrote her story. And her testimony is being used now to lead souls to Christ. You can make a difference, young person. You can make a difference. God has a plan and a purpose for your life. The biggest flag I just want to wave with this message is this: don't seek what God has for you. Joy, peace, happiness, a fulfilled life. Boy, don't look for it out there. Don't look for it out there. It'll disappoint you, something fierce. But God won't. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you tonight as we close out this first message. And Lord, I pray that you would speak to hearts, Lord. I don't um Don't know the needs, but I I know Holy Spirit, you do. You can speak to individuals, speak to each and every one of us. Help us to take this truth, put it into practice in our daily life. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Brother Man