I ask Lord you'd bless us if we look at this portion of scripture and consider this subject. And Lord uh uh I know it's uh uh issue that uh some uh that we struggle with, myself included, and so I pray you'd teach us and challenge us and help us to at least take a step forward in this matter of putting away worry and trusting you. I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Two men were talking together. And the one fellow said, uh, I lost my job. The other guy said, Well, I'm sorry to hear that. That's terrible. He said, Yeah, my car's being possessed also, repossessed He goes, good night. That's terrible. He goes, I know, and my house is in foreclosure. And the guy said, Man, what's going on? He says, uh, I'm not worried one bit about it He said, what do you mean? You're not worried. He goes, no. I hired a professional worrier. And he's doing all my worrying for me. And uh he says, I don't even have to think about it. This guy's this and that guy the other fellow says, Neon, that's incredible. A professional warrior. I never heard about it And uh he says, how's it working? He says, working great. He worries. I don't worry at all. I sleep good at night. Everything's great. He goes, I can't believe that. He goes, by the way, what's he charge for that? He says, it's fifty thousand dollars a year. But you gotta be kidding me, that's more than what you make. He says, uh how in the world are you gonna pay him? He says, that's his worry. And so So worry is uh it's easy to say don't worry. How many people ever told someone don't worry about it? Anybody ever say that? Anybody ever tell you, don't worry about it It's easy to say, isn't it? When it comes down to stop worrying, uh that's when real spiritual maturity uh uh comes into play. So the Lord's, as we pointed out before in this passage of scripture, the Lord's preaching to disciples. You know, this is he's a discipling his disciples and he's warning them about this worldly thinking And this whole second half of Matthew chapter 6 about working for possessions rather than for the Lord and then worrying. about our possessions and stuff. It's all worldly thinking. And I use the term, see how many remember it, I've elaborated on it a number of times, uh, to describe what the Lord is addressing here. Anybody remember what that term is I used Materialism is what it is, and just placing material things on a higher priority than spiritual things. Or the idea is this, and this is what the world does, this is worldly thinking. The world tries to find fulfillment in material possessions. If I just had a little bit more money. If I just had a nicer house, if I just had a nicer car, if I just had a better job, boy, then I would be happy just a little more of this, a little more of that. I know money can't buy happiness, but it can buy a new dress and that's just about as good. That's the world's thinking. And the Lord's addressing that here. And he's saying this is a very real danger for Christians to fall in. Now, how many people agree with me? I can see the world Being materialistic. Anybody? Sure. That's what are they if they don't have the Lord, then all they have is material. You don't have Christ, then all you've got is materialism But the Lord's not talking to unsaved people. He's addressing his disciples. He's not addressing just saved people. He's talking about people who have trusted Christ as Savior and now have made the decision to be a follower of his, to be a disciple. They've taken up their cross, they followed him, they're denying themselves They're loving the Lord supremely. I mean this is a this is a impressive level of Christianity, the people that he's addressing. And he's talking about materialism. That tells me, as we mentioned before that even as a disciple of Christ, materialism is a very real danger. It's easy for us to slip into it. I'd mentioned before, you know, we live in America, a very extremely prosperous country. And so thus it's very we we may be very vulnerable to it. But I got thinking about it. This was 2,000 years ago. And he's addressing believers, disciples that are not in the living in the level of prosperity that you and I are. And it still it was an issue. Somebody put it this way, all people worry. He says ignorant people worry because they don't know enough. Knowledgeable people worry because they know too much. The rich worry because they're afraid of losing what they have. Poor people worry because they don't have enough. Old people worry because they're facing death. Young people worry because they're facing life. And so regardless of what our circumstances are, whether we're in prosperity, young or old, rich or poor, smart or not smart, um This is a very real danger. This is a very real issue that we can slip into. And so he's giving very clear instructions here. We looked at verse 25 already, the verse first part. Look at this The Lord makes it very, very clear what he expects from us. Therefore I say unto you, what are the next three words? Take no thought. And of course we understand that with the idea of worrying or we pointed out before getting distracted. My mind gets off of the things of the Lord. My mind gets off of the the important issues of life and I get caught up in these temporary needs. And uh so he's very very clear. He repeats it again there in verse 31. Therefore, take no thought. Then again in verse 34, take therefore no thought for the morrow So there's no question on the part of the listeners here in this sermon. There's no question on the part of the disciples what the Lord is telling. If you're a disciple of mine You claim to be my follower, you claim to be my disciple, then you must not take thought for these things. You must not worry about things. Now, we looked at that, his instructions. Now He's elaborating on that throughout this portion that we read, and he's explaining why we shouldn't worry. He's giving an explanation to his instruction. That's very gracious on his part. You remember we mentioned this before. If the Lord tells us to do something, we don't need to know why. We just if he tells us, right? You know, because he tells us to But here he's taking the time, a very lengthy portion of scripture, and he's explaining why this is. So here's my thoughts for tonight. Number one By the way, how many people like on the back of the prayer list has a little sermon note place? How many people like that? Yeah. That's not for passing notes, it's for taking notes. All right. Uh put this one down. If you're writing a little outline there, you're putting notes down there. Here's first point. First of all, he gives a comprehensive Explanation, a comprehensive explanation. You say, what do you mean by that? I want you to notice a few things. Look at verse number 25. He says, Therefore I say unto you, take no thought for your life, what ye shall what? Eat. So take no thought for your life what you shall eat. Now that for us today is not an issue. I would venture to say most people here have enough food in the house to last for some of y'all for years Some for the rest of the evening, because we eat a lot. But take no thought for what ye shall eat, what you shall drink, nor yet for your body what ye shall put on And he comes down through here, then a little later on he talks about what we should wear. So he's talking about eating and drinking and what we should wear, those types of things. Now is he is he just being so specific he says, now don't worry about food. Don't worry about what you're going to drink, whether you get water or anything, or you run out of Coca-Cola or whatever, iced tea. Don't worry about whether you got clean clothes to wear tomorrow. Is that all he's limiting our worry to? No, I think he's addressing these areas of life that are very general or true about everybody. I think he's doing that simply to say we ought not to take thought for any aspect of our physical life. I think this encompasses our entire life. Say, well, I got plenty of food, so I'm not going to worry about that, but I don't have the car payment. I'm going to worry about that. I think in the statements here, it would encompass car payments. Anybody agree with me? It would encompass house payment. It would encompass uh any other area of life. So I think when I say this is an all-encompassing thing, he's not limiting it just to these areas. He's addressing all areas of our life In other words, what I think he's telling us here is do not sacrifice my spiritual well-being by being overly focused on my physical well-being. Now we pointed out before that this he's not saying here we shouldn't work. He's not saying here we should just sit around, oh I'm not going to worry about it, God will take care of me. That's not it at all. Uh the disciple of Christ ought to be the hardest working person in the town on the job. We ought to be frugal and wise with our money. We don't just blow around, well the Lord will provide, I'll just blow it It's not what he's suggesting at all. What he's saying here is, is don't let the cares of the physical life, your physical well-being, overshadow your spiritual well-being. So a lot of people sacrifice their walk with God because they're so consumed with the physical well-being of their life. And that's what he's saying. He says, any aspect of our life ought to be submissive to that. Look what he says there at the end of verse 25. Is not life, I circled that word in my Bible, is not life More than meat and the body more than raiment? What's he saying? He's saying our life, there's more than just the physical aspects to our lives. There's a spiritual aspect. Well I don't got time to read my Bible. I gotta get to work. I don't have time to uh go to church. I gotta do this. I don't have time for this. I don't have time for that. I gotta do this All we're doing is giving thought to the material and neglecting the spiritual aspect of it. Look at verse 33. How many people had Matthew 6. 33 memorized? Anybody? Yeah, I I memorized that through uh Bible college. Make sure I got this one. I memorized that through Bible college. I in fact I kind of claimed that as a life verse for a while in Bible college. But seek ye First, the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Then all these things that he's addressing here, all this area of life, shall be added unto you Now he's not and I I think it's interesting I and I want to preach just on that verse in a future message but I uh I'm kind of stealing my thunder here a little bit but I I notice he says seek ye first the kingdom of God. He doesn't say seek only the kingdom of God. Because we do need to address these other areas. But what he's saying is do not let these other areas of life distract me and and and do not sacrifice my spiritual well-being for these other areas of life And um uh turn with me if you would, and I thought of this as I was studying, this is a neat verse in Job, way back before Psalms, come back there to the Old Testament Job. I think we're all familiar with Job's situation Very, very wealthy. Job chapter 23. Job's very wealthy. He has lots of material possessions. He's not worried about what he's going to eat or what he's going to wear, all these types of things. He's loaded. But what happens? God and the devil At God's instigation, get an argument, so to speak. And Job gets the brunt of it, really. And uh so all this is taken away from him His family, I mean it's horrendous. You just can't fathom the heartache that this man is going through and the opportunity to take thought For things. But he makes a statement in Job 23 that absolutely captivates me, fascinates me. In verse number 12, He says, Neither have I gone back from the commandment of his lips. So he's been faithful. And we see that through his testimony. Then he makes this statement. This is tremendous. I have esteemed the words of his God's mouth more than my wife Necessary food. I've esteemed the words of thy mouth more than my necessary food. Would you agree that that statement could fall under the principle, seek ye first? the kingdom of God, his righteousness, all these things will be added unto you. And if you look at this and study this, the word esteem there, if you if I esteem something, what does that mean? I I I what? Somebody help me out here. I think very highly of it. It is extremely important. I think the world uh we'll talk about something, man. I hi I was at the hospital making some visits just before the service And there was somebody there were talking about another preacher. I said, you know, I have tremendous respect for that man. And what I was saying was I highly esteem him. I have high regard. Notice he says, I have esteemed the words of his mouth. How many people would say you think highly of the Bible? Sure, I don't think you'd be here if you did. I think most of us, if not all of us, would say the Bible's our most precious possession we have. And we love the Bible and we respect it and we want to we read it and we want to live by it. But look what he says. He said, I received the words of his mouth more than my and he doesn't just say more than my food. Right? More than my what? Necessary food. Say, well, I can go without ice cream. Well I can go without the Twinkies You know, I can go with all that, but I've got to have my necessary food. This is what he's saying. He's saying God's word is and the word necessary, let me back up. The word necessary is a neat word. It means this the minimal amount needed to stay alive. The food that is necessary to keep me alive. How many people agree with me? Twinkies are probably not necessary. They keep us alive. Yeah. Cho homemade chocolate chip cookies. Uh fresh out of the oven. And uh I don't know, that's pushing it there a little bit. Not necessary food. So are you catching what he's saying here? The Bible is more important than even having food that is necessary to keep me alive. I've said this before, I'm sure, but it's almost this idea that if he's going to be stranded on the island and he can have food to keep him alive or he can have the word of God He's choosing the Word of God. Wow. That's seeking first the kingdom of God. I think that's what the Lord is teaching us here. Don't take thought for these things. He's not saying You know, they're not part of life, but he says, I'm not going to sacrifice my spiritual well-being for my physical well-being. Figure, we live in these bodies, 80, 90, maybe some folks 100 plus years, not much more than that. That's how long we're in these bodies. How long are we going to be spiritual being? How long does that That's for all eternity. And so he's trying to encourage us. He says every it's all encompassing every area of the material life, physical life. We need a nut we must not let that uh sacrifice our spiritual well-being for that there. I like what uh John R. Rice said. I read this in his biography years ago. Um but he had a policy in his home. You know he had seven girls, I believe it was Want to have a boy, never had a boy, had seven girls. In their home, and they would all get together for breakfast, all together every morning for breakfast, they had a policy. He instituted a policy right from the get-go. It was no Bible, no breakfast. So before everybody sat down, had breakfast together, they all got alone with the Lord, and they all read their Bibles, spent a little time with the Lord, then they would come and have breakfast. You know what he's doing? He's esteeming the words of the Lord's mouth more than his necessary food. He's seeking first the kingdom of God, his righteousness. He's not taking thought for the things of these, but his life is more than raiment and more than food. So the Lord gives an comprehensive explanation here when he says uh he talks about eating and drinking and what to wear. He's Addressing all the aspects of our physical life, that the Lord must have priority, the spiritual must have priority. Then number two, I put this down. He gives a common sense explanation It's an encompassing, comprehensive explanation, but it's a common sense explanation. He's basically saying this, and I'm putting this into my own words, obviously. He's saying this. Now hold on a second Before you start getting all worked up, before you start worrying about something, just stop and think things through a little bit Before you get distracted by your need of food or this, that, or the other, before you get too worked up about it, just stop and think it through a little bit. Look at verse 26. He uses a word, he says, Behold The fowls of the air. The word behold there has this idea. Turn your eyes towards this. Take a look at it. Give some consideration. In fact, in verse 28, he uses the word consider He says, why take ye thought for your uh why take ye thought for raiment? Consider the lilies. He's saying wait a minute, just stop and think this through. Before you take thought, you get all worried about it. Stop Look it around at creation. Give some thought to it. Think this through thoroughly. And he references three areas in creation. That he's kind of saying, listen, common sense tells you, if this is true, then the other will be true. In verse number 20, uh in verse 26, he references the fouls He says, Behold the fowls of the air. They sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns. Yet your heavenly Father does what Feeds them. Feedeth them. Your father feedeth them. Are you not much better than they? So common sense. He's saying, stop and think this through a little bit The birds out there, God takes care of them. Common sense tells me that if God takes care of them and I'm more valuable to the Lord than they are, then common sense tells me God will do what? Take care of me. And he's saying, Behold, stop and think this through. Consider this a little bit. So in verse 26, he addresses the fowls. Verse 27, he addresses, I'm putting it this way, our frame. Look at verse 27. Which of you, by taking thought, can add one cubit unto his stature? Oh, I'm so worried. What are you worried about? Oh, I'm trying to be six foot tall You can worry about it, think about it all you want. It's not going to change my stature, my frame. I'm five foot eleven. That's what I'm actually a five foot ten and a half now. I don't know what's happening. I'm worried about it. And uh can't make ourselves Taller or skinnier. How many people wish you could think yourself skinnier? Yeah, wouldn't that be great? I've been thinking a lot about that. It doesn't change it one bit. So he says, use some common sense here a little bit. Think about this. God takes care of the birds. Common sense tells me if he takes care of the birds, he's going to take care of you. You can't change it. You can think all you worry all you want. You're not going to make yourself tall or anything else, you know. Then he used another one. So he has the fowl, the frame, and then the flowers. Verse 28. Why take ye thought for raiment? Consider the what? Lilies of the field, how they grow. They toil not, neither do they spin. Then he goes on and expounds that I say unto you that even Solomon, all his glory Apparently Solomon was something. This beauty and the clothing worn and all that. He says even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. Common sense tells you, therefore, if God so clothed the grass of the field, which today is tomorrow's cast of the oven, shall we not much more clothe you? Owe ye a little faith So he's using some common sense here. He's getting them to think this through a little bit. The fact that our God is great. in his care of creation should eliminate us being taking thought and being worried about. This world's been around for several thousand years. You know, and God's got it running just fine. And by the way, this is my opinion, I don't believe man is able to destroy this world. I think it's far bigger than us, and I think God's got it in control. Now I don't think we should trash it, but this idea that somehow we're going to destroy the world, I don't see that at all. That's in God's hands But he's saying, look at creation. Use a little common sense. Look at creation. God is so great. He takes care of those little birds out there. And if he can do that, and the little fish in the ocean and the little crawl dads in the streams, all of that is under the care of God. Um any kind of critter you can think of God provides for all of them. And he says, now behold, consider this a little bit. Think this through. Use a little common sense here. God takes care of them, he's going to take care of you. So God's greatness eliminates our worry. Common sense tells us that God's greatness eliminates our worry. Common sense tells us that God's value of us Should take away worry. Look again at verse 26, verse B, uh the end part of verse 26. Behold, the fowls of the air they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather in the barns, yet your heavenly father feeds them. Look at this last statement Are ye not much better than they? Now we live in a day and age where a lot of people in the world consider critters more important than humans. But God does not look at it that way. God says you and I are better or of more value to him than the critters are. You go back to the Old Testament, how many hundreds of thousands of sheep and oxen were slaughtered so that the Old Testament Folks, saints' sins could be covered until Christ came and then he shed his blood, and now our sins are cleansed. But God didn't consider those critters more important than man. He considers man more valuable than the critters. I was in the we lived in Colorado for three years before we came here, as you know, and there was a big sportsman show downtown Denver and we'd like to go down there. I think it was during the winter or whenever we'd go down there and one year they had all these animal rights people out there picketing. And I was all worked up and I'm going to go confront them. And uh so I went over there and we got talking and going back and forth. And um I had my arguments and they had theirs. We went back and forth and finally uh uh I brought up the subject of the God And I said, you know, the Lord considers man far more important. And I've referenced the sacrifices that God made, and God instructed man to kill different animals for various reasons. And that guy got indignant. And he made this statement. He says, if God will kill animals, then I want nothing to do with God. I said, man, you're in bad shape. You're esteeming the creature higher than the creator. And it's exactly what Romans chapter 1 verse says. And so, no, God doesn't consider the critters more valuable or important than you and I considers us. We're the ones creating his image. We're the ones he put dominion over all this. Now, do we just waste and trash it? No. But the point is this. The point is this, listen, God values us very, very highly. God loves us very, very much. And common sense tells me if God loves me that much and he values me that much, God's going to take care of me. I want to show you a verse. I love this verse. Romans Chapter number eight. I'll tell you, if you ever get struggle with God caring for you or something like that, Romans chapter 8 to me is puts the death knoll. To the fact that God will take care of us. Romans chapter 8, go down to verse number 32. If you don't have this underscored in your Bible, I really think you should or highlight it somehow. Because this is a tremendous, tremendous verse. Romans 8, verse 32. Everybody find it there. Look what it says. He that spared not his what? Own son. But delivered him up for us all. Look at this last statement. How shall he not with him also freely give us what? All thanks. Listen, if Jesus Christ did not withhold if God did not withhold Jesus Christ In giving him for our well-being, good night, how what makes us think he would withhold something else of far less value than that? You follow what he's saying? And so common sense tells us, well, I don't need to worry about this. I look at creation and I see how God takes care of the critters and the flowers. I look at Jesus Christ and the cross and the value that God places on me, how highly God values me, that he would give his own son for me. What in the world makes me think he wouldn't give something lesser than that for me? And so the Lord appeals, I believe he's appealing to common sense. He's comprehensive in his explanation. Listen, this covers every area of light. He uses a little common sense, think this through. And then last of all, uh I think he states here, number three That worry is not a characteristic of a disciple. He's addressing saved people. He's addressing people that are following him. And I think what he's telling us here is, listen, if you claim to be a follower of me, if you claim to be one of my disciples, then you ought not to be worried. That is not something that ought to be a characteristic of a Christian. I think what he's telling us is this, listen, the Gentiles, the unsaved people, they're going to worry about this stuff. And they're going to live for it, and it's going to consume them, and they're going to all be distracted by this, and that's just going to be their whole life is getting food and getting clothes and getting stuff. He says, Well, you're a disciple of mine. And that's not characteristic of us. I put three things down under this thought. Number one, I put this: disciples exercise faith in God. As a follower of Jesus Christ, we ought to be trusting God, exercising faith in God. Look at verse 30 again. If God so clothed the glass grass of the field, which today is, tomorrow's cast in the oven, shall he not much more clothe you? And look at that last statement. O ye of Little faith. If I'm all worried about this and I'm all upset about this, I am not exercising faith And he says that ought not to be true about a disciple of Jesus Christ. We ought to be having faith in God I like this quote. I modified it a little bit. Any need that is not worth trusting God for is not worth worrying about. The original quote that I found was this, anything that's not worth praying for is not worth worrying about. That's a good statement As a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, I ought not to be characterized by worrying about this stuff. I ought to be characterized by having faith in God. That God will take care of this. God will meet this need. God will work through this one way or another. And so he's saying, listen, worry is not a characteristic of a disciple of God. Disciples of Jesus Christ have faith in God. They trust God. I put this number two down under this idea that worry is not a characteristic of a disciple. Disciples have spiritual priorities. Look at verse 32 again. For after all these things do the what? Gentiles seek. Now when he's referencing Gentiles, I believe he's referencing unsaint. People don't know the Lord. People don't have God in their life. People that not trusted Christ. They're not in the family of God. They're not a child of God Says that's their priorities are out of whack. They seek after all these things. That's all they're living for. But as a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, I'm not living for these things, I'm living for the Lord. And God will take care of me. And God will meet those needs. Here's a thought. Where do we get our life from? Where's our life ultimately from? It's God. He's the one that gave us our life. Colossians 1 7, and jot that down, we won't take time to turn there, but it says that By him, Jesus Christ, all things consist. 117, I think. I didn't say the reference right. It's Coltians 117. It says, by him, the Lord Jesus Christ, all things consist. The word consist means hold together. Kept alive, you could say. It is Jesus Christ that keeps us alive. It's not you and I. We're not keeping ourselves alive, ultimately. It's the Lord that keeps us alive. I'm fifty-six years old. In the last month I've heard of at least five people that have been in their fifties and died suddenly. It's like yikes You know? And so I'm trying to be careful what I eat. I'm doing a little exercise routine. I'm doing all this stuff. But ultimately it's not me eating that old ticker ticking. Even when I'm not thinking about it, those lungs are pumping away, pulling the air, and I'm not like, all right, I've got to keep breathing here. I don't have to do that. It's Jesus Christ who's keeping me alive And he gives us life and we can trust him. As a disciple, we're not seeking these things. We're looking to the Lord. We're thinking seeking the things of God. He's the one that keeps us alive. And I put this last one down and um uh I think this applies. Number three, under the idea this is the whole idea that worry is not a characteristic of a disciple of Christ. I put this one down. Disciples understand the future. What a message Brother uh Belcher had last night. Wasn't that something? The second coming of Christ, and they brought Muslim Islam in and all that. Just phenomenal. And this is what it really boils down to. You and I, we don't know what tomorrow holds, other than what the Lord showed us as far as future things are concerned. We don't know what tomorrow holds, but we do know this. We know who holds tomorrow, right? The old statement. I found that overwhelming majority of the things I worry about is stuff I'm worried about tomorrow. Oh, what's going to happen tomorrow? Anybody here like this, you ever get up in the morning, you're all worried about what's going to happen throughout the day Oh, next week, oh the bills are due next week. Oh no, I gotta go to the doctor next week. Oh, I'm worried about it. Now you all are looking at me all pious like you never do that. But the fact of the matter is, God's already there. Look, I got a verse for this. Look at verse 34. Take therefore no thought for the Tomorrow. Tomorrow. What are you worrying about tomorrow for? Then he basically says this, you got enough stuff to keep you busy today. Don't be worrying about tomorrow. Don't be worrying about next week. Don't be worrying about next year. Sufficient unday is the evil thereof. He says, you've got enough to deal with today. Don't be worrying about tomorrow. Now, I am the first to admit that's easier said than done. Can I get a witness? But as a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, I've got to exercise faith. And I've got to say, alright Lord, I have responsibilities today. There are issues you're going to allow me to face today. I'm going to trust you. I'm going to work through them. And whatever tomorrow is, I'm just going to put it in your hands and trust you. Now that's not to say we shouldn't put money up, we shouldn't plan ahead, not to say I think you ought to get life insurance, all that, but that's not where my faith is in That's not what my confidence is in. My confidence is in the Lord. As a disciple, old saying, but it's so true. We do not know what the future holds, but we know who holds the future. And so by I make a conscious decision that I'm not going to worry about this, I'm putting it in the Lord's hand, just like that guy paid that guy to be his professional warrior. We put our in the Lord's hand. Lord, you take care of this. Lord, you, so to speak, worry about this. I'm just going to do what you give me to do today, do what I know I need to do today. I'm going to trust you for the future. I read about a fella, I don't this ain't true, I'm sure, but I read about a fella, he's working on a barge on the Mississippi River. And somebody saw him walking down the side of the barge. He had a couple things in his hands, and somehow he lost his balance and he fell off the barge into the river and went down under the water. They're like, ah! And lo and behold, the guy comes up and he says, Help, somebody help me! And he goes down again. And people are kind of scrambling around. He comes up and says, Somebody help me. He goes down again. And finally he comes up the third time, he says, if somebody don't help me, I'm gonna have to let go of these two anvils I was carrying. He was holding on to those things and it was drowning them, it was killing them. We laugh at that little silly little story, but that's exactly what we do. We worry about stuff and it's drowning us spiritually. And it's killing us spiritually. We can't grow. can't develop, we can't mature, our witnesses hurt, people in the job and the family see us worrying and complaining and this and that. Why don't you just let go of those anvils So I'm not going to worry about that. I'm going to trust God. I'm going to trust God. I'm going to have faith in God. I'll do what He says. I'll do what I know I need to do. I'm going to put Put as God's hands. How people agree with me, that's easier said than done. You know what we need? We need the Lord to help us. We need the Holy Spirit to fill us and enable us and empower us. That's all the flesh. All that worry is flesh. It's not spirit. And I read a quote, it's a tremendous quote. We'll never have victory over worry until we see it for what it really is. Sin. It's disobedience. It's a lack of faith. And that's what the Lord's telling his disciples. And so we need the Lord to help us, don't we? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I'm challenged by this as much as anybody, no doubt. And so, Lord, we do ask you to help us. Our flesh wants to worry, our flesh wants to be focused. On these things and distract us from our spiritual well-being. And I ask, dear Lord, that you would help us as your disciples, that we could get to the point where we just trust you And we're so yielded to you that your Holy Spirit just fills us on a daily basis. And the peace of God which passes all understanding, keep our hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. Jesus. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many say, Preacher, I need God to help me not to worry. Any like that? Good grief. I'm worried about some of y'all not raising your hand Let's ask the Lord to help us. Let's let go of whatever that anvil is that's just killing you. Just let go of it. Let the Lord take care of that. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless us now and help us in this matter in Jesus' name. Amen.