Quick thoughts concerning missions. Why in the world do we focus and make such a big deal about missions? I want to give four reasons. What I'm going to say tonight will be nothing new to the vast majority of us. You know this, what I'm going to tell you. You already know it. You've heard it many, many times, there's no doubt. But I think it's important that we keep it, keep putting it in remembrance. uh what we're dealing with and why missions is such a high priority in the life of a church. I think if we're going to be biblical, we must be missions-minded And missions focused and get and getting after it. Daniel chapter number twelve, if you find that there in your Old Testament, I'm going to jump at a couple verses, make a few statements, give a verse And um and then I want to try and just uh finish it up, be very, very brief this evening. J Hosea twelve, verse two. I'm not not Hosea, Daniel, I'm sorry. Daniel chapter 12, verse 2, and many of them, Daniel is speaking of prophetic times. He's talking about the second advent when Christ returns to earth. He says, Many of them that sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake. Some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt. And they that be wise Shall shine as the brightness of the firmament. Now look at this. And they that turn many to righteousness As the stars forever and ever. That's how a word of prayer. Father, I pray you bless my few thoughts. Lord, help me to get to the point. And I pray you'd use it to stir our hearts. And fill me with your spirit, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Why such a high priority of missions? Number one, I put this down: every soul is eternal. Every soul is eternal. Every single person, every single soul around the world is going to spend forever. Uh uh uh I guess what I'm trying to say is it death does not end, we go on beyond death. Bob Jones Sr. , who was a tremendous evangelist back in the 20s, 30s, and 40s, made the statement that he came to Christ when it dawned on him that he was going to live forever somewhere. Now he used the word live. The fact is they're going to exist forever somewhere. And God stirred his heart and he says, I need to make sure I know where I'm going to spend eternity. And every single soul that we met down on this island, down in this nation, every single soul we met is going to spend eternity somewhere. They're an eternal soul. Death is not the end of our existence. People have that idea. That is not true. Death is the door that we go through to our eternal abode. Where we're going to be. So every soul, every soul is eternal. That means we've got to get the message of Christ to him. Number two, I put this down. Salvation is exclusive. There's not many ways to be saved. There's only one way to be saved. We're familiar with John 14, verse 6. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man That's everybody. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. There are no exceptions. We were down there on the last, this past Wednesday was our last morning. We went out into the community And I was with uh Pastor Um Fabo. He's the first fellow that spoke in Spanish. He's the Spanish pastor down independence. Him and I were partners, his wife and another lady. And we met some folks sitting on their back porch and we got talking to them. I was kind of just hanging out. He was telling me what his wife was saying And she was telling her about Christ and died for you, about the importance of trusting Christ. And she asked her, she said, Do you know for sure that when you die, you're going to heaven, not to hell? And the lady said, Well, I hope I'm going to heaven. She goes, I'm I'm trying to be a good person. I go to church and I I try to be a good neighbor, and she listed all these things she was trusting in. And Brother Phabo's wife was able to explain to her that all those things, as wonderful as they are, and we're grateful that she's doing that, but they will not get her to heaven. Only Jesus can get us to heaven. And so salvation is exclusive. When I was um one year my first year in Bible college, I went to a little school down in Philadelphia. I went to Philadelphia College of Bible one year come home of the evenings. One Saturday I was out washing my car in the alleyway behind where my dad and I were living. Stella come walking up. I reached in the car, got a gospel track, and handed it to him, and said, this will tell you how you know for sure you're going to heaven someday. And he goes, Oh, he says, um, uh, he says, I'm going to heaven. He said, we'll all make it one way or another He made this statement. He said, going to heaven, this was his theory, going to heaven is kind of like going downtown Philadelphia. We lived out north of Philly He said, you can take Route 309, you can take the turnpike. He listed a number of highways. You can get to Philly on all these different roads. And he said, that's the way going to heaven is You can get to heaven the Hebrew the Jewish way or the Muslim way. You can get to heaven the Baptist way or the Catholic way. And I said, sir, I don't mean to be disrespectful. He is much older than me. I said, I don't mean to be disrespectful, but that's not what the Bible says. As the Bible says Jesus is the only way to heaven. I said the problem with your your illustration is heaven isn't in downtown Philly. Thank God for that I said heaven is only approached through one door, and that's the Lord Jesus Christ. And so we have to put we have to get involved in missions because the only way a Dominican is going to be saved is through the Lord Jesus Christ. The only way a Garrett Countyan is going to be saved is through the Lord Jesus Christ. The only way a Ukrainian is going to be saved is through the Lord Jesus Christ. The only way an Arab is going to be saved is through the Lord Jesus Christ. And so we must make that an emphasis of our church is getting the gospel. Well, number three, I put this down We ought to emphasize missions because of the end result of the unsaved. The end result of the unsaved. This is one of the most, I say it every time, this is one of the most disturbing teachings in Scripture for me. Now just because I don't like something doesn't make it not true. It's true, it's true. Take your Bible before you go with me to Revelation. Chapter number 21. All the way to the back of your Bible. Revelation chapter 21. He's just referenced the great white throne judgment. Where the unsaved will be resurrected and their bodies will be resurrected. They'll be brought up out of hell. Notice, let me back up to verse number 20. It says in the dead, verse 13 I'm sorry, let me come up to verse 11, chapter 20, verse 11. And I saw the great white throne in him that sat on it, whose face the earth and the heaven fled away, and it was found no place for them. And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God. And the books were opened. And another book was opened, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books according to their works. And the sea gave up the dead which were in it, and death and hell delivered up the dead which were in them. And they were judged, every man according to their works. And death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death. And whosoever, look at this Whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. What a fearful thing. What a fearful thing to die unsaved, to die unforgiven. And God has given us the responsibility to take a message of the Lord Jesus Christ to every single person in this whole world. And do everything we can to urge them to put their faith and trust in Christ. Put their faith and trust in Christ. We were in one classroom, I was I gave the gospel in one classroom. The heads were bowed, those kids were so earnest And as Carlos was giving the invitation after I had preached, I noticed over that teacher's head was bowed, and earnestly she was calling on Jesus Christ to be our Savior. I tell you, be saved from sin and hell is a wonderful thing. And the world needs that message. The world needs it. You have to take the gospel. And then I end with this: is the uncertainty of life. We have to make missions and soul-winning priority. Proverbs 27:1 says, boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. We don't know what tomorrow holds. How many times have we been in a service? Somebody's sitting in a pew, the next week they're out in eternity. How many folks down in Dominican have passed away just since we gave out this literature? Life is uncertain. If you're here tonight and you don't know for sure, you're listening in online You don't know for sure your sins have again on your way to heaven. I'm telling you, do not put that off. Today's the day of salvation. Now is the accepted time. We need to make sure that and we need to do all we can to get the gospel to the law. C. T. Studd was a very popular, a very successful cricket player over in England. They played cricket like we play baseball He's very successful. His parents were very, very wealthy. D. L. Moody, who I referenced this morning, came through England preaching. C. T. Studd's parents heard Moody preach and they got saved. C. T. Studd himself, as if I think he was a 15-year-old boy, heard the gospel, maybe 18. He heard DL Moody preach and he trusted Christ as Savior. He gave up his career as a cricket player He inherited what shw what what would be at 25 years old his parents died. He was a missionary at that point in, I believe, China He inherited on his parents' death what today would be seven million dollars. He took every dollar of that and he invested in the missions. He took none of it for himself. He invested every penny in demissions. He wrote this, it's a lengthy poem. I'm just going to read one stanza. He said, two little lines I heard one day, traveling along life's busy way, bringing conviction to my heart, and from my mind they would not depart. Only one life will soon be past, and only what's done for Christ will last. I believe that with all my heart. We can invest our lives in building houses and accumulating wealth. We can invest our lives in enjoying every pleasure this world has to offer. When it's all said and done, it's all done. But we take our lives and invest them in the gospel, into the cause of Christ. Like these missionaries down there, Joy Joy Wesson. What a testimony. Every reason in the world to come back home and just live here in America, but she's given her heart Only what's done for Christ will last. I'm calling on our church, myself, I'm calling on us that let's invest ourselves in reaching the world with the gospel. Let's dedicate ourselves to the Lord Jesus Christ. Because when it's all done, we'll have nothing else but that. Father, I pray you take these words, stumbled a little bit through them. Lord, I pray your Holy Spirit would be present here tonight and you'd stir our hearts to have our priorities, have eternal priorities. And we give our lives to live for you and serve you. Heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, Preacher, I need to focus on priorities in my life? So much is temporal. So much is material. I need to get back to the eternal. Any like that? Anybody? It's God's spirit. God bless you. Hands all around. So we're going to go into Lord's Supper here in just a moment. Maybe we want to kneel on an old altar and say, Lord, I want to be wholehearted. I want you to use me. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand up.