Well, good evening. Let me ask you to turn in your Bibles tonight. to uh Matthew chapter twenty-eight. Matthew chapter twenty-eight. Great to be at uh Mountain Lake again And good to see some familiar faces. I was gonna say older faces, but uh all of us have faces that are a little older than last time, right? But it is great to be here. June and I love this place. Of course they uh appreciate our relationship with the Leathermans. And just uh enjoy each and every time we come to this church. We appreciate you folks very much. Let me just say a word about the faith promise. Real quick. And I know I've shared this with you before, but just to remind you what faith promise is all about And uh you might jot this down, or at least in your memory. Faith promise is, first of all, a commitment made to God Now that's really important to understand because uh you're praying this week that God would show you what to do. And then when he shows you what he wants you to do, how he wants you to plug into missions, giving for this coming year, and you agree with him about it, then you make a promise to him And uh it's not to a missionary, it's not to Pastor Lederman or a Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, it's a promise made to God Secondly, it is a commitment to be given through the church. God works through his church today. And the Lord has given you folks the privilege of being in a church where faith promise giving to missions is emphasized. And not just emphasize it's a priority. And that is a privilege. Churches all over this area, good churches. But they do not uh have faith, promise, missions giving, do not place the emphasis on it that you do, and uh the command has been given to his local church to take the gospel to the world And so it is a commitment to be carried out through the church. God desires to do his work through his church. Number three, it is a commitment to be given above the tithes and offerings to the church. Now that's important because you really cannot scripturally give to missions unless you tithe. Because we cannot take our tithe and use it for anything else. Uh the Bible tells us very clearly we're we're a thief if we do that. So we must first tithe and give offerings to our church, and then the missions is not given to the church, but given through the church. And it's a totally different uh giving altogether, and hopefully we'll uh get to emphasize uh some of that this week. And then number four, and I think this is extremely important, and that is it is a commitment to be given Consistently. Now why is that important? Because sometimes faith promise is presented as something sort of mystical. Something sort of dangling out there that if it happens, I'll do it. If God provides, then I'll give it. If God leads us to do something, you can mark it down. He's going to provide for it to be done And when God puts on your heart what he wants you to give to missions this coming year, then it will be there And if we do not look at it as a responsibility of consistency, then we'll be guilty of finding some other place for it instead of where we committed it to. Right? That's just the way we're made. And we're all made out of the same stuff. So it's a commission a commitment to be given in a consistent way. Now, aren't you glad that God has put you in a church where you're able to be involved in missions the way you're involved? Now just think about that. There is such a benefit of uh being in a place where we're not just challenged But we're able to make that personal connection with God and get involved in missions the way He wants us to get involved. Did you ever think about this? And you I know I saw you say this to a church that that uh you've been involved in missions, you've given to missions, you're committed to missions And uh God has used you in just a tremendous way over the years But is uh have you ever just thought to yourself, you know, why do we really do what we do, the way we do it? Or maybe someone has asked you about missions. Hey, why do you folks over there place such an emphasis on missions? And really the uh the answer we you know sort of give uh in response is uh well we do it because that's what the Bible says. And that's good. But we ought to know, and we ought to know because it will strengthen our relationship to God in this matter of missions if we know From the Bible, while we do what we do. And I want us to just think about that tonight. Just simply think about that thought. Why does Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church do missions the way we do missions? Why does Brother Leatherman uh push us, encourage us to do what we do, and why is it laid out the way it's laid out? Well, it is because the Bible says to do it the way you do it. But I want us just to sort of look at how it lines up. So let's pray and we'll start in Matthew 28. Father, we thank you for the opportunity of this week. We thank you for this church and the blessing you have made this church to so many missionaries around the world. The testimony that you have built in this one spot of the world And in the hearts and lives of many, because they uh they have that relationship with you with you and through this church. And I pray that this week would be a week that you're able to take us just a step further. Just a little bit of a greater involvement because we are personally touched by your word. And the testimonies and the presentations of these missionaries. Bless this week. And God, I pray, especially for tonight, that you would honor the faithfulness of your people here and give them something. That they desire from you. Speak to our hearts. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Well, we're going to begin in verse uh in chapter 28. And I want to start in verse 16. And the first thought is simply this, because this is where missions begins. It begins with the command that we are given personally as we are a part of a church Where God puts us and privileges us to gain an understanding of not just the responsibility, but the privilege we have to be involved in missions. Now we know the command is given in all of the Gospels, Acts chapter 1. But let's look at this one, beginning in verse 16 of chapter of Matthew chapter 28. The Bible says, Then the eleven disciples went away into Galilee. Into a mountain where Jesus had appointed them. Now you might wonder if you ever finally underline that word appointed. Because that's very important here. The thought of this word appointed is that it is to arrange in an orderly manner This is something that's not just, you know, just an accidental meeting. This is something that has been planned by God. Planned by Christ. And it has come together, and it is being done for a specific reason. Hey I think this meetings have been arranged tonight. Huh? I think God has some things that He wants to speak to us about tonight. Tomorrow night, Friday night, Sunday morning, Sunday night, God knows what He what each of us need to move us to another plateau of involvement in world evangelism. And uh he wants to speak to us and he wants to draw us to to commitments, to decisions that will move us. uh a little closer to him completing what he wants to do in and through us. But we find that he's uh has his disciples, he has these apostles coming to this one place for this meeting. Verse 17, it says, And when they saw him, they worshiped him, but some doubted. And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying. All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. All power is given unto me. Now the word power there is different than Acts chapter one where we talk about uh dudamous power, dynamite power, explosion power. The word power in this section has this thought. It has the thought of authority, of the right Jesus has arranged a meeting. He is just about ready to ascend back to heaven and crucified, buried, risen. The gospel message is completed. And now he's getting ready to ascend back to heaven. And he's meeting with these men, these 11 men that he has spent some three, three and a half years to prepare for this moment. And we see in in some places that uh they really don't have a complete understanding of what's happened, what's taking place. So he's standing before them in this meeting, this arranged meeting, and he says to them All power is given unto me. Now here's what he's saying. Fellas, I want you to listen. Because what I'm getting ready to tell you, I have a right to tell you. I have been given this message to deliver to you. I have all of the authority that's needed in heaven and in earth. I have all of the authority that's needed to tell you what I'm getting ready to tell you. Now, if if you and I listened, To God, with that in mind, it would be more meaningful to us. Huh? If we really listen to the Word of God, if we really listen to the Holy Spirit of God, when He reaches down and speaks to our heart, if If we really got the thought, hey, what I'm getting ready to be told, he has the right to tell me. Huh? He has the right to tell me how to spend my life. He has the right to tell me what I should be involved in, what I shouldn't be involved in. He has the right to tell me the commitments that need to be made. He has the right to give me orders. He has all the right because he did not just make me, he saved me. He changed me. He has equipped me. And because of his presence, everything good that I have is because of him. And because he's there. If we listen to the Word of God with that in mind, we would probably be better students, better pupils. Better disciples. So Christ says to these fellows, I have a right to tell you what I'm getting ready to tell you. Now this is this is the beginning of missions. That's why you do what you do. That's why you have a missions conference. Because God has a right to give us directions in this matter of getting the gospel to the world He has a right to tell us what to do as a church. As a congregation, he has a right to read to reach down into this group. Of individuals collectively and say, this is the way I want this congregation going. This is what I want this congregation to prepare for for this coming year. This is what I want you to do. And then as he speaks to you generally, we must take it personally, individually. We must listen and realize he's a personal God with a personal plan for each and every one of us. And he has a right to reach down and say, I want to tell you the part that you are to play. Here's where I want you to plug in. Here's how I want you to be. Here's what I want you to do. I have the power to tell you what I'm telling you. And then he gives the command. As he continues, go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. Now I like this particular command, this account of the the commission that's given, because It definitely makes us realize that the command is given to the church. When he says to us here, go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them You see, the authority to baptize is in the church. It's not in a para-church organization, it's not in an individual. Pastor Leatherman does not have the right to choose who and what to baptize and all of that. The congregation, the church, does that, you see. And he and you all as a part of the church, uh that's the the authority has been given there to baptize. So When we see that he tells us to teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Ghost, then we realize that the command has been given to the church. And so that's why you have a church emphasis on world evangelism. That's why you have a church emphasis on giving. That's why you have a church emphasis on making a personal commitment. To be involved in missions because he's given that command to you as a church. And so that's where it begins. And he tells us that uh that uh he's going to be with us. When we make that commitment, he's going to be with us. Just the responsibility that we have to make that decision. Now, why is this important? Why is it important to look at this authority and And no, because you see, when we have the right attitude about authority, and when we have when we have the right knowledge about the instructions, Then commitments are made, things are accomplished. If there's no respect for the authority, If there's no willingness to look at the authority as the final orders, then there's not going to be any desire. To really carry out the orders. And I'm convinced that is a major problem, listening to the right authority. You see, when orders are given by authority to someone that respects and honors authority Then what is being said is carried out. If there's no respect for the authority, If there's no honor given to the authority, then the one given the orders will not take it seriously at all. There will not be a commitment. I worked uh before m I was in ministry, I worked in manufacturing and I was in management in Mactif Manufacturing uh and uh a plant. And uh my my job at this time I was uh it was a cable Plant producing cable, single strand telephone cable up to ten thousand uh high voltage uh power cable And my department was the we called it the extrusion department, which was the last process on the cable before it went into testing. To be shipped to be tested and shipped out. And so uh so when it came out of our department, it had to be ready. It had to be ready to uh prepare for shipping. And uh it was uh you know, we were on a thirty day uh production and you tried to get all you could out in those thirty days because that was the the money for the company and and when you get to the end of the month, the end of that thirty day period, all you were trying to pump out, you were trying to get as much out as you could, and if you could get it through our department into testing ready to go than they would count it uh for that month. One one month we got this uh easy run I mean it was tens of thousands of feet of cable that was just a good runner and and easy to to get through the machines And boy, we cranked those machines up. We just had maybe forty-eight hours to get it all done. I mean we ran hundreds of thousands of feet of cable. We we had it going high speed And we had it going so fast, it was just all over the plant floor. They couldn't test it fast enough as we were bringing it out. So we just run it and it was sitting all over the place. So I come in on Saturday morning. And uh we get the announcement, uh none of it's any good. We crank the machines up so fast. And had that vinyl going on those uh uh that sela uh insulation going on those uh on that cable so hot that there were pinholes all through the insulation. I mean none of it was good. It had to be stripped, run back through, and we're we're standing there at the door of the plant The production, the the assistant uh uh plant managers there, the production managers there, the scheduling managers there The uh testing manager is there, I, department manager, I'm there, we're all standing there talking about the problem. We're just talking about the problem. The plant manager walks in And when he walked in, the production manager shared the problem with him. He said, What do you think we ought to do? And he looked at each one of us. And let each one of us express what we felt should be done. Once each of us spoke, he said, let's do one, two, three, four, five, he turned around and left Instantly we started doing something. Why? The authority had spoken. And we respected the authority. Do you know why we don't do a lot of what we don't do? Because we just really do not respect authority like we should. We just do not honor authority like we should. Huh? God has a right to tell you, to tell me exactly what we ought to be doing. This week, God has a right to reach down in this congregation to each individual and say, This is what I want you to do. And I'll tell you what, if you and I do not respect that, if we do not honor him as having that right Then we we are the losers. Amen? We are the loser. Let me give you a second thought. Turn with me to uh Acts chapter thirteen. Once he gives that command to the church Then the church has to carry out that plan. Why do you do missions the way you do missions? Because you've been given the command. And secondly, because The example has been set. The example has been given. In Acts chapter thirteen We have the example of how a church should function in this matter of missions. And the example is the church at Antioch. This church is used in a tremendous way. Now we we could go back to chapter eleven. We don't have time to do that tonight, but we see That's church forming as as a group was scattered from Jerusalem because of the persecution and and people were getting saved and finally they sent Barnabas over there and check things out and he got over there and it was so big for him evidently he had to get Paul and he went back and got Paul and and brought him over there and they've been uh they've been leading this church And uh they uh all of a sudden, we come to Acts chapter 13 and notice what it says. Now there were in the church that was at Antioch certain prophets and teachers as Barnabas. And Simeon that was called Niger, and Lucius of Cyrene, and Mannion, which had been brought up with Herod, Herod the Tetrarch, and Saul. As they ministered to the Lord and fasted. Now notice here: the Holy Ghost said Separate me Barnabas and Saul from the work, for the work whereunto I have called them. And when they had fasted and prayed and laid their hands on them, they sent them away. So they being sent forth by the Holy Ghost. Now, I want to see two things here that has been set for us as an example for us to follow. Because this is the responsibility you have as a church. Number one, you have the responsibility to realize people are called by the Holy Ghost. The church does not call people. Moms and dads do not call people. Brother Leatherman does not call people. God calls people The Holy Spirit of God at his appointed time reaches down in the life and the heart of an individual and directs that individual As to what he wants them to do. Not just missionaries. Now, we know we have that as an example for missions, but that's true for the work right here in this local assembly. You are saved, and you've been placed in this church to serve God, to live for God And God has something for you to do. God wants to call you. God wants to put you. God has equipped you. Now you can mark it down. If God put you in this church, he has already equipped you for the work he wants you to do. You say, well, I just don't know what he's equipped me with. And I don't know. You're not going to know until you until you agree to get where he wants you to get. Then the equipping becomes evident. Then uh uh you you know it's like uh being a preacher. Uh churches churches want uh y uh every church wants a young preacher With 25 years experience. Huh? Now, how do you get 25 years experience? You have to start And it's good to have 25 years experience. But you're not going to have 25 years experience and still be a young person. Hey, you gotta realize you experience the equipping when you get in where God wants you. God has something he wants you to do. But the missionary is called by God. The Holy Spirit of God, at his appointed time, reaches down and calls an individual. But The church has a responsibility. The Holy Ghost calls, the Holy Spirit calls, but the church sends. Mission Board does not send missionaries. A mission board assists missionaries, but the church sends missionaries. A mission board does not tell missionaries where to go. God tells missionaries where to go. And the church sends them to that place. And the mission board, if they want to use a mission board, uh the purpose of a mission board is to assist the church in getting their missionary to the field and the missionary when he gets to the field. But the church has a a uh major responsibility. Now think about this. It's easy for someone to get called to the mission field, and when they get called to the mission field, there's an excitement to get there. I mean, hey, you know, when God calls you to do something, many times you think right then, I am ready to do it. But you see, the responsibility, the church has the responsibility to make sure that person is not sent until they're ready. The church has the responsibility to make sure that that missionary is equipped more than with just the excitement to do it. They're equipped with the maturity to do it as much as possible. And that's the responsibility when God calls somebody from this congregation, then it's Brother Leatherman's responsibility and your responsibility to make sure they are taught, they're prepared. They're equipped emotionally and spiritually and physically and they're ready as much as humanly And be seen to be approved to go. When these were considered ready, then the church approved them to go. And the church has that responsibility. That's why you do what you do. Brother Connor's been here, hasn't he? Rick Connor? Yeah, maybe some of you have met Rick Connor. Uh he pastors in Lexington Park, uh, Maryland, in that area. And uh he came to our church years ago, and when he got saved, uh uh I mean he was a mess. Uh he he uh he had hair down. Um some of you women would just love to have the head of hair he had. And tattoos all over his body, dope head. He was a mess. And boy, God began to deal with his heart immediately. I mean, he got into Bible school. He got into everything immediately. And God got all over him. And God called him to preach. Now it was our responsibility to make sure he didn't not get to doing what he thought he could do when he wasn't ready to do it. And so we had the responsibility of step by step preparing him for that. Three years of institute at our place, two years of Bible college, and then he came back on staff. And then he worked on staff for a while. And then after he was on staff for a while, there came a day when we had peace. He's ready. And that's when I loaded him in the car and took him for a ride and said, I've got an area that needs a church. I didn't tell him that's where he ought to go. But I just took him for a ride. And while we were on that ride, God reached down and said, This is where I want you. And today he has a wonderful church, wonderful congregation. And had a tremendous missions program. People being saved constantly. Why? Because it was step by step according to the scriptures That's why you do what you do the way you do it. Now, how do you accomplish that? Let me hurry and finish this. So turn with me to Philippians chapter 4. Now the commands given the church Does her job. And then we find here how God puts the two together. Now, Philippians is a book of the Bible written by a church planting missionary. And throughout this letter he he talks about that connection of the church with the missionary. I I'm going to start Well, let me show you this one verse, verse ten of chapter four. He says in verse ten of chapter four, But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly that now at the last Your care of me has flourished again. Your care of me. Now what he's talking about there is the church's support for him. This church supported Paul as a missionary financially. He they they cared for him. That actually that phrase there uh has the thought of uh uh being on his being on their mind He's saying to them, I know I am on your mind. I know you're involved in our ministry. We're connected. But then go down to verse 14. It says, notwithstanding ye have well done, he commends them, that ye did communicate with my affliction. Now that word communicate there has the thought of uh thought of to to share in the c uh company, to to work together. It actually has the thought of of partnership. He's talking to them because they are partners together in ministry. He uses the word again in verse 15. Now, ye Philippians know also that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, look at this, no church communicated with me. Concerning what? Giving and receiving, but ye only Now he's talking here about the missionary church relationship. And he's saying, now you and I are partners in this thing. We are together in this endeavor of starting churches. And the way that we have partnered is giving and receiving. Why do we support missionaries? Because we want to partner with those missionaries in their ministry. Why do you do it the way you do it? Because the Bible says so. Why do you uh uh give the faith promise? And then why do you take on a missionary? You've had you've had many missionaries come through here over the years. Uh you don't have all of their pictures on the wall or however you recognize them or places on the map or or prayer letters coming in. You only have the ones that you've partnered with. Now you may pray for some others But the ones that you have partnered with, you support them financially. They are the ones that you are tied with. In a way that you're not involved with any other missionary. Why? Because that's what the Bible says That's how you partner. That's what the conference is for. The conference is to prepare to partner with more missionaries this coming year to be able to do more. So he says, you supported us. And then he says in verse 16, look at this. For even in Thessalonica, here it is, ye sent. That's support. Once and again, unto my necessity Not because I desire a gift. Here's the partnership. Not because I desire a gift, but I desire fruit that may abound to your account. Partnership. You see that? He keeps talking about them supporting him. We're in this thing together. We're partners in this That's why you take missionaries on the way you do, because you desire to partner as God puts them on your heart. Look at this. Verse uh 18. But I have all and abound. You think he was in a some resort someplace. He's in jail, in prison. He says, I am full, having received, look at this now, having received of Epaphroditus the things which were sent from you. What's that? Support. They support his ministry. Now they they couldn't support him consistently month by month like you do now. A lot of time they didn't even know where Paul was. He might be in jail someplace. He might be starting a church someplace. They didn't know where he was all the time. But when they did know where he was, they were in contact. They were sending. Now notice what he says. He describes what it means. He says, having received of a papyritus, the things were sent from you. Look at this. An odor A fragrance of a sweet smell, a sacrifice well pleasing to God He said, Listen, when you send to me for my need When you take care of me the way you do, it's like a sweet smell. It's a sweet fragrance going up to God. Yeah, you ladies, sometimes you walk through a mall or a store and somebody will walk by you and they'll say, What are you wearing? Huh? That smells so good. Well, you like that, don't you? You run home and tell your husband, give me another gallon of that. I almost flashed that all over. Paul said, listen, when you send that missions Support to me, that offering to me, that need for me, God goes, man, that smells good We ought to want to splash a lot of that on. Amen. That's why we do it the way we do it. It's not a fundraising time. It's not a hip hip hoorah. Let's see who can outdo the other. It's not a competition. We do what the Bible tells us we need to do. We follow the pattern. We do not have to come up with a new game. It's already set. All we need to do is get involved. Stay between the lines. And just attempt to score as much as we can. Amen. And that's what this week's about. Boy, you and I ought to just say, God. Help me this week, help me this week to just move another step, just to grow a little bit more Just to move to the next plateau. Help me just to be more of what I need to be. Amen. Let's pray. Every head bowed, every eye closed. How many folks tonight will say, preacher, that's what I want? Would you pray that God would help me this week? To hear from him and to have in mind, he has a right to say that to me. He has a right to give me those orders. If that's you, would you slip your hand up? Pray for me. That's what I want. God bless you. Why don't you slip out of the place tonight? The invitation. Make you an altar up here. And uh just say, God, I want to be exactly what the Bible wants me to be. I want to be a Bible Christian. I want to be a I want to be involved in missions just like you want me to be. Show me this week what I need to do. Let's stand as we pray. Father, bless the invitation tonight. Help us, help us to hear some things this week. Maybe not new, but fresh. Something that has not stirred us before, but it does this week. And God, I pray that you would just help us to think as we go through this week, He has a right to tell me that. He has a right to request that of me. That's you tonight. Why don't you step out of your place and come? It's a finished place. Why don't you step out of your place? Get along with God and say, God, that's what I want.