But I'd rather preach to more people. I don't know why. But uh I do want to thank everyone uh for coming out. It it was interesting because this past Sunday Uh me and Jackie were standing out in the foyer and I overheard the pastor. I don't know who he was talking to, but he said he was going to be out of town Wednesday through Saturday. And I thought That's surely not this Wednesday through Saturday. And uh I told Jack S I better ask him. So she when we went out, she said, she said, When are you going out of town pastor? He said, this Wednesday and Sat through Saturday I was like, well I guess that means I was supposed to pre I thought it was in March. She s she J Jackie said, I thought I thought it was in March we were you were going out town. He said, No, it's Wednesday. He said you'll be ready, right? I said, I guess. I don't have to be I'll have to be ready, but uh so I I I found out on uh Sunday. I mean I I usually procrastinate, but usually I know that I'm procrastinating this time I didn't really I didn't really know it. But uh I last time uh a couple of w weeks ago I got to preach and I uh I said the next time I preached I was gonna preach on ministry because I've I've been wanting to do that and uh I was going to just preach about what is what is ministry and uh how to find balance in ministry. Um I think we find out I find out so often that that we're awfully busy. And so often we put a lot of things in place of in front of where our ministry should be. But so finding balance in ministry sometimes is a challenge. But I'm not going to do that. I I I've been kind of working on it for the last couple weeks in my head, but never put it on paper. And then uh Sunday, Sunday afternoon I started putting it on paper. And uh Monday, when you when you prepared for for I was thinking of Brian, when you prepared for messages, did the Lord ever change your mind like really soon soon before you had to preach or mis direct you a different way sometimes and and uh you know I've just been wanting to to to I've been thinking about that ministry for a long time. But Monday I was driving around at work And uh I told George, I think, about this. But uh I was uh driving around at work and uh I was just thinking about the message and and things and And I was thinking, you know, it's a Wednesday night. Pastors out of town are calling for a storm. Everybody knows I'm preaching tonight. Why in the world would anyone want to come to church? I wasn't that. Yeah, we think strange things sometimes. That's what I was thinking. Uh uh anyone's ever heard me, but Because I I I know I'm I'm not called to I'm not called to preach. It's like I told George. I don't I don't feel I'm called to preach, but I'm to fill in and help the pastor when I can. So that's what I feel like I'm doing here is filling in for the pastor and I it is a privilege. But I thought, you know, why why in the world would would people when I come out to to church. And I just got to thinking, well, why why do we you know why do we go to church? And it just seemed like the Lord just kind of started pushing me another way. So I just I just I changed my uh I changed my message or Dave asked me what the message title was. It's just simply Why Do We Go to Church? And uh, you know, I I just started working on that. So that's what that's what we're gonna talk about uh tonight. I'll try to get through this, my notes here quickly. Um I I I was thinking, you know, if if we examine that question, why do we really go to church? Uh I think it could change. change a lot in our lives if we if we think about that a little bit, you know, and I was thinking, do we sometimes are are we going are we going to church just are we just going through the motions sometimes? You know, and uh I I got to thinking Do we ever or have have you ever can't came to church and went through Sunday school, Sunday morning service, and got home and had no clue what the message was about? My dad asked me that. That dad's a dad's a classic. He does that to me all the time. He's like, what was the service about today? And I'll have to admit there's been times when I was like, I don't know. I I I've been at church. I I left this morning, I got up, got ready, went to church, I came home, had no clo I don't even know why I was there. Yeah. And I got to thinking about that, you know, and uh I know it happens to people because it's happened to me. And uh text if you want to turn on your Bibles, the text is going to be in Hebrews 10, 19 through 25. Any of you that know what that text is, Hebrews 10 25 is a really familiar Verse, you're probably thinking, uh, it's Wednesday night. We're in church. What in the world is this text all about? not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together. But uh it's the text I I chose for tonight. Um so let's read we'll read this and we'll pray and then we'll uh we'll get through this. Clock's really hard to see from here, I know. So tell me if I'm going too long. Uh Hebrews ten, twenty through twenty-five. Having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest I Holiest by the blood of Jesus, by a new and living way, which he hath consecrated for us through the veil, that is to say, his flesh. And having an high priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water. Let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering, for he is faithful that promised. Let us consider one another to provoke unto love and to good works. Not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together as the manner of Psalm is, but exhorting one another, and so much the more as you see the day approaching. Let's pray. Father, uh thank you for uh I thank you for our church, Lord, and uh I thank you for uh those who have have come out tonight, Lord, and even with the weather. Another calling force coming in, Lord. I thank you that uh made an attempt and came out. Lord, we thank you. Thank you for your your word, Lord. I just pray, Lord, tonight, that you would uh fill me with your spirit, Lord, and just uh get me out of the way and and Lord just uh speak to hearts tonight. I pray that uh through this message that it'll it'll uh touch someone's heart and be a help. maybe an encouragement, maybe just uh get us thinking uh about some things, Lord. We do uh thank you for our pastor and pray you be with him. As he's away this evening, Lord, I pray that you bless the service up there. Help him to be a help to this young pastor and the church there, Lord. We just uh ask these things in your name. Amen. Alright, so why do we go to church? Um Hebrews uh ten twenty-five there it says Do not forsake the assembling of yourselves together. The first thing that I thought of when I asked myself, why do I go to church is because God tells us to go to church. And uh Jackie said when I told her that, she said, or I think I said, well if if he tells us to go then that's all that should be all that matters. And she said, Well that's a good that's good, that's all you have to say, we're done then. But uh we're gonna look at a few more. But you know God tells us uh to not forsake the assembling of ourselves together. Um And here in Hebrews, who who's God talking to here? Who's being addressed here when he's telling these people not to forsake their assembly together? Right, he's talking to to believers, to Christians, to save people. Um I was thinking, you know, uh if if we go back to when maybe when we started going well let me ask this question first. Who Who here was saved? Didn't go to church before, but they were saved, and then they started going to church after they were saved. Anybody? Okay. Who maybe grew up in a Christian home, went to church your whole life, up through, you know, maybe like me, then was saved. And then continued going to church. Anyone like that? A couple of people like that. You know, I uh I was thinking, you know, when did I really start going to church? 'Cause I grew up in a Christian home, went to church my whole life. Uh you know, and uh But I don't think I was really I wasn't really going for the right reason. No, we should bring our kids up in church, right? And and raise them up in church and and teach them. So that when they come that age of of understanding that they can trust Christ as Savior. But I I feel like uh that when I really when church really started to mean something to me, uh was after I was saved. When I was saved, then I had a real desire uh to be in church. So uh he's talking to saved people here, telling them that not to to forsake the assembling of themselves together. I I thought, you know, after when I was saved, when we're saved, I think one of the reasons why we have a desire is because when we're saved, there's a change that takes place, or at least a change. uh should take place in our lives if we truly trust in Christ as Savior. There's a change. The Holy Spirit comes in and dwells us. So uh so our our we're our lives are changed and uh first Peter 1 Peter 2 2. If you want to flip over there, you can. I'm going to flip over there. I was thinking of this this verse. I looked it up. 1 Peter 2. 2 says, the Bible tells us that When we're saved, we'll desire his word. It says, as newborn babes, desire the sincere milk of the Word. So the Bible tells us when we're when we trust Christ as Savior, we're newborn uh a new Christian that we should have a desire for the word of God and most often that's that's in our our church is where we find uh the word of God So as newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the word. When we're saved, we have a desire to be in church. The Lord God has changed us And we have a desire. I I feel that we have a a a desire. You hear a lot of people say w after they're say they just they want to be in church. Um I I thought, you know, it it's it's a it's a it's a really great thing when uh when you see someone come to know the Lord and you see them and they want to be in church and they're excited about being in church. And I was thinking of uh Bushrod there were the other when I was preparing this, you know, uh getting saved and then You know, he's he's he's he's here, he wants to be here, he's excited to see people excited. You know, sometimes I I wonder when I hear people see people making professions of faith and and it doesn't seem like they have any desire uh f for anything spiritual. They have a desire to be in church. It kind of bothers you know bothers me. It kinda makes you think, makes you wonder. You know, not to say that That they didn't get saved. You know, sometimes I think some of the responsibility falls on us. I think maybe sometimes people have a desire, but they really don't know They have a desire for the word, but maybe they need someone to to help them, someone to uh disciple them and help them along the way. Somewhat but it bothers me, you know, when when when people don't have a desire to uh for anything uh spiritual like that. But it is it is a blessing when you see people like get saved. Like Brother Mike, you know, I think of Mike when he got saved and he was just just had a desire for things of the Lord Um the verse goes on to say um we desire the word goes on to say We desire the word so that we can grow. Growth is something that in the Christian life that that should always be taking place. Um I thought of that. You know, sometimes and I'll probably say it on down here, I know I have it in here. Uh sometimes maybe we're older saints, we we went through, you know, maybe maybe we we feel like there's nothing else for us uh to learn, but uh we should always be growing, going to church. In church we grow. Uh the word is powerful. Um, you know, we start out the Bible says we start out with with milk. And then and then we we uh we go to move the meat. We're always growing. Um we're always growing into Christ. No one can ever attain perfection. We're always we're to be striving to be like Christ. Keep striving and striving to be more like Christ and to grow. And and that's something we can never reach. So since we can never reach what we're trying to should be trying to attain, we know there's always growth. uh there for us. Um always be growing. Um The next thing I thought of was not only are we uh in church to grow, but there's a lot of benefits. A lot of benef I I feel there's a lot of benefits to to being in church, being in God's house. Um Growth is is is definitely a benefit. Um The next one I thought of was uh fellowship is is a a real benefit of going to church. I want to flip over to Acts. Chapter two, if you want to turn over there. I'm turning there, so you may as well. Acts chapter two, verse forty one and forty-two. It's a good thing I typed out these notes because when I wrote 'em down the other night Then I was writing them down. When I went to go back and type them, I started looking up my references and none of my references matched up. Not one of them. I I don't know what in the world was going on. I I looked up the reference and I was like, that isn't what it's supposed to say So now let's go back and look it up again. Anyway. Acts two, forty-one and forty-two Very familiar passage. So then they that gladly received his word were baptized, and the same day there were added unto them about three thousand souls. And they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship and in breaking of bread and in prayers. So here we have these 3,000 or so people that are that are saved. It's a great growth to the to the church there. But for these that were saved, it says they gladly received and were baptized. It said they continued steadfastly, steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship. Um I I don't know about you, but I I enjoy Christian fellowship. I I really do. You know, there was a time where it didn't it didn't mean much to me. But uh, you know I uh I I love our church and our our church family. Um you know sometimes sometimes a church family is is stronger. A lot of times I I think a church family is stronger sometimes than our immediate family. in a lot of people's lives. Sometimes the church family is all people have. You know? That's all they have. And uh it the the fellowship that that we have as a church is is a I think is a wonderful benefit. Uh I enjoy the the fellowship. I I enjoy breaking of bread. Right? Ed. I enjoy the breaking of bread. It's good stuff. Uh I enjoy the doctrine. You know. When I was younger to sit through a service, I was bored out of my mind. But uh now to hear someone teach, you might not be enjoying it tonight, but anyway, to hear someone teach to hear to get up for a pastor to get up, I love hearing the pastor preach. I do. And to hear these these these great evangelists and people that he brings through here preach and teach, uh, doctrine is is a wonderful uh a benefit uh of of coming to church. And then tonight we're s we're here to to hear the word. Thankfully the the power is in the word, not the the the voice. The power is there. And we're here tonight and we're gonna we're gonna uh come together and pray. So that's another uh another thing. It says that they were steadfast and uh let me find it doctrine, fellowship, breaking of bread and prayers. That's a wonderful benefit. And the next the next benefit I thought of is uh it's refreshing. It refreshes us. I want to go to if I can find my verse. Oh, Romans fifteen. Paul. Romans 15, 30 through 32. Like I said, it's Paul Paul speaking here. It says, Now I beseech you, brethren, for the Lord Jesus Christ's sake and for the love of the Spirit. that ye strive together with me in your prayers to God for me, that I may be delivered from them that do not believe in Judea, and that my service which I have for Jerusalem may be accepted of the saints, that I may come unto you with joy by the will of God. And may with you be refreshed. Paul was was looking forward to to being back with with fellow believers in in the church here. And it says it refresh it refreshed him. Uh I don't know the other verse, but another verse I I remember him saying was he was oft refreshed. Um I uh I I'm refreshed when I come to church. A lot of times I'll come to church on Sunday morning and uh after the week and and things, you know, and and by Sunday night, you know, there's just a There's just a difference in being in God's house and with believers. It's refreshing. It was refreshing to Paul. It's refreshing to me. The next next uh I'm moving along pretty good. Try to keep moving, get you out of here before the snow gets. Next thing I I thought is it's uh we're encouraged and s and strengthened um by being in the in in the church. We'll go over now to Luke twenty-two. Actually you don't need to go to Luke twenty two, I'll just I'll tell you what it says. Uh it's it's uh Peter, when Peter was was Jesus was telling Peter that he was going to deny him. And uh he tells him that after he was uh maybe I should turn there. Uh anyway, he he tells he tells Peter to uh to strengthen the brethren is what he tells Peter to do. Um You know, by hearing the the word of God preached at church, uh it strengthens, uh it strengthens us and encourages me. Um just being in church to me is is people encourage me, you know, and and uh I I hope that sometimes we're I'm an encouragement to others in a help. Uh I think when when the family when the when the church family gets together it's a it's an encouraging time and a strengthening. At least it should be. It should be. Um the time. uh helped us uh coming into the week. Uh the new week. The next one I have is it cleans us up. John 15 Termined right there. John 15, 3. I'll just read from the beginning of the chapter. Jesus speaking, I am the vine. I am the true vine, and my father is the husbandman. Every branch in me that beareth not fruit he taketh away, and every branch that beareth fruit he purgeth it, that it may bring forth more fruit. Now ye are clean through the word Which I have spoken unto you. I thought the the the word of God has a has a cleansing effect, I think, on us when the when the w when we're in the the church and and hear hear the word preach. Sometimes uh you know, we get out of church we can get awful, awfully dirty sometimes out out in the world. And uh maybe we're we we're not in church for a week or a couple of weeks at a time and you know it's uh The the the the Word of God uh to me has a has a cleansing effect uh when it when it's preached. And um there's bhikkhus of others. Those are just some I I picked out and uh and had some verses for Um uh fellow it we grow, we have fellowship together, uh it's refreshing, encouraging, strengthens us, prepares us, cleanses us. Uh word is a very powerful, powerful thing. Since the word of God is quick and powerful. Um I did think though, you know, as even as good as church can be, sometimes I had danger. I don't know if it's really a danger. There's really not a danger in coming to church. I don't think there was any bad way about it. But um Not not not in this so much in this church, but w what do uh a lot of people these days, especially a lot of young people Why do they go to church? What what is what is drawing our young people to church these days? Anyone give it a shot? Fun. Fun. They're being inner they want to be entertained. Today we want to be entertained and any and whatever we do, we want to please our flesh and gratify our fr flesh. And and that's what that's what is drawing a lot of our our youth today is the mega churches who are are uh and and and to be quite honest, the the churches are there to entertain them They're set up to entertain. So often the gospel may be there, but it's usually so watered down. Not to say someone can't get saved, but it's usually so watered down in those types of churches that you know it may it it's it's barely there. Um but they're being entertained and and that's why a lot of people go and I I will admit, I was thinking, you know, what do we use to draw kids into our Sunday school? In our youth ministries, a lot of times. Well we use the drawing. We use entertainment. Now I'm not saying there's something wrong with with what we do. Uh you know, we we go out on on the bus routes and we we pass out fires that says ride the bus or get some candy or we're gonna have gym night or or something like that. But even in our off campus events we call them, which we had just the other night, we had a gym night for the kids. Uh we use those things to get to to bring the kids here, but that's not the focus. That's not the emphasis. The emphasis is get them here and then and then they can have fun. There's nothing wrong with having fun, but we want to want to present the gospel to them. And teach them. That's the ultimate. At gym night we have fun and then we gather around and we have a lesson. Jackie brought a lesson the other night, we pray, and uh there's we make sure that that's there So uh you know they can be entertained. Joy said uh what did she say at our last teacher or first teacher banquet last year? She said who w after we got out of there, she said, and who says Christians can't have fun? You know, we can have fun. But uh we gotta remember that that's not the that's not the the main the main thing. Um Dr. Gibbs, I I when we were at Milford three years ago, uh Dr. Gibbs preached all the messages down there and I I've I must have listened to his CDs a hundred times. I just I just love to to I just listen to him over and over and over. And I get I I just a lot of quotes and things I I remember. What I was what I remembered when I was going through this was a quote he said, uh he said, if you go to church looking for nothing You'll find it every time. That was a quote. And I was thinking, you know, if we come pastor, Pastor in a Sunday school or uh some lessons on um how to prepare to come to church, just some practical things. And uh you know if we if we get up Sunday morning and we come to church, tell me with revival, if we don't pray and ask the Lord to send us revival. You know, if we're not looking for it, we're not gonna find it. And uh you know, it's the same thing. We come Sunday morning We're not looking for anything and we go home with nothing. We get home we have no clue why we were we were why we're even here. And uh I'm I'm guilty of it, you know. I I've done it many times. Um But he said, uh if you go to church looking for nothing, you'll find it every time. He said, but if you go asking, if you go seeking, if you go knocking Then he'll fill ye up. Um the verse is Matthew seven, seven, I'm not going to turn there, but uh ask and it shall be given unto you, seek, you shall find, knock, and it shall be opened unto you. Those are all promises. that that God's given us. He tells us, if you come asking me and looking for something, then I'll give you something. And uh I have no doubt. It may not be anything, Pastor says it often, it may not be anything In the message even, but but uh he can touch your heart and uh in many ways. But we need to be asking And expecting God to give us something when we when we come to church. Two pages done of two and two thirds. I'm doing good. Last thing, uh, you know churches for our benefit. We grow. There's a lot of benefits to coming to church. And I'm sure I miss a lot of things that that could be said, but one of the main reasons that we should come to church is for him. It's to praise and worship him. And today when I hear that word praise and worship, I don't know if anybody else's mind, but my mind, the the world has distorted praise and worship to something that I don't even like to call praise and worship anymore. But you know what I mean when I say praise and worship. It's it's singing the songs out of the the hymn book, the the psalms and hymns and spiritual songs and and worshiping God the way that that He designs us. He's you know we we come and worship him and he gives us all these benefits. Um so I want to go where am I? Come to worship God. I I but as l as much as I I love our pastor, um, you know, I I shouldn't come to church to please him. And I'll be honest, sometimes I do things, and I know I do it, I'm doing it to please him. instead of him. And uh I I make that mistake, but it's not to please Pastor or anyone else. Um But as it pleased him. And I I said something in a a teacher worker meeting one time. I don't know if it was good advice or not. Everybody laughed and it was funny. I don't know if it was good advice or not. But I said, uh sometimes as teachers and workers, sometimes we have to fake it. And and what I meant by that is sometimes we come to church in the morning and we're not with it. We're not happy. You know. And and I said sometimes you have to fake it with the kids. I don't know if that's good advice or not. But uh you know I was supposed to say that down here. Anyway. Uh when when we're singing and uh and our singing are specials, the choir, the bus, teaching, and no matter what we do, uh I I gotta remember that it's for for his glory, not mine. And I've said in the past, you know, w when when I go up to sing a special, sometimes I gotta remind myself who were who I'm singing it to. And uh it's to praise and and worship uh worship God. Um go back to Hebrews 10. We'll get back to our text now. I'm gonna go through these hopefully quickly. Hebrews ten, starting in verse uh nineteen Uh what we find is is that our worship to God is a privilege. So that we have a privilege to worship him. And in these verses here, it it it outlines the privilege of worship. that that we have. Verse 19 uh says boldness, having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus Christ. uh when we come to church we can we can come boldly uh before him because of the blood of Jesus Christ, uh the blood that he shed so that we could be saved. It says uh there in verse uh 21. Having a high priest over the house of God, Jesus is our high priest, we can come boldly uh boldly in our worship because he saved us and uh he's our high priest. Uh whenever I hear that word high priest I it takes me back to the message I I did in the paper I did in Bible Institute on uh the cities of refuge and how in in the cities of refuge you could flee to the city And you were secure there, you were safe as long as you were in that city until assuming you were innocent. Uh You were safe there until the high priest died. And and that's a a beautiful picture today that our high priest uh is Jesus and who's never gonna die. And uh the the eternal security that we have there in our our high priest. Verse 22 uh pr uh says that uh we should draw near Let us draw near with a true heart, in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water. Um draw near with a true heart. As soon as I heard that, you know God knows our heart. And that that's where the story came in about the faking it with the kids. I don't know why I put it up there. You know, we can we can fake we can fake the fake it with the kids sometimes. We can fake it sometimes with other people. I was thinking, you know, sometimes with our spouses, you know, they have a little better understanding of it. Sometimes you can't fake things. You know, they can they can see through through that kind of thing. And it's the same way with Christ, you know. It's just we can fake it in front of other people. Sometimes our spouses we can't. And then we go to Christ and there's no faking that we can do. When we come into church to worship him, we can't put on a show. It it's totally pointless to to put on a show uh before him because he knows our heart. We have to come to him with a true heart. Uh we can't fake it. Um Yeah, that's where I had all that of those notes that I was supposed to say, but yeah. I don't know why I even wrote them down. Uh so I got through all that. We need to come humbly. Humbly before him and sincerity, no fake, no put on. Uh we just need to be real. Um Verse 22 again talked about being clean. When we come to church, we need we need to be clean. Inwardly and outwardly. Having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, our bodies washed with pure water. I need to be to be clean before the Lord. And uh number D, as Lord Heatmall would say We need to be considerate of others. Verse 24. We're coming to worship in boldness because of what Jesus has done for us. clean hearts, pure hearts, humble and sincere hearts, and says, Let us consider others. Um I was thinking, you know, sometimes I don't know if I just read that the other day or heard it someone someone say, you know, we I I think sometimes I'm the only one that's busy. I'm the only one that's got things going on, and I'm the only I'm the only one that's got problems But everyone's going through the same thing. Everyone's busy. Everyone has problems. And sometimes I we forget that. You know? We need to be considerate. Consider one another, it says there in verse twenty-four. Provoke unto love and to good works. I don't know about you, when I see the word provoke, when I saw the word provoke I I I I take pro I I think of that word it negatively. Um Austin probably knows what I'm thinking of. The Bible says not to provoke not your children to wrath, and he always reminds me of that He always thinks I'm provoking him. But uh that's what I think of when I think of provoking, uh a negative a negative thing. But that's not what he's what he's talking about here. He said provoke uh simply means to to stir up or to stimulate. or uh or or bring out. And here it says, provoke, consider one another and provoke love and good works. Uh you know Stuart Stuart's always provoking a smile out of me at church. Uh Vicky, she's in here, she's always provoking a smile and uh out of me and and I I thought of that. Um I you know I I just I I love our church. Uh there's there's so much there's so much could be said other than what I said tonight. But uh You know, just preparing this would help me and thinking about uh, you know, how we should come how I should come to church. a and and be prepared and uh was just a help to me. I I enjoyed preparing it. I hope it hope you know you guys enjoyed it and maybe got something out of it. But uh it is it is a wonderful privilege to be a member uh of of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Uh everyone knows we have a wonderful church. I think we have a wonderful pastor Um in the meeting the other night we were going over the past year. You know, we had a good year. It's not been perfect. You know, I can look back and and uh you know there's there's been things. uh n nothing's perfect, no family's perfect. But uh I just I I thank God for our pastor, for our church, and uh the the the privilege that that we have to uh to come here and uh and worship him. It's a it's a privilege to me, not a not a burden, um, to be here in church. That's all I have. Let's uh let's all stand. And we'll pray. We're gonna have our invitation. Austin's gonna come up and play for our invitation. Let's stand.