There's talk a lot about salvation around Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. We sing about it, we preach about it, we talk about it But I want us to clearly understand when we're talking about salvation, and I get up here and talk about being saved, we're not just talking about some religious jargon. It's not just some words that we use and throw about. It's not some dry Bible doctrine that's written down on some creed somewhere, some s uh uh doctrinal statement in the file in our record books and nothing more than that. That's not what we mean when we talk about salvation. It's not just religious mumbo jumbo. It's not just some dry doctrine out there. We talk about salvation. When I talk about why people won't get saved. We're not just talking about some spiritual theory that really doesn't relate to anybody. That's just what they talk about at that church. When we talk about salvation, we are talking about a very real truth that has impacted our lives in very significant ways. We're talking about something that we have personally experienced. To be saved from my sins, to be saved from God's judgment and going to hell, to be saved and know that God has accepted me and that when I die, I go to heaven and not to hell It's not just something we throw around. It's something we know to be true because we've experienced what the Bible says about it. You follow with me? This is something, the gospel of Jesus Christ is something that has profoundly changed our lives. Now, many of us could stand up and testify that at one point in my life I accepted Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, and God permanently changed my life. I am not the same person I was before. I am not headed in the same direction I was headed before. God saved me and gave me eternal life, new life. We can stand and testify to that. This past week I my mom's brother passed away, my uncle and the week before, and they had the funeral service uh yesterday. And uh I went home for that for a few days to be with the family and and go to attend a funeral. Back home, saw a lot of folks, as often happens at funerals, I saw a lot of folks family members and distant family members I had not seen in quite some time. Drove by places I haven't driven by in twenty-five, thirty years, some cases. And of course, and as it would for anybody, it brought back a flood of memories. And it brought back a flood of feelings almost. You go through a neighborhood and you see some things and boy things come to mind that hadn't come from mind a long time. And it re it it reminded me, it renewed in my heart and mind the profound change That the gospel of Jesus Christ brought to my life 35 years ago. It's all the old houses I lived in, the old places we used to hang out. Saw some people I hadn't seen a long time. And when we talk about salvation, and we talk to you, or we talk to other people about being saved. It's not just some religious, little religious thing we're talking about. We're talking about life-changing truths. More than life-changing truths. We're talking about destiny-changing truths. Things that have profound effects. I was at the funeral yesterday and had a number of people, older folks, they would come up and say, Oh Danny! I hate uh I haven't seen you since you were that big. Anybody can anybody ever happen to you? I'm fifty-four years old, you know? Oh yeah, I didn't see you. And I had several people and this is this is I'm trying to drive home a truth I'm uh here. I had several people say, people I don't even remember the names, I just barely remember them. They said things like this to me. Several. They said, we remember you when you changed, your life was changed. I one one person who I remember what you were like before you became a Christian. And that's something The gospel. It's not just something we throw around. It is a very profound, life-changing truth Now there's many folks here in the service, myself included, we could gather together a number of witnesses to stand up and testify the fact that the gospel changed our lives. Can I get a witness on that or not? We have folks we could if we wanted to, if we needed to, we could bring them in here, subpoena maybe, bring them in here in a court of law and stand up And they could testify to the fact of what Jesus Christ has done in our lives from a witness perspective. I see what God see what the Jesus Christ Has done in that person's life, in that woman's life, in that man's life, I can testify to the fact that it has changed their life. And so when we talk about a person being saved, We are talking about a very real truth, a destiny-changing truth, a person who once was on their way to hell, who once was dominated by sin. Who once was cold and indifferent or superficial or self-righteous concerning the things of God and the Bible, but now They have a real, live, personal relationship with a living Savior. Their life has been changed. That's what we're talking about. Now, verse number 13 Has a ex is verse thirteen is extremely significant for me personally When I accepted Jesus Christ as Savior at 19 years' age, I really did not know much about the Bible My daddy had witnessed to me. I knew what my daddy was. I knew he was for real. I had heard the gospel. I had been taught as a little kid. I've been reading my Bible for some time. But to be very honest with you When I accepted Jesus Christ, I was needing God to forgive me for my sin. And beyond that, I really didn't know much more about what salvation entailed. And so for the next several weeks, and I'm tempted to say month or two, I did not really have assurance That I was saved. My life was changed dramatically. I was reading my Bible. I was growing. I was so hungry. I was so happy. Things were new and different. But to be able to say, yes, I know that I'm saved, I'm going to heaven when I die, I struggled with that. For whatever reason. I was reading my dad, he had got been getting the sword of the Lord into our house. He got saved in 1970. This is 79. So we'd been getting the sword in the house for all these years. I never paid no attention to it. Now, now I got that thing out one day, and you know I did I I was unsettled in my assurance of my salvation. It was just I just didn't understand it. And I was reading down through there, and John R. Rice had a message from 1 John 5, 12 and 13. Now, and of course that caught my attention. We know that we have eternal life. And the whole message was assurance. So I'm reading down through there and I'm soaking this in, and my mind is just working away, trying to understand that not only are we saved, but God keeps us saved. We're assured of that. We're secure And I came in that message, he referenced Romans 10, 13. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Now he didn't elaborate on that, he just referenced it in the message, but that verse caught my attention And I began looking at, and I began meditating or just mulling that thing over, trying to understand what's he saying And this is the conclusion I've come I came to, and it has settled it in my mind to this day. Look at the verse. For whosoever, all right, that includes Dennis Leatherman. Right? That's my thinking. That includes that. Whosoever includes who? Everybody. Who has whosoever? There's no qualification on that. Whosoever. That's you, that's me, that's anybody. Shall call upon the name of the Lord. And I knew, there is no doubt in my mind, I called the name of the Lord, and I knew he heard me I mean, just that one act of faith, calling on Christ, accepting you as my personal Savior, Jesus, that had profound impact on my life. So I knew I called on the Lord, and I knew I fit the description whosoever So call upon the name of the Lord. That last phrase is what sealed it for me. Shall be saved. I might be, I can be, not hopefully will be, but a settled, definite fact. So here was my conclusion of the whole matter, as I this was taking place one evening. I came to the conclusion. I I picked whosoever, that's definitely me, means me. So call upon the name of the Lord. I definitely did that. There's no doubt about that. With results, shall be saved. So according to this verse, if I am not saved, then God lied to me. Follow what I'm saying? If I call whosoever calls the name of the Lord, I've been that I know I call in the Lord, there is no doubt. And if I'm not saved, then God is lying to me in this verse. Now I wasn't very smart, but I knew this. God doesn't lie. I knew that. So according to this verse, I came to the conclusion I'm saved. My sins are forgiven. I'm completely saved from God's judgment. And when it's all said and done, this body dies, I will go on and live for all eternity in the presence of Lord Jesus Christ. I'm saved. And to this day, I go to that verse. And it's settled. There's no doubt. It's not a question in my mind whatsoever. Now, one of the reasons I shared that was you're here this morning, and maybe you genuinely and sincerely you've called on Jesus Christ to be your personal Savior I'm here to tell you if you were sincere and you meant business on that, that verse tells me that you are saved. I might be, and I can be, I hope so, maybe. The preacher pointed out yesterday at the funeral about my uncle and I wasn't real close to him. I didn't know him that well. I mean we grew up and But he said he really struggled with the fact that God would accept him by faith. He felt like he hadn't lived up to what he should be, and therefore God wouldn't accept him. The preacher did a pretty good job of pointing out we none of us live up to what we should be. That God saves us by faith. Their faith in Jesus Christ. And so apparently my uncle really struggled with this matter of assurance that when you trust Christ as Savior, God does save us. He does forgive us, and we're secure. And so verse 13 is a very significant verse. But as I said in the introduction a little bit ago, as I was reading through this recently, it struck me. Why do some people not get saved? Whosoever will can be saved. If they call on the Lord Jesus Christ, just an act of faith, they will be saved. They are saved. Then why don't why are there some people that won't get saved? Keep your place here. We're going to come back to this, but if you would, and we're going to look at a number of verses this morning. So I hope you keep your Bibles handy or if there's somebody nearby with you uh with a Bible. Hope you look at Matthew, chapter number seven. Matthew seven. Now, I'm going to take this opportunity to plug our Wednesday night Bible study. Matthew seven is part of the uh part of the um sermon on the mount and we have started a study of beatitudes which is the introduction to the sermon on the mount so this is a shameless promotion of our Wednesday night Bible study in the middle of the Sunday morning message. Manette is marketing genius. Matthew 7, if you would, look at verse number 13. Now I'm being a little humorous there, but this is a very serious subject, and a very sobering subject, what the Lord Jesus says here. Mark Matthew 7 Verse number thirteen, Enter ye in at the straight gate, for wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leadeth to what? So the wide gate and the broad way is what leads to destruction. We know from other passages of scripture he's referring to hell. And notice the next statement. These are unsaved people going through this gate and traveling this way. Unsaved. People who have not been saved. Wide is the gate, broad is way leadeth to destruction, and what's that next word? Many there be which go in thereat. Many. Many Because straight is the gate, and narrow is the way that leadeth unto life, and what? Few there be which spot that findeth. That is a very sobering truth. What Jesus Christ is saying here, get this, and I hate to even think of this. What he's saying here is most people Won't get saved. That's a horrendous thought. The word many there, I thought, well, you know, and I got looking it up and how it's used other places. It simply means large numbers. Great numbers, large numbers. It's used of um, they would say about great crowds followed the the Lord Jesus Christ. It means just these huge, huge numbers. So my question again is this, why? Why are there so many people that won't get saved? Why are there so many people that are going to die and go out into a Christeless eternity, die in their sins? Why are there so many? Why would anybody? Well, I think Romans chapter 10 gives us. I think if we look at this, we can see some reasons. I want to share them with you real quickly this morning. Number one. Some people won't get saved simply because they won't believe. They simply will not believe. Come back to Romans 10 there if you have it. And verse number 14, now I'm kind of coming from it at a little different approach than what it's presented here, but it says, how then shall they call in him of whom they have not believed? If a person is going to be saved, they must believe God's word. Somebody asked John O. Rice, can a person be saved and not believe in the virgin birth? He said a person cannot be saved and reject the virgin birth. They might not understand all of it. Can a person be saved and not believe the Bible? I don't see how a person be saved and reject the Bible. There must be belief. There must be belief in the Word of God, and take it a step beyond that. There must be belief in the gospel. In the gospel. How that Jesus Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures, he was buried. uh uh and on rose again the third day according to the scriptures. That's the gospel. I must believe the historical record that Jesus Christ Died on that cross for my sins, was buried, three days later, rose again, or I cannot be saved. I heard a preacher recently talk about salvation. He never mentioned sin. He never mentioned the gospel of Jesus Christ, death, burial, and resurrection. Jesus Christ for us is never mentioned it, but he's talking about saved. You cannot be saved without the gospel of Jesus Christ. And you cannot be saved without believing it. Some people will not get saved because they will not believe the gospel. They won't believe it. Turn with me if you would. Again, keep your place here. And I'm going to look at a few verses, mostly in the Gospels here. Maybe I think we're all in the Gospels. Come over to John chapter number three. Of course, John chapter 3 of Nicodemus shows up to Lord Jesus Christ of the evening at night and he compliments the Lord. He says, No man can do these miracles except God, we know you're a great prophet. No man can The great teacher, no man do these miracles except God be with them. And Jesus cuts right to the chase and he says, Nicodemus, you must be born again. Well that throws Nicodemus for a loop. What? How can you be born again? Go back in my mother's womb, be born. No, no, no, you missed the point. Uh that which is born of the flesh is flesh, that which is born of the spirit is spirit And then he leads up to the great passage, John three sixteen, say it with me, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him Should not perish but have everlasting life. What a verse. But now come down to verse 18. And notice what the Lord says in verse 18. He that what believeth on him is not condemned. Hold it. But he that believeth not is what? Condemned already. Why? Because he hath not believed in the name, the only begotten Son of God Some people won't get saved because they won't believe it. They just will not believe it. Look over at verse 36. In my Bible, I underhighlighted both these verses, I drew a line between, because verse 18 and verse 36 are parallel verses. He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting light. And he that believeth not the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him. A person says, I do not believe that. They are not going to someday be condemned. They are already. Or these verses. They're already under the judgment of God. Maybe here this morning say, oh, I go to church, but I don't believe any of that stuff. According to Jesus, you are right now under the condemnation judgment of God. The wrath of God already rescues you, just waiting for you to die and experience it fully. Some people won't get saved because they won't believe. They will not believe it. No matter how much evidence is presented to them, no matter how obviously true The word of God is. They will not believe it. Listen, I'm here to tell you, we don't need scientific evidence to believe the Bible. But I'm telling you, there is overwhelming scientific evidence supporting the truth of that book setting on the pulpit right there. God's Word. There is no scientific reason for anybody not to believe the Bible. You say, what about evolution? Evolutionists take the exact same evidences that the creationists take. We have the same fossils, we have the same uh geological records, we have the all the exact same facts But the evolutionist interprets those facts with God excluded. The believer, the creationist, interprets those facts in light of God's word. And so it is not a matter that evolution has scientific evidence and creationists don't. We all have the same evidence. It's the interpretation of the two. And the person that says, I will not believe the Bible, I will not believe the gospel, that person is not saved. Doesn't matter how much evidence you present, doesn't matter how much uh science. No, you can debate them till the till the moon turns blue. They're not going to believe it. They are not going to believe it. No matter how much proof is given, no matter how much evidence there is. To me, you know, I've been studying this book for decades now. To me, the resurrection of Jesus Christ is one of the most provable events in history. There's more to support the evidence and the resurrection of Jesus Christ than there is that Nero ever existed. So some people aren't going to believe no matter what. You say, oh, surely there's nobody like that. You know what? There were people like that in Jesus' day. Turn with me to Luke chapter 16. And Jesus points out to ironically a fellow in hell He's concerned about his brothers getting saved. This guy's in hell. He can't get out. He knows it. He's blown it. He has made the most horrific mistake a person can make. He died in his sins. And in hell, he lifts up his eyes, being in torments. He sees Abraham afar off. He cries out, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus and may dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue, for I am tormented in his flames. Abraham goes on and explains to him that can't that ain't going to happen. Can't happen. And then the rich man in hell, realizing there is nothing to be done for him. He makes what I consider to be the greatest missionary prayer in all the world. He says, send Lazarus to my father's house. For I have five brothers, how many brothers? Five brethren That he may testify. Look at verse 28. For I have five brethren, now this is a man in hell praying that God would, through Abraham, send Lazarus, a man in heaven, back down to earth. And witness to his five brethren, my five brethren, that he may testify them, that they come also, come unto this place, that they also come into this place of torment. So Abraham responds in solid fashion. He goes, Hey, they have Moses and the prophets, let them hear them. When Abraham says they've got Moses and the prophets, what is he saying to them? They've got the Bible. Says they've got the word of God. They know as much about this place as you knew when you came here. They've got it all right there. Now notice what the rich man says. Nay, father, verse 30, Abraham. Nay, father, Abraham, but if one went unto them from the dead, they will repent. Oh, somebody that they know is dead, and he's been dead for some time, apparently. And he comes back to life and he comes and says, Hey! Heaven is real, and hell is real. You guys need to accept Jesus. Boy, then they would believe. There would be undeniable proof. But look at the response. And he said unto them, If they hear not Moses and the prophets, look at this. Neither will they be persuaded the one rose from the dead. If they're not going to believe the Bible, then they're not going to believe no matter what. It doesn't matter how much evidence you give, it doesn't matter how many miracles are performed, it doesn't matter how high the proof how stacked up the proof is. If they don't believe the Bible, they're not going to believe. And some people are not going to get saved because they will not believe. You can argue, you can put scientific evidence, you can take them to the Creation Museum in Kentucky. And their mind is made up, and their mind is blinded by the God of this world, 1 Corinthians 4 4 tells us. 2 Corinthians 4. 4. 2 Corinthians 4:4. The God of this world hath blinded the minds of them which believe not. These are folks who have made a conscious decision. I will not believe the Bible. I will not believe the gospel. You know why they don't believe? Because they don't want to. We had a fellow, it's been a number of years ago, and I've referenced him over the years in various messages. Whatever reason he came Sunday nights. This has been a long time ago. He came Sunday nights. As I remember it, every time I gave an invitation after I preached, we always give an invitation. Folks make decisions, pray, or if they need to be saved, come and let us show them how to be saved. If I remember correctly, every time he was here and I gave the invitation, he'd come forward. Raise his hand, I need to be saved, I don't know if for sure I die, I'm going to heaven. I need to be saved. He'd raise his hand, give the invitation, alright? Not sure, come here, let us, he'd come forward. I know for sure, three, four, probably five times, it's back in that little counseling room, somebody would open the Bible, spending a couple occasions, half hour, 45 minutes back there showing them verses. I stand back, shake hands. This was Sunday nights. It was always a Sunday night. Trust Christ. Now I just can't believe it. What do you mean? Well I just I gotta see it, I gotta see it to believe it's true. I don't just have blind faith I said, what do you mean blind faith? It's right there in the Bible. It's showing you how to be saved. We're sinner. Christ died. I just can't believe that. And this went on three, four, or five times So finally the last time uh he comes through and I said they were up there for a long time. Everybody's gone. It's just the counselor and myself and he comes back and um the counselor comes out shaking his head So I said to the fellow, I said, What's the deal? He goes, I just can't believe. I said, that's not your problem. I said, you have no problem exercising faith in many, many other areas. I see you got in your car, you hopped in your car, you came to an intersection, you pushed that brake pedal down, you exercise faith that that brake pedal would do what it's intended to do. You didn't get out and check the lines, you didn't go out and check the flu and all that. You just got in, didn't you? Well yeah. I said that's faith. I said you get paid, you got a job, yeah. Put the money in a bank, yeah. So you go down there, you exercise faith, you put that money in a bank, you believe they're gonna give it back to you, at least part of it. You see, his problem wasn't that he couldn't believe, the problem was he wouldn't believe. And some people don't get saved because they're not going to believe it, no matter what. They are not going to believe it. These five brothers of a man in hell, if one came back from the dead, God said they won't believe it. If they don't believe the Bible, they're not going to believe that. You're hearing the sound of my voice, and you say you don't believe the gospel, you don't believe the Bible. You are you are putting yourself, you are, you are under the judgment and wrath of God. And there must be a conscious decision made. I am going to believe what God says. I'm going to believe it. How can they believe? Whosoever shall call upon name the Lord shall be saved, but how can they call in him of whom they haven't believed? If they don't believe, they can't be saved. I see, I look at this And um uh oh by the way, let me throw this out. Not believing something doesn't make it not true. Right? Well, I just don't believe that. Uh we had a lady down Chattanooga told Randy Miller and I. She said, uh, Well, I don't believe in hell because God that love wouldn't send people to hell. Well there's a very simple answer to that. And just believing that there isn't a hell doesn't make there not a hell. We have a number of people in our church that have and are now fighting cancer. You can just say, well I just don't believe I have it You can do that with you one. That doesn't change the fact it's there. I go down, I'd like to use this illustration, it's probably not a very good one, but I go down to the store and I hold a gun and the lady said, so I'm robbing cheats. She goes, well I don't believe that's a gun. Alright. You follow what I'm saying? And sometimes I think people I had a kid in Indianapolis one time we were going through witnessing, and a guy came up to me and says, uh, I don't believe in God, I'm an atheist. Or no, no. He said, I'm a Satanist. I said, really, you're a knucklehead. Because I I worship Satan. I said, you know how stupid that is? You know what God's going to do to you? He thought I'd be all intimidated, you know, oh no, you're a Satanist, oh no. I say, you're an idiot. Let me show you in Revelation what happens to the devil. He's cast the lake of fire for a thousand years. The smoke of his torment comes up forever. That's that's what you're doing. No man, I didn't mean it for real. I'm not really for real Some people won't get saved because they won't believe. And not believing doesn't make it not true. That's not a sign of intelligence. Number two, I see here a second reason people won't get saved. Some people won't get saved. Now this brings it home to us a little bit more. Some people won't get saved because they've never heard the gospel. Somebody won't get saved because they won't believe it. I don't believe that. Some people won't get saved because they never heard the gospel. Come back here to Romans 10 with me. Verse 14, how then shall they call on him of whom they have not believed? Well, they can. If they don't believe in the Lord, they're not going to call on the Lord and be saved. Then he takes it another step. Well, how shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard? I can't believe something that I don't know exists. The word heard there means to hear with understanding, to comprehend it. When we were down in Chattanooga, we'd uh go witnessing, we had our bus route, and it was just a full-time job working that thing just about and um we'd talk to people we'd witness people and we'd say something I worked in the hospital there and um I'd say something to folks and uh those precious people they'd say something you'd say something and they could relate to what you're saying. You know what they would say? I heard that Anybody ever hear that? I heard that. What are they saying? I agree. Yeah, I agree. I understand. I know where you're coming from. Boy, I I can I can relate to that. I heard that. How can they believe of whom they have not heard? They haven't understanded it. They can't relate to it. They don't comprehend what it is. It can't. Some people will not get saved, will die in their sins, and this is a horrific thought. Not because they would not believe it. If they heard it, they would believe it. But because they haven't heard. They haven't heard. I am absolutely convinced that there are people all around this world, in every nation In Kazakhstan, our adopted nation, right now. It's late Sunday night over there now. That there are people right now If they heard the gospel, they would get saved. All around this world, in cities, in towns, in little villages, in countrysides. Up in mountains, out in deserts, along the ocean coasts where few people are, big cities are. In our community There are people, if somebody would sit down with an open Bible in their language and explain to them and show them and tell them what the gospel of Jesus Christ is They would believe, but they haven't heard. Nobody's told them. Nobody showed them. They're not saved. Look what he says here. How then shall they call on him of whom they have not believed? How shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard? They can't. They haven't heard it. And how shall they hear without a preacher? Now the word preacher there is not talking about the office of a in a church of a pastor He's talking about any person that will simply declare the message of the gospel, somebody that will proclaim it, somebody that will share it with someone else. If there's nobody there, if they don't have the Word of God, they don't have a gospel tract, they don't have somebody there that can share with them in their understanding and their language what it is They can't believe. They can't believe something they don't know exists. And if they don't believe, they're lost. I'm absolutely I am absolutely convinced if we could have some sort of transporter, we stand in it and we're transported over to Kazakhstan, Astana or somewhere And we show up and we got a Bible, lo and behold, it's in Russian or Kazakhstan. And we find some people, we just go through that neighborhood and we find someone we could God would give us the gift to be able to speak in Russian or Kazakhstan. And we'd sit down and just look and look and look and look. We could find somebody if we could show them there are some people who would be saved. No doubt about it But there's nobody there to tell them. In cities, in countries like Kazakhstan all around, there's no preacher. And look, how should they preach except they be sent, verse 15? That's what somebody's got to get them over there. Somebody's got to get them. There needs to be somebody that can share this information with them, and there needs to be some people who will get them them to there to share that information with them. They need to be sent. To me, as I read that in Margin my Bible, I put down faith promise missions That's our responsibility as a church body, is to make sure we get people into all the countries of the world so people can hear the gospel and have the opportunity to believe it and be saved. Is anybody with me on this? That's our job. Some people in this world are not going to get saved, they're going to die in their sins because nobody came and showed them the Word of God. I think, I am absolutely convinced of this, I am absolutely convinced of this, there are people within our community. I mean Dare County surrounding areas. If somebody this week would simply sit down with them and explain to them what the gospel is and what it means to trust Christ, they would accept Jesus Christ their personal Savior. I have no doubt about it. It happened Thursday night. You say, well, sh everybody in our community has heard about Jesus and heard about the Ghost. You know, here's the thing. Sometimes we they hear the facts about it, but nobody ever puts it together for them. to understand how do I personalize it and make it mine. And so it's one thing to know these facts out there. It's another thing to have it understood. If somebody, if a Christian, sat down with an open Bible in their own language and shared the gospel with them, many people would be saved. I enjoy telling this story because I saw it with my own eyes It's in Mongolia, Ulambatar, in the little church, storefront church that Jeff Dean started. He'd been there about eight, ten years. And he learned the language. And he was witnessing at a little group of former Buddhists that had gotten saved. There was probably about seven or eight Buddhists there that were not saved, but they enjoyed coming and learning about the Christian religion Now he's in the service, and I've told this a number of times. Bill Patterson is preaching. He grew up in Mexico. He spoke Spanish as a first language. English, I believe, was his second language. He was preaching in English. Jeff Dean was translating into Mongolian. And right at the beginning of service, in the back walks a fella, a Cuban fella that didn't speak English. Or Mongolian, he only spoke Spanish. He's in Mongolia. How does that happen? A Cuban mechanic is in the capital of Mongolia. He doesn't speak English or Mongolian. I don't even know. My mind can't comprehend how that happens. But there he is Lo and behold, he comes in the service, just happens to be a fellow there that speaks Spanish. Jeff Dean, the pastor of the Mongolian Church, he doesn't speak Spanish, he speaks English and Mongolian. I don't speak Spanish or Mongolian. I have a hard time with English. So I'm useless. But there is a fellow there that was sent, and he does speak Spanish. So lo and behold, the pastor knows this fellow, the Spanish guy, and he leans over, and I found this out later. He says to the fellow preaching, kind of start this right at the beginning, he says He's he only speaks Spanish. Bill says, I'll preach in Spanish too. He says, okay So he preaches a phrase in English. Jeff interprets it into Mongolian, and then brother Uh Brother Bill speaks says it again in Spanish. That message was six hours long. It's all said and done, make a long story short, when it's all said and done, Brother Patterson is on his knees in the back of that little storefront church with the Spanish Now don't tell me there in people all around this world, in cities and towns and countries, if somebody there that could share the gospel in their language, they would believe and accept Jesus as their Savior. Don't tell me that ain't so So some people don't get saved because they're not going to believe. Doesn't matter, someone rose from the dead, they're not going to believe. Some people don't get saved not because they refuse to believe, they don't even know about it. There's nobody there to tell them. And that is a crying shame on the church. We're not doing our job. We're not fulfilling our responsibility. Take the gospel to every creature. Some people won't get saved because they have never heard. Last of all, and quickly, some people won't get saved because they're not going to obey the gospel. Look at verse 16. They have not all obeyed the gospel. You say, how do you obey the gospel? The gospel is to be received. It's by faith. How do you obey it? It's very simple. By not accepting the gospel, by not receiving Jesus Christ as my Savior. I am not obeying the gospel. Jesus told Nicodemus, Nicodemus, ye must be born again. That was not a suggestion. That was not a good idea. By the way, it is a good idea for every person to get saved You're here this morning and you're not saved. You're in your sins. You're on your way to hell. It's a pretty good idea to accept Jesus as your Savior. But Jesus wasn't saying to Nicodemus, it's a pretty good idea to be born again. No, he said, you must be born again. You must accept the man be born again. He cannot see the kingdom of heaven. That was instruction. And Nicodemus could either obey the Lord and believe and accept Jesus as personal Savior or disobey. And some people won't get saved because they're going to not obey the gospel. They are not going to obey They believe it, they know it's true, there's no doubt in their mind, it's a fact, but I am not going to receive Jesus as my Savior. It's not a matter of unbelief and rejecting the facts of it. It's a refusal to submit to the gospel. Paul said in 2 Corinthians 5. 11, he says, Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men. In other words, these are people they know the facts, they believe they're true, but they will not receive it as personally. And I'm trying to persuade them, say, hey, listen, don't just know the facts, but accept Jesus as your Savior. Make that decision. There are a lot of people die and go to hell that believe Jesus died on the cross and rose again. A lot of people die and go to hell know that Jesus could and would forgive them of their sins But they refuse to by faith receive that for themselves and make it personal. And that's a beef I have with some churches in our community. They do preach the gospel. They tell people that we're all sinners. They do tell people That Jesus died for our sins, buried, and rose again. They do tell people that whoever calls on them shall be saved. But they don't do anything to encourage people to make that decision. They just leave it hanging out there. They never confront people. Hey, you need to make the decision to accept Jesus Christ as Savior. A lady tell me years ago, said, When did you become a Christian? She goes, I was born a Christian So really? You're the first person I ever met that way? I talked to her a little bit, the fact is She believed all the facts, but she never came to the point where she made a personal decision to accept Jesus as her personal Savior. Do you know the devil believes Jesus died on the cross, was buried, and rose again? Just believing the facts doesn't save my soul. I must personally accept them to be my own. It's like this: John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish But of every last life. Person can believe that and die and go to hell. Say, what's the difference? Here's the difference. For God so loved me. That he gave his only begotten son, that when I believe in him, I will not perish, but have everlasting life. See the difference? Personalizing it, accepting it as mine. I offer a gift to somebody, Billy down here, and I offer them um I'll offer them something I don't have, a hundred dollar bill. So that way you know it's just an illustration. He can believe that dollar's real. He can believe it's legit. He can believe I'd give it to him. But until he takes it for himself, it's not his Believe all the facts he wants about it, it's right there. But until he obeys or submits and receives it, it's not his. And some people get this. Some people are not saved, will die and go to hell, knowing the facts, believing they're true, but never personally accepting Jesus as their own Savior. And that is very, very sad. Very sad. Um Jesus told Jerusalem in Luke 13, 34. He said, How often I would have gathered you as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings. And he makes this piercing statement. And ye would not. Ye would not. It's a matter of the will I believe Jesus died for me, was buried, and rose again. I believe that's true. And Jesus, I'm going to receive you and accept you as my own personal Savior. And let you come in my life and forgive me and save me and give me eternal life. That's the difference. When I first came here, I would came from neighborhood Bible Thomas on staff out there, and Brother Holmsher would fly me back out to Boulder each spring to help with the training of the evangelists that come through. And I think the first couple years I gave a week or two and then I finally as the church became a little more res responsibilities here, I I backed off to just a week and then I quit gone. One week shortly after, it was probably 98, I think, 1998, I was out and we took all the evangelists. There's about 45, maybe 50 evangelists at that time. Downtown Boulder, Boulder is an extremely liberal town. Boulder makes Beckley, or Berkeley, California, makes it seem like it's a conservative citadel I mean Boulder is so liberal, it's incredible. The mayor of Boulder, when we were there, ran the abortion clinic in the city. So that tells you the leadership. So anyway, we there's a mall downtown where they have the roads closed off. It's kind of like they have in Cumberland down there. That mall is all closed off in shops. And they have all kinds of it's pretty big, it's much bigger than the one in Cumberland. They have all kinds of um uh uh what do you call the little m singers that go around? M street musicians. Um there are musicians that are in the streets. And uh but anyway they have all these and you know it was just bizarre. And you meet the weirdest people. And we're down there and I and one guy when we're street preaching we put devangelists up and they're up on a soapbox and they're preaching, You must be born again, Jesus died. And I mean they're just ripping, and then we have guys stationed and giving out tracts and gathered all this crowd and they I mean it just stirred things up. So I was kind of overseeing this and floating around between the guys and seeing if there's any trouble. And I share one and the guy's preaching and we start witnessing this guy next to me and he started asking me all these questions I went through and tried to answer questions and there was another fellow standing beside him, a black guy. I was answering these questions and going through and I felt like the Lord enabled me to Have a biblical answer for every question he has and finally he kind of went off and the other guy stepped up. He said, I'm from Iowa. He says, I'm from Iowa. I said, well good to meet you. I said, well, do you know Jesus as your Savior? He says, no, I don't. He goes, I've got a Christian mother at home. I haven't been home for years and my mother's praying for me. My mother's praying that I'll get saved. I said, well, do you want to get saved? He said, I do. And there on the streets, a boulder in that mall with all the weirdos. This guy bowed his head and accepted Jesus Christ as Savior. You know what he told me? He said, I've always believed it, but I never was willing to accept it. Bingo. Now what about you? Have you accepted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior? Some people are going to die and go to hell because they refuse to believe it. No matter what you show, no matter what evidence, they are not going to believe it. Some people said it's horrific to think some people die and go to hell because nobody came and told them about Christ Now that's where we come in. We have a responsibility to get the gospel to everybody around the world. We ought to do everything we possibly can to get the gospel to everybody around the world Some people won't get saved. They could be sitting in Bible preaching churches. And they believe everything that preacher says, but they've never humbled themselves and said, I need to accept Jesus as my personal Savior. And like this guy from Iowa did in the streets of Boulder, people in churches perhaps need to do the same thing. Accept it as their own personal safety. Now here's my invitation. Number one, if you're not saved, I plead with you with all my heart. For 21 years I've sought to give myself, to lead this church, to take the gospel to as many people as we possibly can. If you're here and you're saved, let's get on board and get about the Lord's business and start getting the gospel to as many people as we possibly can. Let's support every missionary with every penny we possibly can to get the gospel to every person in the world. Amen. Let's do that. Let's get involved. Let's be a part of that. Now, if you're here this morning, you're not saved. For whatever reason. This morning you have an opportunity to accept Jesus Christ, your personal Savior. And I plead with you, today's the day, now's the accepted time. This is the day of salvation. And I invite you to trust Christ. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Heads about eyes are closed. It's been a little longer on that than I intended to, but this morning. You say, Preacher, I know I'm saved. God has come into my life through faith in Jesus Christ. My life has been changed. I know for sure from God's word that when I die, I'm going to heaven And you'd say, Preacher, I need to live for the Lord. I need to take serious this matter of being a witness for the Lord and getting the gospel to others. And you'd say, Preacher, pray for me I want to be a faithful witness as a believer for the Lord Jesus Christ so that others can hear and be saved. How many like that by the uplifted hand? Now that may mean missions, it may mean personal soul winning, may be involved in the ministries here You say, preacher, God stirred my heart. I need to be a soul winner. How about others? God has convicted me. God bless you. Hands all around. Now, what I think is a good idea as a Christian would be to kneel at an altar and say, Lord, here am I, God Use me, grant to me boldness I need, give me wisdom, tact, that I can be effective and share in the gospel of others. Maybe this matter of missions, you're not involved in supporting our mission, he's not involved in praying for missionaries. Maybe God's stirring your heart to be a missionary. And you say, God, here I am, here I am. Take me and use me. Show me, feel me, help me. And God will do it. One last question. There's some here this morning that say, Preacher, I don't know for sure that when I die, I'm going to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know for sure that my sins are forgiven. I go to heaven, not to hell when I die. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. Any at all? Uplifted hand. How about it? Father in heaven, you know our hearts. Please stir us now as we go into this invitation in Jesus' name. As a piano player