She he's gonna pass her up pretty soon, take her position. Uh we really appreciate these young people playing like this. I read an article a couple weeks ago a preacher friend sent me It's an excellent article and what it was is talking about how piano players are very scarce in our good churches anymore. It's just that style of music is is uh not the popular thing and people aren't pursuing it. There was a day and I remember this, there was a day, particularly in your independent fundamental Baptist churches, where every department had a piano player The junior department had their own piano player, the senior department, the primary, uh the adults, every department had a piano player now, boy, it's just hurting for piano Piano players so bad and and we're not the only one. There's a lot of churches in our situation where we're just short of piano players. And uh so we really appreciate these young people Then you have churches like Independent over in Kingwood that you know they run fifty sixty and they got nine concert pianists pianos and um I just hate them. But uh not really. Is there anybody we got about ten of our little memoryverse cards left and we're in the middle of the month, we're running out of month And uh after this month uh we'll have a new memory verse. Is there anybody who would like to have one of these? Uh uh uh anybody at all? One uh card there? My wife wants one. All right, Charlie Anybody at all? You don't have to come up here and get it. We'll bring it to you. Um Lois Hill is a friend of the Paul's. Uh Betty and Frey have been friends with her. I think you guys were instrumental in them coming to Christ. And she has been supporting Brother Chip for what a year or so now, maybe, and she'll send the money to the church here and then we include it with our supporter chip down there. And um she wrote a uh note came the week of Frey's funeral and just sweet as could be, and I wanted to read this note uh before the message that has nothing to do with the message, I just thought it was a blessing But it says um goes through a few things about time going quickly and she's writing to the church. She goes, I would love to see you all, the church, and fellowship with you. Betty Paul, my dearest friend, tells me a lot about the church. And the ministry there and how the Lord is working there. God bless you all. And then she mentions how they've been friends with Frey for a long time and her hearts were broke. And uh they'd be in her prayers And she says this. She goes, Well, Pastor, so she's directing it to me. It's underlined. Well, Pastor, if I ever get to come to your church, you will know me when I walk in the back door. I will be wearing a Raven's shirt Raven's collars. If you haven't died a thousand deaths before then. Smart Alec feeble. I've never met I don't think I've ever met her, have I, Betty? I don't think so, but I don't like her already. I hate her too. No, not really Psalms chapter 40. Uh I want to read the first three verses here. I actually, of all things, read it my devotions this morning, but uh I'm going to use it to set the stage for our second lesson on why we do not use contemporary Christian music here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Let me read the first three verses. It says, I waited patiently for the Lord, and he inclined unto me and heard my cry. That verse tells me it's never vain to wait on God. Never regretted waiting on God. Then look what he says. He said he brought me up also out of a horrible pit, out of the miry clay, and set my feet upon a rock and established my goings. That's a salvation. So Lord said this. I put in the margin of my Bible, 5, 7, 79. Now look what he says in verse 3. And he hath put a new song in my mouth Even praise unto our God, many shall see it, and shall fear, and shall trust in the Lord. David says here, when he got saved, I think that's what he's referencing. God put a new song in his heart. And the result of that song, look what it says, and many shall see it, and what? Fear. There was something about this new song that was in David's heart that prompted people to fear God. Now, not be afraid of God, but the idea is to reverence God. The idea is to see God for who and what he is. And it's significant to me that the song that God put in David's heart had such a profound, humbling, and reverential effect on people that they feared God. And so let's pray. And I want to share the second part of our lesson. Father, we are grateful for the salvation you give us in Christ. Lord, you uh we're grateful for that new song A song the world cannot come up with, a song the world cannot sing, Lord. And I pray that you would help us as a church to recognize that song Uh and uh I pray that our music and every aspect of our church, as far as that goes, but I pray our music would be exactly what you intend for it to be, and that we would follow your principles and scripture. Here. Help me to teach this. Lord, I know a lot of people have strong feelings on this and elicits sometimes uh uh strong reactions. We don't mean for that. We just want to be gracious. Fill me with your spirit and uh Um help us, Lord, to understand this in Jesus' name. Amen. For those that were here last week, I pointed out, for those that weren't here last week, I Last week I pointed out the fact that my teenage years uh were very much um uh the fruit of rock and roll. Uh I went to my first rock and roll concert when I was sixteen. I just turned sixteen. A friend of mine, we went down, took this train and the subway down to Philly, and uh it was at my first it was at a rock and roll concert that I Took my first drugs. And that altered my life. And I was very much the fruit, my life was very much the fruit of rock and roll. I got saved, as you know, at the age of 19. God dramatically changed my life. I told the crowd last week that uh shortly after I was saved, there was some folks in the church I was there. The church didn't sponsor this, but a bunch of the young people, college age went down to a Christian quote-unquote rock concert in Philly. They invited me to go along. I was a new Christian. I was growing. I was excited. Something about this didn't settle well with me, but I said, yeah, I'll go along. We got there and it was just uh very not much different than the rock and roll concerts I had been going to before I got saved The drugs weren't there and and all that, but the explosions and the loud and the lights and the immodest dress and and all that was What I was saved out of, what had been so detrimental in my life, to me, it was simply mimicking that which was so destructive to me. About three, four sets into it, the fellow beside me, he felt the same way I did, and I said, I don't like this I said, I've been in this setting before. This is not the Christianity that God has put in my heart So we got out and left. And uh I learned a lesson there, and that had a prof that event had a profound effect on me. And um and so God shaved me out of that. And I just want people to understand where I'm coming from a little bit. I'm not a musician Um I don't claim to be be able to uh explain and expound musical principles and stuff. I I can't do that But uh I know what God has done in my heart, and I know that contemporary Christian music has come a long way since nineteen seventy the summer of nineteen seventy-nine when I went to that Archer's concert was the name of the group Nowadays, you have every stripe of uh and color of music under the name of Christianity I'm just trying to briefly review what we went through last week. I do want to make this statement before I get into why we don't use it. The question is, what is contemporary Christian music? Well there's no clear definition. Um basically anything that you almost have any style of modern music that's labeled Christianity can fall under the The heading of contemporary Christian music. Generally, when you're talking about contemporary Christian music, you're generally talking about music that has a heavy beat And we'll talk about that a little bit. You're talking about music that has what's called a pop singing style. Usually it's very excessively loud. Generally is the case. It's introduced in the early 60s with the Jesus people out in California. It was originally called Christian Rock. Contemporary Christian music was originally referred to as Christian rock. That had so many negative connotations they backed away from using that term and they began referring to it as contemporary Christian music. Some people say have accused me and suggest that because we don't use contemporary Christian music, we're against all new music, and that's not the case. We're referring to contemporary Christian music. We're referring to a specific style of music as to oppose when it's written chronologically. You understand what I mean? There's much music written contemporarily contemporary. That is not of the con CCM style. Byron Fox writes new music all the time. Um uh patch um Yeah. Ron Hamilton writes new music all the time. There's different people who write music all the time. We're not talking about when it was produced. We're talking about its style. It's style. And uh and then we referenced the idea in the Bible about the new song. And I said, Well, God wants us to have a new song. That new song that the Bible references is always in uh corresponding to the new nature. That God has given to us. That which is of God as opposed to that which is of the world. The world would be the old song corresponding to the old man That which appeals to the flesh. The new song God has given to us is not that which is of the flesh, but that which is of the what? Spirit. Spirit of God. So he gives us that new song. Now, uh, that was a brief review and uh uh kind of laying some groundwork. Now Um, I want to give you the first reason tonight of four reasons why we don't use contemporary Christian music here at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. I want to give you our first reason. I don't think I'm going to get all the way through it tonight Uh but uh here it is. First reason we don't use CCM here is because of its worldly characteristics. Because of the worldly characteristics that are associated with uh contemporary Christian music. Over the overwhelming majority of contemporary Christian music is not distinct in its separation from the world and to Christ It's not clearly distinct. Um, my wife and I, I was going to use this at the end, but I think I'll inject it here so you understand what I'm saying. My wife and I, several years ago, had gone to a meeting, uh preaching meeting in Hagerstown with my good friend Jim Moore. We got up there of a Friday evening. Sam Davison was preaching. I wanted to go hear him and so we left right after work. Uh she got off. I think it was our anniversary also at the time if I remember. So we um on our anniversaries we go to preaching services. Boy, talk about spiritual wow. But anyway, uh we got up there and got checked in the motel real quick and then went flying over to the uh uh r uh service and had the preaching and we got back and we hadn't had supper, nothing It's a Friday night. So we got back to the motel and it's probably nine thirty maybe, somewhere in that range. And uh we said to the lady at the desk, we said, uh boy, we're really hungry, it's a little late, what would be a good restaurant? And she said there is a Texas Roadhouse just across the road here. We've got discounts for it. They've got great steak. And we had eaten there a few times. We always tried to go like early Saturday afternoon before the big crowds and everything And uh so we said, Boy, that would be great, it's our anniversary, we'll get they got good stakes, we'll go over there. So we went over there, the place was packed And uh we got in there and they took us in and we're wading through all the peanut shells and everything, you know, if you've ever been in them. And uh we told her it was our anniversary and they gave us a little corner booth way in the back and and uh I'm telling you a Friday night in Hagerstown Texas Roadhouse, that place was rowdy. The music was loud, the carrying on was loud, and they I mean they're just going at it and we're kinda hunkered down back in the back there and I was eating a steak. It could have been on the moon for all I care. I was just You know, I was having a great time. It was a great anniversary. And um but anyway it was rowdy, it was not my type of environment. We were pretty uncomfortable in there. We're about finishing up. I mean it was rowdy, rowdy, rowdy going on. All of a sudden, over the sound system Where he leads me, I will follow this him a cappello. his son, where he leads me I will follow. That whole place went silent The rowdiness stopped, the talking and laughing and carrying on stopped. They sang all four verses of that song, and that whole time that place was quiet. By the time got to the end of it, um we were paying, going up there to pay and going out. As soon as that song was over, went back to the old w worldliness stuff, and the whole thing just picked up again They were back out and there and w I think there's people line dancing and and just going on. Now I don't know what that was all about, but I learned something. There is a clear distinction In the hymns of God and the music of the world, in its sound, in its effect Every aspect of it. In fact, my wife and I were walking out, we said, what in the world just happened? What was that? Where'd it come from? Our only thing, and we were just speculating, we have no idea, the only thing we thought, we wondered, if maybe there wasn't a Christian young person that was out there and was fixing to do something that would grieve the Holy Spirit of God and for whatever reason God the Spirit prompted somebody somewhere to play that song on a Friday night. It was probably ten thirty at night at this point. Uh play that song in that place. I don't know. We just thought God's dealing with someone's heart. Might have been us. Just thought of it. Well, I didn't think of that. Anytime I hear preaching stuff, I don't think it's for me, it's someone else. But uh but I did learn that lesson. That that music, that it was a different style, it was a whole everything about it was distinctively Christian Contemporary Christian music, for the most part, now there are exceptions, and I understand that. I'm talking about generally speaking, it is characterized not by its distinctiveness. And its separation to the Lord and from the world, but it's characterized more by its blurring of the things of God, blending the things of God and the things of the world together, so there's no clear distinction. In fact, we're going to talk about this a little later on in some of the motives. But for many of these musicians, many of these bands and these groups. They consider that as a driving factor behind what they do, is that we don't want to be distinct from the world. We want to be as much like them as we possibly can so that we're accepted by them Now, my contention is that is not scriptural in any way, shape, or form. That principle does not apply in any other area of ministry. So you say, well these pe these young people are rock and rollers. The modern uh folks now, even it's older folks now, they're rock and rollers and we'll be like their music and boy we can relate to them and and they'll relate to us and they'll accept us and all of that So if you're going to apply that principle to reaching prostitutes, how's that work? If you're going to apply that principle to reaching drunkards, How do you apply it there? It doesn't work. It's not scriptural That whole mentality. That's why I contend over and over and over. Contemporary Christian music is more than just a style of music, it is an entire different approach to Christianity. I was talking to a friend of mine that is involved in contemporary Christian music, and I made the statement, I said you cannot have a strict adherence to the Word of God and defend contemporary Christian music. Because if you're going to strictly stick to the Word of God, it's going to violate the principles of contemporary Christian music. Now let me give you some verses. I want us to notice what the Bible says About the world and our relationship with it. Now, let me ask you this: what do we mean by the world? When we're talking about being separate from the world and our relationship with the world, what are we talking about? What would be another term we could use to know we understand we're talking about the world? Unsafe. Unsafe. Unsafe people? Okay. What? Their lifestyle. How about this? Society. Society. We're talking about the world. We're not talking about the clouds and the mountains and and uh squirrels and all of that stuff. We're talking about humanity. We're talking about society. Take your Bibles. Now we're gonna look at a bunch of verses. You brought your Bibles, I hope, and we might as well use them. Ephesians chapter 5 Ephesians chapter 5. I really believe, I believe with all my heart, if someone is sincere. And they come to the Word of God with an open heart and sincerely wanting to know what the Bible says. It's very, very clear. It is when we get locked in. I heard a I have a book about a fella out in Colorado, uh, and I've been to the church where he's at. Uh he was uh he was involved in the contemporary Christian music. He was a worship leader In a huge church, and he wrote a book, and the more he got involved in it, the more he realized that that was not of God. He came out, he wrote a book on why I left the contemporary Christian music Uh why I left that. And he's in a good, solid, independent Baptist church now. I read that book and he makes a statement in there. He says the reason Primarily the reason people use contemporary Christian music, uh Christian rock, is because they like rock. It's what it boils down to. I think if someone is sincere and open and looks with the Word of God, it's very, very clear. Look at Ephesians chapter 5 and verse number 11. Now, this is God's word, and have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather reprove them. I wrote in the margin of my Bible there, separation. Separation. Now would you agree with me? There are elements, there are music styles and music um Categories that would fall under the category unfruitful works of darkness. Would anybody agree with me? Anybody recognize the name Ozzy Osborne? That guy's a a dimensional freak in my mind. I'm saying that in Christian love. If you've ever uh if you know anything about him, his background, it is satanic It is perverse, it is ungodly in every sense, his lifestyle of what he stands for what he promotes. So I would say that there are, somebody would have to agree that there are music styles That would have to fall into that category of unfruitful works of darkness. Now what are we supposed to do if something is not of God Something is not right if it's associated with things that are ungodly and pagan. What is to be our response here? What does it say? It's very clear. We're not to have any fellowship with them. The word fellowship means to be a partaker with, or a partisan, or a companion with. Somebody is involved. If there is an activity or an issue that is unfruitful works of darkness, I'm not to be associated with that. In any way, shape, or form, I'm not to be a companion in with that. Some of these principles are going to apply to some lessons in a couple of But rather I'm to reprove them. I'm to put a clear distinction between me and them that that is not of God. That is not of the Word of God. So, uh come over to Romans chapter twelve. This is a familiar passage for a lot of us. Romans 12, verse 1 and 2. Many of us have this passage memorized. I don't think this mic is on, Brother Dave. I think I got it turned on up here. O N. Ah, there we go. I had it upside down, I thought it said no. And uh it was oh Wow, can't be like that one. Notice notice chapter twelve. I beseech you therefore, brethren, look at this, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice. Look at this first word. Holy Acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And be not conformed to this world, society. But be transformed by the renewing of your mind that you may prove that which is good and acceptable in the perfect will of God. Notice he says we're not to be conformed to this world, to be fashioned-like. To take on the values and lifestyles of this world, but we're to allow the Word of God, we're to allow God through His Word to change our minds so that our lives are holy. The word holy means separate, distinct, sacred. Something that is not like the world, not something that mimics the world, not something that finds its source in the world, but to be live lives and lifestyles that find their source in the Word of God, in the will of God, and the character of God. We are not to adopt the world's values and standards. What are the world's standards? I got thinking of that as I was preparing. What are the world's standards? I'll tell you what I think they are. I think the world's standards are that which is good is evil, that which is evil is good. And the less the Word of God has influence on our society, the more the world standards become obvious. So, turn with me if you would to Titus, chapter number two. What is the Christian's relationship with the world? Now, our subject is contemporary Christian music, but this applies across the board. Titus, back a little ways, after Timothy, chapter 2, and here's an argument. But preacher, we're under grace. You hear some preachers' definition of grace and it means uh a total license to sin. That is not grace. Look what look what true grace, look at the influence it has on the one that experiences. Verse number 11. For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared unto all men Now you take some of modern Christianity's teaching, and this is how you would read it, teaching us that enjoying ungodliness and engaging in worldly lusts. That is not grace. The grace of God, God's grace, delivers me from that. Teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we should live how? Soberly and righteously and godly in this present world. Looking for that blessed hope and the glorious appearing of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ. It says denying ungodliness. Denying says, when you deny what's it mean if you deny something? What are you doing? Refusing it. You're saying no. Rejecting that. Um it's to refuse. And ungodliness, what is ungodliness? It's not of God. Let me throw this out to be make it a little clearer in our mind. God has certain moral attributes. There's moral attributes. He is good. He's holy. He's compassionate. Those types of things. He's pure, he's honest. The moral attributes of God, you and I can emulate them in our lives These are the characteristics of God that you and I can incorporate into our lifestyle, into our character. Now there are some attributes of God, they're called the natural attributes, you and I can't incorporate For instance, God is omnipresent. He's everywhere all the time. You and I can't incorporate that into our lives. That is a natural attribute of God: omnipotence. But his moral attributes again. So being ungodly means I have very few, I do not have the moral attributes of God true in my life. See what I'm saying? Um ungodliness. Or and it also includes a lack of res reverence for God. Uh-oh, I preached on this not long ago. This is something that just is at the root of the Is that deep in my heart? Starting contemporary Christianity of all strikes, and that is this losing uh reverence for a holy God. God is being distorted who and what He is. Our God is awesomely holy, blindingly holy. And we must be very, very careful that we take the things of God and besmirch it and stain it. With the common and and uh uh sinful things of the world. So to be ungodly means uh one of the aspects of being ungodly is to not have that reverence for For God. The idea is, well, God's just cool. You know, God's a uh that guy, what's that guy? I always forget his name, but he has his I mean he does rap and rock and he's real big. Uh chap not Chapman. Um I can see his face, but I can't think of But um he he's got this song about uh doing hip hop with the Holy Spirit. And he talks about when we're in heaven we're gonna be breaking dancing and and all this stuff. And he's a big shot in this whole movement. That, my friends, is un Godly. That is not reverencing the Holy Spirit of God. Come on. Uh denying ungodliness and worldly lusts. What are worldly lusts? What would that be? Yeah, the flesh. The way I view the world, I'm getting a little philosophical here, the way I view the world, society, is simply the lusts of our flesh, our sinful nature The works of the flesh, Galatians 5, in a corporate corporate expression. Anybody have any clue what I'm talking about? Uh I don't can't figure out what I'm talking about. Um idea is all of sinful flesh. Uh we have these sinful works of the flesh, Galatians five lifts them. The world, society, is simply all of those characteristics of the flesh in corporate form on a societal level. Yeah, it's all of that. Me-centered, physical, uh sensual, wouldn't would be uh physical. And so we're to deny these ungodly lusts, lusts that the world has And then we're to be sober, that's discreet, temperate, moderate in our lives, righteous, conforming to God's word, godly. Having these characteristics of God true in my life. So we're talking about God in the world. I hope you're bearing with me here a little bit because I'm going somewhere with this. The God and the world, they are diametrically opposed in their values. God's values and the world's values have absolutely nothing in common. God is supreme. The world is self-centered. The world views itself as supreme. God is supreme. They're diametrically opposed. In fact, look how it's expressed in James chapter 4. Man, this is strong language. Look at James chapter 4. Now I'm trying to establish from the Word of God that we are we Are not to be part of the world, society, the values, lifestyles of the world. We are to be distinct from that. Look at James 4 and verse number 4. Uh let me get here. Notice it says here, verse 4, ye look at this language he uses. Ye adulterers and adulteresses. Strong language, yeah? Yes, very strong. Good night. Know ye not that the friendship of the world is what? Enmity with God. Whosoever will be a friend of the world is the enemy of God. Man alive. Now question, is he saying here, I'm not to be friends with someone that's unsaved? No, he's not saying that at all. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son But God, He loved the world, He wants the world to be saved, but you would not call God a friend of the world. They're diametrically opposed to each other. Um uh friendship implies a fondness, a companionship. We're associated with each other. But look what he says, whosoever is friend of the world is the enemy of God. Further up in the verse, he says, friendship with the world is enmity with God. That word enmity has the idea of being hostile against. Hostility. It is according to this verse, and I believe others that have used and others that we haven't, it is impossible to be a friend and associate uh uh uh or be fond of society and be loy be a loyal follower of God. I can't be both If I'm going to associate myself with society and its values and its lifestyles and its pleasures and everything that goes along with it, then I am living in hostility against God. It's plain as day. I can't take the world's pleasures and and uh the world's values and lifestyles and somehow Christianize it It is inherently at enmity with God. And so I have to come out and be distinct from the world. Nowhere in Scripture, I'm in the process of reading my Bible through for the 35th time. Nowhere in Scripture can I find anywhere where we're even remotely Instructed to emulate the world. I can't find anywhere in Scripture where we're even remotely suggested that we are to adopt the world's values, the world's morals, the world's lifestyles for any reason. We are told to be distinct, to rebuke it, to stay away from it, and to focus on Christ and be yielded to Him and have His values and His characteristics true in our life. There is this is my point I'm trying to make. Clear from Scripture, there is to be a clear distinction between our values, our lifestyles, our priorities. And the world's values, the world's lifestyles, and the world's priorities. Clear distinction. As different as that Texas Statehouse on a Friday night, 10 o'clock, when they played that hymn, there was nothing even remotely similar. And what was going on in that hymn, what was going on before and after in the music. Follow what I'm saying? There's a clear distinction. And that's scriptural. All throughout Israel's history, they constantly struggled with adopting the surrounding the lifestyles of the surrounding nations. God was constantly rebuking them. They would adopt the values of the Ammonites and the Moabites and the Philistines. They'd worship their gods. They brought their lifestyles in. And God was continually rebuking them. Turn with me one more passage, Exodus chapter 22. Would you turn back there? Now we're not in the Old Testament. We're in the church age. So God's not dealing with Israel. We're not spiritual Israel. But I found that the nation of Israel's actions very much illustrate our individual actions. And Israel's struggles as a nation, I can relate to on an individual basis. And as Israel was constantly, I mean, for Hundreds of years they're constantly following this group and then that group and getting away from God. And God's constantly, and look what he says in Ezekiel chapter 22. What did I say? Ezekiel. You guys have to so it's kind of like men and women. Forget that. My wife is helping me to not just let everything that comes in my mind come out my mouth. Yeah, it's censorship. But it sure makes life easier. Ex uh Ezekiel. Ezekiel. We need to figure a way to edit these recordings, so this is all nonsense, it's out of here. Ezekiel 22, look at verse 26. Ezekiel, Ezekiel. Sorry, George, that was my bed. Ezekiel 22, look at verse 26. Now remember, keep in mind what the context is. Israel's constantly adopting the world's values, their neighbors do they had to do what the Moabites were doing, they had to do what the Philistines were doing. They had to whatever's around them, they'd pick it up. Verse 26 Her priests have violated my law. God's rebuking the nation And have profaned my holy things. Huh. They have put no difference between the holy and the profane. Neither have they showed the difference between the unclean and the clean. What's he saying? He's saying, my priests, the spiritual leaders, the one that were responsible to keep the nation of Israel on the right track. They refused, they failed to put a distinction between that which is of God and that which is of the world, so to speak. They didn't make any distinction, and you couldn't tell the difference. In fact, Israel was notorious for taking the groves that were used to worship false gods and bring them in and say, well, we're going to worship Jehovah in these groves. And they were constantly mixing the worship of the true and living God with the worship of the pagan gods all around them. And God says, listen, you've got to make it clear between the two. People have to know that which is of God and that which is not of God. There needs to be a clear demarcation between the two. And they wouldn't do it. And I see a parallel in contemporary Christian music. It has taken music, and we'll get into this. It's taken music that finds its roots and its origins in the world, in the flesh. In rebellion, bringing it over, trying to blur the distinctions and Christianize it And it doesn't work. I'm going to be real frank with you. Contemporary Christian music is worldly. It's worldly. Now, what is worldly music? What's worldly music? Let me give you a biblical definition. I don't think we went to 1 John 2. 16. I meant to. I'll just break that reference down. 1 John 2, 16 says, all that is of the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life. So it's describing the values of the world. That which is worldly is something that appeals to the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life So if you have worldly music, it is music that appeals to the lust of my flesh, the lust of my eyes, and the pride of my life. That's what it's worldly. Worldly music is music. My definition is music that imitates the music the world uses. To energize the lusts of the flesh. Follow what I'm saying? Worldly music is music that the world uses to energize the lusts of the flesh. Somebody says this, and I hope you'll bear with me because I want to keep this all together. Somebody says this, preacher, music is amoral. In other words, music in itself is not It's just amoral. It's neutral. It has no moral value whatsoever. Music in itself. I disagree strongly with that. What if you would say artwork, paintings? You say paintings, the product of an artist is amoral. It's not right or wrong, it has no moral value to it whatsoever. Would you agree with me? It's possible for an artist to paint a very immoral painting? Good grief, yes. And it is pa and music is an art form. And it is possible to pro to produce a very immoral style of music. Like you can produce an immoral painting. Or you can write an immoral book. Now, the only thing amoral, neutral, in art in artistry is the paint. There's nothing simple about the color red. There's nothing inherently righteous about the color blue. They have no moral values. But when you take those colors and you assemble them, it can be very glorifying to God, or it can be very sensual and worldly and perverse. Question, is it possible for language to be moral? Are there such a thing Just bad words. Are there good words? Sure. So language has a moral value to it. Well, the language Letters themselves have no moral value. There's nothing simple about the letter G. There's nothing inherently righteous about the letter W. My favorite letter is the letter D. Um but there's nothing moral. But can we take those amoral letters and assemble them away and produce something immoral or moral? Yeah. And there's, you say, well, music is amoral. I disagree with that. The notes that make up music are amoral. I don't even know what the notes are. See? B E A E C E E F There's nothing immoral about where those notes are. Oh there's nothing immoral about that there. Here's my point. You guys are dragging this out. Here's my point. But how you assemble that music can be very important. Just like how you assemble that paint can be very immoral. How you assemble those letters of the alphabet can be very immoral. How you assemble that paint can be very beautiful and uplifting and good. How you assemble those letters can be a tremendous piece of work and glorify God. And how you assemble those notes that make up music Can be tremendously glorifying to God, or they can be very sensual, very perverse. And so, yes, there is a moral quality to music, not the notes There's tremendous documentation that the heavy beat, sometimes called the backbeat of rock and roll in contemporary Christian music, has a direct appeal to the sensual desires of the flesh. I'm not talking about Christians, I'm talking about the people involved in it themselves. Finish this statement: Sex and drugs and Why is that what comes to mind? Why isn't it sex and drugs and folk music? It's not what it's associated with. Do you follow what I'm saying? Why is it that style of music is overwhelmingly recognized and associated with sex and drugs? Because that's what it appeals to. That's What it produces. That's what it elicits. Um listen to some of these real quick. And I know I'm going long, but I wanted to keep this all together for a fact. Huey Lewis in the News. Says when they play their music, all that modern music, they like it with a lot of style, but it's still the same old backbeat rhythm. That really, really drives them wild. That's what they said. Um Elvis Presley said this. It's the beat that gets you. If you like it and you feel it, you can't help but move to it. That's what happens to me. I can't help it. Another uh music magazine editor said this the great strength of rock and roll library. It is a music which is Which is basically sensual and unpuritive. Hit for radar wrote this. Somebody was writing a hit for radar nine The main ingredient in rock is sex and sass. Another book. Written called Pop Goes the Gospel. The throbbing beat of rock provides a vital sexual release for adolescent audiences. Of this, I can't even read it. Tom McSloy, some big rock and roller, said this. Rock and roll does disturbing things to your body. Uh Paul Stanley said uh rock and roll isn't based on cerebral thoughts, it's based on one's lowest Trying to pick out one that's um even remotely comfortable reading. There's a great deal of powerful and subliminal sexual stimulation implicit in both the rhythm and the lyrics of rock and roll. This is what rock is all about. And he goes on and makes some The spell that I said came out of contemporary Christian music, he wrote that I am now convinced that God will not accept our worship when it is offered with music styles that are also used by pagans for their immoral practices. Our God is a jealous God. If you grant this principle alone, it will change forever the way you lead a worship service. Alan Odes, he's a friend of mine, he was saved out of rock and roll band back years ago, and he travels now. He said, how do you understand what good Christian music is? It ought to sound different from the rock station. From the easy listening station, the entertainment music. When we sing gospels in the good old-fashioned way, they don't sound like anything that the world sings. That's the way we need to keep it. We can never portray the peace of the Lord with wild, discordant, violent sounds. We can never speak of the love of God with hateful music. The goodness of the Lord with bad music. The majesty of God with low-class music. The power of God with puny music. The wisdom of God with stupid music. The holiness of God with unholy music. We can never speak of godliness with ungodly music, of heavenly things with earthly, sensual, devilish music. We can never speak of being a soldier if we use dance music. And he's making a great, great point here. And that is this. There is to be a clear Christian distinction. distinctiveness about our music. And contemporary Christian music does just the opposite and blurs those distinctions. I took a long time tonight, I know that. But uh I wanted to to keep this all together. Why do I as pastor, why do we as a church, and I'm I'm I'm no I'm I'm under no delusion that everybody in our church Agrees with me 100% on this. I understand that. But I am absolutely convinced, in studying scripture, that You cannot hold to this book and at the same time justify confederate Christian music. We're diametrically opposed And I feel strongly about that. And we'll we'll expand on this and we'll talk about the lifestyle of the people involved in it, how it affects people, and we want to talk a little bit more about this world that has also So let's pray. I don't know how to give you vacation on this, Lord. I pray you help us to be real clear and distinct from the word of God