I wanted to comment on Samuel and Samuel's role on David's uh uh uh rise to prominence, I guess is how you said it. And then I wanted to talk about the factors involved in David being chosen to be king. I want to do that all in one message and I realize it would probably last about fourteen and a half hours. So I just did the first part. We're just going to look at a little bit of introduction to David. 1 Samuel 16. Then we're also going to go pretty quickly right to Acts chapter 13. So if you want to find that very quickly. And Acts 13, I'm going to use those two passages to get us started. 1 Samuel 16 and then Acts chapter 13. So if you want to find them, David is an amazing, amazing man. Oh, I was going to say this with uh Dr. Williams deer hunting Uh I went out first time all year. I got out last evening. It was a beautiful evening. I sat in a tree stand for about four hours. All I saw was all I saw was blue jays and woodpeckers the whole night. That was it And so, but it was still enjoyable, it was beautiful out and I enjoyed it. And uh so I come back here, it's about eight o'clock, it's dark of course, I pull in here to make sure the church is locked up and everything. I come around the corner, here's a buck standing right beside the house over here eating acorns. Although that stinking rat faint I was out there in the woods, I should have just sat on Pastor Brett's roof All right, got that out of my system. Are you there? 1 Samuel 16. David's an amazing man, isn't he? Man, of all the people in the Bible, he to me, and there's a lot of fascinating uh folks recorded in the Bible, but to me, David is one of the most fascinating. He is a study in contrast in a lot of ways. And so I'm really looking forward to this study. I hope it comes out as good. I hope the series comes through as good as I'm hoping it does. And um because we have a tremendous subject. And I'm excited about this series, not because I'm teaching it, but because of the subject that we're working on. So 1 Samuel chapter 16, I'm going to begin reading in verse number one. And I'm going to read down through verse number 13. Verse number 1, then down through verse number 13. This is where David is chosen to be king. Saul has been set aside, Saul's been rejected. And David is chosen. Look at verse number one, 1 Samuel 16. And the Lord said unto Samuel, How long wilt thou mourn for Saul? He's passed away. Seeing I have rejected him from reigning over Israel. Fill thine horn with oil, and go, and I will send thee to Jesse the Bethlehemite, for I have provided me a king among his sons By the way, this whole passage, I wanted to look at this, we'll have to do this maybe next week, but this whole passage is a fascinating study on Samuel. And Samuel's response, God has to correct Samuel here a little bit and change his thinking a little bit. So we'll look at that later. Verse 2. And Samuel said, How can I go? If Saul here, he will kill me. And the Lord said, Take an heifer with thee, and say, I am come to sacrifice to the Lord. And call Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show thee what thou shalt do. And thou shalt anoint unto me him whom I name unto thee. And Samuel did that which the Lord spake, and came to Bethlehem. And the elders of the town trembled at his coming and said, Comest thou peaceably? And he said, peaceably, I am come to sacrifice unto the Lord. Sanctify yourselves, and come with me to the sacrifice. And he sanctified Jesse and his sons and called them to the sacrifice And it came to pass when they were come that he looked on Eliab and said, Surely the Lord's anointed is beforehand. He looked at one of uh Jesse's sons and uh he says, Oh, this is the one. It's obvious, he's the one chosen. And look what happens. But the Lord, verse 7, said unto Samuel, Look not on his countenance or on the height of his statute. Here's a classic statement. I have refused him, for the Lord seeth not as man seeth. For man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the left heart. Great statement. We'll look at that in the future. Then Jesse called Abinadet And made him pass before Samuel. And you can almost hear Jesse thinking, well, if he didn't choose that one, Benedab's the one, he's obviously going to choose Abinadab. And he said, Neither hath the Lord chosen this. Then Jesse made Shammah pass by, and he said, Neither hath the Lord chosen this. And again, Jesse made seven of his sons to pass before Samuel. And Samuel said unto Jesse, The Lord hath not chosen these Samuel said him to Jesse, are here all thy children? And he said, There remaineth yet the youngest. Behold, he keepeth the sheep. Doesn't sound like Jesse's too impressed with David at this point, does it? He doesn't bring him out there, and when he does ask him out, well, there's the kid, you know, he's out with the sheep. And uh and Samuel said unto Jesse, send and fetch him, for we will not sit down till he come hither. And he sent and brought him in. Now he was ruddy and with all the beautiful countenance and goodly to look to. And the Lord said, Arise, anoint him, for this is he. And Samuel took the horn of oil and anointed him in the midst of his brethren, and the Spirit of the Lord came upon David from that day forward. So Samuel rose and went to Ramah. Now, keep your place here. Come back to Acts chapter number 13 and verse number 21. Acts 13, verse 21. Notice it says, and afterward they, Israel, desired a king. And God gave unto them Saul, the son of Kis, a man of the tribe of Benjamin, by the space of forty years. And when he had removed him, he raised up unto them David to be their king. To whom also he gave testimony and said, Now listen to this statement. This is God saying this about David. I have found David, the son of Jesse, look at this, a man after mine own heart Which shall fulfill all my will. Of this man's seed, David, hath God, according to his promise, raised unto Israel a Savior, Jesus. Wow, what a statement by God about David. So let's pray, and uh we'll I'll share some thoughts with you here that I have about David. Father, As we begin this new series, I ask, Lord, that you would speak to us and challenge us and encourage us and instruct us, Lord, from the life of David as record in your word God, I pray that the good characteristics of David, the outstanding characteristics of David, that they would influence us and we could incorporate some of these into our lives. And Lord, those areas where he was weak, and these areas where there was some flaws there, I pray that you would help us to learn from them. And then we could see them and take caution and maybe avoid some of the same mistakes he made. So I ask you, Lord, to please fill me with your spirit. I present my body anew, yield my will And teach us, I ask tonight, in Jesus' name, amen. What a statement to be made about a person, a man after mine own heart. David's a man after God's own heart. I can't think of a greater statement to be made by any person about any person throughout history. A man after God's own heart. A woman after God's own heart. Wouldn't that be an amazing thing if we could honestly put that on our tombstone? Here was a man after God's own heart. So here's my question tonight. This is what I want to address tonight. David is identified by God. As a man after the Lord, God's own heart. He had the heart of God. Years ago, I saw a I had a newspaper clipping, and I've referenced this off and on over the years, but it was from Houston, Texas And um a family had had a young man as a son. He was killed in a car wreck, and uh he had donated his heart, body parts, to science or whatever, to what do they call that? Um to donate your body to for transplants and that type of thing. Organ donor. And um this the young man had had had that on, so he was killed tragically And they had taken his heart and they had transplanted it into the heart of another person. Rob Browning, we're praying for Rob. He had that. But the thing that caught my attention was on the I believe it was the front page of the Houston Chronicle, whatever paper it is. They had the mother of this boy that was killed had her ear down to the chest of the person that had received the heart of her son, and she was listening to her son's heartbeat inside that other person. Isn't that an amazing thing? And I think when God says about David, here is a man after my own heart, I think to some extent what the Lord was saying, David had the heartbeat of God. He had the heart of God. He understood what God's heart was like. And that manifests itself in David's life. Now, this is where my question is What was it about David that prompted God to make such an amazing statement about him? We're not told expressly. Bible doesn't say Dev is a man after mine own heart because He was this or he wasn't that or he did this or he didn't do that. We're not told expressly what prompted God. So people might have different opinions about it. But uh I started asking myself that as we as I began on working on this study of his life, and um I have two suggestions and I'm offering kind of almost as a question I'm asking myself this. I wonder if it was David's passion that prompted God to say, here is a man after mine own heart. David, and I say this often, whenever, almost every time I reference David in a message, but I say this, he was a passionate man. You can't escape that. Whatever David did, he did with his whole heart. And I got thinking about that, our God is a passionate God. Think about just of creation I don't want to bring God down anyway, but it's almost like God, I look at creation and it's almost like God is just so excited about what he's creating. Like God is passionate about. Think about the the universe. How much of that would God had to have created for you and I to exist? You know, Earth, obviously, we've got to live on something. There has to be some sort of atmosphere. There has to be a sun. We need light to function. And then maybe the solar system. But I'm wondering anything outside the solar system, would we have absolutely needed that to exist But God's so passionate about it, he doesn't just create the bare necessities we had, but he creates this incomprehensible universe. Now he may have more purposes behind this massive creation than what he's revealed to us, but nevertheless, you look at the star and you and you think whoever made this was pretty fired up about it. Right? You follow what I'm trying to say? Whoever made this looks to me like they were pretty passionate about it because they sure made an amazing thing. We were down at DC and uh I tell you some of those ceilings, uh the Capitol and the I'd never been in the at least I don't remember being in the Library of Congress and man that ceiling uh and you look at it and say man whoever made this was pretty fired up. It's pretty passionate the detail and so was it David's passion for life? And the the uh um uh uh the affairs of life, the the activities, what life consists of, his passion for that, was that what prompted God to say that um he is uh that he is a man after god's own heart. David was wholehearted. Whenever David was praising God, and I've said this often, but whenever David was praising God, he was praising God Passionately. I often thought, if David was a member of the church and we were singing a hymn, I do not believe for one moment David would be sitting there, he would be like this Where could I go? Where could I go? Or even worse yet, while everybody's singing Huh? Yeah, I see you when you're standing there not singing. Yes, I see you. I see David. Where could I go? I mean just belting it out. Anyone else see David doing that? The Psalms he wrote are tremendous, passionate. Let's look at a couple of them. Come back here to Psalms and Psalms 19. And you know, he wrote scores of them, but some of them just really stand out. Psalms 19. And this kind of comes back to my idea about God's creation. Psalms 19. Look at it there. And we won't read the whole thing, but Wow, look at some of his statements. Of course he's writing under the inspiration of God, but God is using his personality, God is using his passion. To bring a flare to the Word of God. Look at verse 1. The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth his handiwork, day unto day under his speech. Night unto night showeth knowledge. There is no speech nor language, for their voice is not heard. Their line has gone out for all the earth, their words to the ends of the world. In them he hath set a tabernacle for the Son. Listen to the wording here, which is as a bridegroom coming out of his chamber, rejoicing as a strong man to run the race. His going forth is from the end of heaven, his circuits unto the ends of it. There is nothing hid from the heat thereof. Then he goes down, the law of the Lord is perfect. The statutes of the Lord Man, you get, do you sense passion on David's part for what God has made in that son like a like a bridegroom coming out and racing across the sky? By the way, is it just me or does it seem like that sun's going faster and faster all the time? It's like good night. Uh then come over to uh Psalms twenty-two Just a page or so over there, Psalm 22. And this is the Psalm of the Cross. It's what I call this. He says, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Now this is David writing, what, a thousand years before Christ or so? And Christ is quoting this verbatim. Now, can you imagine, and of course again, this is scripture, it's under the inspiration of God, but can you Can you imagine recording something down and then Jesus Christ quoting that? Isn't that an amazing thing? And down through, what a chapter on the prophecy of the cross. Then of course Psalm 23. How many millions of people have found strength and condolences from Psalms 23? There's hardly a funeral I ever performed that I don't somehow reference Psalm 23. And David's passion for the Lord and his and uh over chapter 32. I love Psalms 32 He's under great conviction and he finds forgiveness. Listen to this statement. Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose Sin is covered. Blessed is the man to whom the Lord imputeth not iniquity, in whose spirit there is no God. How many folks find that statement encouraging? Man, to be forgiven. What a blessedness. He comes down through here. Then Psalms chapter 40, one of the first passages after I got saved that I memorized. And what a description of the salvation of a soul. Look at Psalms 40. I waited patiently for the Lord and he inclined into me and heard my cry. He brought me up also out of a horrible pit, out of the miry clay, set my feet upon a rock, established my goings. He had put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God. Many shall see it in fear and shall trust in the Lord. Blessed is that man that maketh the Lord his trust. Then Psalm 51. Mercy. Psalm 51. The most thorough confession of sin on record, as far as I'm concerned. Most public confession of sin. Listen to David pouring his his his heart out to God in humility and confession. Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy loving kindness, according to the mold of do thy tender mercies, blot out my transgressions. Now we're going to notice this a little bit later. We're going to compare this to Saul. But look how he deals with the sin. Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity. Cleanse me from my sin. I acknowledge my transgression and my sin as ever before. Look at verse 4. Against thee and thee only have I sinned and done this evil in my sight. What did Saul do when he got caught in his sin? He blamed everyone else. And even when he did confess it, we're going to notice it, even when he did confess it, the confession was still blaming others. And his whole motive was, listen, still honor me in front of everybody. I don't want to be humbled. I just confess my sin and just I want to keep my position What a difference. So David is very, very passionate about his love and praise for God and and as it's recorded here in the Psalms. So David is a passionate man about his praise for God. And I've said this often over the years. But when David's fighting his enemies, And he's not out there just tinkering around. He's not out there, you know, trying to make sure I don't get any. Man, he is charging out after that And uh he is just saw Saul's slaying thousands, and that's impressive, but David's slaying what? Ten thousands. I mean he is just old-hearted. Ah I like a little statement, and we're going to look at this in the series at one point, but uh when David is going out to Goliath. And he gets the little stones. And we always have this little picture that David's kind of skipping out there, you know, round and round and round and round. And uh he kind of that's not what the Bible says. The Bible says he what He ran out there. I don't know about you, but here's a guy that's, you know, ten, twelve feet tall and he's got all this. I'd kind of be like strategically trying to find a a way to get in there and say, oh, look over there. You know. Not David. He just plows right in. And uh passionate when he's fighting his enemies, he is wholehearted. Uh when he's ruling the nation. As king, man, it is his whole heart is in this thing. Now there's a negative side to that to a passionate person. A person that, whatever they're doing, they're doing it with their whole heart. When they're doing right, that's a good thing, right? However, when David messed up, and I've said this often, when David messed up, he messed up bad too. You know, when he got out of the will of God, he ran after his sin intensely. There's only a few battles that David ever lost. There's uh one battle was with his battle with fear or lack of faith. Are you there in 1 Samuel? Come back to 1 Samuel and turn over to chapter 27. I just want to briefly look at a couple of these. One battle David lost wasn't with the Philistines, wasn't with the Amorites, wasn't with any of the ites. It was with fear. 1 Samuel chapter 27. Now this is where the context here is Saul is chasing Samuel And he's out to kill him. Saul is no more pretense on Saul's part. He's out. I'm going to kill this guy. Before he was kind of covering up. Now it's just the cover's off. He's after it. Now, David has been already anointed. At this point in time, David has been anointed as king. God said, you will be king. Period. If God says something's going to happen, mark it down, it's going to happen. Right? So look how David responds. After being chased around by Saul week after month, week after week, month after month, it starts to wear on him And I believe fear starts setting in, discouragement maybe sets in, and he starts, his faith starts to waver. Look at verse 1. And David said in his heart, big mistake. He's listening to his own reasoning. He's not listening to what God said. I shall now perish one day by the hand of Saul. That was not a true statement. It was a false statement. He was not going to perish. God assured him of that. But David had a lapse of faith. And here you have this tremendous man of God. Tremendous man of God, who God said is a man after my own heart, but yet we see him losing the battle with fear. And his faith begins to waver. I thought, early on in my Christian life, or way back early in my 20s, I thought by the time I reached the age 57, surely I would not struggle with fear anymore. I'd been saved long enough. I'd seen enough of what God does. I knew enough of the Bible that that would not be a factor. You know what I found out? Age 57, I still have to deal with fear and lack of faith. Not something. David was passionate, but yet he still struggled with this matter of fear and lack of faith. There's another battle and but he goes over to the he defaults. He duh not default, what's the word I want? Um deflects to the enemies of God. And he moves in with the Philistines, the enemies of God, and that's a disaster. Turn with me to 2 Samuel chapter 11. So the first battle that we find that David lost was the battle with fear, lack of faith. He struggled there. Now he recovered. Second Samuel chapter 11. First battle was the battle of fear. The second battle he lost was the battle with lust. Look at verse 11, chapter 11, verse 1. We'll study this as we get through it. It came to pass after the time was expired, after the year was expired, at the time when the kings go forth to battle. That David sent Joab and his servants with him and all of Israel, and they destroyed the children of Ammon and besieged Rabbah, and David tarried still at Jerusalem. We'll talk about the significance of that later on Came to pass at evening time that David arose from his off his bed and walked upon the roof of the king's house, and from the roof of the house he saw a what? Woman washing herself. And here is David, a man of God's own heart, this great man of God, this great man used of God in tremendous ways, yet he still had a lustful heart, sinful heart, and he lost the battle with lust. How many people, if you didn't know this story and you're reading about David with an amazing man, how many people would be shocked to hear that something like that would have happened to David? Sure. It is shocking. There's a third battle David lost, 2 Samuel chapter 24. 2 Samuel chapter 24. And again the anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel, and he moved David against them to say, go number Israel and Judah. Now we'll deal with that statement there. It seems to be contradictory. But you come down through here, and David makes the decision to number the people of Israel. Now one, that was wrong. In fact, when we get here, we'll notice David's advisors, David's top men said, David, you don't need to do this. You don't need to do this And I believe in there, again, we'll study this a little more detail, but there David lost the battle with pride. David lost the battle with pride. How many people here ever knew a teenager that was very proud? Let me ask this. How many have ever met a teenager that wasn't very proud? I mean when I was a teen, I could do anything. I I knew everything. Mom and Dad were just they were ignorant. They didn't know nothing. We knew everything. When I graduate from Bible college, I knew more than all the preachers in the whole world. I knew everything. And uh the older I get, the dumber I get. Um, but uh you know what? Even in our later years of life, we still struggle with pride, don't we? Still struggle with pride. So David, I see three battles David lost. He's passionate man. And uh he goes out that there, but when he gets an idea in his head, I'm gonna die, I'm gonna, man, he just goes all out the other way He gets an idea in his head, boy, there's a woman. Boom, he's all out. He gets an idea in his head, boy, I'm something else. I want to see how great I really am. And he goes all out So my question is this. Was it David's passion that prompted a God? You know, here's a man Has the same heart I do. Here's a man after my heart. He's very passionate about what he does. I believe God is passionate about what he does. Um even on the cross, when Jesus died on the cross, there's uh there's a doctrine called Calvinism. And part of that doctrine says that Jesus only died for those who would believe on him. It's called limited atonement. And he didn't, if somebody, if he, and in his foreknowledge, he knows who's going to believe and who isn't. So uh well part of doctrines he chooses who believes and who doesn't. But it along with that it says that he only died for those who would believe on him, who would trust him, who he'd chosen. That is as unscriptural as you can get. That's so easy to show from scripture that that doesn't fly Here's the passion about Christ and his love for mankind. He didn't just die for a slept few. He died for everybody Whether they believe on him or not, he's still paying the price for them. There's not a person in the world whose sin hasn't been paid for. Somebody asked Moody one time. They said, uh, you preach uh Christ will save mankind. How comes mankind so sinful if Christ saves mankind? And the guy was a soap manufacturer. He says, Does your soap wash people, dirt off of people? He says, yeah, well there's a little kid over there. There's dirty He says, well, they have to apply the soap to get clean. And Moody said, well, you've got to apply the blood of Christ for it to be clean. So Christ died for everybody. Everybody could be saved. The problem is they need to apply it by faith. Am I making sense? So I see the passion of God in that he doesn't just die for a select few. He dies for everybody. He doesn't create just the solar system. Man, he creates this unbelievable universe. And I think God looks at David and said, man, here is a guy that's passionate about praising and about living for me. Now, when he messes up, he messes up bad. But he stirred up about the things of God. When David was strong, he was very strong. But when David was weak, he was very weak. Think about the two I want you to think in your mind now. What are the two most memorable events in the life of David? We reference them all the time. There's two things that stand out in the life of David. David and Goliath. How many of you agree with me? That's strong. Strong in faith. Man, he's he's standing head and shoulders, figuratively speaking about everybody else. The whole army is scared to death of Goliath. And here's this kid comes out with a sling of all things and takes out David and Goliath. But there's another end of the spectrum, David and Bathsheba. So when he's strong in faith, man, he's all out. But when he's weak, he's very, very weak. And so we see this in David, this this um uh I'm gonna try and impress you. I'm not sure I even know what this means. Dichotomy. Alright, is that the right word, Ken? It's contrast. Trust me, it is. We'll just make up stuff. But there's a contrast in the life of David. And so here's something else as I was looking over the life of David. He was very strong in his political life. As a king, those areas. But he was very weak in his family life. Family life. He had trouble early on. Remember Micah? Michael And there was fuss going on there. I think if I remember correct, she ended up moving out. And then all the kids and all the problems with the kids. And here you have a man that is so strong in his passion for God, his love for God, and his commitment to the Lord, and yet he has these areas where he's so weak in Um passionate man, passionate man. He's a fascinating, fascinating study. So we see here That David is not some sort of spiritual Superman. You know, we get this picture of David. He can do no. He's just like, big ass. But it's not. He's a man of like passions like you and I. He struggled with doubt and fear. He struggled with passions in his heart, sinful heart. He struggled with pride. Yet he was used of God in a tremendous way. And he's honored of God in a tremendous way. In fact, it's interesting. In um Acts there and throughout the Bible, New Testament, particularly, Jesus Christ sits on the throne of David. And it's a tremendous, it's presented as a tremendous honorable position, of course it is, and Christ sits on the throne of David That's an amazing statement. Have a person say Christ is going to sit on my throne. And so he's a He's not a spiritual superman. He's just passionate about the love for the Lord and and love for God. And what I take away from these thoughts is that sometimes I fail God. Now you all are looking at me very piously. Sometimes you fail God too, right? And it's not a contest, see who does the most or the least. Don't compare so to but sometimes we fail God, but you look at the life of David, that doesn't mean God's done with us That doesn't mean we're useless. Well, God put them on the shelf. Anybody here ever preach or talk about that? God will put you on the shelf. I take issue with that. I don't believe God puts anybody on the shelf I think we put ourselves on the shelf. And if we'll get right with God, and that's going to lead me to my second thought about David, if we get right with God, if we humble ourselves, confess our sin, forsake it, we can get off that shelf. Anybody ever read about Jonah? How would you like to be on his shelf? It's a fish gut. But when no when Jonah humbled himself on that shelf God restored them and used them again. And so David messed up seriously, and we need to learn from that, and we will, hopefully in our study we will, and we need to take warning from that, and maybe we can avoid some of that But when we mess up when we fail God and we do because there's not a man that sinneth Doesn't mean it's over. We can deal with that and deal with it correctly. I've often said this. What's the difference between a strong, victorious Christian that's rejoicing in the Lord? and a defeated, backslidden, carnal Christian. What's the difference between the two? Is it that this guy sins and this guy doesn't sin? No, we're all sinners. But this guy deals with his sin biblically And this guy doesn't. And it eats away at him and destroys them. When this guy over here, not if he sins, when he sins, he immediately recognizes it, he immediately confesses it, forsakes it And gets up and goes on. A just man falleth seven times and what? Riseth up again. He deals with that fall biblically, thoroughly, makes things right. He gets up and he goes on. This defeated guy over here, he fails, he falls, he sins, and he doesn't deal with it. And it gets worse and it gets worse. And it gets worse, sin is a progressive thing, and now he's completely out of the word of God, he's completely carnal, he's completely backslidden So the difference between the two isn't that one sins and the other one doesn't. It's not that David didn't sin. He did grievously. But he dealt with it. And God used him and honored him in a tremendous way. Now there are consequences, and there were consequences that David dealt with. But nevertheless This is after David is, a thousand years after David's off the scene, God says he was a man after my own heart. That amazing thing. Does not mean the end of our usefulness and doesn't mean we have no value to God. So God says in Acts 13, David is a man after mine own heart. And I thought, why? What was it about David that would prompt God to say that? What can I learn from that? And I asked myself, maybe it was his passion for the Lord. And could be, we're not told. But there's another something another thing about David, another characteristic of David that might be a factor in this, and that is this. I wonder if it wasn't his great humility. David was a, he struggled with pride, but David was a tremendously humble man. And I found in studying Scripture one thing God cannot resist. One thing God cannot resist, and that is humility. You find the most wicked king, Ahab. Did I ever mention? I don't like Ahab. Just thinking about them. I don't like them. Ahab was the most wicked king you can imagine, had an ungodly wife, and uh the guy was a sorry, coward, wimp, selfish I don't like him. And God pronounces judgment on him. But here's the amazing thing. When Ahab humbled himself, God showed him mercy. And when I read that, and where is it, Kings? I read that, and it's like, you know, this is me. I'm like, seriously, God? You're going to show this guy mercy But he humbled himself. And it's almost like, and again, I don't want to be irreverent in any way, shape, or form, but it's almost like God can't resist that. He humbled himself. I'm going to show him mercy. And I see in the life of David tremendous humility. Tremendous humility. I got looking through there, I can't find anywhere where David boasted of his own greatness. Never did. Now he numbered the people. He got proud there, but I read through the Psalms and different things, and nowhere do I find David saying, I demand to be honored by everybody. Now Saul wanted that But I don't see that on David's part at all. I always find David exalting the Lord, exalting the Lord, exalting the Lord, exalting the Lord. Great is the Lord. Greatly to be praised. He never says, great is David. Greatly to be praised. He doesn't say that about himself I can't find anywhere, and I may be missing something, but I can't find anywhere where David demanded to be treated a certain way. I can't find that. Oh yeah? Well, I deserve to be treated better than this. We find our we might not say it that way, but that's what we're saying in our actions, huh? Nobody's going to talk to me that way and get away with it Nobody's going to treat me that way. I deserve to be treated better than this. America has become so proud we deserve we got this idea that we deserved. certain level of whatever. Now, you know what we deserve? We deserve to die and go to hell. What we deserve. And I don't find anywhere where David's going around demanding to be treated this way or that way or the other. I see Nebuchadnezzar that way. You're going to bow down and worship me and my idol. You never find David talking that way or thinking that way. At least I I can't find any. And after every failure, and this is what stands out in my mind about David, when he did fail, when he did sin. There is not always immediately, but at some point there is absolute thorough confession I mean, he comes clean with God. Do you see it there in Psalm 51? Against thee, and thee only have I sinned, and done this evil in thy sight. And he's you don't find David ever whitewashing his sin. Well, you know, I tried to do right, but you know, all the people did this and who was this? You know, here's the situation. What could I do? You know, I couldn't help it Never does that. Well, if it was this way, you know, don't find any of that. Thorough confession, and I find thorough repentance. Study, we'll and and we'll no doubt get through this, but study every place where David failed, and and when it's brought to his intention, when he deals with it, it is always thorough repentance. He doesn't try and hold on to anything. Makes it thoroughly right. And I see genuine humility. Both David and Saul failed God terribly. And actually, and I somebody might take issue with me on this, and I wouldn't argue with you, but you could make the argument, I think, that David failed worse. than Saul did in some ways. I mean it's morally. Saul, you know, he He wasn't completely obedient to God. Another time he took the sacrifice into his own hands rather than waiting on Samuel. Remember that? That wasn't a moral failure necessarily. It was a lack of faith, a lack of obedience to God. So you could almost make the case that David sinned morally worse than Saul did. But God never said about Saul, here's a man after my own heart. In fact, God said, I reject him. He's not at all like my heart. I reject them. So what was the difference? I think if you study how Saul responded to his sin and how David responded to his sin, you see a very, very clear distinction between them Not even close. David's thorough confession, thorough repentance, thorough humility, for Saul's justifying, excusing, blaming, and going on. 1 Samuel 15, and we won't take time to go there. Saul stiffened his neck. He blamed others, and God rejected him. Psalm 51, David humbly confesses, thoroughly repents, and God honors him. So I wonder as we begin this study, we look at David, we find here is not a super spiritual superman. We find a man of like passions, no doubt struggle with the same sinful heart that you and I have. But God says he is a man after my own heart. And my thinking is his tremendous passion for God. And it's tremendous humility. Oh, I wanted to say this about the humility of David. Read we we're studying in in a Bible institute or the life of Christ, the doctrine of Christ, and we studied uh Philippians chapter two. And as I was, I've taught that a number of times, but I was going through this time, it kind of dawned on me. The chief characteristic of Jesus, the man, I think is humility. Now, as God, it's holiness. There's no doubt, holiness is God's chief characteristic. But the man Christ Jesus According to Philippians chapter 2, he humbled himself. Now think about that. Here's Jesus Christ, King of kings, Lord of lords, sits on the throne of glory Equal with God. And he humbles himself, comes down here, and people call him names. People throw stuff at him. People make unbelievable accusations and treat him like dirt. Pull his beard out and they kill him. And he do he doesn't retaliate in any way, shape, or form. You talk about humility And I wonder if God sees David humble himself so much when he fails. And this characteristic of his life says, you know, that's kind of like Jesus. He's a man after my own heart. He's a guy that understands. I I admire David even more so when I see his humanity. And his humility and his passion. So what do we take away from? This is what I asked the Lord when I was done this lesson. This is what I asked the Lord. I said, Lord, help me to be passionate. About loving you and living for you. And Lord, help me to be humble. Help me to be humble. Humility is really a decision we make. Because the Lord commands us, humble yourself. So I decide whether I do that or not. I think it would do some of our homes a heap of good. Some husbands and wives would humble themselves before the Lord. Do some parents good, do some Christians good, do some workers good to humble ourselves. I believe that, God sees that. God can't resist it. I'm going to show mercy. I'm going to bless that one. They humble themselves and then passionate, passionate, passionate. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help me and help us as a church. To incorporate at least these two characteristics in our lives, a passion for you and the things of God and living for you and pleasing you, that we'd be passionate, not indifferent or apathetic. About any of that, about praising you and serving you. We'd be passionate. And Lord, I pray you'd help us to be humble. Lord, we don't want to fail. We want to do right. We want to be pure. We want to be obedient. Lord, we fail. I ask you to help us to remain humble. And to deal with our failures the way David did, and our whole life to be characteristic, characterized by humility. Our homes, at work, at church. Humble ourselves. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many tonight would say, Pastor, I'm praying with you that God would help me to be passionate. Give me some passion in my heart and soul for the Lord. Or maybe say, preacher, I'm praying with you, along with you, that God would Enable me and help me to be humble, to deliberately be humble before him and uh others. Is there any like that feels that way? That's my prayer, many of us around. And uh I wish we had the piano where we could just give an old-fashioned invitation, but we don't. Maybe just air at our pews. We would just want to make that pew a little altar. Say, here I am, Lord, do what you need to do. Stir my heart. Do what you need to do. And this is a scary prayer, but Lord, do what you need to do that I'd be humble Before you and others, that I can incorporate these two characteristics of David in my heart and life, that I can at least a little bit have the heart of God. The heart of God. Father, you know us, you know where we're at, and we ask you to help us in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, I'm excited about the study of David, and uh I'm looking forward to getting into some details in