Well, it's a great uh privilege to be back again this evening. And uh on this Scripture Publishing Sunday, we're excited about what the Lord is doing. And I trust that you'll continue to pray. Uh really if we uh could raise another twenty two hundred dollars tonight, the need would be met, the goal would be reached, and uh sixty thousand scriptures that you're going to put together here uh would all be taken care of. And I I believe that's an attainable goal. Uh you might not be prepared to do it tonight, but you could do it in the uh next week or uh a month, whatever. Uh let's keep praying that that goal will be met and I'm sure that it will I do want to encourage you to pray for our ministry. Right now, our press is down, and tomorrow, Monday The technician is coming from Missouri to start working on that press and trying to discover what the problem is Uh Brother Chip has done everything that he knows to do, and it has not corrected the problem. He's been back and forth with the technician over the over the phone and uh it just come to a uh a stalemate we couldn't get anything accomplished. So uh we have to bring them in from Missouri and uh as preacher mentioned this morning that is extremely expensive. Uh the last time that we had them there it was fourteen thousand dollars uh to get things back up and rolling the way that it needed to go. So Um the amazing thing about it, uh when the technician was done and completed and the work was accomplished, he said, Now I know that this is more than what you anticipated, it's more than what I anticipated Uh so uh we'll send you an invoice and you pay it as you're able to do so. The day the invoice arrived The money was on hand to take care uh of the need. And I I stand amazed at how the Lord provides and takes care of those those uncertainties of life, uh he's able to do far more than what we could ever ask or think. So let's keep knocking on heaven's door Let's keep praying, trusting the Lord, and uh great and mighty things will be done for his name's sake. But that starts tomorrow, and uh when he steps out the front door, the ticker starts running And uh it's fifty doll an hour uh while he's getting to the airport, it's fifty doll an hour while he's up in the air, it's fifty doll an hour when he gets Off the air uh off the airplane walks into the corridor of the hangar and all of that stuff, and fifty dollars from the airport an hour all the way to Beacon, and then when he walks in our front door, $150 an hour. Yeah, I thought maybe I should change being the director of Beacon of Truth and and uh start being uh uh a technician to work on this equipment. Boy could I ever make a lot of money because it would take me years to figure this all out. And if someone was willing to pay me, we I mean we c we wouldn't be worried about where we're going to put these scriptures Everything would be taken care of. But it's so important we get that press back. Uh our our backs are against the wall right now. We have to have uh ten thousand Bibles for Samoa done by November And we haven't started to print them yet. And so the printing has to be done, the coalition has to be done, uh putting the covers and glue on them have to be done, the cutting and boxing and uh preparation that is necessary uh in order to ship them over there. Uh we have to have that all done by November. So please make it a matter of prayer. We also have to have New Testaments done that are going down to Costa Rica. Uh that is to be done this fall by by this fall. So we have that to do. And of course this Panama project is is moving forward and we're thankful uh for the opportunity to do that. So uh much is going on, much is needed, and I would just ask you to please uh remember that in prayer. And praise the Lord for the forty eight hundred dollars that was given this morning. That's a tremendous blessing, being your first and hopefully annual Scripture Publishing Sunday. That was kind of weak. I was expecting a bigger and greater amen than what we just heard. But uh it's always a delight to come back. So uh you pry on the preacher's heart, I'll uh bend his ear, and hopefully we'll be able to come back uh in the near future as well This evening I I want to bring a message. I I I really didn't want to bring this message, but uh the Lord kept impressing it on my heart. And uh I believe it's an important message that we need to consider when we think about reaching this world with the gospel of Jesus Christ. I believe that we'd all be in agreement. That people without Christ are on their way to a Christless eternity. They're on a journey from this earth to a place called hell. And uh that is not a pleasant thought. When you read what the Bible has to say about this place called hell, I I I don't know what it does to you, but it surely makes me grateful that I'm not going there That my eyes were opened and my heart was touched, and on bended knee I received Christ as my personal Savior. But there's multitudes of people around this world that are on a quick path to hell, and what we're trying to do is interrupt and disturb that journey and endeavor to change the direction that they are going. Uh I would just as soon see people saved and on their way to heaven to think about the fact that they're gone to hell. But I want to bring a message this evening that I've entitled, Why I Don't Want to See Anybody Go to Hell. I trust God will use it to speak to all of our hearts on this Scripture Publishing Sunday. Let's bow in a word of prayer. Our loving Father, we do thank you and praise you for the blessings that you have bestowed upon us today. We thank you for the heart of this church and the burden that they carry. And the desire that they have to reach out to the world with the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. We thank you for every fingerprint that has been put on these books. We thank you, dear Father, for every prayer that has been offered over these books. And we thank you, dear Father, for every penny that was given to make these books possible to go out to a people that desperately need to hear. about the Lord Jesus Christ. And I pray that your blessing and your favor and your smile would be upon Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church And that you would abundantly bless them and use them as a major lighthouse in this community that people might come to hear about the Lord Jesus Christ. We thank you for the good fellowship that we've had. We thank you, dear Father, for the work that has been accomplished. And I pray as we close out Scripture Publishing Sunday this year that your hand of blessing it be upon us. And we'll thank you for what you do because we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. I'm sure that you understand this evening that we are on a rescue mission. We have been commissioned and we have been called and we have been assigned to go to the world. With the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. We sing about that. Rescue the perishing, care for the dying, snatch them in pity, rescuing those people that are on their way to a Christless eternity. God has commissioned us to do that. Not only has he commissioned us to do that, but he's also equipped us to do that. Every saved, born-again, blood-bought believer in Christ Jesus has been equipped to be a solid soldier and witness for the Lord Jesus Christ. And I'd also impress upon your heart this evening that we are accountable for what we do in reaching this world with the gospel of Jesus Christ. People are in great jeopardy. Major jeopardy when you think about the fact that people are dying just like this around the world. Many of them never hearing about Christ. Many of them never reading one verse of scripture that told them that there was a God in heaven that loved them and a Savior that died for them. Not one time reading John 3. 16 that God loved them and gave his holy begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. We dare not water down the message of hell. It was Spurgeon that said, Sun all views of future punishment that would make it appear less terrible There is absolutely no way to paint a pretty picture about this place called hell. It's unfortunate that many pulpits today are silent about that subject. There are many preachers that dare not preach on that subject There's denominations that have denied that very subject. But the Bible is very clear there's a place called hell, and those that die without Jesus Christ are going to find themselves there. It's more than just a word that people utter in their frustrations and disappointments of life. It's more than a word to describe the unpleasant circumstances of life. Hell is more than a word to convey images of violence and aggressive behavior. Hell is more than a word to reveal emotional feelings and express that by using that word. Hell is real. It's not fictional. It's Bible fact. It's Not a figment of some theological imagination. Hell is a place of endless torment Hell is a place where people are going without Jesus. Hell is a place that we must warn them about. When I think about hell and why I don't want people to go there, the first thing that comes to my mind is that God never meant for people to go there. The Bible tells us in Matthew chapter 25, and when he was talking about the judgments of the nation, he said that hell was prepared for the devil and his angels. God never meant for people to die and go to that place. He never meant for one person in this church or in this community or in this state or in this world to find themselves in that hopeless imprisonment. Called hell. The Bible says that God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life When you really begin to dissect that verse and you contemplate the elements that are in that verse, it's overwhelming. I would have to say that the world's greatest person is mentioned in that verse for God. God so loved the world. Not only do we find the greatest person mentioned in that verse, but we also find the greatest passion mentioned in that verse. For God so loved. The world. Not only that, but I believe you'll find the greatest presentation that is contained in that verse. For God so loved the world that he gave. Freely gave, willingly gave, lovingly gave his only begotten Son that you and I might have life and that we might have it more abundantly. I'd have to say that the greatest prospect in that verse of scripture is found as well. Whosoever will may come. No one is to be excluded. No nation is to be overlooked. No people are to be forgotten. Wouldn't it be wonderful if we could douse North Korea with the Word of God? It's not guns and war and things like that and missiles that they need. It's the Word of God that will be a lamp to their feet and a guide to their footsteps. It's not war that's going to change the direction of the world. It's the gospel of Jesus Christ that is going to bring the greatest hope and deliverance that mankind really needs. In that verse in John 3. 16, the greatest plan is revealed to us that whosoever believeth in him, he didn't say the one that is the richest. He didn't say the one that is of great social standing in society. He just simply said, Whosoever will may come. Multitudes of people around the world have bowed at that altar that God has sent around this world where people could bend their knee, confess their sin, and call upon Jesus for salvation. In that verse is the greatest promise. You'll never perish. Never perish. And I always also would have to say the greatest possession is found in that verse, eternal life. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. I believe the testimony of Scripture is very clear that God doesn't want people there. It's not his will that any should perish, the Bible tells us in 2 Peter 3 and verse number 9. Would you agree with me that God is faithful to his word? The Bible tells us in Isaiah chapter 1 and in verse number 18, come now and let us reason together, saith the Lord. Though your sins be as scratch, they shall be white as snow. Though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. God Calls sinners to the foot of the old rugged cross to deal with the greatest dilemma and man's greatest need, and that is the forgiveness of their sins. Not only is God accountable to his word, but I believe the Holy Spirit is the one that convicts sinners of their need of Jesus Christ. In the book of John, chapter 16, the Gospel of John, chapter 16, And beginning with verse number 7 through verse number 11 is unfolded for us the very ministry of the Holy Spirit in reaching lost souls for Christ. Nevertheless, I tell you the truth, this is Jesus speaking. It is expedient, and that word expedient just simply means it's necessary. It's absolutely essential for you that I go away, for if I go not away, the comforter will not come unto you. But if I depart, I will send them unto you. Now notice what he's going to do. And when he is come, he will reprove the world of sin and of righteousness and of judgment. The Holy Spirit is the one that convicts a sinner of his sinfulness. It's the Holy Spirit that convicts a sinner of his need of righteousness. And it's the Holy Spirit that convicts a sinner. If he doesn't repent of his sin and come to Christ, he faces the sure judgment of God Almighty. So God calls. The Holy Spirit convicts. And may I quickly say that you and I have been commissioned. The Bible tells us in the book of Acts, chapter 1, and in verse number 8, ye shall receive power. After that, the Holy Ghost has come upon you. And ye shall be witnesses unto me in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and the uttermost part of the earth. That's what Scripture Publishing Sunday is all about. We might never be able to go to Africa or Russia or China or Europe or South America, places where scripture has been said. We might never be able to go there But as we involve ourselves in the distribution of Scripture and putting these Scripture portions together and sending them out to the world, to the nations of the world. We're fulfilling the very commission that God has given to us. We're becoming witnesses to the uttermost part of the earth. So God calls, the Holy Spirit convicts, and you and I are commissioned to do the job. Of reaching them for Christ. I don't want to see anybody go to hell because of the plan that God had in establishing hell. There's a second reason I don't want anybody to go to hell, and that is because of the people that are going to be there in hell The Bible tells us in the book of Psalms, chapter 9, and in verse number 17, the wicked Shall be turned into hell, and all nations that forget God That makes the inhabitants of hell quite a place. But I believe one of the compelling Verses of Scripture is found in the book of Revelation, chapter number 21, and in verse number 8. The Bible says this: But the fearful The unbelieving, the abominable, murderers, hormongers, sorcerers, idolaters Liars shall have their part in the lake, which burneth with fire, and brimstone, which is the second death. When you endeavor to choose a community to live, and you're desirous of having good people, dependable people, reliable people. People of moral character, that's the street that you want to live on. You don't look for a street where there's pedophiles. You you don't look for a street where there's gamblers and liars. You don't look for a street to buy a house and raise your children in a neighborhood that is morally impure and ungodly in their conduct. The people that die and go to hell are going to be imprisoned in a place where that's the company that will surround them. Liars and pedophiles and whoremongers, adulterers and gamblers. People like that are going to find their place in hell. What a mob. What a dreadful place. A place that I'm thankful I'm not going there. So we don't want to see people go to hell because of the plan God had for hell, the devil and his angels. We don't want to see people go to hell because of the people that are going to be in hell. We don't want to see people go to hell because of the punishment that will be in hell. The Bible describes hell as a place of torment and pain and sorrow and suffering. I don't believe in our minds we can really comprehend what it's going to be like. Yes, we've we faced sorrow in this life. We faced pain in this life. We have faced circumstances that were not comfortable and likable to us, but nothing like people are going to face in hell. We've been cheated. We've been lied to. We've been inflicted with rumors and gossip that deeply stung our hearts. But that pales in comparison to what people are going to face in that place called hell. Matthew chapter 8 and verse 12 says that it's going to be a place where there's weeping. And gnashing of teeth. And that word gnashing simply means grinding of teeth. Such pain and torment that they'll grind their teeth in the midst of all of that horror. In Matthew chapter 10 and verse 28, the Bible says that it's a place of spiritual and bodily destruction. In the book of Matthew, chapter 13. And by the way, Jesus spoke more about this place called hell than he ever spoke about heaven. His revelation on heaven was mild in comparison to the words that proceeded out of his mouth concerning this place called hell. In Matthew 13, verse number 42, it's referred to as a fiery furnace. I remember when I was a child. We had a coal furnace. And uh it was my duty and responsibility in the wintertime to get up and hit the cold floor. And I mean you made a beeline and a dash to the coal bin. Because you didn't want to freeze your little toesies and you want to get down there and uh get close to where some heat was going to be. And you'd open that firebox and you'd take the long poker and you'd stir it up a little bit and you'd take that crank and you'd get the ashes out of there. Then you'd go over to the coal bin. And you'd get a good old shovel full of coal and you'd bring it over there and you'd throw it in, and you'd hear the sizzling start. You'd go get yourself another one and you'd bring it over and you'd throw it into that firebox and before long there was yellow smoke coming up. Between the lumps of coal. And I knew what was next. It was only a matter of time Until an explosive effect occurred and flames of fire would burst upon that coal. At that point, you'd go get yourself another load. And you'd bring it over there and throw it on there, and everything would be okay. The fire would be a burning. You'd be able to close that door and make your way upstairs in hopes that mom had the hot chocolate on the stove ready to go One of our favorite meals at breakfast time at our house was hot chocolate and toast. And we'd eat about That much. Dipping it in that hot chocolate and getting it running down your chin. But every time I think about hell, I think about that coal bin, and I think about that firebox. And I remember very distinctly one day standing in front of that, looking at that fire and that flame, and think about hell. The Bible in Matthew 22 and verse number 13 says that it's a place of outer darkness. I love the light. I don't like dim lit auditoriums. I like them to be lit up and alive with light and excitement and enthusiasm. That's why I like coming to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. You got the light and you've got the enthusiasm. I love getting around your preacher because he's a bowl of fire. Uh well I don't I I don't mean to relate you to hell, but uh uh that quite didn't come out the way I I I really wanted it to, but He he is a ball of fire, let me tell you. And then and I I love to get around him because he's enthusiastic and exciting and he throws my heart. Was there anything else you wanted me to say about you? Keep it going? Okay But our mission is clear. We need to interrupt people's journey to this place called hell. I don't want to see people go there because of the horrible description that God gives to us concerning that place called hell. In the book of Luke, chapter 16, the Bible says that it's a place of endless torment. People in hell are going to have eyes to see, but nothing to see. People in hell are going to have ears to hear, but it's not music that they're going to hear. It's not preaching that they're going to hear. It's not the good old hymns of the church that they're going to hear. It's the screams and the cries for mercy. That comes out of the mouths of those that are suffering in that place called hell. They're going to have ears to hear, and they have eyes to see, and they're going to have feelings. But the only thing that they'll feel is not the tender touch of a mother's hand, not not the compassionate discourse of someone that cares about you. All they're going to feel is the torment and pain that surrounds them. That's what we're trying to keep people out of. Hell is a place of abandonment. It's a place of imprisonment. It's a place of endless hopelessness where the worm never dies. And the fire is never quenched. In the book of 2 Thessalonians, chapter number 1, and beginning with verse number 7. Second Thessalonians chapter one and verse seven. And to you who are troubled, rest with us when the Lord Jesus shall be revealed. When it talks about the revealing of the Savior, it's talking about the unveiling of the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. So he's talking about his second coming here When he shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels, notice what it says, in flaming fire. Taking vengeance on them that know not God and that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. Who shall be punished with everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power. Aren't you thankful that when you're in trouble, you can knock on heaven's door? Aren't you thankful that when your heart is broken, the God of all comfort is able to reach out to you and comfort you in your distress and in your disappointment and Help you in your circumstances of life. In hell, they'll cry out for mercy, but there'll be none. They'll cry out for relief, but There'll be none. They'll cry out for some sort of comfort. But there'll be none. Because of their rejection of the gospel. Of the Lord Jesus Christ, a place of endless hopelessness Another reason I don't want to see people die and go to hell is because of the price that was paid to keep them out of hell. The Bible says that he was wounded for my transgressions. He was bruised for my iniquities. The chastisement of his peace, our peace, was placed upon him. That just simply means this. That every thorn that crushed his brow was for you and for me. Every nail that was driven into his right hand was for you. And for me. Every nail that was driven into his left hand, into his feet. Was for you and for me. When that soldier took that sword and drove it deep within the side of our Savior He was suffering our hell and paying the price of our redemption because of the sins of all of the world was placed upon him. When he cried out in the very anguish of his soul, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? That was for you and for me When I think about hell, I don't want people to go there. Because of the tremendous price that was paid, that they wouldn't have to go there. It's his will that none perish and that all would come to repentance. And the very redemption That is provided commences with the heart of God and his love that he has for all of humanity. There's not a person in this world that God doesn't love. There's not a person in this world that Jesus didn't die for. So it commences with the love of God. Centers, the very redemption that we have, centers upon the person of our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Who was wounded for our transgressions and bruised for our iniquities. The one that becomes sin for us, who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God. You want to know why we work tirelessly to get the message of salvation to them? It's because of this place called hell. If one person, just one, was rescued and saved because of the twenty thousand plus booklets that are sitting upon your altar tonight. Just one person was saved as a result of that. It'd be worth every dime we invested, every moment that we spent in trying to get the scriptures to people that were on their way to hell. Just one. Just one. I don't want to see people die and go to hell because of the tremendous price that was paid for our redemption. He shed his blood. And took even the abandonment of the Heavenly Father in order to rescue the perishing and care for the dying. It's a great cause that we're involved in. A great cause that dare not be neglected. A cause that cannot be abandoned. Because that we must persevere and press forward and accomplish as much as we possibly can before Jesus comes again. Even while we are here this night, souls have dropped into that place called hell. Hopeless, unredeemable, without rescue. And all that is necessary for them to change course, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. And thou shalt be saved. That's a message worth translating into all of the languages of the world and getting that message to them before it's too late I don't hesitate tonight. I don't hesitate one minute in challenging you and asking you to give generously for the cause. I don't apologize one moment in asking you to work tirelessly for the cause of rescuing the perishing and caring for the dying. I don't hesitate, and I will not apologize for challenging you tonight to speak up passionately And tell others about the Lord Jesus Christ. I challenge you tonight to give generously, work tirelessly And I challenge you to speak up passionately because hell is real. Let's stand with our heads bound and our eyes closed.