I'll ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. He brings the message tonight. Thank you. Thank you so much, uh Dr. Leatherman. What a joy it is to be here tonight. And uh it's great to see you here this evening. I'm telling you, uh the I believe the the the devil uh minute for evil, but I believe God means it for good. This unbelievable weather, you know, up and down seventy something yesterday. What a great crowd. We had a good crowd last night. The altar I mean this front end was full at invitation time and it was just amazing and uh I'm excited about what the Lord is doing. My goal is similar uh to Dr. Leatherman's my goal is that something would happen in your heart in your life that would could that would that would reveal itself, not I I I want you to make commitments to Christ. I think that's important. But more important than making the commitment is living the commitment for weeks and months. Down the road. And I think that's vitally important. Sometimes we forget that. It it's not just a matter of quote making a decision. And uh it's a matter of living that decision in our mind life. And to me that's what revival is. Revival in my life was when I when I when God convicted me of a specific area of need in my life and I made a commitment to Christ concerning that need and uh and then kept things. Commitment. And that was revival. And uh you know what I discovered is every time I thought that boy I finally did it, I'd finally over the hump, I finally made my commitment, the Lord would show me something else that needed We take care of them. And so we're not there yet. We haven't arrived. We're on a journey and we're being uh conformed into the image of Christ. Did I turn me off instead of on? Okay, I thought I was off earlier. On now? Hello. Earth calling uh mission control there or whatever it is. Okay, we're we're ready to go. I am on and up and and uh and running. It's important, not it's not important that you can hear me It's important because he has a job to do, he's trying to get this on recording. And if I don't have this thing on, then his recording's not uh Uh well it might be a better recording at that. It'd probably sell more of them if it wasn't on. And uh that'd be a good thing. Let me give you a very quick commercial here I've told you about the books every night, and of course, if you brought a person who has not been here this week, then you stop back there. And you get one of those pamphlets, one of the small booklets back there of a m a message that I preached somewhere along the line. And I think those are ones that were hand-picked, so I think they're very helpful to people And if you brought two tonight that haven't been here thus far, then you pick one of those two DVDs, one on your finances, breaking the grip of debt. The other one, principles for the family, to help families. You can get either one of those you like. And uh if you brought three or more that were not here uh this week thus far uh then you uh and teens and adults teens and adults that was my deal. I don't know if a preacher's deal is better than mine. He's giving away a hundred dollar gas gas cards and and uh but uh you g the you pick the uh C D uh one of the CDs back there the music CDs and uh there I sell them for twelve dollars at You can buy anything you want, but I'd rather give them away. I really would. And we still have one more night to go, and the same deal will be on tomorrow night. So if you were somebody's guest tonight, then you bring some guests tomorrow night, because you can't count as somebody else's guest. in my part of the thing uh tomorrow night anyway. So you just work, contact some people, get them here. I'm looking for a great Wednesday night crowd because the people that are already accustomed to coming on Wednesday night plus some of the guests that have been coming and some of the folks that have sort of picked up and started coming, even in spite of the weather, I think uh hopefully we can all converge. And be there, you know, if we had everybody that was here on every different night, we'd probably have a hundred people tomorrow night. So you know, so that's well within reason, well within potential And I want you, I'm asking you, I'm begging you to help me with it. How many of you know somebody? Now names, please. Don't yell out any names. How many of you know somebody that could be here and probably should be here? But whatever the reason is, they may have a very justifiable reason why they're not here, but they could be, should be, but they're not here. How many of you know somebody like that tonight Yeah, we all don't. See there we double the crowds just like that. There we go. And uh so I'm not asking you to uh ever that same person came to everybody's mind. They're gonna get a hundred phone calls tomorrow, you know. That's terrible. Anyway. You know, I was I was thinking about you think about the value of things. You think about whether boy the valuable gifts and that uh are available and our incentives or rewards. Some people say, I just don't believe in rewards. Well then you know what are you looking for in heaven? The Bible talks about all kinds of rewards in heaven. The greatest reward, of course, is going to be the crowns that we can cast at Jesus' feet. But what about that mansion? What about the eternal life? What about all these other wonderful things that we get simply by trusting Him, by receiving His gift? And uh and I want to give a gift. Uh it's a gift and uh uh it just has a a qualification to it and I want to help you with that. But uh thinking about material things, these folks were uh tourists typical tourist in town and uh people could tell they were tourists and they happened to be in Florida and they pulled up to a stop sign or a stop light And uh a couple of men come running out of the shadows and uh the windows rode down. It was a hot day in Florida. Guys took a gun in the window of the car to the man's head and he said, I want everything that's valuable. It's in this car. He said, pop the trunk. My buddy's going to get that and get your luggage. And and uh the the so the guy popped the trunk real quick and and uh and he began to take off his wristwatch and and the guy said, Gimme your wallet, give me your wallet. He reached in and he got his wallet and uh and and he gave him his wedding ring or whatever. The guy bent down to look over at his wife, at the man's wife, and he didn't see anything there. And he he took off. And the other guy with the luggage took off too The man sitting there, he said, man, that scared me. I said, I I almost had a heart attack. That was the most terrifying thing that's ever happened to me. He said, He said, we've lost all of our valuables. We said, but boy, I haven't reminded how important it is. We still have our life. About that time she reached in her mouth and pulled out her wedding ring and put it on her finger. Then she reached in her mouth and pulled out her earrings and put them on her ears. She reached in her mouth, pulled out her necklace, and put it around her neck, and her bracelet, and her watch. Her husband sitting there looking at her and he couldn't believe it. He said, Man, if your mother had been here, we could have saved the luggage. You know what? We've got to stop and think. What are the real valuable things in life? What do we really care about? What really is important to us? Is it those material things that we accumulate that we're going to leave all behind? Every bit of it we're going to leave behind. Only thing we're going to have in heaven is what we gave to God while we were here. Those are the th it's it's only uh it's only what we what we are willing to g uh uh well it's what I quoted uh brother Elliott, uh James Elliott, Jim Elliott, the missionary that was killed by the Alka Indians Who said, he is no fool who gives that which he cannot keep to gain that which he cannot lose. Well, I'm telling you. And we need to get those things straight. And tonight I want to talk to you about something that I think is vitally, vitally important. And that's this matter of winning precious souls. to Jesus Christ. Why we must win souls. If you have your Bible, turn to Psalm number 126. And I'm going to we'll we'll read together a couple of verses from it. Then I'll read some other verses. Psalm 126 It's in the Old Testament, Book of Psalms, right about the middle of your Bible, somewhere there, depending on how thick your concordance is or whatever. Psalm 126. Verses 5 and 6. And let's stand together and we'll read those verses. By the way, I was going to tell you, I've got a book on soul-winning called Reaching Your Fruit Bearing Potential has some powerful help. There's a few soul winning sermons, including uh the sermon that I'll preach tonight, uh, and then motivation to soul winning, going soul winning. And then the how-to, not only the motivation, but then the how-to, approaching the lost soul, presenting the gospel, the follow-through in soul winning. The follow-through. How do you, you know, hey, I had four people saved this month. But I couldn't get any of the church. None of them have gotten baptized. None of them are doing anything much for God. What happened to them? You say, well, if they'd have really meant it, they'd have come. Now wait a minute. They're brand new born creatures They still live in the same atmosphere that they lived in before they got saved. They still have the same friends. They may not have grown up I hear testimonies of people, yeah, I grew up in church, my grandma prayed for me every day, whatever, and I got saved when I was eighteen and changed my life. Yeah, but Think of that foundation you had. Think of the Apostle Paul, the foundation he had before he got saved. He knew the first five books of the Bible by heart. He was a Pharisee. He was a scri uh and he was looking for the Messiah. He had all that going. Sure his life was instantly transformed. But then you know I I I wonder what happened to some of those lepers that grew up in a in a in a poor situation. But uh anyway, this book is back there and uh and some information about the college that maybe I'll talk to you about tomorrow night. But I'd I'd like for you to take some of that information. Psalm 126, I think you're there now. He looks like it. You're thinking, preacher, when are you going to get there? And here it is, verses 5 and 6. Let's read those two verses aloud together. Ready to begin. They that sow in tears shall reap in joy. He that goeth forth and weepeth bearing precious seed shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him. Mark chapter 16, verse 15 says, And he said unto them, Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. Acts 1. 8 says, But ye shall receive Power. After that the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem and in all Judea and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth. Heavenly Father, I thank you for the Word of God. Thank you that it's quick and powerful and sharp. Thank you, Lord, for this good group of folks that's out here tonight. Lord, I believe that The devil did mean it for evil to try to keep people from coming, but I also believe, Lord, that you meant it for good, and I believe you have here tonight exactly who you want here. And I pray you'd speak to our hearts. And I pray every person here will realize that for some particular reason you singled them out to be in your house tonight. I pray your Holy Spirit will speak to our hearts. Help us to be what you want us to be. Help us to respond in the way you want us to respond. And we thank you for every visitor, every member. every child, every adult, every senior adult, and we thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated Canadian pastor Oswald Smith wrote, give us a watchword for the hour, a thrilling word, a word of power, a battle cry, a claiming, a flaming breath. That calls to conquest are to death, a word to rouse the church from rest, to heed her master's high behest The call is given. Ye hosts arise. The watchword is evangelized. The glad evangel now proclaimed through all the earth in Jesus' name. This word is ringing through the skies. Evangelize, evangelize to dying men, a fallen race. Make known the gift of gospel grace. The world that now in darkness lies. Evangelize. Evangelize. Oh, how we need to realize that we have a responsibility under God. The commission was given over and over. telling us to take the gospel, that gospel, that same gospel that came to you, came to you on the way to somebody else. We are to be, we sing, Lord, make me a channel of blessing, and then we bottle it up instead of channeling it out. Maybe we ought to sing, Lord, make me a cistern to hold, whatever. But but we're not we're not being fluid. We're not the river of life is not flowing through us as it ought to be, and thus the world is hungry for the gospel of Christ And I read today where over 90% of the people, someone, one of my friends had found a statistic that said that over 90% of the people would that are an unchurched would consider attending church if somebody would personally invite them. Isn't that an amazing thing? That people would consider attending. It didn't say 98% of them would attend, but it said they would consider it. They wouldn't be offended by an invitation. Matter of fact, they would be complimented by it. They would consider doing it. And the problem is we're not giving the invitation often enough It may not come the first time you invite them. I was telling the preacher the other day what Dr. Curtis Hudson said in this matter of soul winning. Dr. Hudson said, when he won someone to Christ, Dr. Curtis Hudson built the great Forest Hills Baptist Church in Atlanta, Georgia. It was the largest and uh uh most soul-winning church in all the state of Georgia for many years while he was pastor there. He preceded Dr. Sheldon Smith as editor of the sword of the Lord. And Dr. Curtis Hudson said in our church at Shawnee Baptist Church when he was there, talking about soul winning, talking about he's talking about don't get discouraged When the people you invite don't come, they even promise you they'll be there. And then they don't come. Don't get an attitude. Don't get discouraged. Don't give up. He said, and he had people down the aisle, week after week after week, and his people, he trained them, and they had people down the aisle, and folks getting saved in in that large uh Atlanta, Georgia area. But he he said It took an average. After someone bowed their head, with him there leading them to Christ, after he led them to Christ, it took an average of seven follow-up visits to get that person to even attend church one time. Now you think of that. But because of their faithfulness and their diligence, and because many of the people decided they wanted to get on board and do it also, that church became a church that won tens of thousands of people to Christ and saw a thousand or more come to church, follow uh make public a profession of faith, follow the Lord in Beautiful Believers Baptism, and unite with that church and become laborers in that church, and the church just grew and grew and grew. It was like a, it was, you know what it was like? It was like a New Testament church. It wasn't like a 21st century church. It was like a New Testament church right out of the Bible, just doing what the Bible said. but doing it consistently, refusing to get discouraged, refusing to let the devil tell you it doesn't work that way anymore. It does work, ladies and gentlemen. I promise you, it works. I can remember just this last uh uh just a couple of weeks ago, I was knocking on doors in an area where some military men lived that were there for some training and And when I knocked on the door, uh a fella came to the door and uh his name was hi his name was uh uh what was his name? A chick has a track about a Catholic priest named uh uh something. Does anybody remember the name of the Catholic priest, uh the chick track? Uh Alberto. His name was Alberto. This guy's name was Alberto. And I thought, well, it's a jack chick track right here in front of me. And and uh And and he he he he stood there and he was from New York. He had a New York shirt on and he was in he had been in Iraq, he had made he'd had four tours of duty in Iraq. And I asked him, I said, Sir, do you know for sure if you die today you'd go to heaven? Or do you have some doubt? He said, I don't think I would. I said, I said, would you like to? He said, yes, I would I said, could I take the Bible and show you how you could be saved? And he said, yes, I'd be glad for you to. I said, look, first of all, Romans 3. 23, the Bible tells us that none of us deserve heaven, that we're all sinners, that we've all sinned and come short of the glory of God. I said, do you realize that you've sinned? I said your sins may not be like my sins. Uh but but we may but in God's sight my sin, your sin are are both abominable to Him. He doesn't love our sin. He hates our sin. He loves us, but He doesn't like our sin. We're sinners I said, do you recognize that in your life? Before I could even really finish talking. He said, uh he said, Oh, I know. He said, uh with what I've seen and what I've done in these years I've been in the military, he said, I know I'm a sinner I know I'm a sinner. And I went on from there. In just a few short minutes, that man bowed his head and received Christ and was rejoicing. And when I went through the uh assurance verses and tried to help him with assurance and that kind of thing, and I said, Now if you die today, where would you go? He said, Oh, I'd go to heaven. Big old smile on his face, the joy of the Lord in his heart Man, that's exciting. And you say, well, I bet you had to cultivate him a long time. First time I ever saw him in my life, I was in a city that I uh the first time I'd ever been in that city or maybe the second time that I'd ever been in that city in my life, I doubt if I'll be back there for a couple of years. I'll probably never see him again. He'll be back in New York or or uh redeployed in in some other mission. But but the truth is The truth is I'll see him in heaven someday. And if the preacher there will continue to follow him up and work on him, if he'll go at least seven times, he might even get to see that young man come to God's house. The profession of his faith in Christ to get baptized. I know every now and then you get one, they get baptized the first time you see them. You know what I'm talking about? First time they get saved, come to church, make a profession, get baptized. Praise the Lord for that. That means the next one's going to take fourteen times, the fourteen follow-up this If you're going to hit that average of seven. But the key is, let's just stay at the task. Let's just keep on going after souls. Let's just keep on believing God. My light verse, John 15, 8. Herein is my Father glorified, that you bear much fruit, so shall you be my disciples. God said, I want you to bear much fruit. You say, Well, how much is that? I don't know if I can do it. And your can may be different from my can. My can may be smaller or larger than yours. Doesn't matter. But the truth is, God said, you know what? God doesn't ask us to do what we can't. He asks us to do what we can If we'll do what we can, he'll do what we can't. That's when God intervenes. That's what we call a miracle And the miracle, the new birth, none of us can give life to a precious soul, but Almighty God does the giving. And we just do and we're not even look People are so afraid to go soul winning because they think, well, I wouldn't know, you know, if I would argue with somebody, argue this case, prove this point. That's not your job That's the attorney's job. The attorney doesn't argue, the witness doesn't argue the case. You're to be a witness. You know what a witness does? A witness tells what they know. Then the attorney argues the case. And tries to convince the jury. And the judge makes the decision. Hey, ladies and gentlemen, your job is to be the witness. Let the Holy Spirit be the attorney who convicts and convinces. Do you see what I'm saying? And then that individual make the decision. And then you say, well, if they really got saved, they'd come. Yeah, and you went to the hospital and had a baby and you said if that baby was really born in our family They'll show up at our doorstep. We we we've got to go home now. I hope that I hope that baby was sincere. I hope it was really born And away you go. That's a newborn babe. Wait a minute. It needs some help. It needs somebody to love it and care for it and nourish it. nurture it and and and and teach it and and lead it and carry it and and and even as it grows, as that newborn baby grows, sometimes it's going to fall and skin its knees Sometimes it's even going to test your patience and and rebel against something you tell it, it's going to bump its head. And through all those things, I know what you're going to do. You're going to say, you're going to grab it by the back of the neck and the diaper and throw it out the door Say, no baby of mine acts like that, you are disbarred. Or disarmed or disenchanted or You're out of here Is that what you're going to do? No. You'll discipline that baby when it rebels, and they do rebel, don't they? They'll test you, they'll push you to the limit. Sometimes I wonder about, you know, talk about the patience of Job. What about the patience of God with us? When that little baby falls and skins its knees or bumps its head, you said no child of mine stumbles around like that You must be, you must be a hypocrite. No, you don't do that. You go, you pick them up, you dust them off, you give them a hug, you say, try it again, honey, don't give up. And that's what God wants to do with you. If God was half as hard on us as we are on each other or on each other's kids, Now our little angels would never do it. See, every parent thinks that their child is a genius, is exceptional, and every child thinks their parent is retarded. I mean that's just the way it is. That's the way it is. And so what we need to do is understand that in this matter of soul winning, it's a process It's a job, it's a work that must be done, and my job, part of my job, is to help those who are unsaved be able to relax So they'll let their shield down, so that they'll give a good hearing to the gospel, so that the attorney can do his job And convict them and convince them, and then they make the choice. You give them the opportunity, okay, the jury's out. Do you have a verdict? Will you trust Christ or will you reject him? And you're not, no pressure on your choice. See, we go out there like we're like it's up to us to get this done. And we've got to make them get saved, you know. Put a little egg on my tie, mess my hair up, and go soul winning. Soul saving, you know, whatever. That's not what it's about God gave us a wonderful opportunity to be his ambassador. Let me give you some thoughts here. Let me give you some machine gun style. Let me just give you some Number one, soul winning is you said what is soul winning? Soul winning is a matter of obedience. Listen to this. In Matthew chapter 28, 18 through 20 Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given to me in heaven and in earth. Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I've commanded you. And lo, I'm with you always, even to the end of the world. Amen. Hey, so winning is a matter of obedience. The Lord said, I want you to go. I'm commissioning you. to go. And so he said, it's a matter of obedience. See, the will of God is not a cafeteria. This matter of soul winning is on the plate of the will of God. It's a plate lunch, and you're supposed to eat it all. It's not a cafeteria where you go pick what you like and spit in what you don't like That's not the plan. That's not the goal. Look, it's a matter of being obedient. And the will of God is a prescribed menu. And one thing that's on everybody's is soul winning. It it's prescribed. I think about that uh pharmacist, you know, these prescriptions come Come in. This lady walked into him and she said, Sir, I'd like to order some arsenic. He said, arsenic? Well that's powerful stuff. He said, that's not an over-the-counter thing. I can't just sell that to you. What do you want with arsenic? We don't even care that. What do you want with that? She said, I'm going to poison my husband He said, poison your husband, ma'am, you can't do that. You'd go to jail. I'd go to jail. I'd lose my license. I'd never be able to be in this work again the rest of my life. No way I can't I can't do that. She reached in her purse and pulled out a picture Of her husband with his wife eating a romantic meal in an expensive restaurant. He took a look at that picture and he said, Well, you didn't tell me you had a prescription. And boom, the job was done. Hey, do you know what? God has a prescription for your Christian life. life. It's a well-balanced prescription. God has a balanced diet. Again, it's not a cafeteria where you go pick and choose. If it were, if it were me and I when I go to the cafeteria, I'm going to pick and piece of pie, I'm gonna pick the stuff that's not good for me, and I'm just gonna pick what I want. But I'm not gonna necessarily pick everything else that would work together for good to me if I were Wise enough to choose it. But God said, Here's what I want you to do. I want you to tell others about Jesus. It's part of the deal. It's part of the meal. Everybody in this room that's saved. has a responsibility to be a witness for Jesus Christ. We make it too hard. You know what we do, preacher Well, Jeff, you know what we do? We scare people out of so winning. I tell them about our how many times we got chased out of the yard by a pit bull The time the cat attacked us. The house we went into and all they had was hot and cold running roaches. I went to the door and this guy came to the door. He was six foot eight. He had a beer can and a tattoo and a cigar in his mouth. And he cussed at me and said, What do you want? Had a gun in his side. And I barely I I thought I was not gonna get out of there with my life. Well yeah, now they're just chonking at the bits to go soul winning, aren't they? They they want to get out there and try that too. Why don't you just why don't we tell why don't we really get it down where it really is? The masses of the people out there, you can knock on a thousand doors before you get before you ever feel a uncomfortable. People are people. And they may say, well, I'm not interested. They may close the door, but big deal. They nailed Jesus to a cross. But most, all of them are not going to do you any bodily harm. Matter of fact, the law's on your side in that particular case, at least it is up to this point. We better go ahead and win America while we can Soul winning is a matter of obedience. So what is obedience? Who decides what obedience is? Well, the boss does. And I thought the word Lord literally means boss You know, the Lord of the manor, he's the guy that's in charge of the manor, he's the guy that makes the decisions, he's the guy that tells the servants what to do, where to go, how hard to work, what time to start, what time to quit, what kind of food to make. He tells everything about it, he's in charge And Jesus said, why call ye me Lord, Lord, and do not the things that I say. How can you say Jesus is the Lord of my life if you're disobeying him? The pastor says to the custodian, Man, we've got a wedding coming up tonight. I've got to run to the hospital. I've got to run to the city. I'll be back at six o'clock And hopefully I'm going to meet with them. The wedding's at seven and and this auditorium needs to be immaculate, it needs to be spotless. You understand? Yes sir, I understand. And he leaves He comes back at six o'clock and he walks in, the thing hadn't been touched. As a matter of fact, it looks worse than it did before he left. And the custodian's there and he's just whistling while he works and he You know, he's just walking around, you know, maybe polishing the window or something. He said, What are you doing? He said, Man, look at that little tournament. What are you what have you been goofing off about? Oh no, sir. He said, You know He said, uh right after you left, I went out back there and I saw the backfield. It looked like it was going to be overgrown. I thought, well, you know, it'd be nice if that was cut before the weekend. So I just went ahead and cut the backfield I just thought it'd be nice to do that. And I was working all day. I was busy working. I was earning my pay. But was he obedient? Was he obedient? And we Christians, we we pick and choose what we're going to do for God and ignore some of the plain commands of God. And folks, it's not a good thing Doesn't work out in your behalf very well, but it's really a it's really a shame. For those who God intended for you to cross paths with that day to tell about Jesus. The Bible says, some have not the knowledge of God, and I speak this to you. Wow. Pretty strong phrase, isn't it? So obedience, that's number one. Let me give you some of the others real quickly here Number two, so soul winning is filling our office as an ambassador. I talked about this in one of the other nights, so I won't spend time with it I'll just read the verse. The Bible says in Second Corinthians chapter five, verses twenty and twenty-one, Now then we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God did beseech you by us We pray you in Christ's stead, be ye reconciled to God, for he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him I will say this, being an ambassador is not a figurehead position, it's a working position. How well are you representing and presenting Jesus Christ in your area? How well are you doing your job? You ever check up on yourself to see how well you're doing your job? Do you? Do you really? I mean really, do you? Pastor, you ever done a self-evaluation? Really check up on yourself? And say, how am I doing in this area of my Christian service? First of all, I'll write down 20 things that I think every Christian ought to do, and then I'm going to rate myself on a scale of 1 to 5, how am I doing on this thing, and see where I need to go to work. Little boy came and said, I don't want to say not. Little boy came running into the f to the pharmacy. He said to the to the drugster, he said, Sir Use your phone, I've got to make a phone call. He said, Sure, son, go ahead. He went over there, he picked up the phone, he dialed the number. He said, Uh is doctor Anderson there And the our pharmacist was right there in hearing the drugs for us. He said, he said, uh yes, sir, Dr. Anderson, he said, uh he said, I was uh wondering if maybe you needed a boy to do some work for you, maybe to cut your grass or run and run errands and so forth. Oh you already have a boy? Oh, okay. Well i is is he doing a is he doing a good job for you? Oh Okay, you're satisfied with who you have. Okay, thank you. Thank you, Dr. Anderson. You know the phone, you start out the door, the drug said, Hey, whoa, hey son, wait a minute. He see he said You know, I I'm needing a boy to help out around here and I like you. You you've got a pretty good head on your shoulders there. He said uh he said, I I'll give you a job. The boy said, Oh no, I have a job He said, You have a job? He said, Yeah. He said, I just heard you call Dr. Anderson and ask for a job. He said, Oh, I wasn't asking for a job. He said, I work for Dr. Anderson. I was just checking up to see how I was doing. Have you checked up to see how you're doing? Have you talked to heaven lately and said, God, how am I doing? Let me go down my checklist. Let me ask you about my responsibilities. Am I being faithful in my Bible reading and in my being faithful in my testimony, building my testimony? Am I growing in grace? Am I telling others about your son? So way. Hey, number three, soul winning is number one, it's a matter of obedience. Number two, it's filling our office as ambassador. We have a job to do. Number three, soul winning is becoming a co-laborer with Jesus Christ. Can you imagine that? Going into business with Jesus. Here's the good thing about going into business with Jesus, he pays the bills. Isn't that amazing? That's a wonderful thing. He said in uh in 2 Corinthians 6 9, he said, He that soweth sparingly shall reap also sparingly. He that soweth bountifully shall reap also bountifully. Second Corinthians 6. 1, we then listen, as workers together with him Beseech you also that you receive not the grace of God in vain. Luke 19, 10, for the Son of Man, listen, you say, I want to do what Jesus would do. Well, listen to what Jesus said he came to do. Luke chapter 19, verse 21. He said, For the Son of Man is come to seek and to save that which was lost. Then he said in John chapter 20, verse 21, then Jesus sended them again to his followers, to his disciples. He said, Peace be unto you, as my Father hath sent me, even so send I you. We sing that song sometime, don't we? So send I you. And we listen to that, we say, boy, that's inspiring. Yes, the Lord sent us. And so, Lord, take somebody in our church and send them to the other side of the world as a missionary. Meanwhile, we're just going to go ahead and work our job and live in comfort. And we'll give to worldwide faith promised missions. I'll give ten dollars a week or $20 a week or $100 a week or whatever it is. And somehow feel like I've done my duty. How about so send I me? How about, Lord, send me, how about like Isaiah said in Isaiah chapter 6, he said, here am I, Lord, send me. The Apostle Paul on the road to Damascus when the light came and he fell on his face, and the Lord said, Why persecutest thou me? And he said, Who art thou, Lord? He said, I'm Jesus, whom thou persecutest. By the way, what was Saul doing? He was persecuting the church. Jesus said, when you do something that hurts the church, you hurt me. Think of that. Hey, think of that before you start gossiping. Think of that before you start criticizing. Think of that before you start trying to hurt the reputation or having carrying anger or hatred or malice in your heart against a deacon or a teacher or a preacher or somebody in the church. Instead, why don't you just walk with God and learn to not be offended? Great peace have they that love thy law and nothing shall offend them. And if there is a problem, you go sit down like a Christian lady or gentleman and have a face-to-face talk with the person. And try to work it out and see what God would do. Hey, look, uh that's a wonderful thing. You know, I'm chasing a rabbit. Let me get back here now. But soul winning is becoming a co-laborer with Jesus. And he said, the Son of Man came to seek and save the lost. And as the Father sent me, I'm sending you. You've got a job to do. And that's what Paul said before I got running and chasing all that other stuff. Paul said, Lord, first thing he did when he recognized Jesus as his Lord, I believe that's where he got saved. The first thing he said was, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? You know what he said? He said, All my plans are now canceled. My calendar is empty. My schedule is blank. You tell me what to do, and I'll do it. Boy, that's good, isn't it? Wouldn't you like to have an Apostle Paul experience? You say, well, you know, I'd carry my cross if it were made out of styrofoam. If I didn't have to carry it real far, I certainly wouldn't want to carry it outside on a day like this. We have a strange attitude, don't we, towards this matter of obedience and this matter of being an ambassador, and this matter of being a co-laborer. Number four, soul winning is how we glorify the Father My life verse, I gave it to you earlier. It says, Herein is my Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit, so shall ye be my disciples. I had a man one time tell me, He said, I said, our church, and our church I had a big sign up. He said, our goal is souls. He said, that's not right. He he was he was much older than I was And and and I always been taught to respect my elders and now that I'm older than ninety percent of the people in this room, I appreciate the respect. Just kidding. But uh I was always taught to respect my elders. And and uh and this guy, you know, he was sincere, but he was literal literally, he was rebuking me for the sign I had in my church. He said, that is not our goal And I said, well, what is our goal? He said the goal of this church shouldn't be our goal is so, yeah, we want to get some people saved, but that's not our goal. Our goal is to bring glory to God. That's what the church is for. And I said, yeah, that goes with my light verse. He said, oh, you got a light verse? It says that? And I said, yeah. It says this, herein is my Father glorified Let's bring glory to God, right? John 15, 8. Herein is my Father glorified, that you bear much fruit. You know that whole chapter is talking about just a couple things. It's talking about Christians reproducing other Christians. And it's talking about Christians that are here getting along with their fellow Christians for the sake of the gospel. But he said, herein is my Father glorified, that you bear much fruit. So shall you be my disciples. Again, I read that verse at the very beginning, and I said, How much is much? I don't know. Much for you and much for me may be two different things. I know people that are far better soul winners than I am. But I did figure this out. I know how an average soul winner can win more than an average number of people You know how? By doing more than an average amount of work at it. Here's an average farmer. Well how can this average farmer do as much as this really good farmer? He just might have to work harder, let's He just has to work a little harder. As a matter of fact, if he'll keep on working harder, he'll get better at it, and pretty soon he'll be outshining this guy who just kind of a natural at it came to him pretty easy. He just liked to sit back and relax and listen to the plants grow. Well before long this guy's gonna pass him up. Why? Because he learned to work and be diligent. Oh I gotta go here. Man, our time is just flying Number five, soul winning is a source of much needed wisdom. I've got to give you this one. You see, technology cannot replace wisdom. We all have um w well we don't all have them, but mo most m most of the preachers that I know now have smartphones. And the problem is most of the preachers I know their phone is smarter than they are. It has a better memory, it keeps a better schedule, and what I all those kind of things. We have smart I have a smartphone And boy, we've got all kinds of things now. We can communicate in a split second. We can communicate with people on the other side of the world. Isn't it amazing? And it it's just I I don't e you you know what I'm talking about. And I I can take this smartphone and I and I tweet. I'll tell you I tweeted, I I tweet. I I'm on Twitter. And uh and and and I can I can send a message out there. I think I've got about six hundred followers and If I have something that I want people to pray about, I can just tweet, you know, a prayer request, pray for so-and-so. I heard so-and-so was in an automobile accident, please pray for them, for the family, and boom, it goes out. 600 people immediately Have a prayer request. That's amazing, isn't it? And you know what? If we're not careful, we'll think we've got this thing, you know, Jesus told us to reach the whole world. We can reach the whole world right with this little thing right here. I got people on almost every continent. People in Japan, tsunami, earthquakes, all that stuff. By the way, did you hear did you hear that that uh that that that YouTube And Twitter and Facebook are merging, and they're going to have the largest social networking conglomeration in the world. Did you hear about that? They've named it. They're going to call it UTFace. And and that it's not true obviously, but so We can't depend on technology. We need God to intervene in our we need God to give us direction in our lives. We need to have the person and the presence of the Holy Spirit in our lives if we're going to please God. Daniel chapter 12, verse 3. I said, soul winning is a source of much-needed wisdom. It's a source. You say, how can I get wisdom from God? I'm not a wise person. How can I get wisdom? Here's how. The Bible says, they that be wise shall shine as the brightness of the firmament, and they that turn many to righteousness as the stars forever and ever. Proverbs 1136 righteous is a tree of life, and he that winneth souls is wise. Now wait a minute. God told us all to be soul winners, but does that mean that only wise people can win souls? Or does that mean that anybody that's willing to commit themselves to winning souls, God will impart to them? I believe it means the latter. I believe if I'm willing to do what God wants me to do, He's willing to give me whatever I need to get the job done. God will impart to us wisdom. And you know what? I believe God isn't selfish with that wisdom. He doesn't mind if we use it for other areas of our life For example, a number of years ago the church gave me a car. Literally. They didn't give me a payment book. They gave me a car. It was paid for in full. Some people think when you get saved You get the down payment and then you get a payment book where you gotta keep making installments or you're gonna lose it. That's not true. They they gave me the car. It was mad. They paid the insurance on it. They paid the taxes on it. They paid everything on it. And they gave it to me. And, you know, they gave me that car because they wanted me to have a nice car to use to serve the church in, to represent the church in. to be able to go soul winning, to be able to make the emergency runs to the hospital, to be able to pick folks up occasionally to bring them to church or whatever else. That's why they gave me the car. But you know what? They didn't mind if I used that car to take my wife out on a date Or to go grocery shopping or visit my parents or even take an occasional vacation. They didn't care how I used that car as long as I also used it for the reason they gave it to me And do you know God said, if you'll be a soul winner, I'll give you wisdom. You've got to have wisdom. And I'll grant you that wisdom. If any of you like wisdom, let him ask of God who giveth to all men liberally and upbraideth not, and it shall be given him, James 1. 5. He said, I'll give you that wisdom, and then you can use that wisdom if you'd like in rearing your children. In helping your marriage to survive, in organizing your finances, in taking care of what Whatever else you need to take care of in life, the decisions you have to make, your career moves, or whatever else it is, I'll grant you wisdom for it. I'll grant you wisdom for soul winning, but you can use that wisdom for other things. see fit. Isn't he a great God? You see, that that's a wonderful thought. It's a source of much needed wisdom. I don't know about you, but I need God's wisdom. Every major decision and every minor decision of my life I want God to give me direction in it. So winning is following the pattern of the early church The early church fathers, I'll just give you a very quick one on this. I think you know this to be true, but in Acts chapter 20, verse 20, the Apostle Paul said how, as he was getting ready to leave the church at Ephesus, that he had founded and planted and won many of the people to Christ and appointed the pastors and whatever else. And he said, And how I kept back nothing that was profitable unto you, but have showed you and taught you publicly and from house to house. I could give you several other instances, but the our the our our spiritual forefathers, the pattern of the early New Testament church and the church fathers was a pattern of of winning souls. And if we're going to follow their example, then we've got to do what they did. You see, soul winning is under attack by the neo-evangelicals. The opponents of soul winning say, just live the life. I could give you a number of illustrations. I just don't have time. A group came to our church, said if you just live the life. I I asked them, they came to our church. I said, can I get some of our young people to go with you? I'd go with somebody and we could go out and knockdoors. I said, Oh, we don't do that. This is a group coming for a ministry for a revival It came for, I don't know, three, four days, whatever. And very well known across the nation as a conservative independent Baptist movement. Now they've gone off the deep end, which it was very predictable by what they told me They said, oh, we don't do that. We believe if we just live the life, folks will come to us. Well, I watched them all week long. They pulled two big old trailers up across the street from our church. This is before we relocated. to our current property. And uh they pulled up two big trailers and parked across the street. I knew the guy that ran the service station. He was a member of our church and I got permission for them to park there. They parked those trailers there. I watched all the way I didn't see one person And go up and knock on their trailer door and ask, how can I go to heaven? We didn't have one person saved in that revival. There were eight people on that team If those eight people had teamed up with eight of our people and we'd have gone out for several days or several afternoons knocking on doors and trying to win people to Christ, I believe somebody would have got saved. They have nobody saved Their lifestyle evangelism did not work. Lifestyle evangelism doesn't tell people about Jesus There's a lot of good people out here. There's a lot of good moral people. There's a lot of good in your neighborhood maybe a neighbor, and you may have a neighbor that you say, boy, I love having that guy as a neighbor. He may be upstanding, he may pay his bills, he may not beat his wife, he may be uh disciplining his children, he takes good care of his yard, he enhances your property value, you're glad he's there, but you know that he's never been saved Living a good life doesn't win anybody to Christ. Matter of fact, sad to say, sometimes your neighbor may live better than you do. Soul winning is following the pattern of the early church fathers. We need to be warning the lost. Acts chapter twenty thirty one. Therefore watch and remember, he said, as he continued there, he said, Watch and remember that by the space of three years I ceased not to warn everyone night and day with tears Warn them of an eternity separated from God and from God's love. Number seven, last one, soul winning keeps us from having bloody hands. Think about this. If God left it in our hands, Jesus, if he were here, he'd be doing it. But he's back in heaven now. He died, was buried, rose again ascended into heaven. He's at the right hand of the Father, cheering us on. And he said, I've left you here to finish that work. Not the work of paying sin the sin debt. He did that But the work of getting the message of that payment out to a lost world who need to have it applied to their account. Ezekiel chapter 3, verse 18. God said, When I say to the wicked, Thou shalt surely die, and thou givest him not warning, nor speakest to warn the wicked up from his wicked way. To save his life, the same wicked man shall die in his iniquity, but his blood will I require thine hand. Wow. You say, preacher, what's that mean? I don't know what all it means, but I know it means accountability. The Apostle Paul, again, here in Acts chapter 20, he said in verse 26 and 27, he said, Wherefore I take you to record this day that I am pure from the blood of all men. I think he was referring to that. That I don't have bloody hands because I've told you. Some of you didn't get saved, some of you did get saved. Praise the Lord for that But I am free from the blood of all men because I told everybody that I could. He said, For I have not shunned to declare unto you all the counsel of God Soul winning keeps precious souls out of hell. Ladies and gentlemen, that's what it's really all about Keeping precious souls out of hell. Who do you have in your family circle that's headed for an eternal devil's hell? One day at that white throne judgment of God, they'll be standing there. And the angels will grab them to cast them into hell. They'll say, Well didn't I wasn't I religious? Didn't I do things? And God will say, Depart from me, ye that work iniquity, I I never knew you. And as the angel picks them up to cast them into that lake of fire, to that outer darkness, that place where the smoke of their torment Ascends up forever and forever. And your eyes meet their eyes. And it's like they said, Why didn't you tell me? Why are you standing over there in your white robe looking so sanctimonious? You lived the same kind of life I did. Why are you over there and I'm being cast into hell? What did you know that you never told me? Wow. And the Bible says their blood will be required at your hand. Paul was able to say to that group of church, those group of people there In Ephesus, I'm free from the blood of all men. Because I've not shunned to declare unto you all the counsel of God. A billion souls are waiting still the message that can bring eternal life and joy and peace through Christ our Lord and King. A billion souls in this old world are lost in darkness still. They know not that the Lord has died their empty hearts to fill. It's really like five billion souls. Why should they be unreached, unloved, unknown? Though God in mercy gave command, his word be widely known A billion souls to think their blood rests in our hands. What shame! For through the church the Lord makes known salvation in his name A billion souls, how long, how long, ere they're reached and won? Today, we Christians. must proclaim redemption through God's Son. Let's do it for Jesus' sake. Let's take that glorious gospel to a lost world. I want us to bow our heads for a moment. Say, preacher, what is that gospel? I'm kind of new here. I I c I don't understand all this stuff you're talking about. Uh isn't it enough to be religious or join the church? Uh uh aren't all religious people going to heaven or or whatever May I just tell you, like I told that young soldier? That the Bible says we're all sinners, the Bible says there's a payment for sin The Bible says that there's no way we can work off our sin debt. Somebody has to make the payment, and the payment is death Eternal death, separation from God in a place Jesus called hell, and God loved us so much he sent his only begotten Son to pay that sin debt for us. And if we are willing to recognize that we are sinners, that we do not deserve heaven, but that Jesus paid our way to heaven when he died in our place, if we're sorry for our sins and want to be saved. He said, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. If you're willing to call on him and ask him, understanding those things. Understanding that you're a sinner that doesn't deserve heaven, but God loves you and sent his son to die for you and offers you the free gift of eternal life if you'll receive it. You're sorry for your sins. You want your sins forgiven. You want a new life with Christ. You want to invite Jesus to come into your life and be your Savior. Right here tonight, you can settle that matter. Who's here tonight? And you say, Preacher, I've done that. I know I'm saved. I'm on my way to heaven. Slip your hand up, will you? Preacher, I know I'm saved. I'm on my way to heaven. I thank God for it. God bless your many hands. Who's here tonight you say, Brother Lonnie, I couldn't raise my hand and say I know I'm saved, but I sure would like to be. I don't want to die without Christ. I don't want to go to hell. Please remember me In your closing prayer, would you slip your hand up? Anyone like that? Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure of heaven, but I sure would like to be. Please remember me in your closing prayer. Anyone? I'll wait just a second. Just a second longer Who's here tonight? You'd say, Brother Lonnie, yes, I I do know I'm going to heaven. But I'm afraid I'm not taking as many people with me as I could. I I'm I'm not as aggressive as I ought to be. I'm not as concerned or as comp I'm not as consistent as I ought to be in this matter. I I don't know how much fruit I could bear, but I don't think I'm bearing as much fruit as I could. I'm not satisfied with where I am in my soul-winning walk. And I don't believe God is pleased. And I don't want to see my loved one die without Christ. I I've got a family member that's on their way to hell. And I haven't even really prayed for them like I ought to, let alone really tried to win them to Christ. Or maybe it's a neighbor or a co-worker. or a friend or an acquaintance or somebody you do business with or a doctor or an attorney that's helped you, maybe saved your life somewhere along the way, and you've never, never told them about Jesus. I wonder how many of you say, preacher, I've got somebody like that. Please pray with me for them. Would you slip your hand up, slip it up here high? God bless you. God bless you. Hey, why don't we come and clean them tonight? There's an old-fashioned altar up here. And even now, even before the music starts, if you'd like to just come on to the altar, just get up from your seat and just come on right now. And let's just claim them. Let's just believe God to use us. Well let's just ask God to give us the boldness to do it. If you're here tonight and you need to be saved, you need a church home, you need to be Pastor be here at the front. You can talk to him. While we stand while the music plays, let's honor Christ tonight. Let's humble ourselves before him. Use this front pew, this front altar area. Let's just humble ourselves while the music's playing. Let's pray.