Certainly enjoyed meeting the missionaries and uh just getting to know them a little bit and getting to renew my relationship with many of you. I I love this church, I love this area Uh I told the preacher today I'm looking for land. Now I need somebody to donate the purchase price, but I'm looking for land. I'm looking for land to live here between May and August. All right. You can have it all the rest of the year, but boys it it is just I look out, I love to walk, and I walked yesterday down to Paradise Point Road. I don't know if any of you know where Paradise Point is. But you just come down that hill and you look out over those beautiful green verdant valleys up against those mountains And I hope you realize you just you live in one of the most beautiful places that I've ever been. It is beautiful. And all to the glory of God. Amen. It hadn't been here millions of billions of trillions of years, and it won't be here all that many more years, in my opinion. Jesus is coming soon. But uh what a privilege it is to see his hand every time you turn a corner you just see his creative glory. So I just want you to know I kind of covet Where you live at least until November, December time frame. Turn in your Bible, if you would, to 2 Corinthians chapter 9 2 Corinthians chapter 9. My theme this week, and at least Monday, I'm sorry, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday. Has been to try to convince us that God has a plan for missions to evangelize the world. And what's really exciting to me is when you go to a church like Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, You are doing in the 21st century what they did in the first century church. One of the things that I get a little upset with as an old man is the generation that is coming now, if it isn't new, they discard it. And if it isn't new, they don't want to do it. They just don't think it fits. But I want to tell you what God has put forth as His plan fits every generation, fits every age. And we ought to be excited about doing what God has told us to do, even in the 21st century. And so I want to preach to you tonight on this thought. Why faith promise is practical. It is biblical, but now let me tell you tonight why it's practical. One of the questions is asked. by young people today is they they ask the question, especially in church work, does it work? And they're always looking for a program that works. What really we need to know is, is it biblical? And if it is biblical, it will work. And so that's what I want you to see tonight, that because faith promise is biblical It is also practical and a blessing for us to be involved. So 2 Corinthians chapter 9, look at verse 6. But this I say, he which soweth sparingly shall reap also sparingly. And he which soweth bountifully shall reap also bountifully. Every man According as he purposeth in his heart, so let him give, not grudgingly or of necessity, for God loveth a cheerful giver. And God is able to make all grace abound toward you That ye always having all sufficiency in all things may abound to every good work. What an interesting passage. Let's pray, and then we'll talk about it. Father, we thank you for the evening. Thank you for the good presentation that we saw of Mexico. Lord, we just pray that you would bless Brother Wheeler's work there. I pray again that you would watch over his family while he's gone and protect and bless them. Thank you for these other missionaries. Appreciate Brother Gilbert's testimony and the other testimonies we've heard this week. But now, Lord, we come to this sermon. We come to this time where we're going to Try to communicate truth from the Word of God. And God, it is your word. It is your truth. And I ask you, Holy Spirit, to communicate it to our hearts. Help us to see truth, and then when we see truth, Holy Spirit, help us to act on it. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Faith promise missions giving is as old as the New Testament. The first thing I want us to understand tonight is that A man did not come up with the program we're talking about tonight. I'm sorry, I've struggled with my voice this week. So if I hack, snort, and snuff, you just forgive me, all right? It's use today as not something that we came up with. Now, we've put some names on it, but what I want you to see is that it's God's idea. In the 1880s, a man named Dr. A. B. Simpson And maybe some of you have heard that name, A. B. Simpson. He was the leader of a missionary or of a movement called Christian Missionary Alliance. And he had a real burden to reach the world, and and though we wouldn't have lined up with them exactly on every point They were evangelizers. They wanted to see people saved. And he wanted to send missionaries all across this world. And he took the concept of chapter 9 here in 2 Corinthians, and he called it a faith pledge for missions. And to be honest with you, the Christian Missionary Alliance boomed, and they did great work, and many people were saved all across the world. Well, fast forward up into the 1920s, and a man in Toronto, Canada preaching, Dr. Oswald Smith. And remember that name because he was so instrumental in the missions movements, even that we are to do with today. And he was, he pastored the People's Church in Toronto. It was a Baptist-oriented church. And he discovered something about Baptists. Baptists do not like the word pledge. We just don't like that. And so he changed the word pledge to the word faith promise. And to be honest with you, that's carried on now since 1920. A hundred years we have been using the term faith promise. But every principle that was taught under the name Faith Promise really comes from 2 Corinthians chapter 9. And I think God named it himself, and it is an accurate name and a good name. Verse 8, God is able to make all grace abound toward you, that ye always having all sufficiency in all things may abound to every good work I have no problem with the name Faith Promise, but I think what we're involved in in giving to missions is grace giving. It is giving by the grace of God to the cause of missions and allowing God to use what we give and even, in a sense, supply what we give. And so God says, here's my plan. And by my grace, I'm going to enable you. I'm going to make you able to give. And I want you to give so that souls all around the world can hear, and I will bless them And because you have been sacrificial and faithful to give, I will bless you. You talk about a circle of blessing, it is a blessing God uses our giving to reach the world and blesses us for giving to reach the world after he gives to us by his grace what we give to reach the world. Does that sound redundant? I hope it does, because that's what I meant it to sound like. It all starts with God. And when we are faithful to do with what God gives us, what God wants, God turns around and blesses us and reaches the world. It is grace-giving. Now, all I want to do tonight is take a few minutes. You love it when preachers say that. Let me show you the most meaningless act in a Baptist church. When we take our watches off and we put them up here, we want to communicate to you, we're looking at that, but what actually it is, it bothers our wrist and we just want it off. I love you people. I preach here all the time. Amen. Let me give you five reasons that it's practical because God installed grace giving. Here's number one. It's practical because it is biblical. Now I'm not going to spend a lot of time here because I spent a lot of time here on Wednesday night. We're going to come back to 2 Corinthians 9, but I want you for a moment to go over to Philippians chapter 4. Philippians chapter 4. And in Philippians chapter 4, I want you to see, and we'll just try to illustrate what it is we're talking about. Notice with me in Philippians 4, and let's begin reading in verse 15. Notwithstanding, ye have well done that ye did communicate with my affliction. Now, ye Philippians know also that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, No church communicated with me as concerning giving and receiving, but ye only. For even in Thessalonica ye sent once and again unto my necessity. Now let me stop there. I'll read more in just a moment. Let's think about what we're talking about. Paul is writing a letter to the church at Philippi, a church that he planted. And he is saying while I was there, remember we had people saved. It was a wonderful time with an earthquake and a number of other things. We had people saved. We started the church We met in Lydia's home and God just blessed our church. And one of the principles that I taught you was that just as I had been sent to you, you needed now to send me and send others to reach others in the world with the gospel of Jesus. And there have been many times where I had real needs where I would receive an offering from you. I could talk about Epaphroditus. We could talk about two times that they sent to him when he was in Thessalonica. And and I'm I am convinced that there were other times that this church in concern with Paul and concerned for souls, sent money to support his ministry. And what he does is he looks back and he says, I just want to thank you. This letter is almost a monthly report letter. saying, I just want to thank you for all the times that you have been concerned about my ministry and concerned about myself and me reaching other people and you have sent to my need He's talking about them supporting his missions' efforts. Now, let's go on in verse 17. Not because I desire a gift. Paul never desired to be a wealthy man. He desired to be a blessed man and share the blessing that he had, and that is to know Jesus Christ. He didn't desire to enrich himself. He wasn't building mansions everywhere he went. He wasn't buying jets. He was just doing the work of God. Now notice, not because I desire a gift, but I desire fruit that may abound to your account. And he's saying, every time you've sent and you have enabled me to stay and minister in a place and people have been saved and churches have been planted I want you to understand, number one, I used everything you sent for the work, but number two, I want you to understand that God will bless you. And the fruit that we bear here will be added to your account. We made an effort to say that the other evening. You know, we talk about that and I think people think it's just a a joke or or just something preachers say, but I'm just telling you, someday in heaven, and I don't think they're going to be dressed in a sombrero and a big hat But a Mexican soul is going to come up to you and going to say, you remember that missions conference in twenty nineteen when you kinda Said to yourself, I don't know if I've got it, but I want to give it and I'm going to sacrifice this. I want you to know that Brother Wheeler came back. And he was on fire, and he was visiting, and he came to my house, and I got saved. Thank you. There'll be Bolivian souls and Greenland souls. You say, can you guarantee me they're going to come up and thank me? No. But I'm telling you, they're there. And when God reviews your life, and when God reviews your works, the money that you give to missions and the time you spend in praying and the time you spend Trying to encourage emotionally those missionaries ain't gonna burn up. It's gonna be precious, precious stones in Jesus. Now go on. Notice what it says in verse 18. But I have all and abound I am full, having received of Epaphroditus the things which were sent from you, an odor of a sweet smell, a sacrifice acceptable Well pleasing to God. He's saying, I know you gave to meet my need so that I could do the work of missions, and I know that it was a sacrifice. I know you could have used it in a dozen other ways. I know you had other needs. I know you sacrificed for me. And then I love this. I love what he says. It was acceptable. It was a a from you an odor of a sweet smell, a sacrifice acceptable, well pleasing to God. I'm telling you Sunday morning if the preacher would let me, and I wouldn't really ask him, I would I I think I'm trying to think of the most pleasant smell that to me And it would probably be a peach cobbler baking in an oven. I'm being silly, but I sure enjoy it. We won't see it and we won't smell it, but I promise you something. On Sunday morning When with our shaking hands, we write a number that we know requires sacrifice in our life It's not something we're going to give out of our abundance. It's not something easy to come up with, but it is something that we say, God, I want you to know you are first. And I want you to know I care about the souls that you love. And I want you to know that I know I'm part of this church and I have a responsibility as a church member to send these men and their families and to hold the ropes. And God, I'm writing this number not because it's easy, but because it's a sacrifice that I want to give to you. I'm telling you, we won't see it and we won't smell it But an odor that is sweet to God's nostrils will ascend out of this room. Smell of sacrifice. Then Paul goes on, and he says this in verse 19, and get this. But my God shall supply all your need according to his riches and glory by Christ Jesus. Now listen to me just a minute. Sometimes we kind of lift that verse out of what the context truly is. One of the courses you take in Bible college is hermeneutics. And hermeneutics is a course that teaches you how to interpret the Bible. And one of the absolute bedrock rules of hermeneutics is context, context, context, context. And you do not lift verses out of context and make them say something they don't say or apply them to something they don't really apply to, and hold on, get a hold of what I'm saying to you I think in principle God will bless our giving wherever our giving is. But I want you to know that the promise of Philippians 4 and verse 19 that we quote so often is a verse that is directly in the context of Paul appreciating the missions giving that was given by the church in Philippi so that his work could go on on the mission field. And it lines up with what God said in Second Corinthians chapter nine. God said that he was able to and he would make us able, he would make us able that we could give in every work. He would make us sufficient if we will take what he gives and if we will be sacrificial and care about his work. God's promise is he shall supply all our need according to his riches in the glory of Christ by Christ Jesus. It is the same promise that we just read over in 2 Corinthians 9 and verse 8. I'm telling you, if you ever wanted to test God, test him in the matter of missions and give sacrificially. We're not doing something Sunday morning because we got together and made up this idea. Hey, I know how we can get more money. Let's call it a promise. We're giving it because it was instituted in the first century. And the Apostle Paul taught us what God taught him about it. And shared with us the promises that God gave to him. And I am telling you, they are still in Operation in 2019, and God will supply, and God will make us sufficient to give what God leads us to give. Go back to 2 Corinthians. Very quickly, chapter 9. I want you to notice secondly, it allows churches and Christians to experience the power of God. Why is it practical? Because it allows churches and Christians to experience the power of God. Verse 8. God is able to make all grace abound toward you That ye always having all sufficiency in all things may abound to every good work. God is able to work through you. One of the greatest adventures you can ever go on is to say to God, I will be sacrificial, I will live for you, and to watch God work in your life. I don't know if it's true or not. I'm not a scientist, but I read it on the internet, so it must be true. That at any given time we only use 16% of our brains. For me, it is about eight percent. You know I'm convinced That's how we live in this world where God wants to empower us, and God wants to use us, and God wants to bless us, and we live so timidly. That we never truly experience all that God could use us to do. God is looking for men and women not who are of the right outward appearance. God is looking for men and women who on the inside of their hearts, regardless of their outward appearance, trust Him. What the preacher just said is monumental. He is looking for some people who will step up and say, I read what you said in verse 8, and you said that you would make me to be sufficient to abound in every good work. I read what you said in verse 19 of Philippians 4. And you said, You would supply my need as I give to missions. You would supply my need. And God For once in my life, I'm not going to read the testimony of somebody else. I'm going to trust you, and I'm going to have the testimony. Wow. To step into that place where we say, God, my name is not Moses. My name is not Noah, my name is not Paul, but I am going to trust you to work through me. And to say, Lord, I'm going to give. I don't know exactly how I'm going to give all this. I'm just going to trust you and the number that you've laid on my heart, and I'm going to give it. And then to experience how God works. Well, preacher, how does God work in a believer's heart if he gives? Well, he can increase your supply. I was in a church last week preaching a missions conference, and a gentleman was, we were taking a walk. We were in West Virginia, and so we were walking straight uphill. And uh he he finally got to talking. He said, you know, I want to tell you this story, but I've got to stop so we can breathe. I said, that'd be great. I've got to stop so I can hear it. And he said, let me tell you how God laid something on my heart. And I went to my wife and And she said, God's speaking to me that way. And we were concerned about it, and we we knew that it would require sacrifice if God didn't do something. We'd have to literally do without some other things. And amazingly, we trusted God, and God, a week later, gave my wife a 35% increase raise in her work. You say, well, preacher, can you write that? Is that how God's going to do it for me? I have no idea. But I guarantee you, you're going to be excited about the testimony that you have if he does. Not only can he increase our supply, he can decrease our spending. I was so disappointed when Brother McKinney talked to me today. He said, Pastor, I went to Starbucks. And I bought a foo foo drink I said, how much did it cost you? He said, well over five dollars. I said, there's a missionary who's failing now because you bought that food. Sometimes he can just say to us, you don't need that. You don't need those channels. You don't need that streaming You don't need that new you fill in the blank. Did you know that sometimes it's just okay to not have something for the glory of God? Did you know sometimes it's okay just to sit down at the dinner table and say, kids, here's something we're not going to do this year because God has laid on our heart to do this for missions. Say, well, they'll be bitter. Not if you share all through the year how God blessed that decision. Sometimes God gives us wisdom to be good stewards. Sometimes He can just make us smart. He can give us the grace to sacrifice. He can perform the supernatural for us. All I'm saying is Let's step out of our timid place where we only do what is easy to do for God. The great missionary said, attempt great things for God. And I want to challenge you tonight. Trust God. And step out and say, God. I want to see you work in my life. And I'm willing to trust you to do that. Here's number three. It allows Christians and churches to experience the biblical principles of sowing and reaping from a positive perspective. Notice again what it said in verse 6. But this I say, he which soweth sparingly shall reap also sparingly, but he which soweth bountifully shall reap also bountifully. Hey. I am an independent, fundamental Baptist preacher. You know what that means? That means I'm against everything. I'm against fun in any form. And I love to preach. Man, I can rip stuff, I'm telling you. Be not deceived. God is not mocked. Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. And you know I preached that verse. And 99 out of 100 times I preach that verse, I preach it negatively. If you do that sin, if you have that attitude, if you have that spirit, if you sow that act, God will have consequences. But can I remind you tonight, church, the opposite is true? That if you sow righteousness That if you sow mercy, that if you sow grace, that if you sow generosity, that if you sow sacrifice, God will give you a consequence for sowing right? And all he is saying here is, listen, there is a negative consequence for sin, and a man reaps it when he sins. But there is a positive consequence for obedience and for sacrifice and love. And if you will make the decision to sow sacrificially, generously, and do it cheerfully. God has a consequence for that and it's called blessing. You believe that? God help us to see it. Here's number four. Is a free will from the heart offering for all believers who are part of a local church. Bible says in verse 7, every man. Now that's a gender-neutral word, that word man. That doesn't mean if you are a male It means let every person consider in their heart or purpose in their heart and let them give not grudgingly or of necessity For God loveth a cheerful giver. I want you to know that every person in this church can give. I have loved preacher's emphasis. On putting a card in every person's heart. Because every person can give and can be blessed if they give in this matter of missions. Over the years at Heritage, the church that I pastored for so long, I was always amazed at some people and their affluence. And they could give very large, very large, very large gifts. But can I be honest with you? They were not the gifts that thrilled my heart. My counters, my ushers, my treasurer came to me one day, said, Preacher, I don't know if you know this, but we're, it takes us like an hour, hour and a half. to count the faith promise cards. And I thought they were going to tell me, well, because there were so many or because there was confusion or whatever. But they said, we get so many that are like five cents or a penny And uh a dollar a month or this, that, and the other. Preacher, would you mind? We we those are just kids. Would you mind if we just set those aside? It started in my toes. So yeah, I I would really mind that. Because I said, let me tell you what I do with my kids. My kids get an allowance. My kids are taught every week about the tithe. And they give their tithe. I said my kids are also taught about faith promise. And I challenge my children around our table, if not weekly, monthly. Are you praying about what God would give you to give? Have you given your faith promise faithfully And I said, I want you to know that I know for my little guy, his is a nickel a week. And then I just got real close to him. And I said, do you have any sense of how precious that nickel is to God? We talked last night, I think it was about or night before about that widow and her two mites. That was precious to the Lord. I want to tell you there's some people in this room who can give large amounts, and you should. You should give it till it hurts as well. But there are other people, and there are children in this room who need to understand the importance of obedience in this matter to the Lord and whether it is a penny. or a nickel or a dollar or a hundred dollars a year. They need to be involved in faith, promise, missions, giving Because the Bible is very clear, it is every man, let every man, let every man, let every man And we are training a generation out of missions because we want them to have their precious quarter or fifty cents or dollar to spend on themselves. Hey, it would be a wonderful lesson for your child to. To learn, he ain't the center of the universe. To give. In fact, it'd be a right, good lesson for all of us to learn. Something bigger than us. Something more precious than us. So I urge you, and let me tell you what would bless your preacher's heart. If the ushers or the counters had to come to him and say, boy, I wish that preacher wouldn't have said that. We've got 250 cards. You know what a healthy church is? A healthy church is not a few members who give a lot Now, don't get me wrong, that's good. A healthy church is everybody who has a heart for God and gives sacrificially. And if the faith promise amount never startles the world because it's so large, it will bless the heart of our gracious God. Because it is a way that we demonstrate we get it. We get it. You love the world. Every person can give. Every single mom can give. Every retired person can give to the chance. Every married couple barely making it can give to missions. Everybody. Let every man, here's number five and I'm done. It's an offering that proves the individual believers and the church's love for Jesus Christ. Drop back to chapter 8. Look at verse 8. I speak not by commandment, but by occasion of the forwardness of others, and to prove the sincerity of your love. I don't want to sound adversarial. The old preacher said you can give without loving, but you cannot love without giving. And the truth is, giving is evidence of the sincerity of our love. And if you don't believe that, I want you to see the testimony of that that Paul gives us in the very next verse. For ye know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ. That though he was rich, Yet for your sake he became poor. Ye through his poverty might be rich If I'm ever asked to sign a Bible, I sign that verse as my life verse. Because I believe it demonstrates and illustrates more than any other verse in the Bible what Jesus gave to me. And what I am worth to him. Jesus made him self poor. Can I remind you of something tonight? I'll go real quick. I don't know about you, but I do know about me. And God did not get a bargain when He got me. God found me down on the lowest shelf. God found a man who was a rebel in his heart, foolish in his heart. There was never a day that I sought the Lord. I ran from the Lord. My parents got saved and I I dreaded having to be with them because I knew they were going to tell me about the Lord. Mother finally got me. And yet, as unlovely as I was, as rebellious as I was Here's the decision that Jesus made. I will impoverish myself so that that rascal can be saved. We're told in Philippians chapter two that we are to have the mind of Christ. And yet we live our lives self-serving, which is the antithesis, the opposite of the mind of Christ. Because the mind of Christ said, I will give myself, I will give all that I have. I will give everything. I will give my life. And if we're going to love him like he loved us, then we come to moments and decisions like Sunday morning. And we just have to say, Lord, help me. If I am going to imitate you, then I'm going to have to be willing to impoverish myself. That preaching will not fill up an auditorium If I announce that title, hey, I'm renting the Coliseum in the city, and my topic is how to become poor. Now, if I did it just the opposite, how to have faith words so that Jesus had to give you everything you wanted, I could fill her up. But if I said the mind of Christ is a willingness to sacrifice, a willingness to deny ourselves. A willingness to say no to me and give so that others can hear I couldn't sell any tickets. Folks, that is the mind of Christ. And he says, Mike, here's how I love you. I left heaven for you. I was baptized in a muddy, filthy Jordan River for you. I was mocked and scourged and beaten and crucified, and I had committed no sin for you. Then I have to look back up and say, and and I sincerely love you, Lord. And to demonstrate how much I love you, I'm willing to sacrifice so that others can have your love and know your love and feel your love. Like I have. It is the opportunity for all of us who sing How Much I Love Jesus to sincerely demonstrate. How much we love Jesus. Not trying to make anybody feel guilty. I'm just telling you the Bible. So God, is that what this is all about? Yeah, that's what this is all about. It's biblical. It's the plan that He gave us. Not only is it biblical, it allows us to experience the power of God in our lives. It allows us to sow and to receive the reward of sowing. It allows us to express our love for Him. That's why faith promise is so ethical So here's my invitation tonight, and I am done. You know that card that the preacher's been giving out, been asking you to think about, and wants everybody to have? It's not because he wants a big number. It's because he wants God's blessing on you And he wants you to experience the power of God in your life. So here's my invitation. Whether you come forward or whether in your seat, Would you spend a few moments tonight and say, Lord, I want you to lead me in what you would have me to write on that card? Because above all things, I want it to be an expression of the sincerity of my love for you. Because I live every day in your grace, experiencing your love for me. Father, we thank you for these few minutes you've given us. And I pray that you would help us to see the truth. Our world wants us to believe that being saved is just about our good, just about what God owes us. God doesn't owe us anything. But he will bless us. And he will use us. And we can have a testimony of his power. And we can have the joy of seeing missionaries sent and souls being saved, experiencing the same love that we experienced when we got saved. If We will sacrifice and trust you to supply. So, Lord, I pray tonight in these few moments That every person in this room would be thoughtful and prayerful for these few moments. And just lay that card, not physically, but in their heart and mind, lay it out before you. And say, God, you made promises about supplying my need. You made promises about me sowing bountifully. You made promises that you would make me insufficient to abound to every good work. And God, I want to experience that. I want to see your hand work in my life and in my home. I'm willing to trust you. So God lead me in the quietness of this moment. What would you have me to give? I'm willing to sacrifice because I know, I know you will supply Jesus' name. Amen. Let's quietly stand to our feet.