Give thanks from the Williams family for all that you folks do in supporting us and praying for us and as I mentioned to your preacher last night, it's a blessing to get his newsletter and just to find out what's happening here. Very few preachers write us and tell us what's happening in their churches. And we ask you to pray for us. It's pretty hard to pray for you. We don't know what's going on. And so that's a blessing. Acts chapter thirteen is where we're going to be this morning to start off with. And we'll begin reading in verse 1. Hopefully it'll be a fairly familiar passage. This is the account of the Church of Antioch sending out the first Christian missionaries to a foreign country. I mean outside of Jesus coming to earth as the first missionary, this is the first example we have and the pattern we have for modern missions. In Acts chapter 13, verse 1 it says, Now there were in the church that it was at Antioch certain prophets and teachers. As Barnabas and Simeon that was called Niger, and Lucius of Cyrene and Naeh, which have been brought up with Herod the Tetrarch and Saul. As they ministered to the Lord and fasted, the Holy Ghost said, Separate me, Barnabas and Saul, for the work wherein to I have called them. And when they had fasted and prayed, and laid their hands on them, they sent them away So they, being sent forth by the Holy Ghost, departed into Seleucium, and from thence they sailed to Cyprus, and when they were at Salamis, they preached the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews. And they had also John to their minister. Skip down to verse 13, if you would. Now, when Paul and his company loosed from Paphas, they came to Perga in Pamphylia. And John, departing from them, returned to Jerusalem. You know, everybody loves a success story When you hear some missionary who's been in, you know, Africa for twenty, thirty, forty years, and he's just been there pounding the bush and thousands have gotten saved and Dozens of churches have gotten established and you know many preacher boys have been called to preach. That's a blessing when you hear about some guys that's faithful like that. Or when you hear some guy who is purely a faithfulness story, you know, maybe he's gone to a Muslim country and banged his head against the wall for twenty or thirty years and has just a handful of converts But he's been faithful, plowing and planting in some country that's very resistant to the gospel. We love faithfulness stories like that. But there's a problem. Those stories are becoming very rare. They're becoming very rare because most missionaries aren't on the field long enough to have any stories like that. And uh this is a problem that uh It's becoming more and more common as we get closer to the return of Christ. In 1950, there were 100,000 Protestant missionaries out of North America to the rest of the world. Canada, America, 100,000. Now I realize there's Protestant missionaries, many of them weren't even saved, many weren't preaching the gospel, but there are a hundred thousand missionaries to reach in 1950 a world population of 2. 7 billion. Today the world's population has more than double We're up to 7. 3 billion people. To have just the same proportion, we'd need to have 280,000 missionaries out of North America. Anybody want to venture a guess with how many we actually have? 29,000. You don't include the Catholics and the Mormons. That's what we have today. 29,000. 40% of all missionaries who start deputation never finish. Seventy percent of the fellows who go to the field for a first term never go back for a second term. In fact, if we were to have a hundred of you today come forward and say, Brother Williams, I believe God wants me to be a missionary. I'd say amen. We need more missionaries. We'd have you hundred up here. And then we need to get you started. We'd have to get you some training. Maybe Bible Institute, Bible College, some type of uh training where you get some wisdom and knowledge on what to do for three, four years. And then you would need some practical training. Maybe work in a church as a missionary intern or an assistant pastor or go plant your own church or pastor for a short time. Two, three, four years of that, then you'd need to go on deputation. Sometimes it takes two, three, four, five years for some fellows to raise their funds to get to the field. After that, you would hopefully finally get to the field and you'd be on the field. That first term for most countries is going to be learning a language. Getting used to a culture. You'd be there for two, three, four years, then you come back on furlock, like we are today, reporting to our churches. And then after that, you would go back for your second term That would make you officially a veteran missionary on the field for a second term. Anybody want to venture a guess as to how many of that a hundred original candidates? Actually make it to the second term on a mission field? Two. Two percent make it through that process to get back to the field for a second term. Why are they coming home? Why is it that so many fellows make it to the field and don't go back to the field? Debbie and I have been in New Zealand as of next month for 24 years. We have seen roughly twenty or twenty-five American guys come to New Zealand during that time. We've seen roughly twenty-five or thirty leave. It's like a revolving door. What's the problem? Why are they coming home? This morning, we're going to try to answer that question. And see what you and I can personally do about it. Father, we ask as we open your word this morning that you would burden our hearts for world missions. Lord, that you would help us to see the problem that lies before us today and Lord, that you'd help us to see what we can do about it and that we would make the changes in our lives that are necessary to help those brethren who are representing us stay on the field. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. This problem is not an original problem. The very, very first missions team that everyone up. Saul, whose name was later changed to Paul, Barnabas, and John Mark started out on that first missionary journey. And we don't know what happened, but very shortly into that journey, we're told in Acts 13, 13 that John departed from them and returned to Jerusalem. Whatever it was, it wasn't a good situation. We find out later at the end of that first missionary journey. When Paul and Barnabas come back and report to their churches and make the decision to go out for a second time, that Barnabas wanted to give this young fellow a second chance. He wanted John Mark to come with them. And Paul said, no way. I'm not taking that guy with us. And whatever the issue was, it produced a contention that was so sharp. That those men, Paul and Barnabas, split up and became two different mission teams. And John Mark did go back out with Barnabas, but it was difficult at best And this morning I'm going to give you some reasons why many missionaries come off the field. Let's go back to chapter 12 of Acts and see if we can find our first one. And I'll just lay it out here. They're not in any particular order. I've probably got 20 reasons, but we don't have time to look at all those this morning. But there's definitely an aspect here that many missionaries have an unrealistic view. of the mission field. You know when someone like myself comes to your church and shows a presentation, a DVD or something We're trying to burn your heart from the mission field. We're trying to produce within you a desire to get the Word of God out and show you a need, and hopefully that need will affect your heart But it's very difficult in a seven, eight, nine, ten minute presentation to show you what a field is really like. In fact, very few of us really show you what a mission field is really like. We don't show you the bad parts. We just show you the good parts and the sanitized parts. You know, if I was from South America, I might show you a few Catholic churches and statues of Mary and If I was from Southeast Asia, maybe a few Buddhas, but there's no way to communicate in a presentation the whole idea of open sewers in the streets. Anybody here ever been to a third world country? You guys know that the first thing that strikes you is not what you see. It's what you smell, isn't it? It's like, whoa, there's no way to communicate that There's no way to show people running around with no clothes on, which is a problem in many fields, or people with open sores that never heal, or people with injuries that are horrific who are walking around There's no way to communicate that it's 100 degrees in this field with 95% humidity and no air conditioning ever. You just can't show that. It's hard to communicate that the witch doctor down the street is playing wicked, demonic jungle music that just pound, pound, pound, pound, pounds 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and you can never get away from it. Can't turn it off. There's no way to communicate that. The reality of a mission field is something that your missionaries are going through That sometimes we here in America completely miss. I don't know what John Mark's real problem was, but as I look at chapter 12, I get a few clues. Look at chapter 12 Verse twelve. And remember this is the story of Peter getting out of prison. James has just been martyred Peter has had the angel come and release him, and he's heading uh back to the prayer meeting where they were praying for him to get out of jail. And it says in Acts 12, 12, and when he had considered, he Peter, and when he had considered the thing, he came to the house of Mary, the mother of John, whose surname was Mark. Where many were gathered together praying. That verse tells me that John Mark was a Jerusalem boy. He grew up in this city where everybody loved and worshipped God. Well again there were hypocrites around and unbelievers, but for the most part it was the city with the temple. That gold would have been shining all the time. The smell of the sacrifices would have been all there all the time. The smell of the incense. People carrying their offering to God Priests in robes and you know vestments where they're worshiping God. Music, singing, and cymbals and psalteries coming out of the temple. The big feast days, everybody would go up at Passover and Pentecost and tabernacles to worship the true God. You didn't hear people blaspheme God. You didn't see idols in a place like this But when John went on his missions trip, that's what he saw. He came to towns where no one loved God. No one served the true God Idols, filth, vileness, people blaspheming God, temple priests and priestesses. And it would have blown his mind. Not only that, but according to that passage, his mother had a house that was large enough for many to gather together and pray in it. In other words, he wasn't living out under a bridge. He was probably from a family that was at least middle class, at least able to get along. But here he is on his mission trip, probably living under bridges and in tents and in rough conditions. Whatever the problem, it was not like home. And after just a few weeks or months, he said, I had enough of this, and he was out of there. Go with me if you would to 2 Corinthians chapter 11. You know, we are very keen for our children to become missionaries. We need to see more people surrendering to serve God overseas. But sometimes children grow up with a very idealized or idealistic view of the mission field. I know a family where the young lady was saved as a child And surrendered to missions as a 12-year-old. She actually wrote in the margin of her Bible, Africa. That's where she believed that God wanted her to go She grew up through high school, served God, loved God, did everything right, went to Bible college, um with the intent of being a missionary one day, actually met a fellow who was going to Africa as a missionary, married him. Deputation went to Africa. But it was nothing like she expected. She had an idealistic dupe. It blew her mind, and in just a year they were back in the States permanently. Folks, we need to make sure the next generation has a realistic view of the field. You know, the Bible is brutally honest. About what your missionaries are going through today. Look here with me at 2 Corinthians 11, verse 23. Remember, Paul is writing to a church. The missionary is writing to a church that gives to missions and prays for missionaries. He says in verse 23, are they ministers of Christ? I speak as a fool, I am more. In labor is more abundant, in stripes above measure. Those are lashes with a whip. In stripes above measure, in prisons more frequent, in death soft. Of the Jews, five times received I forty stripes, save one. Thirty-nine tim uh five times I got thirty-nine lashes with a whip. Thrice was I beaten with rods, once was I stoned, thrice I suffered shipwreck, night and a day have I been in the deep In journeyings often, in perils of waters, imperils of robbers, imperils by mine own countrymen, imperils by the heathen. In perils in the city, in perils in the wilderness, in perils in the sea, in perils among false brethren, in weariness and painfulness, in watchings often In hunger and thirst, in fastings often, in cold and nakedness, beside those things that are without, that which cometh upon me daily, the care of all the churches Wow. Two-thirds of the things in that list I've never experienced. But a third of those things I have. And you have missionaries today that you support who are in some of those situations right now. That's what the mission field is like for some And there are some things that we can do about it. When a missionary comes through, you want to ask the right questions To find out what their fellas actually going through. You know it's nice to know what kind of money they use and what they eat And it's nice to know, you know, some of the trivia about the country, but you need to know what that guy is going through and what his wife is going through if you're going to pray intelligently in a way that's going to keep them on that mission field. And keep them from coming home early. Again, I'm all for encouraging kids in missions, but we need to make sure that that next generation has a realistic view of the field. You know, today it doesn't cost a lot of money to give them that type of view. You know, it's one thing to pass out tracks in downtown Pittsburgh at noon on Saturday. But you get a whole different view at 10 30 on Saturday night in the same place, don't you? Going on a missions trip to some third world country, that's going to give them a different view on life. Take them to Dearborn, Michigan for a week. Anybody know what's in Dearborn, Michigan? It's 100% Muslim over there these days. When our kids were in homeschool, high school, we instituted a policy where we told them, hey, We want you to finish up high school and you go do whatever you believe God wants you to do. But before you do that, we want you to go to a third world country. Go on a missions trip for two, three, four months. And just go see what the rest of the world's like. Save up your money, get a job, and that's what each of them have done. Caleb, my oldest, went to the country of Vanuatu, little South Pacific Island nation, more backwards than Paupa New Guinea. He traiced around in the jungle in the mud for four months helping the missionary, and he saw a lot. My son Luke went to Papua New Guinea. Grace was going to go to Papua New Guinea, but the missionary left the field. Just before she was going to go. She ended up going to Australia instead as a backup. Beth is talking about going to Malawi, Africa, to work with a fellow over there and his wife for a few months But we need to make sure that there's an idealistic view of the field for our next generation. Let me give you a second reason. Go with me over to 1 Peter chapter 3. 1 Peter chapter 3 Remember, we're talking here this morning about what we can do to help those who are representing us stay on the field. The uh the rate of folks coming off the field is absolutely atrocious. And if there's something that we can do about it, we need to be doing it 1 Peter chapter 3, look with me at verse 15, if you would. 1 Peter 3:15, the Bible says, but sanctify the Lord dot in your hearts, and be what? Be ready always to give an answer to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that's in you with meekness and fear. The second reason why I see many of the brethren come off the field before they should is they're simply not ready. They're not prepared. They've been inadequately trained And if I'm going to be brutally honest, this was probably the biggest problem that Deb and I had when we got to the field. I'd been to Bible college. I'd worked in a church for a year. I'd done deputation. I was on the field when I was 25 And I could definitely have used some more mentoring before I'd got into the field. I learned so many things the hard way. I gave the devil so many opportunities to knock us off that field, it wasn't even funny And folks, we need to make sure that our missionaries are prepared. Many of them go to a Bible college and think they've learned the Bible and that they're ready. And they're simply not. We see him come and we see him go. Go with me to Psalm 119, if you would. Psalm one nineteen. The missionaries that you support today are spiritual jack-of-all traits. Do you realize that most of your missionaries, when they're on the field, are pastors? The people call them pastor. Not only that, but they have to do all the jobs that the assistant pastor does, and the visitation director does, and the youth pastor does, and the senior citizens minister does They do all the work of the janitor and of the bookkeeper and of the treasurer. They have to do this in a country where the government often doesn't want them there and is working against them The local religions and sects and groups and cults, they don't want them there and are working against them. In fact, it's often this pressure from the whole country to leave and not to stay They're doing it with your expectations here back home, and they have to deal with their family as well. All their family's needs and expectations. They have to be prepared on all these different levels. And there are several areas in particular of preparation that I see fellows come to New Zealand and they're just not ready. Culture shock is a massive one. Anybody here live in a foreign country for at least two months? Alright, so you know what culture shock is It's that thing that hits you and things are different and you can't do anything about it. When you're a tourist, those differences are cute. But after a few weeks, they're not cute anymore. They irritate you. If the country speaks English, you got some advantages, but most countries aren't like that. You go to New Zealand, all the light switches go the other way. All your life you've used to uh I care which way it is, but all your life in America you flip them one way, New Zealand you flip them the other way. You gotta turn the hot water on, hot and cold water taps are back to front The other way around. You gotta get in the car, steering wheels on the other side. Do you know how many times I've tried to get in the passenger seat? There's no steering wheel there. The windscreen wipers and the trans signal indicators are the other way around. You drive down the street, you're on the other side of the road. Even to this day, I mean I've done it here just in the past week or so. Walking down a sidewalk, which we call a footpath in New Zealand, all your life because you've driven on This side of the road, you have the tendency to walk on this side of the road. Well, in New Zealand it's the other side. So when you walk down the sidewalk, someone's coming at you, you do go one way and they go the same way And then you do this thing trying to get around them. If I come back here in America and I do it the wrong way as well. Uh just the other day I was in a shopping mall going down that long corridor to the restroom and I did that dance with somebody trying to get around them You just get used to these, or you get used to the wrong way of doing these things. In New Zealand, if you get invited over to somebody's house, they will always walk you out to the car at the end of the evening And wait till you get in the car and wave and say goodbye. If I say goodbye to you at the front door in New Zealand and send you on your way, I've just insulted you You realize how many guys make that mistake and don't even realize they're insulting people? Lots of little things like that. Language. Very few missionaries make a serious attempt. to learn the language of the country they're going to while they're on deputation. Oh, wait till I get to the field. I don't want to learn it with an accent. And it just sets them behind by years. And it makes it much more difficult to stay there. Sometimes it's evangelism. We're used to doing things a certain way here in the States. You get to a foreign country, it doesn't work. Same gospel, same principles, but different applications Most countries in the world, your missionaries, have no First Amendment rights. They don't have any rights to stand on a corner and preach or teach. Some places it's illegal. And they try it and it doesn't work and they get frustrated. They do these different things and no one responds, and what do you do next? American-style evangelism is woefully inadequate on many fields Sometimes it's knowledge of the Bible. I asked you to go to Psalm 119. Let's look at a verse over here. Sometimes Deb and I will meet a new missionary who comes to New Zealand. And after about five minutes, it is painfully obvious that this fellow and his family aren't ready for the field. And it is tragic. Sometimes we try to reach out and help isn't wanted or offer or isn't desired. And we see somebody go for a year or two and then they go home permanently. And you can see it a million miles away in some cases simply because of a lack of preparation. Sometimes it can be something so simple as a basic knowledge of the Bible. You say, well, missionaries should know the Word of God. You would think, I mean, they've been to Bible college. Yeah, that's all they've trusted. They haven't actually spent the time studying on their own. We had a fellow that uh new guy to the field that we invited to an ordination of uh Pastor Ben, our our national pastor. And we had our ordination council and we grilled Ben and he did fine. But this one pastor was real quiet the whole time, this new guy. And afterwards he said, Wow, Brother Jeff, I didn't know the answer to a lot of those questions. And I'm like You're the missionary. You should know the answer to all those questions. Look at Psalm 119, verse 98. The Bible says, thou through thy commandments has made me wiser than mine enemies, for they are ever with me. I have more understanding than all my teachers For thy testimonies are my meditation. I understand more than the ancients, because I keep thy precepts. One of the things about a Bible-believing Baptist is that you don't need an expert. You, this book, the Holy Spirit, you've got what you need. God's word is something that any one of us can learn. You don't need a Bible college education. You don't need a PhD. If you've got the Spirit and the Word, you can know more than your enemies. You can know more than your teachers, and you can know more than all the church fathers and all the ancients On a regular basis. I'm talking like every week. I run into Catholics, I run into Presbyterians, I run into Methodists. I run into Mormons, Jehovah's Witnesses, Seventh-day Adventists, Calvinists, Charismatics, Muslims, Hindus, Buddhists, Atheists, Agnostics, Skeptics I run into these guys all the time. The book says I'm supposed to be ready always to give an answer to every man. That asketh me a reason of the hope that's in me. You need to be ready as well to work in your community, but you need to pray for your missionaries, that they continually spend time in the Word. That they just don't get used to teaching, but also studying on their own. And they're prepared for these situations. For some fellows, it's just isolation. They get to the field and they've they've been in a church of a hundred or five hundred or a thousand. They've been going on deputation from church to church to church with all the fellowship and all the preaching, and then they get to the field And there's three in the service. When we first got to Dunedin, we had a flush of people who came initially, and then it all kind of settled down to one. We had one Sunday school boy who would come in the morning, and in the Sunday school hour I mentioned the fellow who responded to a track, he came in the evening every week. We'd have one each service along with Debbie Caleb and I That's a big switch coming from a church like this where everybody can sing and fellowship to four of us sitting around studying the Bible. Some guys can't handle that. They're not prepared. What can we do? Well, there are some things you can do. We can make sure that the next generation in this church is prepared to defend their faith We're going to be attacked from every side. We need to be ready, as well as praying for our missionary to be ready. Something like teaching the young people in your church a foreign language. We'll go a million miles to helping them become missionaries someday. Do you realize how many people never come to the altar and surrender for missions because they're scared about learning a foreign language? If you already know one, it makes it easier. I won't even ask this morning how many of you know a language other than English. Because if you're typical Americans, most of us don't. Simply that way. We need to make sure that the folks that we send to the field are prepared. Go to Acts chapter 18, if you would. Acts chapter 18. We're going to find a third reason Why many of the brethren are coming off the field before their time. Acts chapter 18, look down at verse 24 with me. Acts 18, 24. The Bible says, and a certain Jew named Apollos, born in Alexandria, an eloquent man, mighty in the scriptures, came to Ephesus. This man was instructed in the way of the Lord. Being fervent in the Spirit, he spake and taught diligently the things of the Lord. Problem. Knowing only the baptism of John This fellow didn't quite have all the pieces of the puzzle. He didn't have the information about Jesus he needed. So it says there in verse 26. And he began to speak boldly in the synagogue, whom when Aquila and Priscilla had heard They took him unto them and expounded unto him the way of God more perfectly. You realize every time that Aquilla shows up in the Bible? He's always followed by Anne Priscilla. They were a team. They worked together. And together, these two, who both knew the word. taught and helped Apollos get up to speed where he needed to be. Third reason this morning why some of the missionaries that we support come off the field early is family issues. Simply family issues. In many cases, the missionaries use the port, the fella is out there doing all those things on the field, and the wife's home with the kids. And she can't learn the language like he can. And she's not used to the culture in the same way he is. She has different pressures and different issues working on her. I know of missionaries right now where the wife is pretty much in a compound behind walls and can never go up unless her husband's with her. And it's like that week after week, month after month And that can really wear on some of our missionary wives. Some wives have far less preparation for their husbands. And I've met some who simply didn't want to go to the field when their husbands are going to the field And it never works out well. Sometimes the missionaries will go to the field with older children, and the children don't make the transition well. Sometimes missionaries face family issues like family members back home dying. My wife lost both her parents back some years ago. Both went through prolonged illnesses. That was a tough thing to deal with from 9,000 miles away. What do you do? We ended up having to make a couple extra trips and praise the Lord for churches that understood that. And you folks need to understand when your missionaries are in those situations. Right now we're going through the situation where our kids are leaving home. When we go back to New Zealand here in four weeks, we'll be leaving our oldest daughter here behind, along with our two oldest sons. And that's a long distance. Skype is a blessing, but it's still difficult to watch them go through the different issues and challenges at this point in their life. And all I can do is pray and reach out from a distance You need to pray that God gives your missionaries grace in these various family issues. Sometimes it's the health of your family members or health of missionaries that's the issue. You have missionaries today serving in countries where the hygiene is atrocious. The climate is horrible. And the pressures on their health are intense. We had two young ladies out of our church in Blenheim who went overseas. One of them went to uh Vanuatu for five years And uh malaria and open source that wouldn't heal and infections, other issues really put a dent in her health and contributed to her coming home. We got another young lady in Peru. She's been there seven years. The first missionary sent out by the independent Baptist churches in New Zealand. She's doing a great job But she says, Preacher, when I get up in the night and turn the bathroom light on, you can just see the cockroaches go everywhere. And she says, then when you go in and you're in there for a few minutes, they come back out and you sit there and count them How would you like to be in that situation? Some of your missionaries are right now. Are you praying for them accordingly? Go with me, if you would, over to Titus chapter 2. Titus, chapter 2. What can we do about these things? Well, you can definitely give some extra support to your missionary wives You ladies in particular are in a position where you can reach out through mail or email or text or Facebook or something, and you can be a blessing. And your contact may make the difference on whether that family stays on that field or not. A fourth reason. Why some of the brethren come home from the field early. Titus chapter two, if you would. Look down at verse eleven with me. Titus two, eleven. The Bible says, For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men, teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lust We should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world, looking for that blessed hope And the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior, Jesus Christ. Could happen today. Right now while I'm talking, Jesus could come back. And if you're a born-again believer in him, you'd be gone. If you're here today and you're unsaved, not sure you're on your way to heaven? You'd be sitting in the room and suddenly everybody disappears and probably freak you out? You need to be saved. You need to ask us about that. But for those of us who are saved, we have some expectations of Jesus Christ. We expect him to come back. We expect him to answer our prayers. We expect him to keep us safe We expect him to give us new bodies someday to take us to heaven. And if we're going to be honest, we have some expectations of our missionaries as well. And the fourth reason I'll give you this morning why some of the brethren come off the field is the pressure to perform. There's these expectations, and they don't feel they can live up to them. You know, generally speaking, if you had a business, you would expect it to make a profit. If it doesn't make a profit, throw it out and get a new business. You know, you're not going to sit there and go bankrupt Well, when it comes to your missionaries, what do you expect of them? Well, you know Expect them to see souls saved and expect them to start churches and that's the wrong answer. Some fields that may happen. Other fields that may not happen. What we should be expecting of our missionaries is the same thing that Jesus expects of them, and the same thing that he will be testing them on at the judgment seat of Christ. And that's faithfulness. It's required in stewards that a man be found faithful. As we said last hour. There are some things in the harvest field I can control and some things I can't control. I can control the plowing, I can control the planting, I can control the watering. But I can't do anything about the harvest. That's the Lord's business. Where I have opportunity, I attempt to draw the net, but at the end of the day, only the Lord can save a soul. He's the one that has to turn that light on. Go with me if you would to the Old Testament book of Isaiah again, Isaiah 55. We looked at this verse last hour, but let's look at it again. God's word, we are promised, will produce results. The problem is that it sometimes produces results. Different than our expectations. Here in Isaiah 55, 11, we are given a number of promises in this word. We are told, so shall my word be that goeth forth out of my mouth. It shall not return unto me void. But it shall accomplish that which I please, and it shall prosper in the thing whereto I sent it. I have absolutely no doubt. That if I did uh in India for the last 24 years, what I've just done in New Zealand for the last twenty-four years, then I'd have very different results. Because it's a different soil. In New Zealand, the soil's in tough shape. And when you put out God's word, not a lot appears to happen But something's happening. I trust God for that. If you go back to verse 8, we're told, For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord. So we've got these promises But the results or expectations need to be different. We need to be trusting God in this regard. And some missionaries put too much pressure on themselves They sit down to write a prayer letter and wow nothing's happened this month. No one's gotten saved. I haven't got anything positive to report. And it's easy to get discouraged. And some guys come home because of things like that. Sometimes churches put unnecessary expectations on missionaries. I had a church one time that wanted me to give them a list every month of how many people had gotten saved because they had a thermometer on the wall, how many people had gotten saved in their ministry. They wanted to add my numbers to that I said to the preacher, I'm not going to have a lot for you, brother. We've got a few people who've made, you know, prayers, but we only count the ones who actually mean business with God and come to church, you know, and and show some promise And uh that type of pressure can be a challenge. I've got a church out west that only sends me support when I send them a prayer letter. If I send a November-December letter, well they'll only send me December support because I didn't send them a letter in November. That's just not helpful. They can do what they want. Someone said you should send them four letters a month. I haven't tried that one yet. But it's that expectation thing that can be a problem. And there are some things that we can do about it. Go back to Isaiah 5. Isaiah 5. You need to reassure your missionaries that faithfulness Trumps visible results. It's faithfulness that the Lord judges on, and its faithfulness that we should be looking at. You know, there may be the lazy or unfaithful missionary, but until you've got an issue or evidence, trust the guy God led you to support him. Stay behind him unless you have a reason not to. Another thing we can do is not compare missionaries with each other. I don't know where your missionaries are at, but if you had a fella in Zambia and a fella in Scotland, you're going to get very different letters. The fellow in ZMB is going to tell you, oh, you know, we had 15 saved this week, and we had, you know, 900 in church last Sunday, and our 15 village churches are doing this, and our 80 guys in Bible Institute are doing that, and we had 90 baptized last month. And the fella in Scotland's gonna say we had three on Thursday night. And this old fella we've been working on for eight years came for the first time last Sunday Just very different soil. Don't compare them with each other. Compare them to Jesus Christ and His Word. It's the same thing we would expect of one another. And be very concerned when somebody gets stuck on nothing but visible results. If God chooses to bless that way, that's one thing. But look at this verse. Chapter 5, verse 18. What's the first word in that verse? That's a curse. It's not like woe to a horse. You know, slow down, stop, woe. No, it's not that's a curse. Woe unto them. That draw iniquity with cords of vanity and sin as it were with a cartrope, that say, Let him, let God make speed and hasten his work, that we may see it. I've never told God, you need to hurry up so we can see what's happening here in New Zealand. God's going to do what he's going to do. We need to trust him. And we need to trust him when it comes to working with people. And if we get stuck on numbers and that's all we can push, we're violating a simple command there. Let me give you a fifth reason. Go over to 2 Corinthians chapter 1. Just a few more verses will be done here this morning. 2 Corinthians, or as we say in New Zealand, 2 Corinthians, 2 Corinthians chapter 1. And the next reason I'm going to give you is probably one of the most devastating. It's the spiritual war. We're in a battle, folks. We're in a battle, a kingdom of darkness versus a kingdom of light. The Lord Jesus Christ versus an enemy that he's allowed to walk around for the past 6,000 years, the devil. And that enemy has claimed many victims, knocked many men out of the race before their ministry was accomplished. I think of Elijah getting out of the race because of discouragement I think of Samson getting out of the race because of lust and immorality. And when you study the spiritual war, it was Paul the missionary who had more to say about it than anybody else in the Bible. And he talked about it to local churches, just like you folks. And the topic is really beyond the scope of what we can look at here today. But we'll read this one verse. And stop and ask yourself, when was the last time I had a missionary talk like this in a prayer letter? 2 Corinthians 1. 8 For we would not, brethren, have you ignorant of our trouble which came to us in Asia, that we were pressed out of measure, above strength Insomuch that we despaired even of life. It's clearly missionary problems, troubles down in Asia He's talking to the Corinthians about this. He said these things were so bad. The pressure was so great. He couldn't handle it. The stress was more than we could bear. We were ready just to give up and die. Folks, you've got missionaries today that you support who may not talk like that, but that's the situation that they're in. And what you do or don't do this week and this month may be the difference on whether they stay on that field or they don't stay on that field. You see, your missionaries are on the front line. They are high-value targets. Now, I am not putting down at all the fact that you too are in that spiritual war. But you have a luxury that your missionaries don't have. You've got each other. You've got a problem. You come to church. You exhort, encourage, edify one another. Get together with somebody and pray. Bring the preacher up. Bring so-and-so up. Text so-and-so. Talk to them. Face-to-face encouragement. A hug. Cry together. You've got each other. Many times your missionary is hanging out there on the wind at the end of the branch and there's no one else out there. If he has some national believers, they don't understand his situation. There may not be any other missionaries close And the devil knows that if he can shoot that guy, that it can be the difference of whether the gospel goes out in an entire city or an entire nation. That fella comes off the field, a whole area with millions of people may be consigned to darkness. You have a problem? You're out of church next week? That affects some people. But that one missionary can affect millions if he becomes a casualty in the spiritual battle. Sometimes it's doubts. Missionaries out there just hammering away, putting out the truth, and nothing appears to be happening. Sometimes it's persecution where he's just getting all this pressure and intensity of the spiritual war There's no question that when we fly into New Zealand, there's definitely an oppression that settles down. And when we fly out of New Zealand It's a bit of a sigh of relief. You know, it's like, wow, it's different here. You say America's in horrible shape. Yeah, it may be. But there's millions of people running around with Jesus Christ living inside them. And it makes a massive difference For some of your missionaries, it's financial problems that the spiritual war is getting them in this morning. Just eight years ago If you had sent me $100, I could have walked into a New Zealand bank and gotten $240 New Zealand dollars for your $100. Back in July, that same hundred dollars got me 117 New Zealand dollars. It's like a fifty percent pay cut. And you didn't do anything different. And many of your missionaries are going through that situation today. You look at something like faith promise That increase may not mean much to you, but to some of the brethren it may be the difference on whether they stay on that field or not. We're going to look at one last reason this morning, and we'll be done. Go with me over to 1 Corinthians chapter 9 First Corinthians chapter nine. There was a reason that Paul told the Corinthians About his problems. He wasn't trying to garner their pity, but then in verse 11, he said, Ye also helping together by prayer for us. He told them those things and the intensity of his problems because he wanted them to pray. What's your system for praying for your missionaries? I've already had one person come up to me this morning and tell me that they prayed for me today and they prayed for me every day. That's an encouragement. The greatest encouragement I get in an email or in person is when someone says, Brother Williams, I've been praying for you. In fact, I've been praying for and they mention a specific request out of one of my letters That only happens three or four times a year. But folks, your missionaries give you those requests because they need those specific prayers taken to the throne of God. I was in a little church in Ohio many years ago. That church has never supported us. But if you were to go to the back pew of that church, there'll be a shoebox back there full of four by six cards. And one of them will say Williams family in New Zealand on it. And on the front of that card will be every individual specific request out of our letters for the past year. Some of them are crossed out because I've mentioned an answer in a future letter, and they put the answer off to the side. And when you flip that thing over, it is full of dates. People come in on Sunday night throughout the week, mornings, they just kneel down that back pew and they pray through that box. And they always put the date on the back of the card when they pray for that thing. And once a year I get a letter from these folk. Brother Williams, we're praying for you. And that card is in there, full of dates. That thing is worth a million bucks right there. What is your system for praying for your missionaries? I'm sure the church has something going here. You mentioned them on Wednesday night. But how are you individually praying for the guy and gal who are representing you on that foreign field? God either wants your shoes or your wallet. Either you go or you send the guy who goes and you pray for him as he goes. Last one this morning, 1 Corinthians chapter 9. And this last reason is going to sound kind of odd, but it's true. And it's arrogance. Many of the brethren come off the field before they should because of arrogance. Do you realize most of the world doesn't like Americans? In fact, most of the American most of the world hates Americans. New Zealand has an incredibly strong anti-American flavor to it. The Kiwi stereotype of an American is somebody who is overweight. Wearing a cowboy hat with a great big camera, eating an ice cream cone, and he says, Well, back in America, we do it this way. You know, I've actually met a lot of people from America just like that in New Zealand. The stereotype's fairly accurate. But Americans have the tendency in a foreign country to think that our way is better than this way. And we're usually right. But you can't tell the locals that. They didn't want me they don't want to listen to what I think about America. I'm there to tell them about Jesus Christ. And you reali realize how hard it is when some Kiwi pops up and talks about how great gun control is, or how great our current president is, or how important it is that we protect the environment and have all these draconian climate change ideas. To keep your mouth shut and just wait for the opportunity to talk to them about the gospel. The devil constantly pokes your missionaries with these things. Constantly gives us bait trying to get us to react. But we're not there to tell them about America. We're there to tell them about Jesus Christ. Paul said in 1 Corinthians chapter 9, verse 19: For though I be free from all men, yet have I made myself servant unto all That I might gain the more. And the next verse he tells you how that worked out. And down in verse 23, he says, This I do for the gospel's sake, that I might be partaker thereof with you. You can take the America, the American out of America, but it's pretty hard to take America out of the Americans. And for your missionaries, it's essential that when we go to a field, we have a humble spirit. That we bite our tongue on these things, and that we just give people the Word of God. Pray that the Lord would give us humility and patience and wouldn't allow us to rise and take this bait that's being constantly thrown in front of us. When we deploy the military, we want them coming home only for one reason. They finished their mission. They got the victory, or they accomplished their mission. We don't want them home because they went AWOL, because they were dishonorably discharged. Because they got defeated. We want them to come home for the right reason. And the same thing is true of our missionaries. And many of these things that we've talked about this morning, you can make a difference on. And that's going to specifically happen by two things. I'm going to lay these two down before you and we're done Number one, my challenge to you this morning is care for your missionaries and show it. Don't just have a warm, fuzzy feeling in your heart. Let them know that you're thinking about them. Send them an email. Post something on their Facebook site if they have one. Send them a text. Send them a card. Send them a uh you know some kind of letter or something. Something like your faith promise. That's a visible, tangible way of showing them that you care. You're sitting there thinking, oh, should I or shouldn't I? But it can make a massive difference in someone's life. And secondly, pray and show it. Pray for them and let them know you're praying for them. Not just God bless the missionaries. But Lord, can you help brother so-and-so and his wife so-and-so, with this specific need that they've asked us to pray for? And lay those specific things out before the Lord. And let them know you're praying for them. We've got too many missionaries. I couldn't pray for all of them. Choose one or two. Have some system where it's a faithful, reliable effort on your part. And by doing those two things, you will make a difference in someone's life. Father, we thank you for your word this morning. And God, I thank you for the faithfulness of this church over the years. But Lord, I'm sure that some of us sitting here this morning, Lord, we have not been caring and showing the missionaries that we care like we should. And we haven't been praying and showing the missionaries that we're praying like we should. And God, those men and women that are on that mission board and those letters that come through, Lord, those are men and women representing The good folks sitting in this church this morning. And I pray that you would just drive this truth home to them this morning. Lord, that they can make a difference around the world through their actions and by helping these brethren stay on the field. Lord, if there's one among us this morning who's not saved, we we really didn't go down that road this morning, but it really is all about them, as our desire is to see men and women come to Christ. Father, please convict, even using this message. But Lord, for those of us who name your name, help us to do what we need to do to keep the brethren on the field. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.