All right, Luke chapter 18. Going to preach for a few moments on this thought. Why must we pray? Why must we pray? Luke chapter 18, notice verse 1. And he spake a parable unto them to this end. That men ought always to pray and not to faint. Now I'm going to read more, but let me make a comment here Most of the time when we read a parable, a parable, don't ever build doctrine on parable. A parable is given as a story that teaches us one great truth. And usually what we have to do is we have to read the parable and discern what is the truth that the Lord is teaching us through that parable. God doesn't want us to miss this. And so he tells us the meaning of this parable before he tells us the parable. And the meaning of this parable and the purpose is that men ought to pray and not to faint. They ought always to pray and not to faint. So he says, I want you to know that's what I'm talking about. Now read the parable, saying there was in a city a judge which feared not God, neither regarded man. And there was a widow in that city, and she came unto him, saying, Avenge me of mine adversary. And he would not for a while, but afterward he said within himself, Though I fear not God, nor regard man, Yet because this widow troubleth me, I will avenge her lest by her continual coming she weary me. Now, before I pray, let me remind you of what I said a moment ago. Be careful of the truth you draw from a parable. It is not saying in this parable that because this woman prayed so often, God finally changed his mind. God doesn't change his mind. It doesn't mean that we can badger God into getting just exactly what we want, how we want, when we want. The meaning of this parable is always pray and don't quit. Men ought always to pray and not to faint. Let's ask God's help. Father, we thank you for your blessings on this time tonight. Thank you for the good music that's gone before this. The good fellowship. Thank you for the friends that are here in this church. Lord, now as we come to this session together, I pray that you would speak to our hearts. Lord, would you please, through your Holy Spirit, convict us, challenge us, but then encourage us that what you've told us to do, we can do. You'll help us. So bless our understanding tonight, I pray. In Jesus' name, amen. I believe with all my heart that the sincere desire of every believer in this room is to have the power of God on their lives. I think that's why you're here tonight. You're not here because you're checking a box. You're not here because the preacher told you you better be here. You're here because you love the Lord. And I understand that. And you're here Because you truly want his power, his blessing, his favor on your life, and not just selfishly. You want it so that others can see who God is. But sometimes we use a phrase like the power of God so often that it kind of loses its meaning And so what I want to do is just for a moment, let me tell you what I mean when I say I want the power of God When I say I want the power of God, I want to have people drawn to me because Christ is so evident in me. And then have the opportunity to tell them about Jesus Christ so they can come to know Him like I've come to know Him. When I say I want the power of God I want the power, the strength, to say no to sin, to break out of the bondage of habits. And to have victory in this world instead of sin having victory over me. I want that power of God. When I say I want the power of God, I mean that I want to be able to open the Word, read the Word, comprehend the Word, and then communicate the Word of God. When I say I want the power of God, I want to be the kind of dad and granddad and great granddad That teaches children not only to know the Lord, but to love the Lord, and to want to serve the Lord, and to give him their lives as great-grandma and great-grandpa have given him their lives. When I say I want the power of God I want the grace of God so strong on my life that when that deep trial comes There's still a testimony of joy in my heart and satisfaction in my heart of where God has me and what God is doing in my life. I had one of the sweetest moments I've enjoyed in many years, two weeks ago. I was preaching over near Dayton, Ohio. And a man who has been such a blessed mentor in my life, Dr. Don Sisk, 92 years old now, been without his wife for many years. His mind is sharp, but his body's failing, and he's in an assisted living now, and bed-ridden. And I went in to see him. I was close enough that I could get over there to see him. I text him every week, but I was close enough to go see him. And one of the things that when I walked in and I said to him, I said, Brother Don, how are you doing? And I wanted to give him the opportunity to tell me how sad he was and how hard it was. And I'll tell you what he said to me. And he said, you know, Brother Mike, I'm content. God made the choice for me to be here. God made the choice for my legs not to work too good. And you know what? I could sit here and be bitter, but God's never made a bad choice in all my life. And he said, I'm content. When I say I want the power of God, that's what I mean. I want to be able to be in a bad circumstance and still have a spirit of contentment and joy in my heart. If we're ever to have that kind of power, if we're ever to have and experience real revival It will only be when we on a consistent and committed basis find our way back to a powerful prayer life. Now hear me. I am not suggesting tonight that people in this room do not pray. I pray, and I believe you pray. But I will also say this: that if there was an honest, an absolute moment of honesty for all of us, and the question would be asked, What is the thing that you'd most like to strengthen in your spiritual life? I dare say that number one or two or three. on the list of every believer in this room tonight would be, I want to be better at prayer I want to have a more effective prayer life. I want to have a more power-laden prayer life. I want to be closer to the Lord in my communion with him in my prayer life. Now that's what I'm talking about tonight. J. Edwin Orr once said: history is silent about revivals that did not begin with prayer. We talk about revival, but so often what we're talking about are prayerless meetings. Oh, we may have a season of prayer, and God bless that. I'm not condemning that. I'm not making little of that. We may have public prayer meetings. We may gather for special prayer meetings as we should. But I would suggest to you that real revival in my heart will start in my prayer closet. It will start when I get alone with God consistently And with a spirit that is not only willing to tell him, but also listen to him. Let me read one more quote: A. W. Tozier. Whom I truly appreciate, don't agree with all of his doctrine, but agree with a lot of what he says. He said this To desire revival, and at the same time to neglect prayer and devotion is to wish one way and walk another. I I don't think it can be said better than that. I think if we'll be totally honest tonight, that describes it. You want revival? I do. I want revival. I want revival in my life. I want revival in my home. I I want revival in my church. I want my revival in my nation. I want revival. Hey, are you willing to sp some significant time in prayer? Well, you know You see, to wish for revival, to want revival is to walk one way But to do it without prayer is to walk another way. And so you and I have to grapple with this thing. We've got to come to the place where we say, okay, I don't want to just say it. I don't want it to just be a matter of words. I want it to be very real in my life. If you remember from our Sunday school lesson, we said that trusting the Lord is seen when we do good. And I would say that our words become real about revival When we find ourselves not at the public meeting, not just at the preaching time But from our own time and heart, saying, Lord, I'm coming to you, and I'm going to have a prayer life that is consistent And that is specific, and that you can put power on. And so I come to this question, or this thought. Why must we pray? Let me give you three reasons. Number one, because the Lord commanded us to do so. He knows how essential prayer is in our lives. And I go back to the parable of this dear woman. Jesus says we ought to pray and not to faint. I would suggest to you that no one had to teach this dear lady how to approach the judge. Nobody had to say to her, hey, you've got a need. She knew she had a need. And by the way, she had also figured out, now we don't know by the parable, had she gone other places first I suspect maybe she had, like the woman with the issue of blood, who had spent all of her living on the physicians, but no one could help her. And she figured out, I know who can help me, Jesus can. Hey, nobody had to say to this lady, go to the judge and ask him She knew she had a need, and she knew there was only one man, one source, one place where her need could be met. Nobody had to teach Jairus how to cry out to Jesus. Nobody had to say, hey, Jairus, not sure you know this, but your daughter's dying. Yeah, I know. Nobody had to say to him, hey, you better get urgent about that. He knew there was no hope for his daughter. Outside of Jesus, nobody had to teach him how to pray. Nobody had to have a seminar on how to intercede. He had a need, and there was one source of help Nobody had to teach blind Bartimaeus how to call out to Jesus. Hey Bartimaeus, might want to remind you, you're blind. Yeah, I know I'm blind. He knew he had a need, and he knew there was only one source. I'm not trying to be silly in my preaching tonight. I want to make a really, really serious point. Do you know why perhaps we are not praying like we should? Because we don't know how needy we are. Because when we recognize how desperately needy we are for God's power upon our lives, where else do you go but the Lord? Then we have seminars and journals and plans and this and that and the other trying to encourage people to pray. But if they don't know they have a need. It is need that drives us to our knees. We don't pray because we think we can get by without it. Did you know it's a lot more work to pray than it is to preach? Did you know it's a lot harder to pray than it is to go soul winning You know, it's a lot harder to teach a or to pray than it is to teach a Sunday school class. You say, preacher, you're saying stupid things. How do you know that's true? Because more sermons get preached without prayer than get preached with prayer. Because more people go to more doors without praying, seriously praying, than go to doors bathed in prayer. Because more Sunday school lessons are taught from a manual or taught from a handout that has been studied and considered but not prayed over than Sunday school lessons that have been prayed over. You say, preacher, why is that? Because we think we can do without it I said the other night, this is my 50th year of preaching. I know how to write a sermon I know how to come up with three points. I know where to find poems on the internet. I know how to homiletically put it together. I know how to do this. I wonder how many times preachers get in pulpits and think because they've got the know-how, they don't need the power of God to do it. I'm not trying to be unkind tonight. I'm just trying to be truthful. I'm being truthful about me, being truthful to you, about you. And here's the truth. When the doctor gives us that news. Ooh, there's an urgency. When our child is in that difficulty, ooh, there's an urgency When something goes wrong in the economy, when something drives us to our knees, we spend time on our knees. The problem is we skip a whole lot of time in between the urgent moments where we think we can do it without God. Hey, there is never a day That I am smart enough, or personality-wise, powerful enough to do all that God would have in my life. I've never been married to a 74-year-old woman before. You say, well, what are you saying that for? You don't divulge her Honey, she knows it and I know it. We all know it. She's that age. Now she's younger than I am. But I want to tell you something. Her needs are totally different at 74 than as a young mom at 20 and 21 years old. I've never lived with her the way she is now. She's had four surgeries in the last six months. What are you saying, preacher? I'm saying, brother, I'm not able without God's help to be the husband that loves her like Christ loved the church God, I need help to love and serve and live with and be everything I can be to my wife. I've never had my son as my pastor before. You think you're just growing in to know how to do that? You see, that's our problem. We think we can figure life out with God God. And I'm telling you, every day is new That's why the book shows us things for every day. That's why we can read a passage when we're 25, read it at 75, and it has a whole new perspective for us Because it's a living book for a life. And I'm just saying to you, on what day do you wake up? And is it not urgent for you to be with the Lord? Say, God I don't know how to help her today, but I want to help her. God, will you give me wisdom? Will you give me patience? Will you give me understanding? God, will you give me compassion? God, will you help me lead in the way that I should lead? God, my son, might ask me a question. And I'm not his pastor. I'm his member. God, will you give me discernment in how I answer my son back? God, I've got grandchildren, and Lord, they look to me and mamma for answers. God, I'm not their mom, their dad, but I am I'm an example in their life. Will you give me help? Hey, I'm coming to Pastor Leatherman's church. And Pastor Latimer and I are friends and we fellowship, but we share truth with each other. God, will you give me wisdom? David in Psalm 63 wakes up, the Bible says, out in the Judean wilderness, and he's out there in the Judean wilderness because he's been chased out of his own palace by his son Absalom. Boy, if you ever had a morning where you woke up and you said, Lord, I'll get to you later. I got a lot to do this morning. It would have been that morning. You know what David said, early will I seek thee. Because you know what David understood? He understood that without asking God for help that day, no matter what he had to do, he wouldn't have the strength and wisdom to do without God leading him in it. What day do you wake up and not need God? What day are you smart enough that you can do life without God? What day are you patient enough? What day are you gracious enough? What day am I kind enough that I don't need God's help? How dare I start my day without asking God, I need your help? Help me, Lord. And men ought always to pray and not to faint. Every day. Doesn't have to be an urgent day. Every day. Men ought always to pray and not to faint because they are so needy. Where I pastored for so long. We were 20 miles south of Washington Monument. Oh my men, there's there's another fellow from Fairfax County. He knows he knows what I'm saying is true If if my guys had to be at their desk at one of the government agencies of the Pentagon and they had to be at their desk at eight o'clock, they had to be on I-95 to travel that 20 miles, they had to be on I-95 at 515, which meant they had to be up at 4. 30 in the morning. I had a man come to me once time and he was not he was not attacking. He was sincere as a heart attack. He was saying, Preacher. I get up at 4. 30 to rat race up that road and and work in that stress and play and are and are you telling me that that, man, I ought to get up at 4 or 3. 30 so that I could pray and have time with God before I go? And I'll tell you, with with no sense of authoritarianism, no sense of being unkind, my answer was yeah. Yeah, that's what I'm telling you. And I'm not glad that I have to tell you that. And I'm not glad for the circumstances you have, but yes That's what I'm saying to you. Because men ought always to pray. Why ought they always to pray? Because we are so desperately needy. And not to faint. Come to that place in your life where you think you can do it without God, because you will find out very quickly you can't. Here's number two. Why should men ought always to pray and not to quit? Well, here's a good one, because the prayer of a righteous man availeth much. Turn over with me to James chapter 5 and verse 16. And I know you know this verse, but I want you to put eyes on it. James chapter 5 and verse 16. And the Bible says, confess your faults one to another and pray one for another that you may be healed. Now here's the part I want you to notice. The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much And then the Lord really wants us to understand this, and he says in verse 17, now you don't have to be a superman to be a prayer warrior. You get this. Elijah, Elias, was a man subject to light passions as we are And he prayed earnestly that it might not rain, and it rained not on the earth by the space of three years and six months. Somehow, men, if we're not careful, and women, if we're not careful We get in our minds that, yes, there are super prayer warriors, but they are super endowed of the Lord with that ability. No, they're not. They're men and women of like passions. You know what that means? That means that there were times when Elijah woke up and he was tired and he didn't want to get up and pray. There were times when he was busy and he didn't want to take the time out to pray. There were times when things were uh uh a Difficult in the day and his mind was distracted, but a man of like passions facing the same things we do Every day Elijah prayed and developed a powerful prayer life, so powerful that he prayed one day that it not rain And it didn't rain until he prayed again and said, let it rain. Now I'm not suggesting I'm going to walk around and pray for drought. Because I'm not going to pray also for fire to come down from heaven. But my goodness, I do want power in prayer where God hears and answers I'll never forget the first time in my life I wasn't raised in church. I didn't go to Sunday school. I didn't know all the things that that young people raised in a church know I'll never forget finding John 3. 16 for the first time. I thought it was revolutionary. I started talking about it, and guys said, Yeah, we've known that since we were kids. I didn't I remember the first time God answered a specific prayer, I prayed. I was astonished. Ask your question. When's the last time God answered a specific prayer you prayed? Not a prayer that might happen. A prayer that you prayed specifically. That's not out of the bounds of possibility. As a matter of fact, that's God's desire for our lives. I think of men like Moses. Numbers chapter 11, don't turn there for the sake of time. Hey, remember Moses, he was the meekest man the world's ever known. He was so meek, God finally had to give him Aaron to do the talking. And yet that meekest man, Moses was perhaps the greatest intercessor that the world has ever known. When Moses prayed for people, it happened. Not because he was gifted of the Lord for the prayer gift, because he exercised The command to pray and to pray for others. The Bible says when the people complained, it displeased the Lord The Lord heard it, and his anger was kindled. The fire of the Lord burnt among them and consumed them that were in the uttermost parts of the camp. And the people cried unto Moses. And when Moses prayed unto the Lord, the fire was quenched. Then there have been times in my pastoral life where I've seen people just undergoing such difficult things, and oh to God, the power to pray and the fire stop. Elijah, up there on Mount Carmel, here was his prayer. Lord God of Abraham, Isaac, and of Israel. Let it be known this day that thou art God in Israel, and that I am thy servant, and that I have done all these things at thy word. And then the fire fell You say, preacher, what's your point? My point is we so want to reach Oakland. And man, we design programs. And we design tracks, and we have special days, and we do all the things, right things. Don't hear me saying those are wrong. But how about this? God, we want you to be known in Oakland. Oh, God, we're going to pray until you make yourself known. And if it's fire coming down, let it be fire But if it's revival that begins here, let it be revival that make yourself known. How about praying that God be known? Think of Hezekiah. Hezekiah received the letter of the hand of the messengers and read it. Assyria was at the gates, Rabshah. And Hezekiah went up into the house of the Lord and spread it before the Lord. Hezekiah prayed before the Lord and said, Oh Lord God of Israel, and he went on and presented his case. And I love how God answered. A little bit later, therefore, thus saith the Lord Concerning the king of Assyria, he shall not come into this city, nor shoot an arrow there, nor come before it with his shield, nor cast a bank against it. You know what Hezekiah's prayer did? It motivated God, and I say that humanly. God chased that Assyrian army away, and it was not Israel's victory. It was God's victory because a man prayed. I sometimes think about my family as the walls of Jerusalem. I think about my grandchildren, some married now and getting ready to make us great grandparents. About time. I think of them in college. I think of them looking for lifetime partners. I think of my little guys in a Christian school in the tenth, ninth grade, in the sixth grade And I think sometimes I I look at this world like you look at this world, and I say, Oh man, oh Lord, it's so different than it was when I was a child, and there are So many pressures, Lord. And then I remember that the lion, he is walking about as a roaring lion. And what's he looking for? Well, he's seeking to devour My little grandson, my precious granddaughter, and I say, Oh God I want to spread it before you. And I don't want the devil to come into her heart. I don't want him to get even near her. I don't want him to confuse my little guys. I don't want them to run after money. I don't want him to run after pleasure and God. I want to build hedges and walls. And they may not know I'm there, but may they know you're there. Where's that kind of praying? Oh, we bemoan them when the walls come down and our children fall. Where are we before they fall? Where are our hearts being poured out to the Lord? Will God build something around them? Keep them from those things. What Hezekiah did. And I could go on and on with this. Think of Elijah, Elisha. God give me a double portion of what that guy had. Where's the young man in here? Where is the young man that will say, I love my preacher? Give me double of what he's got. Help me to win twice the souls he's won. Help me to start early and preach twice the sermons he's preached. Where are the young ladies that will say, oh God, I want to be a multiplier of my family's godliness and righteousness? Where are those young people who will commit themselves to praying and having God's power? I'll tell you. I'll tell you the issue. Moses spent 40 years in the backside of the desert learning how to be an intercessor. Elijah spent time down at Brook Cherith. In the wilderness. He spent time in Zarephath being cared for by a widow. Supposed to be just the opposite. Just saying that they spent time. They spent time alone. They spent time alone with God. We've got so many time-saving devices and no time. We rush off We rush to this and we rush to that, and we're gonna give God a little piece of time later. But I'm telling you Revival and power with God do not come when we give him a little time later. They come when we refuse to put anything in front of him. Nothing before him. And we find our ways to those prayer closets. We say, Oh God. Help so and so with their issue. Oh God, would you make yourself known in my home? Would you make yourself known in my town. Oh God, would you please build a hedge around the people? Would you please build a hedge around my wife and protect her heart? Would you please build a hedge around my children, my grandchildren. Oh God, I'm going to labor over them by name. I'm going to labor over them with time. I'm not just going to say, bless all the missionaries, bless my wife today, bless my kids today. Someone once said, you know the prayer that is most prayed? It's be with Be with my wife. Be with the preacher today. Be with the so-and-so as they go. What does that mean? Time, people. Time. Move with me to one last place. You know why we must pray? Lest we enter into temptation. Look at Matthew chapter 26. Matthew twenty six You follow as I read and starting in verse 36. Then cometh Jesus with them unto a place called Gethsemane. And saith unto the disciples, Sit ye here while I go and pray yonder. And he took with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee and began to be sorrowful and very heavy. Then saith he unto them, My soul is exceeding sorrowful, even unto death. Tarry ye here and watch with me. Let me stop reading. Can I ask you a question? If Jesus personally said to you, Hey, I am really struggling My soul is exceeding sorrowful. You could see it in his eyes. You could see it on his face. You could hear it in his words. And then he said unto you, even unto death. And then he said unto you, will you watch with me? Will you watch with me? You think he would do it I'd like to think I would, but I think I might find myself in the next verses. Read on Verse 39, he went a little further, and he fell on his face. And prayed, saying, O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from thee, me, nevertheless, not as I will, but as thou wilt. And he cometh unto his disciples and findeth them. asleep. And saith unto Peter, What? Could ye not watch with me one hour? Watch and pray that ye enter not into temptation. The Spirit indeed is willing. Oh, we know that. But we know this next part also. The flesh is weak. He went away again the second time and prayed, saying, Oh my Father! If this cup may not pass away from me, except I drink it, thy will be done. And he came and found them asleep again, for their eyes were heavy And he left them and went away again and prayed the third time, saying the same words, then cometh he to his disciples and saith unto them, Sleep on now We try to unpack this quickly. This is the night passion Not long before Jesus will be arrested, not long before he will be tried, and not long before he will be crucified. He is exceeding sorrowful. He is very heavy. He asked those who are closest to him, Peter, James, and John, we call them the inner circle, will you come with me? They come up to the mount with him, and then he says, Listen, I'm going to go over here and pray, but I want you to watch with me. Watch with me. What's that mean? Watch the stars? No. Pray with me. Would you join in with me in this? Pray for me. He begins to separate himself by just a few feet. And you know what they watch? Can I tell you what they watch They watch him fall. The Greek indicates that he fell and got up and fell and got up and fell. And finally, when he fell there in that last place, he begins to pour his heart out. Can I tell you what's going on on that mount? The greatest spiritual battle the world has ever seen. Right there, the devil is pouring all that he has out onto that man's shoulders, the shoulders of Jesus. He's saying, You don't have to do this There's another way. You don't have to go to that cross. You don't have to become sin. You're pure. You're perfect. You're righteous. Oh, you call out to your Father. There's got to be another way. And the Lord Looks into that cup. You know what's in that cup? I believe it's our sin. And he is soon to become sin. He who knew no sin became sin for us. And he looks into that cup of sin and he says, Lord, is there another way? If there could be some other way. I don't want to be sin. I want to be holy and righteous, but Lord, if there is no other way, thy will be done, not mine. And while the greatest spiritual battle the earth has ever known is going on there, ten feet away. Are Peter and James and John, and they're sound asleep Seems like a nice spot for an app. We've been busy all day. Hey, we've been really about this. You say, Well, if Jesus said to me, watch, if I saw Jesus exceeding sorrowful, if I saw him so broken, if I knew it was heavy on his heart, I would watch with him. Are you are you sure? Because we are living in the last days. We are living in the midst of one of the most wicked generations that's ever occupied the earth. I don't think we're worse than Sodom, but I think we're mighty close to Sodom I don't think we sacrifice our children to Moloch, but I think our culture has no natural affection for children. They kill them for convenience's sake. I don't think we've ever lived in a generation Well the devil was more after our families, and he's after them now I don't think we've ever lived in a world where the world hated the Bible as much as it hates the Bible now. You know that Canada just passed a law that quoting the Bible to someone is hate speech. Well it can never happen here. Give it a little time. You say, preacher, do you have a point? Yeah, I sure do. We're not watching. We're sleeping. And we'd like to think of ourselves better than we actually are. But here's the truth. We're living in a generation where the spiritual battle has been as great as it's ever been in any generation. And here's the truth we know about ourselves. And again, I'm not trying to be mean. I'm talking to me. God gives these sermons for me, about me, and then I just figure I'll share them with you too. Here's the truth. In the generation that will probably see Jesus come And when sin has waxed worse and worse and worse, we don't have time to get up a half hour or an hour earlier to pray. We're too busy. Hey, we'll catch up with it later. We'll get to it later, but man, are you You're a preacher. You've got lots of time to pray. You don't understand. I work for a living. I don't have time to pray. Well, tell your kids that in about ten years when you lose them Tell your Sunday school class that in a few years when you're a statistic and you're not serving the Lord anymore. And then explain it away. You know why we don't pray? We don't think we need to. We think we can get by without it. You know why we don't pray? Because we're not willing to spend the time that is necessary to develop that prayer life with the Lord and that prayer walk. You know why we don't pray? Because we think it's all going to be okay anyway. It's always worked out. Men ought always to pray and not to faint. And to say, I want revival And to say, I want God's power on my house, I want God's power on my life, I want God's power on my ministry, is to wish one way And if we don't pray, it is to walk another We do too much wishing and too little walking with the Lord. Now here's what I'm going to say, and then I'm done. Believe it or not. That's my final finally. I don't know how to tell you to pray. I'm so weary of formulas I'm so weary of this program and that program. I'm not against them. I'm just telling you, we get a new format for praying about once a month, but people still aren't praying. Here's what I'm saying to us. God, would you show me how needy I am? And God, I'm committing to you some measure of time. You decide what that time is. I told my wife, I'm going to pray an hour every day early on. in our Christian lives. And I I remember I would pray at night. That was wrong for me because I'm not a night person. I'm a morning person, but I I told her I'm going to pray at night. And man, the first couple of days I would kneel down when we went to bed and I would pray and pray. She'd pray for a few minutes with me, and then she'd get up and get into bed and And uh I would pray and I I really would just pray a long time. And one night she said, Man, I I I I thought you were particularly burdened. I thought, I'm gonna get back up and get down and pray with him, because something's really on his heart and she heard Yeah. That's who I am, too. I'm not telling you to pray for an hour or two hours. I don't know. Telling you God said, watch with me an hour. I don't know exactly all that means, but I'm saying this. Start tomorrow. And make it your practice. Make it permanent. Make it the same place. Try to make it the same time. You won't be perfect at it. There'll be things that interrupt it. But you know what our greatest problem is? Getting started Make time for prayer. Your life, your wife, your husband, your kids, your church. Need you to pray. I want the power of God. I want the power of God so that people can get led to the Lord because of the testimony of Christ in me. I want the power of God. Because I want to read this Bible and understand it. I want the power of God. Because when that bad news comes for me, and man for me it's probably right around the corner, I want the grace of God to say thank you, Lord Not in a silly way, but in an accepting way. I want the power of God so that my kids love and serve the Lord, so that my grandkids love and serve the Lord So that my great-grandkids know they come from a heritage of loving and serving the Lord. I'm so thankful that my daddy broke the chain of not knowing God I don't want to be the break in that chain. We must pray. We all pray. But is it where you think it ought to be? Is it where it needs to be? And if not. Tonight is the night to say, God, with your help, I'm fixing this. Father, help us to see the truth. And help us to tell ourselves the truth about ourselves. We pray. I know that. I'm not saying this is not a praying people. But every one of us would acknowledge, if we're honest tonight, it's the area in our life that most needs strengthening. So Lord, as we acknowledge that to you tonight, God may we come asking you for help Show me the program. Show me how to do it. Show me the way. And God convict me when I'm tired. When I'm a man of light passions to Elijah. Help me to get up anyway. When I'm busy, help me to set time anyway. God help me to intercede and help me to pray in such a way as to stop the devil at my child's heart. The doors of my home may never come in. Oh God, help me to be a warrior in these great spiritual battles. Not a sleeper. So God, you work. Now the sermon's been preached, and you know if God's spoken to you or not, so I'm just going to ask you to stand to your feet You say, I don't usually come to the altar. Maybe tonight be a good night to come to the altar.