Psalm chapter 43 and uh verse number five, I'd like for us to read this together, if we would, in unison. Psalm 43, last verse of the chapter. uh altogether. Ready? You got it there? Let's read together. Why art thou cast down, O my soul? And why art thou disquieted within me? Hope in God, for I shall yet praise him who is the health of my countenance and my God. Right in the middle of that verse is a little phrase, and I've changed my title from what I have in the bulletin, but And that little phrase there, hope in God. Hope in God. Can I just say this just to start things off? Putting our hope in God is what changes everything. That's what changes everything. And so that's what I want to speak about this morning. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to meet with us. Father, Lord, it's your blessing to hear these girls singing about the second coming of Christ when we get to see you. Lord, we've been trying to be um and we're trying to been trying to have a an attitude of anticipation each day as we think maybe today would be the day of the rapture. We don't know, but we're looking, Lord. In the meantime, I pray that you would meet with us now in this hour. I ask, dear Lord, for your presence to be manifest to all of us. And that you would help us. And God, there's situations and there's attitudes, there's circumstances, there's different situations. We just really need your help. And so I yield my will to you, and I present my body anew, Lord, this hour. And with all my heart I pray that you would fill me with your spirit and speak through me, and that you would change lives. That you would lift up the fallen and give direction. Lord, strengthen the weak. Forgive the sinner. And God, just meet our needs spiritually this morning, I ask, through your word and the preaching of your word. And I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Psalm 43, as you know, I like to do a little background check on the passage and give a little background information. Psalm 43, now this is my term. I'm calling it an unknown psalm. If you would, look above verse number one, and what do you see between the chapter number and verse number one? What do you see there? Nothing. Now, if you pay attention through Psalms, often, in fact more often than not, there'll be a little bit of information about that psalm given there above verse number one. It'll sometimes mention who the penman is. uh who it's to, how it's to be sung uh by the Jews there in their worship. Uh sometimes it'll give a little bit of information about the what the circumstances are Behind the writing of the Psalm. Sometimes, for instance, it'll be a psalm of David when he was being pursued by Saul or when he was in a cave. Sometimes it'll say that. But I look at Psalm 43 and I see nothing. And so we're not told, we're not given any title. Um we're not told who the penman is. I strongly suspect that the penman is David. I am absolutely confident that the author is God. And so whether we know who penned it or not really isn't the issue. The issue is we know this is a word from God for us So the unknown psalm. We have no title. We don't know who the pen is. We're not told what the circumstances are behind this being penned. Apparently, they were going through a very difficult time. You notice a verse we read, why art thou cast down, O my soul? Why art thou disquieted within me? The fact that he's asking that question about himself, He's talking to himself. The fact that he's saying that tells me that apparently his spirit, his soul is cast down, and his spirit is disquieted within him. So he's going through a difficult time. Now, as I got studying this, I've come to find out that Psalm 43 is uh is very, very similar to Psalm 42. In fact, some of the ancient manuscripts, as I understand and did research, some of the Jewish manuscripts of the book of Psalms actually have Psalm 42 and 43 as one psalm. And there's different suggestions out there how they got separated. Maybe they originally were separate and they put it together, or we don't know. But they're very, very similar. In fact, if you would, look at verse number five of Psalm 42. Says, why art thou cast down, O my soul? Why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God. For I shall yet praise him for the help of his countenance. Sound familiar? It's the almost verbatim, verse number 5 of chapter 43. Look with me, if you would, at verse 11 of chapter 42. Why art thou cast down, O my soul? Why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God, for I shall yet praise him who is the health of my countenance and my God. There it is again And so it's reasonable to come to the conclusion that these two psalms are connected Whether they were originally one psalm or not really isn't important. But uh they're very, very closely connected. Now, I said that we understand this was being penned under difficult circumstances Something that had the penman very upset. His soul is cast down, his heart is disquieted within him, and we'll look at what he means by that. But look back at the first couple verses of chapter 42. And we have to get a little more information. Now, we're assuming these two are closely connected, probably the same penman. We're given a little bit of information above the verse, verse 1 on verse 42, to its who its given to and how they're supposed to sing it in the worship there. So it doesn't tell us a whole lot about the Psalm itself. Now look at verse one As a heart panteth after the water brook, so panteth my soul after thee, O God. Now look at this. My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God. When shall I come and be appear before God? My tears. Have been my meat all, my tears have been my meat day and night, while they continually say unto me, Where is thy God? He said, my tears have been my meat day and night. That tells us he was probably what? He's crying. Tears are usually associated with crying, weeping. There's something going on in this person's life. There's something that this penman is dealing with that is bringing great grief to his heart. In fact, to the degree where his tears are as bread and meat day and night, I mean it's significant. How hard he is weeping. He says, when I remember these things, I pour out my soul in me. For I had gone with the multitude, I went with them to the house of God with a voice of joy and praise and a multitude that kept the holy day So we don't know, we're not given directly a lot of information about what the specific circumstances were. We're not told who the necessarily who the individual is, although it sounds a lot to me like David. We're not given a lot of background information, but we do know this. We know this. That this person's going through a tough time. This person's heart is upset, their mind is disturbed, and they are crying, just a little assumption here, but they're crying their self to sleep. They get alone, the tears flow. And they're going through a tough time. They're going through a tough time. Dealing with a great spiritual discouragement. I've been around long enough. Most of us here have been around long enough. That is a part of life, isn't it? Discouragement, tears. I doubt seriously anybody made it through life without shedding tears. Without their soul being cast down, without their spirit not being disquieted within them. It's part of life. It's something, listen, it's something we've got to be able to deal with. It's something we've got to be able to face. And handle and deal with in a scriptural, biblical, mature way, or it will mess us up. So I don't know, this is the unknown psalm is the term I use. But the interesting thing here is, and this is what catches My thinking is in verse number 5 of chapter 42, verse 11 of 42, and verse 5 of 42, or 43. He goes from this great discouragement. My soul is cast out. My spirit is disquieted within me. My soul is disquieted. He goes from this Spiritual discouragement. And look at the end. He says, For I shall yet praise him Who is the help of my countenance? For I, verse 11, 42, I shall yet praise him. Verse 5 of chapter 43, I shall yet praise him Now something happens. Something takes place here that brings him from being cast down and disquieted to praising God. Something happens. He goes from great discouragement to great praise. I shall yet praise him. And I found this May will be 43 years that I've known the Lord. I've been working in my life, some of y'all been longer than that. Some of y'all's parents aren't even that old. But um uh I found I've learned something in studying the Bible and walking with the Lord and seeing God work, I've learned something. God specializes And taking cast down spirits and lifting them up and getting them to praise God specializes in taking the broken heart and repairing it and making a good, strong heart. That's God's specialty God specializes in mending the broken hearts. God specializes in lifting up the fallen. Maybe there's some here in the service or under the sound of my voice, and you failed. You say, preacher, I've fallen! Come to the Lord. That's the right place to come to. Because God specializes in lifting the fallen. Lifting the fallen. I've had people say to me over the years, Preacher, I can't go to church. I'm backslidden. I said, well the best place to go when you're backslidden is go to church. Amen. That's like saying, I can't go to the hospital, I'm sick. God specializes in lifting the fallen, in restoring broken lives I like this. I put this down. God specializes in cleaning up dirty messes. I appreciate the ladies that come here and clean and and uh straighten things up, you know, it'll be a mess, they'll come in and for the most part it's a lot cleaner. And uh no, they do a great job. Um that was stupid. Anyway, um if I say anything stupid I'll point it out to you But uh they come in and clean it's such a mess and they're here and I can tell when the ladies have been here they cleaned it all up. That's kind of what God does He can take a mess and he can clean it up. How many people are glad God can clean our messes up? That's his specialty, going from disquieted and cast down to praising. To praising. God specializes in cleaning up dirty messes and bringing beauty out of ashes. He said, My world is burned down, my dreams gone up in smoke. I'm here to tell you, God can take broken dreams and He can replace them with even greater. He can take broken lives and repair them in ways you and I would never even dream. And so this psalmist, whoever he is, and whatever the circumstances are, we don't know. But we know he's upset, we know he's hurt, we know he's discouraged. And something happens, and that discouragement turns to praise. And that depression turns to praise. Something takes place. Now that's what we're going to look at, and that's what we want to try and figure out. I want us to notice first of all, he recognizes his condition. He recognizes his condition. Look there with me, if you would. And by the way, this is important. If I want to go from discouragement and disquieted and cast down to praising I need to understand this principle, what he does here in recognizing his condition. Look what he says. We'll look at all three of these. Verse 5 of chapter 42. Why art thou cast down, O my soul? Why art thou disquieted within me? Verse 11. Why art thou cast down, O my soul? Why art thou disquieted within me? Verse Five of forty-three Why art thou cast down on myself? Why art thou disquieted within me? He sees himself for what he is. He knows where he's at. He recognizes that he is in a frame of mind. He recognizes that he is in a mental condition, a spiritual condition that has to be addressed. Now apparently as I'm looking at this, my I get the impression, I come to the conclusion That it's not his situation so much that he is addressing. It's not the circumstances he finds himself in that he's addressing He's addressing his response to his circumstances. He's looking at his heart and soul And he says that is what needs to be addressed. Apparently there's little he can do about his circumstances. Apparently, my impression is that his situation is such that maybe he has no control over his situation. Have you ever found yourself in a very unpleasant situation? You disliked it It discouraged, it was very discouraging, and you could do nothing about it. Anyone know what I'm talking about? I think that's where this guy is. And he's not focusing at this point on the situation. He's focusing on his response. To his situation. He's focusing on his attitude and his frame of mind about the situation he finds himself in. You know what I found out? There's a lot of times I find myself in a lot of situations I can do nothing about, but I can always do something about my attitude in that situation. I can't change my circumstances, but I can change my response to my circumstances. I can't control what other people say to me or about me Well shut him up. You're stupid if you're going to try and do that. But I can control how I respond. To what they say to me. You follow what's going on here? Jesus said this. He said, bless them that curse you. He doesn't say shut them up that curse you. Love them that hate you. Do good to them that despitefully use you. Pray for them. Now, one time does he say, change your circumstances, change that situation? He says, change the way you're responding to it. Now, if you can change the situation, praise the Lord. Change it. But a lot of times we can. And I get the impression here: this fella is looking in the mirror And he knows there's nothing he can do about his circumstance, there's nothing he can do about the situation he finds himself in, but there's a lot he can do about the condition and his frame of mind and how he responds to it. So he's facing himself. And he's recognizing his spiritual frame of mind. Many situations in life we have no control over, but we can control our response. What are we going to do? You say, preacher, I'm in a situation I can't do anything about it, and it's tearing me up. What are you going to do? Get mad? Start yelling at it? Throw rocks at it? Get bitter? Storm and yell and frow and fight. I found I listen, like you, I've tried all those. You know I found out it don't work. How we respond to our circumstances may possibly make the circumstances worse. Can I get a witness? You say, preacher, you've never gotten mad. Don't look at me so pious, y'all think never. Yeah And so this fellow, this unnamed penman of an unknown psalm, we don't know, a lot we don't know about it. But he sees himself and he looks in the mirror, so to speak, and he says, why are you cast down, O my soul? Why are you disquieted within me? That's what needs to be addressed. My mental frame of mind, my spiritual condition, that's what needs to be addressed. I can't do anything about the situation. Let's look at some of the terms he uses here. In all three of these verses, he says, why art thou cast down? I got looking at that phrase cast down. Comes from one word. It means this. It has this idea to be knocked off your feet That's where you get the down party. Why are you cast down? You're knocked off your feet. You're down on your back staring up So to speak. This is my definition. I went through all the various definitions in the way it's used. This is mine. Sucker punched. Anybody anybody know what it means to be sucker punched? What is that? Somebody sucker punches you. What are they doing? Yeah, they're just walking up out of nowhere. Clonk And pop you across the side of the head and you go down. It's a soul. What are you doing laying on your back? Cast down. It's a situation to where it uh has the idea of you didn't see it coming. Got hit suddenly and got hit hard Walk in and the house is half empty and the spouse has moved out. You never saw it coming. What in the world? Go into work on a Monday morning, they say, This is our last week. It's been good knowing you. Man, it knocks you down and casts you down. Another aspect of the definition here is to be sucker punched, to be hit suddenly and hard puts you down. Another part of the meaning is uh to be squished down under overwhelming weight. Cast down, pressed down, pressed, out of measure. And it has the idea of an overwhelming burden and weight that has come upon him. So this person, this penman, probably David. Looking in a mirror, so to speak, he goes, man, you got hit hard. It's overwhelming. But why are you cast down? What are you doing laying on your back? He's recognizing the fact that, man, this has had a profound impact on me. This has affected me spiritually. My soul, why art thou cast down? And then he uses, then he goes on, he says, Why art thou cast down, O my soul, and why art thou disquieted in me? Within me. The word disquieted means to be worked up. It has the idea of a stormy sea. The wind is blowing, white caps. I mean the waves are just this way and that, and it's just total restlessness. It's a stormy sea, unrest. Has the idea of worked up Now, talk to now you don't don't leave me up here on the self. Anybody here ever get worked up over a situation? Huh? Anybody here ever lay in the bed all night long, tossing and turning in your heart and mind about what's going on in your world? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Yeah. We all go through this. You don't get through life. Listen, we don't get through life without being disquieted. You're not going to make it through life without being sucker punched sometimes. Not see it coming. Wham. And that's where this fella is, David probably, as I keep saying, he's looking. Why are thou cast down? Why are thou? Why are you so worked up? Why are you so why are you laying on your back and so down? Let me ask you a question. Is it possible for God's people to be cast down? Yes. Is it possible for God's people to be disquieted? Worked up? Yeah. You say, but preacher, I heard a preacher on TV, and he said, if I would get saved, then all my problems are behind me and my wildest dreams will all come true. That preacher was a liar. Either he was tremendously ignorant or he was a liar, and I'd suggest the second of those two options. You can't study the Bible and not come to the conclusion. You can't casually read the Bible and not come to the conclusion that God's people have to deal with discouragement. And God's people get sucker-punched. And God's people find themselves on their backs sometimes. We get disquieted within us. God's people. You read through the Bible and I read about Moses. In Numbers chapter 11, verse 14 and 15. If we had time, I'd love to go to these verses and look at it. But Moses got Disquieted. His soul got disquieted. He was cast down. He says, Why don't you take my life? They're all turned against me. The whole Israel's turned against me. Just take my life. Moses! I don't know about you, but I don't even come up to the ankle of Moses spiritually speaking. Man of God. Moses, hey, in the book of Hebrews, Jesus is compared to Moses. Now, I don't know what that does in your brain, but that boggles my mind. That the Son of God, God says he's like Moses. Woo! You know what? Moses was at the end of his road. His soul was cast down. His soul was disquieted within him. He says, I'm done. Now it didn't end that way, but he had to deal with it. He had to face it. How many older folks here wish that these young people down here could make it through life without getting disquieted or having her soul cast down. I wish so badly, but we can't. It's gonna happen Moses, I thought of Joshua. Joshua's leading the nation of Israel. Things are going good. Victory over Jericho, and the walls came tumbling down. Whoo! I mean miracles, power of God. They get another little town and it's AI, and they're all got thinking, ah, this is just an itsy bitsy teeny-weeny little town. We don't need to take the whole army. We'll just send a couple thousand out there. And they got defeated. And what was it? 36 men killed, something like that. And Joshua was sucker punched. He never saw that coming. And his spirit was cast, his soul was cast down and was disquieted within him. And God came and said, Joshua, there's sin in a camp. Me to deal with it Joshua got cast down. Moses got cast down. Elijah, we know about Elijah when he got discouraged. 400 false prophets of Baal. He slaughters them. The fire of God falls in response to Elijah's prayers. And uh Jezebel gets word about that. I don't know about you. There's certain people in the Bible that I don't like. I mean, I take some of this personally. And I read Jezebel and I'm thinking, I don't like this gal. And she gets wind of Elijah's power of God upon Elijah. And she says, What you did to those prophets of Baal, I'm doing to you. And I can hear her. Elijah the great prophet of God says, Oh yeah, I'll pray down fire on you. No, he didn't say that. He tucked tail and ran. And he gets up in the cave, he leaves it, he gets up in the cave, and he says, God, I I want to die. You know what happened? He got sucker punched, he didn't see that coming, and it overwhelmed him. And knock them off his feet to the ground. What I'm trying to say is this: God's people have to deal With tremendous discouragements. God's people have to deal with situations, circumstances that can bowl us over, that does bowl us over. And whoever the psalmist is here, David, he's saying, why? Why are you cast down? Why are you responding this way? He recognizes condition that he's cast down. We could talk about Jonah. Rebelled against God. And there's a little phrase in chapter 1, I don't have the reference, just about verse 11, 12, 13, chapter 1 of Jonah, and it says he was down in the bottom of the boat asleep. In a storm. Now I don't know. This is just my thinking. But I I've got a sneaking suspicion the reason Jonah was in the bottom of the boat sleeping is because he was discouraged. He was running from God. In fact, he said, I am fleeing the presence of God. And my Bible says in the presence of the Lord there's fullness of joy. That tells me out of the presence of the Lord, there's a lack of joy. I think the old boy was in sin, living in rebellion against God, fleeing God's will for his life, and he was bowled over. He was cast down. I know for I got saved, depression was such a part of my sinful life, and I would sleep. And I say that excessive sleep sometimes is a symptom of great depression. And I think that was the case with Jonah. Paul. He said in Corinthians, 2 Corinthians, he said, I despaired of life. Tired of living. I was at the end of my rope. I was at, did you ever say this? At my wit's end. So whoever the psalmist is, he's looking at himself saying, Why art thou cast down? Why, oh my soul, why art thou despite it within me? He was recognizing that His mental condition, his spiritual frame of mind needed to be addressed. And I tell you, that's an important factor in the Christian life. It's called self-confrontation. And sometimes we need to stop and look at ourselves and say, where am I at spiritually? Sometimes we need to stop and look in the mirror of God's word and say, what am I? What kind of Christian am I? What kind of person am I? That's what he's doing. He's confronting himself and he's seeing what his condition is, and he's saying, this has to be addressed. Why art thou cast down? Why art thou disquieted within me? It's an important factor. I think it's the first step in spiritual victory. You know when revival comes? You know what the beginning of revival is when I stop and realize I need revival You know when it begins where I get right with God? It's when I stop and I recognize and realize I need to get right with God. Because until I recognize that need, until I see myself for what I am, I'm never going to get beyond that. Remember the prodigal son? Fled, took his dad's the inheritance, fled to a far country, wasted his substance in what kind of living? Riotous living. He is l ye I mean he is living in sin. Wild parties. And he ran out of money. And you know the story. He ends up in the hog pen, and he fain would have eaten the hus that they were feeding the hogs. Would you agree with me? That's pretty cast down. That's the bottom of the barrel. But the Bible makes an interesting statement that changes everything in his life. It says he came to himself. What am I doing? Why am I here? What in the world? And until we stop and evaluate and confront ourselves about where we're at spiritually, we will never Get beyond being cast down. We've got to stop and see it. What in the world? Self-confrontation. Self-confrontation. So, by the way, a lost man. He's never going to get saved until he stops and recognizes the fact he's lost. Right? Nobody ever gets saved that doesn't realize they're a sinner in need of salvation. Pastor Matt's teaching our soul winning training, the soul winners club. One of the key points in witnessing and sharing the gospel with lost people is you need to get them to understand they are lost. They're sinners under the judgment of God. And until they come to that point, until they recognize: I am a sinner, I've broken God's law, I'm under God's judgment. Until they see that, recognize that, and confront that, they're never going to come to Christ. You cannot bypass that step in the process. You follow what I'm saying? And it's true in Christian life. As long as we're self-satisfied, we're never going to grow. Here's the problem. So many Christian, here's the problem. So many Christians have gotten content with being sub-par, with living sub-par Christian lives. We've got enough money, we've got enough materials, we've got enough pleasures of this world And we've convinced ourselves we can get by without being right with God. I like what, I think it was Spurgeon said He says you might convince yourself that you don't need God in your life, but you'll certainly need him at death. Amen or not? So the Spellers looking at himself and he confronts himself and he recognizes condition, but Why art thou cast down, oh my soul? Why art thou disquiet it within me? He recognizes condition. Number two, very quickly, I want us to consider some reasons a person would be in this kind of condition. Why would a person be cast down? Why would a person find themselves they're so disquieted within them? I think there's several reasons. Let me give them to you very quickly. Everybody with me still? Everybody doing alright First of all, I put this down. Worry. Worry is one of the most discouraging things you and I can do. You and I found out. Anybody here ever worry about something? Hey, come on, anybody? Yeah. Anybody here ever in a situation and you weren't worried about it and that worried you? I should be worried about this. Huh? You know what I found out? Sixty-one years of late, I found out worry hasn't solved one problem for me. I mean it didn't do a thing other than cast me down and make my soul disquieted within me. Uh anybody here s spend half a night laying in bed staring at the ceiling, worried sick about the next day. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And you're just worrying, it's going on and on. Next morning you get up and lo and behold it didn't even happen. It was like, man, I could have slept good last night Worry will do that to us. I got Psalm 119 and verse 28. Let me just read that real quickly with you. I'll find it here. Psalm 119. And verse 28, he makes this statement about this matter of worry. He says, this, my soul melteth for heaviness. He's talking about worrying there. That heaviness has got on my heart and mine, and it has me uh disquieted. It's cast me down. Worry will do that. Here's my definite here's Leatherman's dictionary, definition dictionary. Leatherman's Uh what is it? Leatherman's the de the definition from Leatherman's dictionary. I was worried about saying that, right? Worry is mental distress that does more damage than the actual problem does So sometimes worry will bring, cast us down and disquiet. Wrong thinking goes right along with worry, very similar. Isaiah 26, 3. That will keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on thee. You know our problem is we get our pro we get our mind stayed on our circumstance, we get our mind stayed on our situation, we got our our mind stayed on what our problem is that I can't change And God says, listen, if you get your mind off of that and get it on me, you're going to have perfect peace. Like I said, my worry. My obsession in my mind over my situation, being obsessed by it, doesn't do a thing to change it. But if I get my heart and mind set on Christ, He can change. He's the factor. So worry, wrong thinking, spiritual warfare. Let me give you the reference. We don't have time to go there. 1 Peter 5, 6 through 8. You get down to verse 80, he says, verse 70 says, Cast all your care upon him, for he careth for you. And he says, Be sober. Be vigilant, because your adversary as a roaring lion walketh about seeking whom he may what? Can I modify that for the sake of my message, the context of my message? He walketh about seeking whom he can cast down Seeking whom he can disquiet their soul. I'm telling you, a cast-down soul is never from God. A disquieted mind is never from God. God gives peace. God lifts up. God strengthens. God comforts. It's the devil. That casts down and destroys. You and I want to ruin our lives. You and I want to live in a perpetual state of depression. Well then just ignore the spiritual aspects of life. Just to ignore the spiritual warfare that's taking place all around us. Be vigilant, be sober, be vigilant. Another reason, another cause of being cast down and is sin. In 1 Samuel 16, verse 14, the Bible says that an evil spirit came upon King Saul. And it would so cast him down and so disquiet him. And he got this idea. He brought David in. David played his heart And that calmed him down, that helped him. Now why in the world did King Saul get this evil spirit of depression and discouragement and disquietness? Why did he have this evil spirit come upon him? Because he was living in rebellion against God. He was sinning. He was living in sin. And I'm telling you right now, a Christian in sin will never have peace of mind and calmness of heart. Won't happen because you have the chastisement of God. Bible talks about those in sin like the restless seas. There's no rest to the wicked. Sin. I'm telling you, a lot of the depression and frustration and bitterness and anger that's in our society, in our world, you know what, you know where a lot of that comes from? People sinning, living in sin. I'm telling you. Another cause is wrong comparisons. Second Corinthians ten Verse 12 says, measuring themselves among themselves and comparing themselves among themselves. They're not wise. Here's what I'm trying to get at, and I'll just state it quickly. Sometimes I look at another Christian and I'm not what they are and I'm not doing what they're doing, and God's not using me the way they are, and brother, I'll get discouraged. Can I be honest with you? How many people would like for the preacher to be honest sometimes when he's preaching? I'm I'm with you on that. I'll be honest with you, there have been times particularly early on in my ministry, and I saw other preachers, guys I went to school with, and people I knew, friends of mine in the ministry, and man, there's just You know, they're doing all this stuff and this huge church and all that. And we're up here in the early days, you know, and we're scrambling and working to get folks out. And I'll be honest with you, sometimes I got my eyes on what those guys do and looked at this and I thought, man, I'm a failure. You got thinking, man, and God rebuked me for that And I realize I can be just as obedient, I can be just as submissive, I can be just as in love with Jesus Christ in Garrett County as they are in Los Angeles City. You follow what I'm saying? And the young people, sometimes they compare, well I don't look as I'm not as pretty as her, I'm not as strong as him, I'm not as big as that. Now generally the guys are like, I'm stronger than he is, you know Listen, what we need to do is quit comparing ourselves with each other and measuring ourselves with a couple of the girls who are back there. I'm taller than she is. No, I'm tighter than you I said you're both shorter than me. Go to church. Um but uh problem is we get looking uh looking at others And and think, oh, and then we get discouraged and we get cast down and the devil comes in and destroys us. Are you with me? So there's all these various reasons. Sometimes other people can do things that We respond wrongly too. We doing right, and they do something, and man, it derails us. Sometimes it's physical illness. I'd say when people come in and they're struggling with different things, one of the first things I say, we'll ask a few questions, spiritual things. My advice often is to go to the doctor and get a thorough physical. Because sometimes physically our physical condition can affect our mental thinking And so sometimes we need to address that. And if there's something I can do to alleviate pain or whatever, then praise the Lord. Jesus says: they that are whole need not a physician, but they that are sick. If you're sick, go to the doctor. That's what Jesus said. They that are sick. So sometimes it's a physical condition. But more often than not, it's spiritual. It's our mind where our head is at. And I want to end with this. Last of all, I notice his response. Come back here if you would with me to Psalm 43. 42 and 43 these verses we're looking at. He says, Why art thou cast down, O my soul? Why art thou disquieted within me? Look at this next statement. Brother, you ought to have this little phrase underlined, or something. Hope in God. Hope in that's I read these verses in my devotions late last week. And I noticed these three verses are identical. And I noticed in every one of them, right smack dab in the middle, between the cast down and the praising is this little phrase, hope thou in the world. God. And to me, that is the turning point. That is where I look at my situation, I look at my circumstances, and whatever the reason is behind it, we gave a few suggestions. I look at it, I said, all right, that's what it is. I can't change this, but I can change my frame of mind. I can change the focus. I'm going to hope in God. And then he says, and I shall yet praise him. You follow my thinking here I think that little phrase, hope thou in God, would be a great phrase to put on every wall in our houses at home I think it'd be a great phrase to put up at the office, right above your computer, wherever you were, uh on the truck, on the dashboard of the truck, in the shop, the mechanic shop, put it right there on your tool chest. Hope thou in God. A great place to put up in church all over. That's the turning point. We put our hope in God. The word hope is more than just wishing for something tomorrow. Boy, oh, I hope it doesn't snow tomorrow. I'm just I'm hoping, I'm wishing. Oh, I hope it gets above twenty degrees for a change. And you're gonna get a witness there. That's not what he's saying. Hope that, oh, I hope God will help me. Oh, I wish God. No, that's not it at all. Biblical hope is this. Here's my definition again, Leatherman Dictionary. A confident anticipation and expectation. Not wishing, anticipating. Expecting God to come through. A little phrase we use sometimes in the Bible. Jesus Never fails. Isn't that a good one? The grandparents had that in a little plaque in the house. Jesus never fails. I still remember it. Hope thou in God. Put your confidence in God. Anticipate God coming through. Expect Him. To help you and change you and strengthen you. Say, how do I do that? One, remember your salvation. How many folks here are saved and you know it? Say amen. The very fact that I've trusted Jesus Christ as Savior tells me that the Holy Spirit of God dwells within me. The moment you and I got saved, the Holy Spirit of God moved within us You have God Almighty dwelling in your body in the person of the Holy Spirit. And the Bible says he's the comforter. The comforter, the lifter upper, the one that comes the comer arounder and put the armor around her upper. We have hope in God. The Spirit of God is within us. He can lift us up. Did you ever meet somebody that's gone through horrific circumstances? And they're praising God right through it all? You say, boy, they're very strong. No, they're yielded to the Holy Spirit Spirit of God is enabling them. So remember your salvation. I put this down. Refocus on God's Word. This book of the law shall not depart on the mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein then then thou shalt make thy way prosperous. Thou shalt have good success. Doesn't say it'll change your circumstance. It says you'll grow spiritually. Psalm 119, 65, great peace have they which love thy law. There's nothing in the world that can get me back on track spiritually like the Word of God. Number three, reinstate prayer time. Get back to praying, casting all your care on Him. Casting all your care on Him. Number four, rededicate yourself to serving God. I found one of the best things to help me when I get discouraged, when I get down, and it happens. One of the best things to help me is remember my salvation and get in the Word of God. Praying. Sometimes even when I'm doing that, I still struggle with discouragement. Can I get a witness? But I found something that helps every time. I get up out of my office, I get up out of my desk chair, I'll go out to a nursing home. I'll go to a room and I'll visit with someone. I'll see them there, talk with them and pray with them, read some Bible verses. You know what I found? Every time, without exception, I come out of there, I'm better off than I was when I went in. Anybody know what I mean? Go up to a hospital, visit somebody. Or even when when it's not two foot of snow, sub-zero degrees, I go out and knock on doors going down the street. You say, what if you get cussed out? I get cussed out and I walk away and say, Praise the Lord, that's just more rewards in heaven, as Jesus says. Rejoice when they do that, because you get rewards in heaven So I just say, well thank you very much. You just got me some rewards. But what I'm trying to say is this, get our eyes off ourselves and start helping others. You know who the most discouraged people are? People with ingrown eyeballs. All they see is me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me. Get eyes and try and help others. Win a soul to Christ, I'm telling you, there's nothing like it. Just sharing the gospel with somebody is exhilarating. Lady came to a preacher one time, heard preacher tell this. She's preacher, I'm so discouraged. I'm so down He says, well tell you what, go home and make a bunch of chocolate chip brownies. You cook them up. And she thought he was going to say, eat them. But he said, cook them up and go down nursing home and give them out, go room to room, put them in a little bag, and give them out the folks down at the nursing home. He said she stormed out saying, Well, how will that help me She went out mad more discouraged than what she said when she came in. Said a week went by, he didn't give it much thought. A week or so went by and she showed up at church. He said he saw her come work walking in the building and she was smiling ear to ear Praising God. And he said, What's going on? And she goes, I did what you said. And she said it was one of the greatest blessings ever in my life. And it cured me of my cast down spirit and my disquieted mind. Hey, let's get up this week and just go out and serve God. All of us. Give out tracts, witness to people, find somebody to help, be a blessing. And I tell you, it'll change us. Put our hope in God. Father, bless invitation. I ask now that you would Help us to get our eyes off our circumstances, off of ourselves, and get them on you. And help us to yet praise you, even when things are discouraging. Help us to yet praise you, because our hope is in you. Heads bowed, eyes closed, How we would say, Preacher, preacher, I needed this today. I needed to be reminded that God can help me through this and God will see me through it. I just need to trust Him. Is there any like that? Preacher, I needed this. God bless you. My hands raised. I needed this. How many folks here this morning would say, Preacher, I know someone, boy, they're really down. They're having a rough time and it's affecting them. You'd say, Preacher, I'd like for God to use me to be a help to them. Try and help them, encourage them, lift them up. Is there any like that, preacher? I know someone that needs an encouraging word. That needs a maybe you're the tool that the Holy Spirit will use to lift them up and help them Maybe there's some here say, preacher, I know someone that's not saved. I want to be able to be a good witness to them and see them come to Christ and find hope in this old sinful world. Is there any like that, Preacher, I know someone that's not saved? I need to be a witness. God bless you. One last question. Is there some say, preacher, I'm not saved? I've never trusted Christ as Savior, and I need to be honest with myself and where I'm at spiritually. And I need the Lord. And I need to accept Jesus as my personal Savior and get that settled. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I need to have that settled. God bless you. How about it? Any others? Any others? Hold it up there. Preacher, pray for me. I need that. God bless you. So let's ask the Lord to help us. Let's bring it to the Lord. Put it in his hands and get up and go serve him. Father, bless the invitation now, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand