Anyway, Proverbs chapter twenty-eight. I'm going to read just one verse. We'll look through this, and then um we'll move on to prayer time here in a little bit. Chapter twenty-eight verse one The wicked flee when no man pursueth, but the righteous are bold as a lion. It's not the verse I'm preaching on, but I always find it very comical. Trying to cover it up and no one even knows about it, and then they tell them themselves. Anyway. But the verse we're going to preach from tonight's verse 2. For the transgression of a land, many are the princes thereof But by a man of understanding and knowledge, the state thereof shall be prolonged. For the transgression Of a land many are the princes thereof, but by a man of understanding and knowledge the state thereof shall be Prolonged. Let's pray. And then the title of the message tonight is Will Our State Be Prolonged? Will Our State Be Prolonged? Heavenly Father, we thank you again for just the privilege to meet here in your name. I pray you would bless this service tonight. Lord, I pray you would, again, just use your word. Lord, I pray you would bring great conviction where it's needed. And um it's in Jesus' name. For the transgression of a land many are the princes thereof. The idea, if you do any uh studying on that, I have a few um different commentaries on Proverbs that I like to to go through and I use them very extensively. The past, I don't know, four years or so we we went through um on Sunday mornings in Sunday school with the teens, we went through the entire book of Proverbs, just one verse at a time. It took about four years to get through it, but we did it. And there's a couple of different resources there. And if you're interested in them, I have a few books on that. But anyway, I like the book of Proverbs just because it's practical wisdom. You know, it's just practical wisdom and I I really enjoy it and it's great material for Sunday schools and things like that, but also just for day-to-day living, right? But looking at verse 2, for the transgression of the land, many are the princes thereof. If you do some digging on that, this is what I was about to say, uh the idea is many princes of many different governments You know, um if you go back to oh uh look through any history book really, um government turnover is very frequent. in many nations, in many countries. Um whether we're talking medieval times, whether we're talking of ancient history or Really even modern history as well. I was reading on it this today and doing a study on it and and actually it shocked me. But uh since World War II, Italy's had um eleven different governments And just I mean that's y that's not a very good average, you know. And so this isn't this isn't not eleven different government leaders, but different forms of government. And actually doing more digging on it, we we're hold we hold the record right now for the longest standing government. Not nation, but government in that nation. You there's there's there's nations like the nation of Japan, I think they have the record and they're they're over a thousand years old, something like that. Um but we're not our nation's not that old, but our form of government is. And so what this verse is talking about uh many or the princes thereof has the idea of one government after the other. So someone will come in, take over, they'll last for a while, someone else will come in, take over, they'll last for a while. And when you look at the Old Testament You see a lot of that in different nations. Daniel, how many different nations did he have in his lifetime? It was a few. You know, and so that's that that's actually normal. The more I was looking at that, I was like, wow, that is a very common thing. And what we have here is the exception to the rule And so doing uh studying on this, I mean empires rise and fall, we've always known that. Nations have come and gone. Um and of course that that you read history and you see that And so I was reading this thing today, and this is pretty fascinating. I got this, if anyone wants to see my notes on this after service, I'll show you, but The average length that or the median length of uh of a caretaker government in the Netherlands is 223 days. Uh that's the length of their government. To me that's just crazy. And most of these on here, it like I said, Italy, excuse me, Netherlands was 11, Italy was four. I misspoke earlier. But um Finland seven, Belgium eight, these are all since World War II, uh different governments that they've had in a relatively short amount of time. And so you you might look at this and say, well what's the reason for these uh short-lived governments? Is it that you know one form of government is better than the other? Well, of course I think that might be part of it. I mean You you can't survive off of communism for very long. Um it and it's not a good not a good system. Socialism's not a good system and we see evidence for that in the Bible, but also just see evidence throughout history. But I think there's a greater reason, and we find it here in chapter 28 and verse 2, for the transgression of the land, many are the princes thereof. And to put it on a simpler level, we might say something like, because of all of our sin, we're going to have instability. And that's exactly what happens. It doesn't matter the nation, doesn't matter the time in history, it doesn't matter the population, doesn't matter the amount of military power Sin brings instability. And because of the transgression of a land, because of the transgression of a nation, you'll see quick turnover in government. And that principle is that can be applied to the national level, but at any institution you can see that. If there's sin in a marriage, it's not going to be stable. If there's sin in the family, there's it's not going to be stable. If the church brings sin into the church and and and it's known and it's spreading, well the church isn't going to be very stable. So you could look at this on the national level, and that is the context here, verse 2 of chapter 28. That is the context. It's talking about a nation, a state. But you could apply that same principle to any body, whether it be a family, whether it be a church, whether it be a business, whether it be Uh i i whether it I mean no no matter the institution, if there's sin in there, there's going to be instability And so if you look through history at some of these nations, I mean look at okay, the nation of Israel. You can go through twelve cycles in the book of Judges, and then you go through Kings and you see ups and downs and same thing. Um Chronicles recaps that again of course, but Um you see uh uh whenever there is sin, there is instability, there's chaos, there's destruction. You for example, just take the story of Achan, because of one person's sin And he brought it into the camp and he hid it among his stuff, um and he buried it in his tent and all that. Um because of one man's sin they s they started losing. They lost a battle, people died, and because of his sin there was instability. Um you you look at it's Samson, his temptation and his weakness to a certain type of sin, and then he gives in to that sin uh over and over again and ends up being his downfall because of his sin there was instability. It cost him cost him his life ultimately. You can look at situation after situation. You can look at the story of uh David. Man after God's own heart even, but when there was sin in his life, there was instability in his household, and also in the kingdom. I mean, there was instability because of his sin with Bathsheba. And there was uh there was instability because of his sin in um in his own home. Because of his sin in Bathsheep with Bathsheba, um their sin was brought into their family. Man, their kids were messed up And the point I want to make is, and I think it's clear, sin brings instability. In the context of this verse is talking about that of the nation. But you could apply this to any group, any institution. The average length of a nation, let me get back on track here is about 150 years. There's several sources I looked at, but they all said about 150 years is the lifespan of a nation. Not the lifespan of the government in the nation, but the life of the the nation itself. It's about 150 years. We're kind of the exception to the rule here. We're kind of the exception. Our nation now has been around 247 years. um which is over the average. We're we're a young country, but comparatively speaking Not r not really. You look at some there's there's definitely older nations like I said, but if you look at um the length of our government The Constitution was adopted in 1788, making it standing now for 235 years. That is well past the average of a form of government. Now the reason for our nation's longevity and stability, which we see our stability slipping very quickly. But the reason for our longevity and stability we find again here in verse 2. Look at verse 2 with me, for the transgression of a land, many are the princes thereof. But by a man of understanding and knowledge, the state thereof shall be prolonged. By a man of understanding and knowledge, the state thereof shall be prolonged. So in the first half of the verse, he's talking about the government official, right? The prince, princes. In the second half of the verse, he's talking about a man of understanding. Now this is my opinion. I think this is what it's saying. One it's saying that um a man in leadership that i it will uh if the person in leadership has understanding and knowledge, the state will be prolonged. And then the other option would be that if men in our nation have wisdom and or understanding and knowledge, the state will be prolonged. I think both are true, really. Because we're influencing our well, our influence directly affects who gets into office in our co in our situation, in our nation. So Either way, the reason for America's longevity and stability is our understanding and knowledge. Not that we're the smartest people in the world. But we have an understanding and knowledge of God. America is very unique. It's very special. It's not the normal thing. To have a have a nation that was birthed out of fasting, prayer, seeking God's Word. It was birthed out of the first great awakening. It's unique. America wasn't founded because someone wanted more land or someone wanted more gold or someone was on an ego trip. That wasn't the purpose. America was founded, and you can if you read in the Declaration of Independence, which was compiled of sermons, it's very plain. We're we're endowed by our Creator with certain rights among those, life, liberty, pursuit of happiness, all which came um right out of the Bible. And that phrase was uh taken from Thomas Jefferson, pulled from one of his favorite sermons. But as as um as we're thinking about this, the stability of our nation hasn't come from our military, which we have. The biggest and the strongest and the best, but that's not how we started, you know. I mean, you uh really up until the nineteen hundreds We we we weren't the the biggest and the strongest and the best. Civil War kind of wrecked us there for a while. In World War I we emerged, you know, as a world superpower. And then when um who now I'm I'm I'm having a a moment here, but who was the one that sailed the great white fleet You know what I'm talking about? Anyone know what I'm talking about? Sail the battleships around the world just deflex. I I forget who that was. What's that? Okay, Harry, that that's it. I'm glad you're here. Thank you. But um, you know, but that's not how we started. Our army started without shoes, socks. You know, it's um just our squirrel squirrel guns, you know what I mean? And and but but that's not what made us the best nation. It was because of our understanding and knowledge of God And fast forward 240-some years later, we still have, I believe, and let me explain this: I believe we still have a knowledge of God But it's not the same way we used to have it. There's some verses you we could point to in Romans here. And and also in Peter. But what what one thing that comes out to my mind is in Romans ten, where he says, they have a zeal that not according to knowledge. And I believe that's kind of where we're at We're our our country's a very religious bunch of people. The religion might be the religion of wokeism, the religion might be the religion of humanism or evolution, but we're a very religious people. It's just not according to knowledge. And that kind of puts us in a little bit of a spot here, doesn't it? Because the way the state's prolonged is by knowledge and understanding. And what brings a nation to instability is the transgression of the land. So we got two things going on in America. Transgression is on the increase. Sin's on the increase. Sin's being glorified. It's being promoted in every single area you can possibly think of. I talked to someone the other day about all the transgender stuff going on and some other stuff that goes along with that, and they were saying it is far worse than we even can think of. And that's I believe that By the time we finally figure out what's going on, it's way further. And um transgression is what's going to bring instability to a nation. So there's a few points I want to that was just kind of an introduction, I guess. There's a few let me think, I think I got s yeah I got six different things that I'm just gonna point out real fast and um If you got a pencil or something or a pen, you can write them down if you want. But um anyway, this is what I got. Number one, a sinful nation becomes an unstable nation. And I kind of already talked about that in the introduction. A sinful nation becomes an unstable nation. When you think of the word instability, you think of things like incapable. You know, not being able to put sentences together, you know, not understanding how to handle basic things, not understand you know, um policy changing rapidly, things like that. Instability Um when you think of unstable, you think of chaotic. I think we're I think we're there. I think we're there. We got uh people that are making decisions they don't even understand themselves. And if you're having laws that are being voted on that are too long for someone to even read, it doesn't it's on it's in stability. So I mean these these laws that are being voted on are thousands of pages and they admit we can't read it all. And so we're just pushing things through. On the back table there for a while, Miss Becky put some papers of bills that were does anyone know what I'm talking about? There were some papers back there with that had uh different bills that went into effect October 1st That's stuff I'm not even going to say um online. It's just vile. No one even knew about it. It just went through. You know, there's so much transgression, and because of that, there's so much instability. And I don't think it's any surprise everyone understands that we love our nation, we love our country But in order for us to have some stability, we've got to call the sin out. We can't tolerate it. We can't tolerate it. The pro the reason that the sin is being accepted so much and the transgression is being so much and social media and schools and media and all this kind of stuff. There is because there's no knowledge and under and there's no understanding. There's no common sense. And there's no knowledge because they rejected God and in doing so rejected his knowledge and understanding. One of the best things we can do is just start promoting God's knowledge, his word. And start promoting common sense again, which is found in God's Word. So a nation That is sinful becomes an unstable nation. Two, a nation that has godly leadership will have stability and longevity. A nation with godly leadership will have stability and longevity. I'm just I'm just gonna I'm gonna be a little blunt here tonight if that's okay. But why in the world? Why in the world Would I as a Christian vote for someone that doesn't have knowledge and understanding? It goes against God's word. And if I want to follow God's word, then I need to vote for someone that has knowledge and understanding because I want my state to be prolonged. Now what kind of knowledge and understand what kind of knowledge and understanding are we talking about? Well part of it is just common sense, sure. They've got to have common sense. But I think they need to have the knowledge of God. I think they ought to know God personally. If they don't claim to be a Christian, and there's some good candidates out there that are running next election But they're openly not Christians. The one I can't even pronounce his last name, great guy, conservative values, but he's openly not a Christian. So if he doesn't have a knowledge of God, how could I vote for him? Does this make sense? I want my state to be prolonged. And I want that means I gotta on the local level as well. I need I need to worry about not not the worry wasn't the right word. I need to be concerned with putting in people and voting in people that have knowledge of God's and God's word and have basic understanding. You know, if you if if you don't have a basic understanding of the Bible or a basic understanding of our history as a nation, why would I It's not a good idea. It's not a good idea. So a a nation with godly leadership will have stability and longevity. Now Is there going to ever be such thing as a perfect candidate to vote for for any office? Absolutely not. We're all a bunch of humans, you know. We're all a bunch of humans. Which means we're all a bunch of sinners. But on a very basic level, they ought at least be a professing Christian. On a very basic level, they ought to demonstrate that they have a knowledge of God. You know, and know him personally. And if we have people in leadership that have knowledge and understanding of of God and of God's word and of our nation and its history It'll bring stability back. I believe it'll bring stability back, and I believe God's Word says that right here in verse 2. But then also, number three, it's our responsibility to have knowledge and understanding. You know, if I don't have knowledge and understanding of God and God's word or my own nation's history, then I'm not doing much to preserve the state of or to preserve our state. I'm not doing much to preserve our nation Or or prolong it. You know It's like, oh, well, you know what? It's just gonna get worse and worse, so whatever. Okay, I understand the Bible says evil men will wax worse and worse, but it's not whatever. It's not, you know what I mean? So just because we understand times will get worse, does that mean we should just go ahead and let them hurry up and get worse now? I don't think so. I don't think so. I if if I don't take it upon myself to get in God's Word for myself, to educate myself in God's Word. And to learn my own my own constitution and read my own nation's history and understand all these things and have knowledge, I'm not doing much for my country. Voting is important and I think you should. I'm only 32, but I haven't missed an election yet, local or uh national. I haven't missed one. I think it's important, but what's way more important is having a knowledge of God and having an understanding of His Word and having an understanding and understanding of our nation's history. Both. Do both. Now, you you better spend more time in God's Word than you do your Constitution, don't get me wrong. But you better spend some time in your Constitution. You know, most most people probably have never even read it. Just like most Christians have probably never read their Bible, most Americans have probably never read their Constitution. And that's a shame. Because if we're not learning And uh and gaining knowledge, and if we don't have an understanding, we're not doing much to preserve our nation. Now, along those lines, if I don't know God personally Then I'm definitely not doing much to preserve the state. I'm definitely not doing much to prolong the state. If I don't if I'm not If I don't have Christ as my Savior, I don't have a personal relationship with Him, that then I'm bit I'm harming my nation. The best thing I can the most patriotic thing that someone can do is to accept Christ as their Savior. I really believe that If you look at some of the darkest times in our nation's history, that's when mo usually we would get very close to the Lord at that time. You'd see people saved, you'd see revivals, you'd see I mean you'd see prayer and fasting. And so I I I think it's important that we'd have a relationship with Christ, but then once we have a relationship with Christ I think we ought to, on a daily basis, study God's Word. And I think we ought to be knowledgeable about our history and not not um Uh there there's different I I don't know what our curriculum is here in our county for for history and stuff, but I know that throughout the country they're promoting history that's not even really history And we ought to be aware of that. We ought to be watching that. Because if we don't have knowledge and understanding, the state won't be prolonged. And then when transgression is uh increased, many are the princes thereof. It'll bring much instability. So it's our responsibility to have knowledge and understanding. Now, should you come to church? Absolutely. Should you listen to Pastor when he preaches? Absolutely. But there is no substitute for you digging in God's word yourself. You've got to take it upon yourself to get knowledge and understanding out of God's Word. So, anyway, moving on. A nation that has a leader Without understanding or knowledge is a nation that can't last. Now that's just that that's again reiterating what we've already said. What is understanding? It's common sense. It's common sense. Reading something or reading a topic and getting knowledge on the topic and then just having the understand- understanding to make sense of it. And a nation that has a leader without common sense cannot last. And we've seen how a leader without common sense has made things much worse in three years. We were uh me and someone were talking about that uh today. And I remember and I was looking, you know how your phone will have like memories or whatever? And and it said this time in 2020 or whatever, November of 2020, gas was a buck sixty nine. I was like, whoa, cool You know that's more than that's more than double. And I mean if you look at housing prices, rent prices, and all that kind of stuff, and I don't want to talk economics tonight, but you can see how When a nation has a leader without understanding, it can't last. It can't last. So the principle, now this is where we're going to start to apply it. What is a nation made up of? People, right? Um family units, husbands, wives, children, churches, schools. Communities, cities, towns, counties, states. The nation is made up of smaller entities. And so if I take the principles that we just looked at, And apply that to myself as an individual, then my home is an individual home, and put those same things into practice It will not just affect my family. It will affect my country. It will affect my nation. I want the state of America to be prolonged. I don't want to go through different forms of government. I don't want to have many are the princes thereof, and I don't want the instability that comes with the transgression. Therefore, I need to get it out of my own home. I need to get it out of my own house and out of my own mind and off of my own phone and off of my own computer and off of my own rad Go and tell of this I said the word television. Usually I say TV. You know what I'm talking about. Tablet. Whatever. Wherever there is transgression, it's my responsibility to get rid of it. So I don't see in this verse, work with me now, I don't see a specific transgression It says for the transgression, many are the princes thereof. But it doesn't say what that one is, and there's the if you read commentaries, different people have different opinions. So I'm just going to go with this principle. You know what? Sin is bad. And I need to get rid of it. And sin is what's going to be the downfall of any society. The downfall of Rome was their was there sin? Was there filth? They they th I mean when they started getting into their gymnasiums and their bathhouses and all the wickedness that went with that and then they all the games they did and Oh, it was filthy. It's kind of like what our kids are watching on their phone when they're ten now. I mean it's just filthy. They didn't last much longer after that. You can go Greece, look at the same thing. You can look at you can look at the nations in Europe, and everyone wants to point to Europe as the ideal nations Not if you're changing forms of government every couple years. I kind of like sticking with the same constitution. As long as we actually stick with it That's a different subject, but you know what I mean. And the sin that's mentioned, uh it doesn't mention a specific one. I think it's just sin. Now if you look in, say, 2 Kings, you look at the story of Josiah. We looked at this during youth conference, if any of you were here for that. There were some specific things that he got rid of, sure. Um you know he got he got the sodomites out of the temple, uh he they quit killing babies, that was good Um and they got rid of idolatry and stuff like that. And he said, we're gonna, you know, reinstate this, we're gonna get rid of the groves, and there were the name-specific things that he did But it started out with him just weeping and say, God forgive us. And then God said he would prolong the state. Remember, he would say, I'm still going to bring judgment, but you won't see it. Your eyes won't see it. So a couple generations there were spared. The state was prolonged because they had a leader with some common sense. Okay? Yeah, I'm getting on a little bit of rabbit trail, but that's okay. The point I wanted to make and the point I wanted to get to tonight is this. And seven thirty, Derek, not quite, but close. The point I wanted to get to you was this. Was it wasn't it you that said seven thirty? Uh It was you. Well then let me come back no okay. But um now I forgot what I was talking about. I did that Sunday too, didn't I? Josiah. Oh yeah. Yeah. The state was prolonged, right? So the the point I wanted to get to was this. What we're doing is we're looking on the news, we're looking on social media, we're looking at the the school systems, and we're looking at at the the liberal states, which I mean we're all going there, especially Some more than others like ours, unless you live in West Virginia. Well even never mind. But the po the point I want to make is this We're looking to all of these other things. Oh, this sin is so terrible. It's gotten so far out of hand. Agreed, it is. You know, we're looking at how far the the the the the s different sexual sins and perversions are going. And they're gross. They've gone so far in the past Five or six years. You know, when I was in high school it was like, oh no, gay marriage will never be a thing. You know, and now it's like, I mean we're cats and we're dogs and we're lizards and everything else. It's I'm serious, it's weird. So I would agree, that's bad, that's wrong And you then you look at the like like um the the the change in history. That's bad, that's wrong. Evolution, absolutely, this is disgusting, get rid of it But I have very little control over that. I have some, I have a vote. I'm talking on the individual level. But you know what I have total control over? What's on my TV? You know what I have total control over? What's on my phone? When Virginia was still living with us, what I had total control over was her phone. And my wife's phone. And by the way, she has total control over my phone. We have uh this app where we we both have total access to each other's phones. I have total control over what I watch, what I listen to I have total control over my decisions. So rather Now I'm not saying don't point out. Sure, we should point out. Reprove, rebuke, all long suffering and doctrine. Absolutely. Yeah, we've got to point sin out. Sure. Absolutely. We should be doing that. Should be writing letters. Yes. But first, I gotta get it out of here. I don't want to be the one responsible. For the instability in my nation. Well, would it just happen if one Yes. We saw that with Aiken. We already talked about him. One guy And it brought instability. If one man can bring instability, what if three or four of us are like, uh whatever? It's bad, but it's not that bad. I don't want to be the one responsible for the instability. I don't want to be the one responsible for my nation changing forms of government I don't want to be the one responsible for God's judgment coming, which part of it I believe is already here, one of the signs of judgment, is having leaders with no common sense. I don't want it Dave, I don't want that on my conscience. So not only for myself And for my personal relationship with God, and not only for my family, but for my nation I'm gonna do my best to clean up what's in my home. If I'm at odds with my wife, We're not. But if I'm at odds with my wife for the sake of my nation, I need to get right with her. If I'm at odds with another church member, I'm going like that, we're not at odds. Okay, you know what I'm saying? I'm making the point. If I'm at odds with another church member, For the sake of my nation, I need to get it right. If there's some junk I'm looking at on my computer or my phone, for the sake of my nation, I need to get it right. And if we don't care, don't even call yourself a patriot. Because what's going to prolong the state Is knowledge and understanding. And what's going to bring instability is our sin. I think I I think I've beat that horse enough. Is that still a term? Beat that horse? Don't people say that? Be or beat a dead horse? Is that what it is? That's weird. Who ever beat a dead horse? That's just we anyway. Where did that come from? Talk about instability. But anyway, so wrapping things up, the principle is that that applies to my family, to my marriage, to my business, to my local church and if those things will get right, those are the things that make up a nation. The nation cannot have stability if it's filled with families that are instable are unstable. And if the family is gonna have sin in the family Sin in the home, the home will be unstable, which then makes the nation unstable. And I don't want me or my family to be the reason for the instability. Okay. So wrapping things up. One, sin brings instability. Knowledge of God and understanding of God brings stability. If we refuse God's knowledge and God's understanding. You read Romans chapter 1, it talks about what happens when you refuse God's knowledge. Even if they did not like to retain God in their knowledge, God gave them over. to reprobate mind to do those things which are not convenient. And then he goes on to talk about that condition. We have got To have a personal relationship with God, propagate the gospel, and know Him, know His Word, and have an understanding of His Word, and know our history. So the the title is Will the State Be Prolonged? Well it can be, but it might not be. Really? It's up to us. And if I'm not willing to clean up my home, then I have I have no no no nothing to c nothing to say. Don't don't complain about all the the sexual immorality in the nation regarding the the the LGBTQ crowd If you're going to have sexual immorality in your home. I know that's direct and I know that's pointed. Don't complain about the lies and deceit in our government. If your family is going to be full of lies and deceits and you're not even telling your spouse what you're doing with the money. You know what I mean? I'm getting a little pointed here, and I don't know why, but that's okay Let's not be hypocritical. Let's get right what we need to get right for our relationship with God, but also for the sake of our nation. Okay? I told you at the beginning I I love I love all these guys. I would I would take a bullet for any of you and I mean that. I mean that. And they know that, I think. I hope. You know that, Jada? Okay, good. Thank you. to have a different form of government. I don't want them to have instability in their nation. I don't want them imprisoned for standing for Christ. I don't want which a lot of the world is So we've got to clean up. Okay? Alright. Heads bowed, eyes closed. We'll have invitation here in just a moment. Let me just ask you how many would say, you know what, Pastor Matt, to be honest with you, there's some instability in my home. And to be honest with you, I know it's because of sin. One form or the other, it could be pride, could be selfishness, could be immorality. You say, I know that there's an instability in my home. Or maybe there's some instability at work or school or whatever the case may be. There's some instability in some part of my life. Because of sin. You know what? I don't even want you to raise your hands. That's real personal. But if that's you, and you say, God, I got some things I gotta get right A good a good Christian and a good patriot. We'll get 'em right I don't want to take it for granted. Looking around, I think I know everyone, but if there's someone here that doesn't know Christ as Savior, that's the best thing you can do. And we'll help you with that. We'll show you from the Bible how you can know for sure you're going to heaven. But I don't know how God's dealing with your heart, but when she starts playing the the altar's open if you need to do business with God