Fine. While you're turning there, I want to tell you just some of the highlights for uh me throughout the week. Um one of the biggest highlights so far, honestly, is just being getting to know everyone here. I've told some people that the highlight for me on MBT is being able just to travel, be able to meet all the people, hear all the stories, and so on and so forth. And uh yesterday there's a young man, Aiden, that uh Pastor Matt, it was funny, I was talking with him I think on Sunday, right when we first do the uh first MBT kickoff for the night, and he said, I've never met this guy before, because I pointed him out. I said, Well hey, wouldn't he be And he said, I've never met the guy before. And uh uh me and uh Mr. Marcus and Mr. Eddie went back over to the missionary house yesterday. We were over there for a little while and we come back You know, to get ready for the teen round in the evening. And we come over and we hear from Pastor Matt that Eddie got or that um Aiden got saved. And so he got saved before that. He said uh it was literally just right out in there. Aiden, he pulled Aiden aside and he started talking to Aiden about the gospel, and Aiden got saved. So it was really encouraging to just be able to see that. And it's just really awesome. Be able to just see fruit that happens and fruit that remains. So Matthew chapter nine. Matthew chapter nine is where we're going to be at tonight. I want to thank you guys again for hosting us this week. MBT has definitely been a very good training ground. for me. I was thinking about today. There's no other ministry that'll train uh uh young men like this ministry to deal with children, to work with teens. You know, you go into um Certain situations and you see different ministries and such. And you can go in there, and if the pastor asks you to jump in there, you're prepared. You can pull out the five-day fact track story. You can limit that down to one day. You can make it expand all five days throughout Monday through Friday. It's amazing. You can work with teenagers, you know how to engage them, so on and so forth. And it's just a blessing to be here. Matthew chapter 9, verse 35 is where we're going to be at tonight starting. The Bible says, and Jesus went about all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues and preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every sickness and every disease among the people. But when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion on them, because they fainted and were scattered abroad as sheep having no shepherd. Then saith he unto his disciples, The harvest truly is plenteous, but the labors are few. Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he will send forth labors into his harvest. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church members, I want to ask you guys the question. Will you allow God to move you with compassion to evangelize to the lost this week? There's a story about a man named D. L. Moody. We probably all know about who D. L. Moody is. He's a very famous preacher. And there was one day where this man came and interviewed D. L. Moody. And he asked Dial Modi, he said, Sir, why do so many people come to you and not other preachers about things? About questions, about wisdom, about things that you have knowledge of. Why do so many people come to you and not to any other preacher? And D. L. Moody, he walked over to the window, and he opened up the blind to Chicago where they were at. And he looked out that window and he had the guy who was interviewing him come over and look out that window And he said, Sir, what do you see out there? The man, he looked out the window and he saw kids playing out on the sidewalk with their friends. He saw uh the husband and wife with their children walking down the side of the road. He saw men and women keeping their convenience stores. He saw all manners of people, all walks of life. from all over the nation, from all over the world. And he looked at D. L. Moody and he said, Sir, I see people. DL Moody said, wrong Those are not people. He said, those are souls. That was the reason why so many people came to D. L. Moody, why so many people came to him and asked them questions. Because he had a heart for the lost. Church, will you have a heart for the lost? Not only this week, but so on and so forth after this week In the next month, in the next year. That far reaches into eternity. The effects that you guys are doing right now, the effects, the uh uh investments that you guys are making right now that you don't even know are going to take place. and happen that you're going to have your hand in something involved in eternity. Will you continue on? The people that looked to and followed Jesus in Matthew chapter 9 did because he was a miracle worker. You think about all the miracles that Jesus did. He healed people sick with the policy, a paralyzed man. He healed the woman with the issue of blood, a bleeding disorder that she had gone on for for twelve years. He raised the ruler's daughter from the dead. He healed two blind men, he cast out a devil that made a man dumb He healed every single sickness and every disease, and Matthew can't even list all the miracles that Jesus did because he was constantly being about his father's business, the Bible says. You think about that, maybe Jesus got tired. There's evidence in Scripture where he gets tired. He gets to John chapter 4 where he passes through Samaria. There's that woman that he's going to meet, the woman at the well, the famous story of her And yet Jesus, the Bible says, he's tired. And so he rests himself on the well. Sometimes all of us, many times all of us, will get to that point where we say, I'm just tired. Man, we can't go. We can't continue on. I remember an MBT training this year. This is my second year. I'm a veteran as they so call it there. And I remember Brother Koons, he has these famous one-liners each year, and each a lot each year is different. And this year what he kept on saying every single day was, fellas, he always says fellas. That's something that never changes. But he says, Fellas I just need a little bit more. Just a little bit more. I remember there was about one more day before we went out on circuit. I'm laying in bed. It was my week to be with all the uh new rookies. I'm just laying there and thinking, man, I'm a veteran. This is my second year. I deserve to be promoted up to something better than this. I'm laying there, I'm thinking to myself, brother Coon I don't have anything more to give. We've gone all these three weeks. Man, we've done all these things. And yet Brother Coons is saying, fellas, I need a little bit more. And what he was trying to do is he's trying to push us, he's trying to get us into the mindset, into the heart set. Ultimately, it says, you know what? I need to give my all for Jesus Christ. Church. Are we willing to give our all for Jesus Christ? Sometimes we say the cost is too high. I want to ask you a question: What cost can you place on a soul? There's stories about missionaries, they go overseas, they suffer tragic hardships. There's a story that I heard about a missionary and years after years after years They have their first child and then the mother of that child she dies, the husband buries her, he comes back to uh America because he's so bitter at God, because he's Uh he just doesn't think that it's worth it. And yet through all that the woman, she g the daughter, she grows up and she figures out that there's been a huge uh colony of people, a huge group of people there on that mission field. Because that man and that wife were faithful in witnessing to those people while she was still alive and there was one young boy that came and sold them groceries every single day because they l lived out basically in the Congo They couldn't get anything else. And so that young boy, he went back to the village. He witnessed to people. He saw his village saved. And now there's groups of people out there that are saved and that young uh that young woman that was a child when her mother died. She grows up, she finds out about this And then she finds her father, and her father didn't think that was worth it, and her father is in a horrible state, and she has to go and find him. But yet it was worth it. Yet it was worth it, even though he lost his wife Church, Christ saw the people he was healing and preaching to and their lost condition. He knew they needed more than miracle healings. They were lost and headed to eternal destruction and hell. And seeing their lost condition, he was moved with compassion, the Bible says. The Bible says that mine eye affecteth mine heart. When we see something, sometimes It moves us sometimes, it affects us. As we grow older, certain things, you know, the first time that you uh maybe see something on TV that was really scary at the initial shock of it, maybe the first time that you uh heard a gunshot go off. It really scared you really bad that you remember. And now that you get older you go out hunting, manhunters, they pull that trigger, and man, that's just something normal to them. But Jesus was at the point where he saw people and it never got old. The Bible says that he was moved. with compassion. This verb moved with compassion means to have the bowels that yearn. In other words, you see someone and it just churns your stomach. That's what was going on inside Jesus' mind Have you ever seen something that just, man, you just wanted to jump in there. You wanted to help out. Something was going on, but it was out of your control. A couple of years ago I drive shuttles at the college that I go to, and now I'm overseeing it. And that night I was out with my friend. And he was chaperoning for me because we were picking up a few ladies from the college. And we're driving down the road. I'm just going about my business. I've been driving for about the past three years or so at that point. So I'm just driving down, I'm used to it, just another normal run. I go driving down, and all of a sudden I see this dog over in the left lane, and he's running towards a car. I'm thinking, this dog's stupid. Man, this dog's stupid. He's running right towards a truck. He's running right towards a truck. And this dog, he's just, man, he' He's enjoying life. And he's walking, he's running towards this truck And eventually it gets too late. I'm watching this dog, and all of a sudden that dog gets caught underneath that truck. And as I'm driving by, you hear him squealing, you hear him realizing that he made a bad mistake. You hear him, and I st I still remember to this day, seeing him turn back around. He's trying to get out from under that truck, trying to get out from under that truck. And man, I wanted to jump in there and man tell the driver stop, stop, stop, there's a dog underneath you. Super dumb right now, and he's paying for it. I remember looking in the back, and man, that dog got rolled over and he took off. I don't know if he survived or not. Hopefully he did, but if he did, he was seriously messed up It was one of those situations where a man you just you couldn't believe what you just saw. You wanted to jump out, you wanted to stop the whole situation, you wanted to save that dog, so on and so forth I wonder though, if we feel that way about people. When we see those teenagers come in on a daily basis, when we see those boosters come walking down, holding out their signs. Singing the booster cheer, do we realize that those are people that God died for? I remember at one of the churches that we went to, man, we we would pick up these kids and man it was a rough neighborhood. It was this year. We would drive through that neighborhood every single night. And I got to the point where I'm thinking, man Man, if there was anything I could do to get out of this bus route, I would. Because this is a rough neighborhood. Some of these kids, man, the things they're talking about, I just don't want to hear it. The things that they're doing to me, man, I can't stand it. And then one of the very last nights This young boy, I forget his name. But I remember he got a couple of feathers because for the incentive, the uh booster time evangelist said if they brought a certain amount of people he would dress up as a chicken And they would he would uh allow them to pour honey all over him and dump tons of feathers all over him. So this little boy, he went up and he grabbed out three feathers, and he had those there And he said, he looked up at me, he said, Mr. Tanner, I want to give you one of these feathers. And to me, for some reason, that just pricked my heart That young boy. Yeah, he talks smack. Yeah, he says things that man, you can't believe a five-year-old would say. Yeah, he has a disrespectful attitude. In fact, he's probably gotten kicked out of multiple schools, if I if I think correctly The thing is though, he needs the Lord. He needs someone to care for him. Even though he's the like we hear about the Billy Block story of this year for the booster, even though he's a brat Even though he's doing all these bad things, he still needs someone to love him. He still needs someone to be a channel which Christ can show his love through them to that individual, kid. The head of this church, Christ, had this compassion for unsaved people, but the church, for the most part, has lost the compassion for the unsaved. Tonight I want to look at three truths about the unsaved people around us that should move you to witnessing and give you the compassion that Jesus had for the unsaved people Notice first of all the opportunity of the harvest. The opportunity of the harvest. Look back at verse 37. The Bible says Then saith he unto his disciples, The harvest truly is plentious, but the labors are few. Notice the who of the harvest. The who of the harvest are the people that are not yet saved. But yet they're ready. Something interesting that really just it almost caused my mind to explode when I learned this this year is our evangelist trainer, Brother Matt Galvin. He's an evangelist that trains the teen evangelists at MBT. And Brother Matt Galvin, he was taking us through the sermon, and he pointed out something very interesting. He pointed out that a harvest indicates we will not always just be working. A harvest indicates that there will be reaping Let that sink in for a second. Let that sink in for a second. You think about it. A harvest. A harvest time where you plant. I noticed, man, you guys have lots of corn out here. I remember last year I went to Wisconsin and man when they say they have corn, they're not lying. I mean I go outside and man all the eye can see is just corn and corn and corn and corn and corn. I'll be truthful with you. I like corn But not that much. Not that much corn. That's a lot of corn out there. But yet that corn it had a beginning stage. It had the time where the farmer he hops in his tractor He loads up the grain mill and he puts it in there. And he starts down those rows and he's putting planting seeds very carefully, very specifically timed. He's planting those seeds And eventually, over the next few months, he waters them, he sprays pesticides, he manures it, he uh sprays it down, he lets the sun come down upon it, he gives it Maybe uh seed food, which to me that doesn't really make any sense. Seed food. But anyway, so he puts it on there and then he causes these uh crops to grow and eventually he goes out there and pulls the husks off of there and has a harvest time It's interesting that Jesus Christ used that word harvest. In other words, the logical conclusion is there's people that are ready here in Oakland. This week. And it's our job to go out there, knock on their doors, maybe when we go to the convenience store, pull out an MBT flyer and say, hey Do you guys have any junior age kids or primary age kids, or maybe even teenagers that would like to come to our activity? We've been having it all week But it's not too late for them to come. We would still love to have them come and then be able to get involved in the youth group, be able to get involved in uh kids church if you guys have that here or whatever program you have for them God has a plan for every single person here. And it's not just by happenstance that He's put us all here at this specific time. Something that is a great truth to realize is that God put every single one of us in a unique position at this specific place, at this specific time, for a specific purpose. Church, maybe this week you might impact maybe the next D. L. Moody. You do not know. Maybe you'll impact the next kid that'll impact the next person that's go go out and have a big impact. You do not know. Brother Koons, he told a story Or man. He was in the military when he was younger. He's uh I think either in his late teens, early twenties, and he's walking down the road and he says, Two men, if I remember correctly, come up to him and start witnessing to him He didn't know anything about being saved. He didn't understand it. And yet those were the two men that met him and that prodded him and said, Are you saved? And that started the ball rolling. He said he told us this year he doesn't know where those two men are. Those two men have no idea that that young man in the military would soon go on to become the next MBT director for Neighborhood Bible Time. It impacts thousands and thousands and thousands of people's lives every single year. He had no they had no clue, and yet they stayed faithful. Church member, will you stay faithful to the Lord? Will you stay faithful to reaping the harvest? The hope of the harvest is that the harvest exists now. The Bible also says, as it was a local proverb that said, four months more and then the harvest is going to come. It's probably a local proverb, but yet Jesus Christ, he's basically shooting that down. He's saying no, no, no, no, no. Don't wait, he says. The harvest is right now. You might say, man, that teenager just isn't ready. Man, that booster, whew, they are definitely not ready. And man, but no, they are ready You just need to keep on uh tilling the ground, keep on watering it, keep on putting sunshine into it, and eventually you will see growth. You will see the fruit. The Bible says the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. We have quite a responsibility to this harvest. Notice secondly though, our obligation to the harvest. Our obligation to the harvest. The Bible says in verse 36, but when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion on them because they fainted and were scattered abroad as sheep having no shepherd. Our obligation is to have compassion. When Christ saw the people in their lost condition, the crowd that was waiting. And gathered together with great excitement about this miracle worker called Jesus. They looked just as if they had interacted with each other in anticipation of Jesus' arrival. However, Jesus saw their true condition. He knew that they were spiritually lost. It's easy when you go uh if you have a Maybe a bus route, or if you know of a family that, man, they just have great physical needs. It's easy to get distracted and focus so much on their physical needs that we neglect the spiritual to them But here's the thing. Jesus Christ started off on that path to, yes, help them with their physical needs, help them when they were hungry, so on and so forth. But the thing is, he saw past that. He saw the ultimate goal that says Someone here needs me, not only just physically, but for eternity. All those boosters All those teams, all those people maybe that you work with on a daily basis that you know aren't saved, they need you. Not just to be there to help them when they fall down in this life, but also to help them lead them to the knowledge of the Lord and Savior. They need you. How do you see people? When your eye affects your heart, you will be moved to respond as Christ did in his earthly ministry. What moves you this way? Maybe it's your workplace. Maybe it's your neighborhood. Maybe it's this week of MBT. Maybe it's when people are hurting that you see the need and you go there for them. But what motivates you to have compassion? A man who worked in Chicago, he walked the same road every single day. Every single day he would walk this road and he would see a homeless lady on the side of the road begging for food and asking for food And day after day after day he would pass by her and just pass by her and pass by her and pass by her until one day he was walking, all of a sudden, she's not there. And the man, he kind of pondered it for a second, and he went to work, and afterwards he started to think about this, and he goes back down and he starts to look for this woman. He's wondering, where could she be? She's been here day after day, week after week, month after month. Where in the world could she be? And he starts looking for her. Eventually he finds her in an alley. She had been beaten. She had been hurt, she had been bruised, she had been scarred, she had been hurt and taken advantage of. And yet this man he went, he got his wife, they took her home, they took care of her, they nursed her back to health They put clothes on her back and they gave her a warm hot meal and took care of her and won her to the Lord Jesus Christ. Wonder Are we moved with love and compassion as Christ did, and as that man and that woman was in that story? Christ saw the multitudes scattered about. It's interesting that the Bible compares this to sheep. That the Bible uses that analogy, that that's what's going through Jesus Christ's mind when he says they were scattered abroad as sheep having no shepherd. Sheep, if you do study on them, can only see about twenty feet in front of them. I told the teens the other night, I said, man, imagine if you can only see twenty feet in front of you. I mean man, you couldn't I could barely even see those doors probably. I definitely couldn't see past those doors. I couldn't see what's outside of this room. I would be s I wouldn't know which way to go. Sheep are just sheep stumble over themselves. They're easily scared. They wander off wherever they want to go, wherever their appetite is. That's kinda just where they go They're not a triumphant creature. They're a very fragile creature that needs lots of oversight and need lots of help. And yet the Bible describes us as sheep. And describes these people as sheep having no shepherd. The shepherd must take care of them. Turn your Bibles, if you will, to Jude chapter twenty two. Jude chapter twenty two Jude chapter twenty two, the Bible says, and of some having compassion Making a difference. At the end of the day, if we're all honest with ourselves, I would assume that all of us would say, I do want to make a difference. This is the clear way that God's pointing out to us saying, church, Christian, my child, you can make a difference if you have compassion. The Bible also says in 1 Corinthians 15, 34, it says, await to righteousness and sin not, for some have not the knowledge of God. I speak this to your shame. The word awake means to wake up from a deep sleep, or uh and is usually applied to those who are awake or become sober after drunkenness. I don't know if you guys have ever been at that point where, man, you wake up from a nap and man you just your body, man, it's just it's not in sync. And you get up And man, you don't even know where you're at. I remember we were at MBT training and all of a sudden we're we wake up to this uh scream at about two AM And the guy, he's laying over there, he's going, Ha ha ha, where am I, where am I, where am I, where am I? And the man he woke up and just didn't even know here where he was at because he woke up, he was just in a daze, and this is that MBT train And uh funny thing is he's actually working for Brother Koontz right now, so that'll be interesting. I think he'll be a great job, but I just realized that. The Bible also says in Ezekiel 33, six, that we are to be vigilant and warning those who are without Christ. Those whose end is destruction if they do not have Christ. This is the obligation that we have to our area of influence. Imagine how different we would be if we had the mindset every single day of that unsaved person that their end is destruction. If you knew that a terrorist attack was going to happen here in America, let's say a year from now, you knew the exact date, you knew the exact time. How urgent would that be for you? How just, man, you talk about having passion, compassion in your bowels, man, your stomach would churn every single time you think about that. Thousands, if not millions, of people dying, and you know the exact date, but yet no one else knows, and it's your job to warn people. You would set about on a course, you would set about on a mission, trying to prove this with as much passion, with as much evidence as you possibly had that you had available to you If you had that knowledge, you would be about that business. And yet God has given us this message that says, when people die. If they do not have me, they will end up in hell. Luke chapter 16, the Bible says there was a certain rich man which was clothed in purple and fine linen. And fared sumptuously every day. And there was a certain beggar which was laid at his gate full of sores. And it came to pass daily that the beggar, as he was laid beside the gate, that the dogs came and licked his sores. The Bible continues on and says, and it came to pass that the beggar died and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom. The rich man also died and was buried. And in hell he lift up his eyes, being in torments, and seeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom, and he cried, and he said, Father, Abraham, have mercy on me. And send Lazarus that he may dip the tip of his finger in water, for I am tormented in this flame. Church, just like I told the teens earlier this morning, that man is still there today. He's still burning after two thousand years of being in hell. He's still burning there. He still wishes that Lazarus would just come up, dip the tip of his finger, the tip of his finger. Like I told the teens, the tip of your finger, man, if you go and you dip the tip of your finger in water, that might get you one, maybe two droplets That man, the rich man, he didn't request for the entire ocean to be poured on hell. He didn't request for a huge 30-gallon tank of water to be poured down on hell. He didn't even ask for a cup of water. All he asked for was the tip of his finger to be dipped in water. Something interesting, if you want to study it out, I haven't studied it out this much, but a preacher pointed out to me last year on MBT, is that it never says that he put the droplet on Lazarus' tongue. All it says is that would you just dip the tip of your finger in water? I don't know exactly what the preacher was implying by that, but my thought is that even just the vapor of having moisture around you would help. We also have an obligation not only to be compassionate for the lost, but also to pray for the lost. Pray that God will thrust out more people into his harvest. Pray that God will send more preachers and missionaries. Pray that God would send more believers that would witness across their fears of influence. Pray that God will send people to those who are under conviction and ready to be saved. Pray that God would send us to the harvest And go just beyond praying that God would send someone, but that if we are truly willing, if we have our full heart, if we have our full selves, if we are fully surrendered, that we would say, God, I'm willing to be used by you Here in Oakland, Maryland, we also have an obligation to labor We're going over discipleship with the teenagers this week. It's a new thing that Brother Matt and Brother Koontz have established this year on MBT. They tested it out last year and it turned out really good. And we're able to take the core group of teenagers that are there at the church during the day and able just to disciple them. And one of the things that we're talking about this week is sanctification. And we're teaching them that it's not only just God's responsibility that, yes, God does sanctify you, but the thing is, is that you need to take action. That God isn't just going to force you to be sanctified. God isn't just going to be forcing you to do things outside of your will. That God gives you a free will to do something. God's told us in Matthew chapter 28 to go ye into all the world and preach the gospel. But the thing is, is that we have a choice. I remember when I was younger, my dad he he told me, he said, uh he said, uh Tanner, go out into the backyard and pick up the dog dew. And man, I was thinking, you gotta be kidding me. This is after winter. The dogs have been out there all winter months long for about two or three months. This thing hasn't been picked up in the past two or three months. And now my dad is taking advantage of me. He's abusing me. He's making me do slave labor and go into the backyard. So I go out there with that mentality and man I'm picking up that dog dew and man I'm having a horrible attitude about it I'm just going out there and I get about halfway done with this thing, I look around, I'm thinking, that's that's enough. Man, this is good enough. I go walking back inside, I go back downstairs, I go about my uh business. And my dad, he later asked me, he says, Jonathan, did you that's my first name is Jonathan. He asked me, Jonathan, did you finish the uh uh backyard? I say, yes sir, I did. And unbeknownst to me, my dad, he goes out there and he goes out there to weed eat, take care of some of the yard He obviously sees that the yard wasn't done. And so he comes back in. I get in trouble. And then not only on top of that, my dad makes me go back out there and do it again. God's given us a responsibility that if it's only halfway done There won't only be severe consequences for us. There's also going to be severe consequences for everyone else. You think about it, the consequences maybe that God will chasten us with, that God will convict us with, those people that you had the opportunity to witness to. I don't think it's gonna compare with anything to what those people that go burn in hell forever will have to go through. It's our obligation to labor. We have the opportunity and the obligation to labor. We must take time. Most stories that we hear about God saving someone has taken a long time. The first thing I asked Aidan when I talked to him yesterday when he got saved and he told me he got saved is I asked him, have you heard the gospel before? You know what his answer was? Yes. The thing that you hear about in my understanding from my experience, it happens very rarely where someone will just hear the gospel for the very, very first time And then they get saved. That happens from what I'm hearing very, very little. There's been people that have been praying for them. There's been people that have been uh talking to them about God and about the Lord Jesus Christ. And then you happen, God puts you in that place at that specific point and that specific time to witness to that specific person and you are the person that gets to reap the harvest like the Bible talks about. And it's a joyful thing the Bible says to uh uh to do that But the thing is, is that there have been others working. The Bible says in Acts 20, verse 20, and how I kept back nothing that was profitable unto you, but have showed you and have taught you publicly from house to house. Bible continues on. Therefore, watch and remember that by the space of three years I cease not to warn everyone night and day with tears. We are all busy. Our calendars are jam-packed. It is said that the world is run by busy people. But let's look at Jesus' day In one day Christ cures one sick of the palacy. He calls Matthew from the receipt of customs. He eats with publicans and sinners. He defends his disciples for not fasting. He cures the bloody issue. He raises from death Jerusalem's daughter. He gives sight to two blind men. He heals a dumb man possessed of a devil. He has compassion on a multitude. And in chapter ten he sends out the twelve disciples to sow into the house of Israel You talk about a busy day. Jesus knows exactly what you're going through. Bible says that we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities. It was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin. The responsibility of witness the witnessing is actually not just given to the pastor. It's given to the church. How are you involved in your church or personally to help see more people saved? Last and final of all, our third point tonight is our ownership of the harvest. Verse 38, the Bible says, Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he will send forth laborers into his harvest. The harvest is ours to reap. But here's the thing. There are obstacles to reaping the harvest. Maybe it's a failure to deal with sin. Something that I really liked was going into uh uh the other bill uh or actually into the kitchen over here. You guys have some of those comic strips over there. I was reading some of those. And there's this guy. He's on top of this pipeline. He's just looking at this thing. It's a cartoon character. His nose is abnormally shaped His head's abnormally shaped, and he's just sitting there, and he's just looking down at this thing. He sees a pipeline and you see this thought bubble that comes up and it says, Hmm I wonder what could be blocking this channel. And on this side you have blessings. And in the middle there blocking his channel is sin, doubt, maybe lack of prayer, and so on and so forth. And there's that man, he's sitting there and he's wondering what's happening. Church, God's given us the answer. God's given us the answer that we can come before Him and ask Him and say, God, what in the world is going on? Why am I not Uh, why am I not seeing blessing like I should? Why am I not uh seeing things like I should? Why is all these things not happening? And God says maybe it's a failure to deal with sin. I wonder, is there sin in your life that you know about that you're actively holding on to? You're saying, God, no. This is mine. No, that person was wrong. No, that person offended me. And yet, God says that all men shall know that ye are my disciples if ye have love for one another. Down on the teams that the brand, the logo, if you will, you see superheroes, maybe they, you know, you have superheroes, they open up their shirts, and man, there's the big logo, you know exactly who that superhero is. Growing up, I would always see that And yet, the Bible says our logo, if we were to, if you will, take off our jacket and open up our shirt and pull our shirt apart, they should see a big L. You should see a big L on Christian's chest that signifies love. I wonder how loving are we? How loving are we when maybe, maybe even here at MBT, someone comes across, and man, you're working on MBT, it's late nights, it's early mornings, and someone comes across to you, man, they just really offend you. I know there's situations where man I've been there and man you say something it flips out and man you're thinking why did I just say that? And then you have to humble yourself. You have to go back up to that person, you have to say, I'm sorry that I said that to you. But yet God uses that. And it's often after those times I've found that God does a great victory. I wonder, do we love our neighbor? Do we love each other? Maybe the reason why We're seeing a blockage is our unfaithfulness to witness. Maybe it's just a simple failure to open our mouth and tell someone about the Lord Jesus Christ. Maybe it's just that you're too afraid, you don't know exactly what to say before you go up to that person. Maybe they're even an atheist and you think, man. They studied this thing from head to toe. They got their re list of reasons that if I go up to them, they're going to start asking me questions that I don't even know. Maybe it's you not depending on the Spirit to enable you. Maybe it's unbelief in God's promises about the harvest. Some are faithful in the fields, but they're not reaping in the harvest. Yes, there are times when we are just sowing or watering. But if these words of Jesus Christ are true, then there ought to be times when we are reaping. We must go into the fields convinced that there is a harvest to reap. And that in prayer and faith God would lead us to the harvest. It's not our job to convince people to get saved. It's our job to pray. It's our job to witness to those people, to tell them about the Lord Jesus Christ. But the ultimate person's job to do that is the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is the one who is responsible for that. Our ability is not what it takes. Our faithfulness is what will see the matter through, and our faithfulness is all God requires of us. Brother Kewens, every single morning he sends out these texts and he sends them out in acronyms. He started out with the letter A, then the second day he goes to letter B, so on and so forth. And every single day he does this for the young men over the summer. And one day he told us that popular Christianity in our 21st century is lots of numbers. Lots of numbers, he says. The thing is, that's not real genuine Christianity, he said. Real genuine Christianity is you staying faithful, even if there's only five people. And believe me. You ask any of the MBT evangelists, you ask me. We've been to churches where there's literally only ten people in that first Sunday morning service. And to be honest, it's kind of discouraging when you get there. There's not a lot of help like at this church. There's not lots of people involved. You might have like two or three teens in the youth group that you have to run games for the entire week. And yet God says, stay faithful. We need to allow the Holy Spirit to do some seriously power-convincing, but this will only come through our acts of faith. Maybe we are unaware of the war and the forces of hell that wrestle against our work in Ephesians 6. 12. We've got to win the witnessing battle beforehand in prayer, though. We've got to fertilize the ground in prayer. If there is no reaping, we need to get on our faces and ask God to show us why. In conclusion, the Bible says in verse 37, look at it with me, and then we'll be done. The harvest truly is plentious. But the laborers are few. Pray ye therefore of the Lord of the harvest, that he will send forth laborers into his harvest. I wonder. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, will we make the decision to be faithful tonight, to have a compassion for the lost. Thank you, ABBA, for this night. Thank you, Lord, for the ability and the opportunity to be able to preach to these church members. Lord, we ask that you would work on all of our hearts, not just these church members' hearts, but also Mr. Eddie, Mr. Marcus, and I's hearts, Lord, and all the MBT evangelists for the rest of the summer. Abba help us just to view these teens, these boosters, these day teens, Lord, as souls, not just people. Not just people that we interact with on a daily basis, but real, genuine people that Lord have an eternity Help us just to remember, Lord, that destruction is their end if they are not saved. We ask that you bless God and direct the rest of this evening. Keep the teens safe as they do their activity beautiful the rest of the week. In Jesus' name. Amen. And let's keep our heads bowed eyes closed just for a moment.