All right. Hey, we've got a huge crowd tonight. Thank the Lord for you. Glad that you're here. And we've got two chalk drawings uh done now. And uh I never really ever have enough time. We have to have a few flowers in here. Okay. I feel much better now. Okay, uh um let's see I gotta take care of business. And business is back in the on the back table back there. Uh is some of my uh artwork Those are prints made of from uh some of the acrylic paintings that I've done in the past and some of the chalk drawings that I've done that people liked it, so we made prints out of them. And my lovely wife will be in the back there Taking your money. That is, if you give her any, she won't take it. So I hope uh hope you'll stop back and look at it. You know, Christmas is coming up and uh you know pictures make a a a uh you know a nice uh nice little gift and so that might be something to think about. And uh I'm curious now as to which picture you like the best. So let's take a real quick vote on this Uh might as well just vote in the order we did 'em. We did that one over there, that's the old grist mill. You can't hardly see it way back, but if you get up a little bit closer you can see the detail in the in the old grist mill. How many like that one the best of the two chip pictures? Let me see your hands. Okay, we've got a few of 'em. Uh I'd say there was about twelve. Might have been thirteen, but And how many like this one the best news here has? Ooh, okay. How many voted twice? I knew something had voted twice. All right. I'm so glad that you come tonight and uh we have uh we get this enough uh uh tonight and tomorrow while we'll have two more to do and I hope you'll uh you know keep inviting, bring some of your visitors. You'll find that some people will come to see chalk drawings when they wouldn't come for any other reason for preaching or anything like that. So uh Brag on the chalk drawings. That's what you do is you brag on that's not the preaching is that bad, but I mean the chalk drawings would be more apt to get visitors for you. All right. I want us to go to um Uh Genesis, book of Genesis, and I think we're going to be in verse uh let me see. That's awful when you lose your place. All right. We're in Genesis chapter uh twenty-four. You have a book up here where I can read it. And uh let's start uh let's see, let's let's start about uh Let's start over around uh see verse uh well I don't know whether I want to read all those verses or not. All right, this started at about verse fifty-five. And it says that her brother No, that breaks in the middle of it, so we'll have to we'll have to start back further than that. Let me tell you the story and we'll have to read it. All right. We'll read a part of it, but I mean I just just wanna uh We all know who Abraham is. He's the father of the Jews, and Abraham had a son, whose son's name was Isaac. And uh Abraham gets worried about the promise that God made him that that is that uh uh that God will make out of him a great nation, greater than all the stars in the sky and the sand on the sh uh shores of the sea. And uh So uh he got to worrying about that, and Isaac needed a bride. Well, uh Abraham figured out a way. He decided to send his servant and I believe I believe his name was uh I believe it's Eli Elizer Uh El the Azure, there you go. And uh he was uh uh he was a servant of Abraham. So uh if you'll notice well we'll look at it later. So you have Abraham sending uh Eliezer to uh get a bride for Isaac. Now We can get into m more of this, but uh this is a picture of the h of God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit And Eliezer is the is of course the servant. And if you look back in the book of uh in that that uh previous in that see chapter 24 If you notice in these verses, in verse 1, uh it says Abraham was old and well stricken in age, and The Lord had blessed Abraham in all things. And in verse 2 it says, and Abraham said unto his elder servant of his house that ruled over all that he had, He says, Put I praise thee thy hand under under my thigh, and he makes it g makes him make a promise that he will get a bride for Isaac. But you'll notice the the word servant there, and then you'll notice another uh in in verse four or verse five, the third uh letter there or word is servant also. And then you have in verse nine the servant And verse ten, uh, and the servant took ten camels and so forth. And uh verse seventeen, the servant and And you could go down through that whole chapter and you'll find servant here and there. And the servant is a picture of the Holy Spirit. And uh I know there's a lot of teaching on the Holy Spirit today that, you know, uh that uh is not scriptural, but One thing for sure, if you want to find out what the Holy Spirit's ministry is and what the Holy Spirit is going to be doing today, uh in in 2019 Uh you go back in the book of John, chapter fourteen, and fifteen, and sixteen, and there you find the the ministry of the Holy Spirit. And uh If you want to go back there and look at a couple of verses, why uh you can follow me back there. I'll I'll read a couple of them and and then we'll go from there. But it's just to uh uh kind of uh solidify the teaching of the Holy Spirit in these in these uh verses. Uh one of them is found over in and of course in in chapter fourteen Uh Jesus said, Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. And he's in my father's house are many mansions and he goes on there. But he finally gets down there and he talks about the the Holy Spirit And uh uh he says, I'm gonna send you a comforter. And uh uh in verse 7 of chapter 16 of John, No. It's sixteen of of of chapter fourteen. And it says and uh and I will pray the Father, and he will he shall uh give you another comforter. that he may uh abide with you forever. And uh even the spirit of truth, whom the w the world cannot uh receive because it seeth him not, and neither knoweth him, but ye know him, for he dwelleth with you, and shall obey in you. Of course uh that's the promise of the Holy Spirit coming. on the day of Pentecost and of course filling uh Christians from now on. Uh from from Pentecost on. So the Holy Spirit is to be a comforter, to be a helper, to be a teacher, uh you know, he has a lot of different ministries. And uh you say, Well, how about all these the Holy Spirit uh doing things in these services and and uh making people do strange things and all that stuff? Well, uh here's what I read about about the Holy Spirit. It says in verse 14 of chapter 16, it says, verse 13 says, How be it when he that is the spirit of truth is come, He will guide you into all truth, for he shall not speak of himself, but whatsoever he shall hear, that shall he speak. And he will show you all things to come And he shall glorify me, for he has received of mine, and shall show it unto you. So one of the things that the Holy Spirit does is it glorifies the Lord Jesus Christ. Another thing is over in verse 27 of the previous chapter, verse uh chapter fifteen, in verse twenty-six it says, but when the the comforters come, the comforter being the Holy Spirit, of course whom I will send uh unto you from the Father, even the Spirit of truth which proceedeth from the Father, he shall testify me. So the thing about the Holy Spirit is the Holy Spirit is here for one purpose. That is to glorify God. He glorifies the Lord Jesus. He glorifies uh uh uh uh uh uh God uh through the Lord Jesus. So so what does the Holy Spirit do here? Well he's here uh to do the things that uh he's supposed to be a comforter, but he's also a teacher and he's also one who glorifies God. The Holy Spirit never points to himself and glorifies himself. He never does that. He's a servant. He's a servant. That's what's why uh it the word servant is used so many times there in the book of Genesis. And so uh when you see people uh doing strange things and and And talking about the Holy Spirit this, the Holy Spirit that, you know that it's not of God because it's it's uh glorifying the wrong person of the Trinity. Okay, so Now we go back over to the book of Genesis and uh here Eliezer has uh he's brought this uh you know these camels and he and He has a whole entourage of people that's with him. He has um uh a lot of gifts for the bride to be. And He uh he lays out a a fleece for for the Lord. And he says, Lord, if if the girl that comes by and and does, you know waters my camels and does all this, then that will be the one that uh I know is going to be the uh the right girl for me. So let's uh let's look at uh uh Um see, verse 46, we'll just start to and start reading down through here. It says, and she made haste, and she let down her pitcher from her shoulder, and said, Drink, and I will give my thy camels drink also. So I drank and she made the camels drink also. And I asked her and said, uh, whose daughter art thou? And she said, uh, the daughter of uh Bethuel And uh Nahor's son, whom uh uh Malka uh bare unto him, and I put the ear ring on her face and uh the bracelets on her hands And I bowed down my head and worshiped the Lord, and blessed the Lord God of my master, Abraham, which had led me in the right ways to take my master's brothers daughters unto his sons. So you see how God led this uh uh Eliezer to the just to the very person that God wanted to marry. And so it goes on, and we're down, just go to uh verse uh 53. And the servant brought forth uh jewels of silver jewels of gold and raiment and gave them to uh Rebecca, and he gave also to her brother and to her mother and the other precious things. And they did eat and drink and he and the men were that were with him and they tarried all night. Long story short, why finally it comes down to uh to when he says, uh, okay, uh we need to leave now. Uh we believe that uh this is the right marriage to make up and and so we would like for her to go and so they Uh father says, Well we'll we'll ask Rebecca. And I'm cutting this thing short and we're cutting one night out of this visit here as they had. But in verse fifty-eight it says, And they called Rebecca, and they said unto her, Wilt thou go with this man? And she said, I will go, and they sent away Rebekah, their sister, and her nurse, and Abraham's servants and his men And they blessed Rebecca and said unto her, Thou art our sister, be thou the mother of thousands of millions, and let thy seed proceed possess the gate of those that hate them. We got all that out. Now I want to ask you a question. Will you go with this man? We talk of the Holy Spirit. That's what this message is all about. It has to do with the Holy Spirit. Now, I know that Christians are You know, uh we're independent Baptists. We believe the Holy Spirit lives within us. When we we trust Christ as our Savior, He comes to abide within and He never leaves us. Uh he's s he seals us to the day of redemption. There's so many things the Holy Spirit does. He convicts and he convinces and he burns people into the family of God. He seals and and uh indwells and enlightens and fills. You see the Holy Spirit has many, many, many duties to to carry out in our life. And the question is, will you go with this man? Will you go with him? Now you say, Well, where's he going to take me? If I go with him, where's he gonna take me? And that's what uh a lot of people when they surrender to the ministry, they say, Well, when are he gonna send me? Is he gonna send me to Africa? or you know, South America, some other place, but the truth of the matter is God's not the dummy. He knows that some of you can't take that kind of stuff, and so he's not gonna send you down there. He Probably keep some of you at home, I don't know, but the the point that I'm getting at is that the Holy Spirit uh wants to work in our lives. But uh the question is, will you go with him? You see. Uh where will he take us? Well, the first place he'll take us is to the cross of Calvary. The Holy Spirit is, you know, Jesus said, and I if I be lifted up, I'll draw all men to me. And certainly that the one mission that's the Holy Spirit has in this life is to draw people or to to uh to point people to Jesus Christ, to lift him up and glorify him. Will you go with him to the cross? Will you go with him to Calvary? Will you when you go up the the path with the cross on your back and will you allow them to nail you to the cross because really that's that's what what we're talking about I'm crucified with Christ, nevertheless I live. See that that verse here tells us he expects us if we're going to go with him. Go to the cross first of all. And that that's a place of crucifixion. It's a place of death. It's a place where we yield up to ourselves uh yield up ourselves to to uh to God and his you know what he wants in our life He wants not just to to uh to save us through the convicting power of the Holy Spirit and the convincing and the and the the works that he does in the matter of salvation. But he wants us to uh he wants to uh well I know one thing I need I need water. Excuse me for a second. I don't know why my mouth is just getting real dry. So the Holy Spirit, so the Holy Spirit is is first of all he's calling you to to Calvary Now, maybe someone here, and you've never been to Calvary, you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, then this is what he's talking about. He wants to, through the convicting power of the Holy Spirit, bring you to Calvary. There's a story that's been told and and uh maybe I've told it here, I don't know. About it fell down in uh I think it was in the mountains of of Virginia, if uh if the story is true. And I assume that it is Or and of course the thing is that when an evangelist tells a story he embellishes it a little bit. So you have to take a little edge off of it if you want to give hear the truth about it. I don't really know the truth of it. I know the story and that's all I'll tell you. But it was a uh it was about a it was a little town that this took place years many years ago. In the days when the when they had saloons in in in Virginia, you know, and and uh all the dirt streets and that kind of stuff. And it was an old guy that had a had a brewer well it was a it was a beer joint really what it boiled down to, uh, in this little town. And in uh his name is if the as I understand it was was Bulldog Hagan. Uh I no no relation to Festus, I don't think. But Bulldog Hagen was a he was a mean rascal. And uh, you know, people people got in his way he just killed 'em and moved 'em off the s anyway he he that's that was the kind of guy he was. Well, one day uh uh there was a guy that came into town and uh it turned out he was an evangelist and he was coming up the street and he was going to have an old Brush Arbor meeting. Uh Well, we don't know what a brush arbor is around here, but but uh they had brush arbors and and they had brush arbor meetings. They just pile a bunch of brush up to get the you know and do Anyway, they have a they have a a revival meeting. And this evangelist he was he was really pumping that thing up. He's going from side uh stri one side of the street to the other back and forth with all the people in the stores, you know, and he then you invite to the you know, hand them out these flyers like we're doing here this week. And trying to get people out. And uh When Mad Dog Hagen heard that, he knew that it was going to be an impact on his his beer business if that guy really got a toehold in town. So he decided he was going to put a stop to it And so he goes out of his saloon and goes out in the middle of the street and and and uh this uh preacher is, you know, back and forth. Finally he got the mad dog Hagin. Mad Dog Hagin's standing there like this and he said, Preacher, I'm gonna run you out of town. And the preacher never even stopped for a second. He just he just says, Hey, I oh you must be a mad dog hay. He said, I want you to know we're gonna have brush our meeting out at the end of town at such and such a time and I want you to come out And we would be loved to have you come to that meeting. And he just twirled and went to another place and was talking to the same guy. Mad Dog Hagin just stared going What was that all about? You didn't even have a chance to say anything to him. The old mad dog goes back in his saloon and and uh longer he stays in there, why the madder he got. And about that time evening came by came along and and uh the uh evangelists you could hear the music at the other end of town, you know, at the at the the uh at the brush harbor and uh uh gospel music of course and Mad Dog Hagin the more he heard that and he looked around I guess the the women got after the men and made him go to the the meeting. So there wasn't any b any any business there in his saloon. So he got so mad that he he decided he's gonna do something about it. So he just uh checks his gun Yes, got six bullets in it, sticks the back of his pocket and heads out, and he decides he's going to do something about this meeting, break it up, do something And so he gets about halfway through town and all at once it was a there was an old storm cloud came up, a little bit of lightning, some rain, and When it started raining it started pouring and he just uh decided he'd better get in out of the rain and so he just slipped under the eaves of of a house like this And uh to get out of the weather and as he's there, there was a a light came on in this room right behind him, and it happened to be a little girl. And they apparently had not gone to the the brush arbor meeting. And uh mother came in to her and said, Okay, honey, it's time for you to say your prayers like it was Apparently bedtime for her. And so uh she knelt down beside her bed and the mother was with her and they both folded her hands. And uh she said, Okay, honey, now you can you go ahead and say your prayers And she said, uh, honey, ma or mommy, would it be would it be right to pray for old mad dog Hagin? He's a he's an awful mean man And uh mommy said, Yeah, honey, I think it'd be good if you pray for Mad Dog Hagin. He probably he needs it. And so she just started out praying just like a kid does, Dear God Would you say Mad Dog Hagan? He's an awful miserable man. He never has a smile. And he just she just went on for a couple minutes and she was just laying it on there. And outside that window while Mad Dog Haggis listened to this little girl pray for him. And all it was it just dawned on him Yeah, maybe I'm not that good a guy. And the Spirit of God got a hold of that old guy, and the conviction broke into his life. And he began to realize what kind of a a life he's leading. As a result of that, uh he gets out from beneath the house, slips out real quiet. It was down to the brush harbor meeting and if if I heard the story right or read it right wherever I got it, if I got it right, he went into that meeting And he walked that aisle and trusted Christ as his personal Savior. And that's that's supposed to be a true story. And I I'm not kidding you, it's supposed to be a true story. And it took place either in West Virginia or Virginia, in the mountains, in there somewhere We're talking about, well, you go with this man. If you go with this man, you have to go through the convicting power of the Holy Spirit. You cannot get saved apart from the Spirit of God. It takes the Word of God and the Spirit of God working together in order to get saved. And some people, you know, they talk about well, uh you know, uh uh I don't you know, I've I've I've taught Sunday school all my life and and uh I'm I'm okay. Nothing wrong with me And the truth of the matter is, they've never been convicted of the Holy Spirit and showed that they're lost. You have to get lost before you can get saved. And so you have the the the Spirit of God has to speak through through the Word of God to your heart. And when the convicting power of the Spirit of God grips that and shows you that you're lost, Lost. I when I walked the aisle that night in 1962, there was one thing I was convinced of. I was a sinner. There wasn't any doubt about that. I knew what I was I knew my mouth betrayed me. I knew that my actions betrayed me. The places I went betrayed me. I knew I was lost. And that's the work of the Holy Spirit. Shows you that you're lost. Need to be saved. Will you go with this man? You're maybe here tonight and and you've never been saved, then tonight may the Spirit of God convict your heart of your s your lost condition. Do something. Tonight you need to go with this man. You say, well, yeah, if I go with this man and and I go to the cross and and I trust Christ in my Savior That's enough, isn't it? I mean, I get saved and that's all there is, right? Not according to the word of God. Uh there's there's other things that needs to be done in here somewhere, not to get saved. But boy, when you get saved, you need to have a place to go and some people that'll encourage you and and be a blessing to you, a place where you can learn. That's called a church. Isn't that something? God is He's thought of everything. He knows exactly what we need as as Christians. And so this this matter of being born again by the Spirit of God, that's the work of the Holy Spirit The Holy Spirit, he's going to lead you to a church. And here's the thing. There's a lot of buildings out here that have C-H-U-R-C-H written across the front of it. And uh They don't they don't believe this book. They don't believe that Jesus is the Son of God. They don't believe in miracles. They just believe in a humanistic society that humans have the answer for everything, that man, somehow or another, can pull himself up by his own bootstraps and be a good person. But you know those people do not have a place to go called heaven. Will you go with this man? You've been to Calvary and you're s you've you've trusted Christ as your Savior. Now will you go? to the next place that's the church. The church. And if you go to the church you're gonna find it so it's gonna be a place of prayer. I remember Peter was in the in the jail back in the book of Acts there, remember the story there? He's in the jail and Uh what happened? The church began to pray. And when the church began to pray, things started happening. All at once there was an angel appeared in the In the cells there. The doors begin to just open up. And Peter walks right out. No problem at all. I'm saying that that God has a a place for you. And it's not just any church. That's the that's the thing that that scares me to death is uh people b belong to uh I don't even like to call them church, I call them organizations because uh they've let less God out of the whole picture anyway. They're a formalistic s type of uh uh Of entity, I guess you'd call it. But the point isn't that the Holy Spirit didn't have anything at all to do with those people going to that because they'd never ask him. They don't have the Holy Spirit living within So you need to be be sure of two things. First of all, when you go with this man to the to the to Calvary, be saved. If you decide to go there, then the next place you you need to find out a place where where God can train you up uh to be his kind of a person Well my eyes are just seem to be really bugging me tonight. I don't know why. But uh It'll be, first of all, a place of prayer. The house of God will be a place of prayer. And it'll be a place of His presence, where the Spirit of God is. There's there's liberty. And there's there's there needs to be there needs to be a liberty within the if if it when you wal uh listen, I've been in some churches And uh before I was saved. And and uh everybody's sitting there like this You don't know whether to sleep or dead. You just just setting there like that. Never look around, never welcome anybody, never shake anybody's hand, never you know, it just Just that solemn, you know what's it they mean they look like they're dead. Well, the thing is, I think they are. They're spiritually dead. The Bible says they're dead in trespass and sin. So, uh hard to hit spirits spiritually speaking. But it needs to be a place in the presence of God where the where there's where the spirit is, there's there's liberty And the next thing, it ought to be a place of praise. Now, listen, you've heard me preach an awful lot through the years. Get this up here where I can read it. But uh and we've had a lot of revivals Praise ye the Lord, for it is good to sing praises unto our God, for it is pleasant, and praise is comely There's nothing wrong with saying amen. There's nothing wrong with saying, praise the Lord. I I just don't I don't feel comfortable and I and don't get me wrong, because if somebody I guess if somebody decided that they wanted to get up and run around the auditorium here, I'm not going to stop them because I'm not big enough to stop them anyway. But usually that type of a of an anti usually just is drawing uh uh attention to that individual. But I do believe in, you know, amen. Praise the Lord. Hallelujah. You can even say it louder, hallelujah. You know. Everybody'll look at you, but it's okay. It's okay, nothing wrong with it. Listen to this. God thought that that praise is so important. That in the last, the very last thing in the book of Psalms, he says this. Praise you the Lord. Praise God in his sanctuary. Praise him in the firmament of his power. Praise him for his mighty acts. Praise him according to the excellent his excellent greatness. Praise him with the sound of the trumpet. Praise him with the psalters in the s in the harp. Praise him with the timbrel and the dance. I'm reading it. I'm reading what I said. Praise him with the stringed instruments and organs. Praise him upon I let the preacher explain that one to you. Praise him upon the the loud cymbals cymbals and uh praise him upon the high sounding symbols. Let everything that hath breath praise the Lord Praise the Lord. Praise you the Lord, it says, over and over and over and over and over. Nothing wrong with saying praise the Lord. I assume women read that too. Uh lose half my audience? No. I just I just don't think I don't think it glorifies God for s for somebody to make a big show of things, you know, and hallelujah, glory to God, dance around and jump around and all. I just don't I don't you know, that's me. That's me. Maybe it's Maybe that's just me and nobody else, but that's how I am. But praise will be a part of the service. And that's one thing that's missing in these liberal churches. You go in and everything is so somber and everything is done just this way. And you can never have a an extra song to do a chalk drawing because that would be messing up the schedule. You understand what I'm saying? Here we mess up the schedule every night. I don't know whether that's good or bad. Alright, let's let's get on in here once more. And uh we gotta close this thing out. I'm I'm running over time. Uh now I forget where I was at. Hold on now. Okay. All right. Once you get settled into uh a good Bible preaching, just like this church here. I thank God for this church. And I I know y you guys do too, and and uh you're not you're not ignorant to what God's doing in this place. This is an amazing place to be. But the next place that God wants you to be He wants you to follow the Holy Spirit. Will you go with this man? How many have already been to Calvary? You see your hand? Amen. All right, yeah, you can put 'em down. How many of 'em went to the next step. So, okay, yeah, I think the church is important. It's part of God's plan and and I want to be a part of it. Amen. Alright. And here's the next place. You ready? Uh-huh. He's going to take you to the community. You serve through the church in the community. He that wineth souls is wise. There's so many different verses you could go to. There's and and there's a few of them that I could quote. He that wineth souls is wise He that goeth forth and weepeth, bearing precious seed, shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bearing his sheath with him. There's so many verses of scripture that has to do with this matter of witnessing and and and Yeah, soul winning, winning people to Christ. We don't want to leave that part of it out. Will you go with this man? We ought to make a commitment that we that every day, every day we spend time witnessing someone, talk to someone. And then the final place. I didn't spend much time on that because we're running a little bit over for me, and my throat's getting sore. But the next place, if you'll notice I have alliterated this message, the cross The community. What was the other one? Oh wait a minute. I I'm just the church. Across the church and the community And uh then the last one there. It's a a far country. I like that because uh it's over in the book of Hebrews. It's Abraham looking for a city. Abraham looking for a city whose builder and master is God. I don't know about you, but I'm looking forward to the end of the road, aren't you? I mean, I I I don't want to die, that's for sure. I d I love life and uh and it's been good to us. But you know, I l I look forward to that day when I hear the trump of God The trumpet of God and the voice of the archangel and God saying, Come up hither. Going up and seeing him face to face, behold what manner of love the Father has bestowed upon us. We should be called the sons of God. Wow. That's such an amazing thing. And that that's that far country. In my mind's eyes, I've I've painted it many times in my mind. And it never comes out on paper and never comes out in the on the choke on my in in my paintings. But I I see it I I see a I see a city with a with a uh an emerald rainbow. That's what the Bible says. And a a city of gold. And I could see the trees, the trees that were on either side of the of the of the the road that that goes up through that golden city. And I can see that there's a a river of life runs right down through the middle of it. It has all kinds of uh fish in it. You I guess you can catch them, I don't know But I know this that's a special place that God has prepared for every one of his children. And I'm telling you, I look forward to that day. I I want I want 1962. Holy Spirit said, Will you go with me? I said, I'm all yours. And he said, Okay. All right. There's a little old church getting started down in Oakland there. You go with me there? I said, sure, I go there. That's where you want me to go. I said, okay. Oh, Brother Ed, Brother Wilt, so good to meet you. And then uh Brother Will said uh You know, uh, I go out Disney every every week. Would you go with me? I said, sure. We went out and started soul winning. That was the first first time I'd ever gone any place, soul winning, witnessing. Now I've got the last one to go to. I'm not in a hurry. But I'm ready. I'm ready. Father in heaven, you've been so good to us. Thank you. Thank you for the service tonight. I ask you to bless the chart drawing now as we show it. Especially, Lord. I ask you to speak to these people's hearts. They know where they are in this message, and maybe there's lots of things that I didn't even didn't even say about that needed to be said. That you'll bring it to their heart, I know. Bless our time as we watch this chalk drawing in Jesus' name. Amen. And amen.