I want to say this. I really appreciate Brother Jerry and Connie's faithfulness to the Lord all these years. And um uh they know a little bit about what they're singing about there and uh appreciate their faithfulness. If you would take your Bibles, turn back to Esther chapter number three. Esther chapter three. We had an exciting thing happen this week. We um Uh brother Chip Paul with Beacon of Truth, one of our own is down there print running those presses for uh Beacon of Truth down in Florida, he was able to bring up our new paper cutter. And uh we got that on Thursday And uh real excited about that. The thing's up and running. So that what that means is we'll get all the raw materials for our Roman salvation booklets And we will be able to in-house here assemble them, collate them, assemble them, staple them, cut them, box them, and ship them out, Lord will, and directly from here out to the mission field. And so be able to do all that in-house. And so what a step up. I tell you, I am so pumped. Thursday night I just laid in bed with visions of Roman salvation booklets in my head And uh just excited about what's going on. So uh and I I've got all these plans. I tell you what, you thought we were busy before, you ain't seen nothing yet. I got plans But uh what I'm hoping that we'll be able to work out and pray about this is uh maybe uh we could take a year, put sixty, eighty thousand Romans booklets together, have them completely package and ship them to the field and then be able to take a team to that field wherever we're sending them and take a week or ten days and then distribute them throughout that area until we get in on the whole process And so be be much in prayer. And um I'm I'm really excited about that. Esther, chapter number three, if you would notice with me. Verse number four. Esther chapter three and verse number four. Now I believe, and I'll explain myself here a little bit, and I'll probably restate this, but I really believe that this verse here, in fact, this one phrase in the verse will explain to us the book of Esther, what the whole book is all about. We think it's about a we think it's about a beauty contest and this girl and um uh getting uh reaping what you sow and things turn around all that. It's really not. Look at verse number four with me. And uh I'll read the verse and then I'll highlight the phrase. It says, Now it came to pass, when they spake daily unto him, he hearkened not unto them. Now we just read how that Haman, this wicked man He's been number two in the in the in the kingdom. He's been promoted to this exalted position. King Ahara man, I can say that name all the time, except when I get up in front of you King Ahasarus has commanded that everybody bow down to Naaman, his number two God. Now you need to understand this is not just an act of respect. You know, it's one thing to act of respect. I know in the Orient, they'll uh they'll kind of bow out of respect. They're not worshiping that person, they're simply showing respect It's their their their custom. Well this is far beyond that. When they're bound down to uh Haman, it is Tanamount to acknowledging him as deity. And so Mordecai says, I'm not going to do that. I am not bowing to anybody but the Lord Jesus Christ. I am recognizing no deity but the Lord God Jehovah. Man is not God. Never has been, never will be. And so that's the context. Now look here what happens. It came to pass when they, the other servants in the king's palace, spake daily unto him, Mordecai. He hearken not unto that. I'm not listening to you. I mean, they're all over him to bow to Haman. That they told him um And it came to pass when they spake daily unto him, and he hearkened not unto them, that they told Haman, the servants go and run and tell Haman, Hey, Mordecai isn't bowing to you. Now look at their motive to see whether Mordecai's matters would stand. For he had told them that he was a Jew. It's one thing to say I'm not going to do something. It's a whole nother thing to actually not do it. And here's my question. This is what the message is. Will your convictions stand? They wanted to know, will his convictions stand? When he finds out and the pressure comes down, is his convictions going to stand or is he going to cave? And that's my question this morning. Will our convictions stand? Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the Word of God. I thank you, Lord, for the testimony of some tremendous men and women throughout Scripture, throughout history who were faithful to you even to the point of death. And I pray you would use Morikai's testimony here to challenge us in this day and age. As we see this old world, things uh waxing worse and worse. As we see the animosity towards our faith increasing, I pray, dear Lord, that you would help me and all of us as a church. That our convictions would stand and we would trust you and obey you. So please fill me with your spirit, is my prayer with all my heart. I yield my will and present my body anew I pray, dear Lord Jesus, that you would speak through me with your Holy Spirit and help us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. The Bible is a fascinating book. If you're not in the habit of reading a Bible every day, you really need to do that. There is uh I don't think Hollywood has come up with anything as fascinating as what God has given to us in the pages of the Bible Uh some of it a little tough to understand, get through. Yeah, there's some genealogies and all of that, but that's there for our benefit. You can get something out of it. And uh but the Bible is a fascinating book, and the book of Esther is a very unique book. Now I don't know the crowd here this morning, I don't know how many folks here have ever read the book of Esther. I don't know if you've ever read from the chapter 1 all the way through chapter 12, I think it is, 11, 12, 13 chapters here I don't know if you've ever read this entire book. Maybe you're familiar generally with the the plot behind the uh the events recorded here, but I want to I really think you ought to read it. In fact, I'll say this again I say it so often. Every Christian at some point in your Christian life, you ought to start reading that Bible through, Genesis to Revelation. All of it is given to us by inspiration of God, and all of it is profitable for us So, I'm not sure where everybody's at as far as your understanding of what the book of Esther is all about, but it is a unique, fascinating book. It is filled with drama This is a dramatic book. You have a king and a queen have a falling out, and uh he divorces her, and he has this beauty pageant of sorts, and he finds a new queen And lo and behold, the assistant here, he uh uh has a falling out with this queen's secret uncle that we didn't know about. I mean there's secrets, there's drama, there's evil plots. There's murder. Anyone getting excited? I'm trying to build this up. Y'all are just looking at me. It is a fascinating thing. I can't find any explosions, but other than that, it's a pretty neat story. And it's a historical event. In fact, the book of Esther is categorized, if you categorize the books of the Bible, particularly Old Testament It would be categorized as historical. That tells me this. The events recorded in Esther are accurate and true. This is not a story, as we've tried to make uh emphasize lately. These are not stories, these are accurate events, actual events recorded for us. uh in the pages of scripture. Who wrote who's the penman? We don't know who the penman is. We don't know who recorded this. However, we do know who the author is. Of course, the author of all of Scripture is God Almighty. The Bible is God's Word. So what we have here, and I got a little ahead of myself, but what we have here is we have an historical event, account of King Ahasarus. Ahazaris. He's the king of Persia. The opening pages of this record, this historical account, He divorces his wife. This is not a godly man. He doesn't love the Lord. He doesn't know Jehovah. He's unsaved, very pagan, very wicked man. And because of a few events there, you can read the first chapter. He ends up casting his wife away, divorcing his wife, and he begins a campaign to replace her They go through this process, and it's about a year-long process. And finally, this young lady, Esther, is chosen. Now, Esther has been raised by her Jewish uncle Mordecai. He is a Jew. They've been brought to Persia as um as uh uh captives God's chastening Israel. They're sent to Persia as captives. And here is Mordecai. He raised Esther. And Mordecai is a godly man. He's a Jew. He fears Jehovah with all his heart. He is dedicated to the worship of Jehovah. He is dedicated to living for the Lord God. It's another character here, Haman. Haman is the king's chief minister. We read here in chapter 3 that Mordecai refuses to bow down to Haman. So Haman Initiates this plot to kill all the Jews. Because Mordecai is a Jew. He's very bitter and angry at Mordecai for not bowing down and worshiping him. So he says, Alright, I'm going to kill all your people. And kill all the Jews in the kingdom. Now he does not know that Esther, that Mordecai is Esther's uncle, and that the king's new queen is a Jew. The plot thickens. And so Haman makes this plot to kill all the Jews. Or the Kai prompts Esther to risk her life. as the queen and intercede before the king on behalf of the Jews. She does this knowing that the king could respond in a negative way and she could lose her life Well, Haman's plot is successfully overthrown. And uh the chew and the king gives permission to the Jews to rise up and uh defend themselves and the whole thing is turned around. The ironic part is, is Haman had built a gallows, had a gallows built to hang Mordecai, and as it turns out, the king ends up hanging Haman on his own gallows. And so if I haven't intrigued your curiosity here enough to read it, I I hope before the end of the message you'll get out and read this book. It's an amazing, amazing book in the Bible. Fascinating book. And I said at the beginning, the book of Esther is unique, and this is one way in which it is very unique. God's name is not mentioned one time. In the entire book of Esther. Not any reference to God at all in the book of Esther. Now that has prompted some throughout history to suggest That um this book ought not to be included in the Bible. What kind of book of the Bible would have and doesn't have God's name Uh it's the only book in all the Bible that doesn't r uh reverence the Lord in any way, shape, or form. So some people have suggested The book of Esther cannot be inspired because it doesn't have God's name in it anywhere. Others said, well, it ought not to be in the canon of Scripture, not to be included in Scripture, and because it doesn't reference God's name. However, There's a lot of chapters in the Bible that do not reference God's name. Are we going to take those chapters out? If God's name isn't mentioned in a chapter, are we going to take that out? There's a lot of verses That don't have God's name in. So what are we going to do? We're going to take those verses out? No, God's name is not mentioned, but I want to submit to you God's presence is very evident throughout the book. God's plan and God's working, God's power, God's providence is very clear through all the book of Esther. God is on the throne, God is working, and God is alive. And so though it may not use God's name and may not directly reference God, it is given to us by inspiration of God and does give us uh give God glory and uh points to his presence and power. So uh just by way of introduction we see here as we read the book of Esther We see God's unseen presence in the lives of his people. Here we have the Jews, God's people. They're in a foreign land. They're in a bad spot. They're under captivity and they have these ungodly people ruling over them and they're about to be you're about to see genocide take place as an entire group of people are going to be slaughtered and God intervenes in a miraculous way. And God protects his people and not only protects them, but he actually exalts them when it's all said and done, and the and God's people are honored. So What do we take away from that? I'm here to tell you, if you know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, you may not see God directly working in your life, but we can be sure God is working on our behalf. I can be sure that behind the scenes, my God is working and taking care of me and directing me and protecting me um uh in ways sometimes we don't always recognize. I thought of this the other day. We're talking with somebody and uh we said something about uh did you ever did you ever drive somewhere maybe somebody very slow got in front of you Or maybe there was a wreck and there was a detour or something happened, there was a detour, and you griped and complained about it. How about it? Confession is good for the soul. You know what that could be? That could be God putting that poke, and they're always from West Virginia. Did you ever notice that? That guy driving five miles an hour, God may have put them there. There may have been something would have happened if they weren't there, and you were just screaming down the road. God may have put them there to take care of us. Amen or not What I'm trying to say is this. I'm reading the book of Esther. God's name isn't mentioned, but I sure see the unseen hand of God working. On behalf of his people. And that is true for you and I. We can rejoice in that. Something else I see here, and this is just as I said by way of introduction, I see God's unfailing plan for his people He had promised them that they were going to spend a specific period of time in captivity, and then he would bring them back If Haman's plot would have been carried out, the Jews would have ceased to exist. They'd have been eliminated. They could have never came back. I'm here to tell you, regardless of how bad it looks, what God has promised, we can be assured, it will take place. He's not going to eliminate the Haman's not going to eliminate the Jewish people. God has a plan, and God's plan will be carried out. And so I find encouragement from that. And then the other thing I noticed: God's name isn't mentioned, but we see his hand here. He's unseen presence, he has an unfailing plan. But I notice this also: he has unlimited power. I mean, it looked bad. How in the world are they going to get out of this? But our God is all powerful. And our God is sovereign, and he can take the worst of circumstances, and he can turn them around and bring some good out of it if we will but trust him. We got you know we think, oh, there's a danger of overusing Romans 8. 28. Everything is, oh, Romans 8. 28, for all things work together for good to them that love God, to them are the called according to purpose I don't see how in the world you can overuse a promise of God. God has promised that even the worst of circumstances God, in his sovereignty and in his providence, he can turn them around and bring some good out of it. You say, oh, things look hopeless. As long as there's God on the throne, things are not hopeless. And so I praise God for it. So what a neat book. I hope I've stirred your interest a little bit and that you will take some time and be sure you read and study the book of Esther. Now, as I said a few moments ago I believe verse number four is the key to understanding the book of Esther. I read this in my devotions a couple weeks ago And I read that and I looked at that statement to see, in the middle of verse 4, it says, to see whether Mordecai's matters would stand. And I jumped up, and Kathy was in the other room. I said, Kathy, I've figured out what the book of Esther is all about. And it is not about a beauty pageant. It is not even about a wicked guy that's kind of a knucklehead and uh and that hates God's people. The whole book of Esther, I believe, and studying this, and I realize The whole book of Esther is about one man with convictions that he will not compromise. Everything from chapter 3, verse 4 on is a result of Mordecai's convictions not being compromised. His convictions standing. Everything we uh from there on is a result of that. Now, in chapter 3 here, there are three primary people that I want to introduce us all to. Again, kind of got ahead of myself here a little bit. But the first one we have is King Ahasarus. He's the king of Persia. He is the man. I mean, he is the final authority in this country, humanly speaking. He has absolute total authority. What he says goes He's very powerful. This is a monstrous nation. It is huge. And covering that whole area, including India and that whole section there. So he is a very powerful king of a mighty, mighty nation. And then we have Wicked Haman. We always refer to him as Wicked Haman. Anybody want to guess why we call him Wicked Haman? It's because he was wicked. Exactly right. I have no idea what in the world King Ahazarus saw in Haman. There are certain people in the Bible, I say this often, but there's certain people in the Bible that get under my skin. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Something like that. I know, like uh I can't stand Ahab. Man, I read it, I read Ahab. Now, you say preacher, you're supposed to love everybody. I can't stand him in Christian love. Ahab gets under my skin, just everything about him. Haman is one of those same people. I mean you read about him and you think this guy is bad news. Um I have no idea what in the world the king saw in this guy. Why would he exalt him? To the second most powerful man in the nation. I mean, he's his right hand God. I see nothing honorable In Haman. You read this very, very carefully. Nothing here is said about him that's honorable. He's not a hero in any way, shape, or form. He's not a great warrior. He's not really that intelligent as far as I can tell. He's not a just man. He's very unjust. He is not courageous in any way, shape, or form. Uh n nothing honorable about him. The only thing uh The only thing I see in Haman's life is a proud, arrogant, petty, vengeful man. So what in the world does the king why would he promote somebody like this? I mean, uh, and so I got thinking, I don't I don't know, and I got looking at some things. I came up with two possible reasons Why the king would want to promote somebody as petty as arrogant, self-centered, juvenile Did I mention I don't like this guy? How in the what in the world? I can find two reasons. Look with me at verse number nine of chapter three. This might be a reason. Now this is where he's making the plot to kill all the Jews because Haman won't bow down to him. And Haman said unto the king, Ahasirus, There is a certain people scattered throughout, there is a certain people scattered abroad and dispersed among the people in all the providence of thy kingdom. And their laws are diverse from all people. Neither keep they the king's law. Therefore Therefore, it is not for the king's prophet to suffer them. That was verse eight. Now verse nine. And if it please the king, let it be written that there may be that they may be destroyed. Now all this is caused of Mordecai. Now look at this. And I will pay 10,000 talents of silver. Into the hands of those that have the charge of the business to bring it unto the king's treasuries. In other words, he's saying, I will finance this campaign to wipe out the Jews. Now we're talking hundreds of thousands, perhaps millions, of people scattered through this massive kingdom This is not an inexpensive endeavor. And so Heyman says, I'll finance this whole campaign. I'll pay it 10,000 talents of silver. Now, maybe, I got thinking, maybe the king promoted Haman because of his wealth. He says, oh, this is a rich man. This is a good guy to be tied in with. This is a good he can benefit me. He's got money. Listen to me, just because someone has money doesn't mean they're necessarily the kind of person you want to tie in with. Amen. Now I'm not saying everybody that has money is corrupt, but I'm simply saying a person's finances, let me put it this way, a person's financial status ought never determined their value in my eyes. Follow what I'm saying? Whether they're poor or rich, it's their character that ought to determine whether I want to be influenced by them or not, not their financial status. Am I making sense? So I don't know what the king saw in Haman. Maybe uh he saw a lot of money, and of course as an ungodly worldling, that's all he viewed and So it's alright, he's got money, I'll put him in the position. And by the way, let me say this. We ought never let somebody have an influence, an undue influence in a church simply because they have money I've been in that I've seen that over the years. Where somebody had a lot of money, oh they're rich. We'll exalt them. That way they'll give lots of money to the church. That is not it. We do not trust rich people to meet our needs. We trust God to meet our needs And then God uses people. So maybe it was because he was wealthy. I found another possible reason why the king might exalt Haman. Look at verse number 15 It says the post went out, alright? They sent out the command on a certain date, start killing the Jews. The post went out, being hastened by the king's commandment, and the tree the decree was given in Shushan the palace. Now look at this. And the king and Haman sat down to what? Drink. Maybe they were just drinking buddies. They were just old buddies from whenever, grew up together, and they're old drinking buddies, and sure, come on in. I'll put you number two. Whatever the case was. There was nothing honorable about Haman. There was nothing respectful. There's nothing courageous about him. So I don't see anything that he is qualified for this position. So we got the king. Very powerful man, ungodly, unsaved. Then we have Haman, a very wicked man, and he has this position he doesn't really deserve, at least in my estimation. Then we have this third character, Mordecai. And I described him a little bit, but Mordecai, from what I can tell, studying the passages here, the scriptures, is a very humble, godly Jew. He loves the Lord with all his heart. He is committed in a difficult circumstances in a foreign land. He is committed to living for his God. He's a man of great faith. is a man of tremendous courage. And I would like to be like Mordecai I would like to have his characteristics to be true in my life. He's in a land that is hostile to his faith. They're about to slaughter him and his people for no other reasons than the fact that they worship God. He's in a situation he cannot escape from. He can't just pack up and leave. He's got to deal with this. He has to face this. And he is commanded by his king, by his government. He is commanded to bow down to Haman as an act of worship. And Mordecai makes it very, very clear. If you would come back here, notice. In uh verse number uh two, all the king's servants that were in the king's gate bowed in reverence Haman, for the king had so commanded concern, but Mordecai bowed not Nor did him reverence. And it says, the king's servants, which were in the king's gate, said unto Mordecai, Why transgressest thou the king's commandment? Now it came to pass when they spake daily unbe hearken not unto them that they told Haman to see whether Mordecai's matters would stand, for he had told them that he was a Jew He says, I cannot do this. I will not do this. I am one of God's people. This is a conviction of mine. Now, I have two thoughts. Having all said all that, I want to get these two thoughts about Mordecai and his convictions. Number one, here's my first point: his position was clearly established. His position was clearly established. Look again at verse number two. Mordecai bowed not, nor did him reverence. He is not going to bow down. He has made that abundantly clear. Here you have a man That has settled it in his heart that he is not going to disobey God. He is never, ever going to bow down. To anybody but the Lord God Himself. He is never going to violate God's clear commandments. That was established in his heart and mind. Mordecai had established some Bible convictions. Now, this is my challenge to all of us Those of us that know the Lord Jesus Christ, our personal Savior, we ought to clearly establish in our hearts and minds Bible convictions. There is a world of difference between Bible preferences and Bible convictions People have preferences. Something is that I prefer. But if the circumstances is right and the situation is right, well, I'll defer those preferences. I'll put them aside and I'll indulge or engage in something, but this is my preference. I have some things in my Christian life that are preferences However, what Mordecai had, this situation with Mordecai, this matter that they're going to test and see if it's going to stand, was not a preference on Mordecai's part. This was a rock-solid conviction. How many people here are familiar with the name David Gibbs? Anybody here familiar David Gibbs, the great lawyer, Christian Law Association? Their ministry has helped us a number of times in issues over the years, been able to hear them speak a number of times in some of y'all different meetings. Have had a tremendous speaker He back, I think it was back in the 1970s, had uh he of course he's before judges and in the courts all the time defending churches, and he had established the difference between a preference and a conviction, and the U. S. Supreme Court has actually upheld these definitions Let me just read briefly what he said about the difference between having a preference and having conviction. He said this. The U. S. Supreme Court has said That a preference is a strong belief that under the right circumstances can be changed Preferences are not protected by the Constitution. However, convictions are A preference is a strong belief, but a belief that you will change under the right circumstances. Circumstances such as, now listen to this Peer pressure if your beliefs are such that other people stand with you. Peer pressure, if your beliefs are such that other people stand with you before you will stand Your beliefs are preferences, not convictions. In other words, if other people are standing up for it, then I will too. If nobody else is standing up for it, then I'm not going to. How else would you say that? If it's popular, I stand with it. If it's unpopular, I don't stand with it. Does that not sound like some elements of Christianity today? Do we not know some Christians that if boy if there's other Christians there and they're speaking up, boy, then I'll speak up. I'm all for it. But if nobody else is, then we keep our our mouth closed. Come on, am I right or wrong? So a preference is something I believe and maybe believe strongly, but I'm willing to alter it or change it or abandon it. If the peer pressure is not favorable, or he goes on to say, family pressure. The family comes down on me Then I'm going to abandon my preferences. If I face a lawsuit for it, and I abandon it then it is not a conviction, it is a preference. If I face jail over it, and I am willing to abandon it rather than go to jail, that may be a preference But it is not a conviction. The threat of death. People do not die for preferences Under the threat of death, a preference will be abandoned. A conviction, on the other hand, is this A conviction is a belief that you will absolutely will not alter. Why? A man believes that his God requires it of him. Preferences are not protected by the Constitution. Convictions are. A conviction, this is what David Gibbs said, a conviction is not something you discover It is something that you purpose in your heart that I will or will not do. And he references Daniel when he purposed in his heart. Convictions on the inside will always show up on the outside in a person's lifestyle. To violate a conviction would be a sin Convictions will not change because it is the belief of the person holding them that this is what God requires of him. Convictions are not something you discover, but something that you purpose in your heart. Mordecai did not have a preference to worship God and God alone. It was a conviction. It was clear in his mind, it was God's will that God and God alone be bowed to and worshipped Here's my definition of conviction. I've used this over the years. This is my definition. A predetermined values and principles Based upon the Word of God that govern my actions and decisions. Did you get that A predetermined, ahead of time, I determine, based on the principal predetermined values and principles, based on the Word of God that are going to govern my actions and my decisions. In other words, I've ahead of time I've determined what the Bible says is right and wrong, what the Bible says I should do and I should not do. I determine that from the Word of God. Those principles, those things that I have determined from the Word of God, they become my conviction and they govern the decisions I make and the actions I take. They control me. My convictions control me. Every Christian, now get this, every Christian should have personal convictions Every Christian ought to go to the Word of God and determine what God has said is right or wrong. What God has said instructed us. commanded us we should and should not do, and we ought to establish those instructions from God Himself We ought to establish them to be convictions in our hearts and lives. You follow what I'm saying? Every Christian ought to do that. We as a church ought to do that. We ought to have some convictions as a church. Let me illustrate what I'm trying to say We have a conviction of as a church that the Bible is the Word of God And I would like to believe that that conviction is firmly established in our hearts and minds as a church that if the government or anybody else would come and say You must deny this book or you will go to jail. We would go to jail before we would deny the Word of God. Are you with me? They walk in here, and this is uh we you've heard this illustration no doubt over the years, but if somebody with uh uh force would walk in here with uh uh with weapons and line us up along the wall And they would say something to this effect: either you deny the Bible, deny Christ, or we will kill you. But if you deny him, we'll let you walk out the back door. I would like to believe Myself included, I would like to believe that there would be an element of us that have it clearly established in our hearts and minds that I will not deny Christ, I will not deny the Bible, and they can kill me if they want to. I will die holding to my convictions about the Word of God and the Son of God. Follow what I'm saying? You say, oh, what's the big deal in America today? We don't fix that. No, I don't think we're at that point, but I'm telling you, pressure's coming down And we need to decide ahead of our. . If we wait until the gun's at our head to decide whether it's a conviction or not, we're going to deny it every time. We've got to get ahead of time and decide. And so the word of God is a conviction. The Bible is God's word. This matter of salvation by faith. That ought to be a conviction in our heart. We were talking about this uh some of us a week or so ago, but there are different Christian quote unquote organizations around and different things we can get involved in, the ministerial association. Number of years I was uh called invited they were having a big men's meeting up at the at the uh college and they asked if I'd come and speak at it and it was a uh m anybody remember Promise Keepers back in the day they had that big thing it was a version of that and uh every church you can imagine, every denomination you imagine, they'd say, uh preacher, uh Pastor Lynn, we'd like for you to come up and speak to the man in the one morning session would We'd love to have you do that. And I had to say, listen, I'm sorry I can't do that. We have a conviction about salvation by grace. And I cannot, under any circumstance, share the platform with somebody who preaches a person is saved any other way than by grace. So and the more I tried, this is just an aside, but the more I tried to explain it to the fellow, the madder he got at me. And I said, I'm not trying to judge anybody, I'm not trying to condemn anybody, I'm simply saying this We have a conviction about salvation by grace plus nothing, minus nothing. I'm not going to identify with anybody that teaches or preaches contrary to that. It's a conviction. The Bible. Salvation by grace. We ought to have a conviction about preaching of the gospel. What if our government would pass a law, and this is very realistic, what if our government would pass a law and say churches cannot preach in the name of Jesus anymore? We have certain politicians in the Washington right now that are suggesting Christians need to change their beliefs to accommodate current social trends. We are not going to do that We have a conviction about what the Bible says is right and wrong. Well, they'll throw you in jail. They'll take away your tax exemption They'll shut you down. Do that if you may. We are preaching the Word of God as it is, regardless of whether it's okay or not. Firmly establishing convictions. Mordecai clearly established in his heart and mind and clear to everybody This is what I believe. This is God's will for me. I will not bow down to that. I am bowing down and worshiping Lord God Jehovah and him alone. Now that principle needs to be applied in our hearts and lives and in our ministries that we have some Bible convictions About the Word of God, about the plan of salvation, about preaching the gospel to the unsaved What if our country says it's illegal to proselyze, it's illegal legal to win souls, it's illegal to evangelize? We've got nations uh Uh Kazakhstan is changing their laws and making it harder and harder to win others to Christ. So what do we do? We just won't tell people how to be saved if it's illegal No, no, no, I'm saying to you, conviction tells me it's better to obey God than man. And if they throw us in jail, we'll witness in jail And if they ha and they put us on the electric chair, we'll witness from the electric chair. So Paul did, didn't he? I said, you shall not preach in this man's name anymore. We'll throw you in jail. He said, he ended up in jail. You know what he did in jail? He won the jailers to the Lord. And so, convictions, firmly established convictions. We ought to have convictions about the church. I believe with all my heart the church is the body of Christ. And as a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, I am to be a part, an active part, in a local body of Christ. I believe that's a conviction of mine. And uh I would like to think that the conviction of ours that uh uh that uh the church is the body of Christ and I have a responsibility as a child of God to be a Part of the body of Christ. You know, we have brothers and sisters in Christ around the world. It's illegal to assemble together. You know what they do on cold days like today? They bundle up, they find a secret barn or somewhere, and they'll quietly go in there, sing with their voices low, preach with their voices low, have lookouts out. You know why? Because it's a conviction that they're going to assemble together in the name of Christ as a body of believers. It's a conviction. They go to jail sometimes. We're talking about India and some of the things there a little bit. So convictions about church, about the Bible, about salvation, about preaching, about soul winning, about right and wrong We try to, and in our youth ministries, and it's true for all of us, we try to help our young people establish some convictions about purity. An intimacy between male and female. The Bible is very, very clear. I think every young person, and actually every one of us, ought to establish some convictions about being pure. And our interaction with others. Say people make fun of me and then people I'll I'll stand out. I'll be weird if I'm keeping myself pure and I'm modest and I don't engage in physical intimacy with other people that isn't my spouse I don't do that. People think I'm weird. People make fun of me and all that. Hey, a conviction says it doesn't matter. I'm going to obey God, whether it's popular or not. Sometimes guys will say to a young lady, they'll say something like this, Oh, if you love me, you love me, you would go to bed with me. If you love me, you would indulge this My response is that if he says something like that to you, I'd slap him in the face. It's a biblical response. I was hoping I'd get a little more support on that than what I did Listen to me. It's a time for Christians to establish some convictions about right and wrong. This world and the devil and the flesh is killing us. Mordecai said he very clearly established his position. This is what I am, this is what I'm doing, this is what I'm not doing. I am going to obey God. And until you and I as Christians establish some convictions in our heart and life, we are sitting ducks for the devil in this world We've got to establish convictions, convictions about right and wrong, about intimacy, about the home, about God's commands He said, preacher, I don't know about establishing convictions. I like what Dr. Lee Robertson told us years ago when I was in Bible college. He said this. He says, you need to get some Bible convictions And if you don't have any Bible convictions of your own, borrow mine till you get some. Oh, that's pretty good advice And so Mordecai here, he establishes, his position is clearly established. And then next thing I noticed is verse number four, and the pressure is immediately applied. And that's my second thought. Notice it says, It came to pass when they, the servants of the king, spake daily unto him, Mordecai, and he hearkened not unto them. What are they speaking daily to him? What are they saying to him? You better bow down. You better bow down. You're dead meat. You're the only one that isn't. This whole kingdom, you're the whole palace, you're the only one that isn't. You're some kind of weirdo. What are you a fanatic? Like you're hateful. You hate people. I mean, they're just on him and on him and on him. It says they spake daily unto him. And what'd he do? What's it say? He hearkened not unto them. So I'm not listening to you. So they go to Haman and say, Haman, Mordecai's out there. He won't bow down to you. He's this hateful guy. Mordecai, of course, gets mad, but notice why they told Mordecai to see whether his matters would stand. His faith, his convictions are being tested. Pressure is being applied. I'm here to tell you, anytime a Christian establishes Bible convictions, they are going to be tested. They are going to be pressured. You get on the job and you determine I'm going to have a testimony in this workplace. I'm going to do right. I'm not going to laugh at their filthy jokes. I'm not going to stop at the bar with them on the way home. I'm not going to flirt with the secretary. I am going to be pure. I want to do right. I want to please God with my life. I guarantee you. You get that mentality, you establish some convictions, I guarantee you, pressure is going to come down. You are going to be tested. Your convictions are going to be tested. We, I I mentioned this last Sunday morning. We live in a fallen world. How many people notice this world's pretty sinful? Anybody notice that? We live in a fallen world. This world is not a friend of yours and mine as Christians. This world is not out to help you and I have greater faith in God and to please the Lord with our lives. Brother Yoder spoke in Sunday school about the judgment seat of Christ as Christians will stand before God. This world is not out to help you and I get rewards at the judgment seat of Christ. We live in a fallen world. We have a sinful flesh that's within us. How many people notice that? We talked about that last week. This old sinful flesh. This old sinful flesh wants to do things that God says don't do. This old sinful flesh wants to think things that God says do not think. This old sinful flesh Wants to say things and retaliate and be hateful back God says don't do it. This old sinful flesh wants to say and do and look and act in ways that God says no. We live in a fallen world, we have a sinful flesh, and we are in a spiritual battlefield. You and I have a spiritual enemy, the devil, and all his devils. I'm telling you, they are out to take us down. Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may what? Devour. He is out to destroy your testimony and my testimony. He is out to destroy this church. He is out to destroy our testimony. He is out to destroy our witness And when you and I decide as a church and as individuals, we establish convictions in our life that I'm going to do what God says, I'm going to trust God, I'm going to obey God, I'm going to live for God, we establish that in our hearts of life. You mark it down, this old flesh is going to rebel, this old world is going to oppose it, and the devils of hell are going to fight that. I guarantee it. We live in a simple world. Now, the other side of that coin is nothing in this world is supporting us, is behind us. Nothing in this flesh is supporting it. Nothing in hell is helping me. However, We do have a powerful book called the Bible. And if I'll spend some time every day, if I'll get my nose in this book and meditate in it and incorporate it into my heart and mind, I can stand for God. Not only do we have the Word of God, we have the Spirit of God dwelling within us. The moment you and I accepted Jesus Christ as our personal Savior, the Spirit of God, Almighty God, the Holy Spirit of Almighty God took up residence. in our physical bodies. And we have the Holy Spirit of God that can enable us and empower us and fill us that we can live for God and be that testimony. And I say this so many times over the years, but that just blows my mind that God Almighty dwells within my body. How many folks here? You're saved and you know it. Say amen. Know for sure you're on your way to heaven, huh? You know for sure? The moment you trusted Christ, God Almighty, and the person of the Holy Spirit moved inside your body. Right now, you're sitting there in your body, it's God Almighty The person of the Holy Spirit. This massive chest you're looking at right here. Uh Holy Spirit of God inside. And uh pretty impressive, huh, Brother Yoder? Yeah, thank you. But I've got the Holy Spirit of God pulling for me. I've got the Word of God pulling for me. I have, hey, here's another thing. I've got the local church helping me. Tell you what, I can't emphasize enough the importance of the church. We live out in this world that is so opposed. That is so against us. My own sinful heart is against me living for God. And I can come to a place on a Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night. I can come to a place with special meetings. on Tuesdays with fingerprints and different things. I didn't get around God's people. You know what I found out? God's people encouraged me. We're on the same team. We're after the same thing. We're trying to help each other. Live for God and do right. And God has given us the church. My daddy in the dark days of uh when I was young and in the dark days of the home there and my dad got saved and he's living for God. He's out in the road driving truck, he'd leave Sunday nights, he'd get back Friday He'd say I was out in that road and he said the devil would be all over me and my heart would be broke. He says, I needed to get to church on Sundays just to get around God's people and just to sing the praises of God And just to hear God's word preached, I needed that to live for God and be what he wants me to be. God's given us the church to help us live for him. He's given us the word of God. He's given us the Spirit of God within us. So when we establish, we decide, I am going to live for God, I'm going to do right, no matter what the cost. You mark it down. It's going to be tested. This whole world wants to know, are our matters going to stand? Are our convictions going to stand? I thought about Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Tell you, you talk about three cool kids. You talk about some heroes. Listen, we are not bowing down to your statue. God can deliver us, and even if He doesn't deliver us, we're still not bowing down. Go ahead and throw us in the fire. You know what that is? That's conviction. It's conviction. And it was tested. Although, yeah, in that case, we're cranking the heat up seven times hotter. Here's another chance. We ain't doing it. They threw him in the fire. And thank God God stood with them. I thought about when I read this about Mordecai, see if his matters would stand. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, they wouldn't bow down to that false idol. And they said, all right, are your matters going to stand? We're going to crank the heat up. You still not going to bow down? Thank God their convictions stood. And God honored them. I thought about Daniel. Daniel and the lion stand. Nobody praised anybody but the king. Daniel said, I got a conviction about that. I ain't praying to your king. I'm going to keep praying to God. Oh yeah, if you do that, we'll throw you in the lion's den. The Bible says, as his custom was, three times a day, he bowed by his window and he prayed exactly as God instructed him. And they threw him in the lion's den. He didn't escape. God didn't keep him from the lion's end. But God saw him through it. So the pressure is going to be applied. I thought of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. I thought of Daniel. I thought of Joseph Remember Potiphar's wife? She's all over him. Now, here you have a young man. She no doubt is a very attractive woman. She is all over him. Come on, sleep with me. What'd Joseph say? I cannot do this wickedness against God or your husband. I will not do it. What's that? Conviction. Oh yeah? Well, you're going to jail. I'll go to jail before I go to bed with you Conviction. Someday I'm going to preach a sermon. I'm going to call it Joe Said No. I come up with great titles, and then I can't think of the sermons that go behind them. I love about John the Baptist. Remember John the Baptist? Herod has his brother's wife And John's preaching again. That's wrong. That's adultery. That's wrong. Oh, yeah, we'll behead you if you keep saying that. It's wrong. Pew. He gave his life. You know what that is? That's conviction. And that is conviction being tested. That is conviction being tried. They told Paul and the apostles, if you preach in the name of Jesus, we're going to scourge you, we're going to beat you, we're going to throw you in jail. Because we're preaching the name of Jesus. That's a conviction. You can do what you want to us. It's a conviction. It's a conviction. I read this and I thought that explains the whole book. This whole attempt to slaughter the Jews, this whole scheme of everything, was the result of one man. Said, I am not going to violate what God has said. I am going to trust God and obey him. You do what you want. And God honored that. I don't have time to talk about how God honors us when we stand for our convictions. But I'll tell you one thing, standing for our convictions, doing right no matter what the cost brings peace to my heart. I would far rather have some peace in my heart than be free out there disobeying God. There is a heavy, heavy price to pay when we disobey God. Say, well, I'm saved. I go to heaven. Yeah, you go to heaven, but read Hebrews chapter 12. We'll face a heap of chastisement. There's peace in my heart when I do right, regardless of the cost. There's respect. There's promotion in life. Every one of these men and women that stood for God for their convictions, every one of them, God promoted them. God honored them. Everyone. And then there's a positive influence. Every one of these men and women through the Bible that stood for their convictions had a profound influence on their world. And weren't necessarily popular at the time, but they were highly respected. And God honored them. God honored them. Years ago, and I've mentioned this a number of times, many, many years ago. Uh, I was in a wedding and they told me before the wedding They said, Dennis, and it was a family, and they said, uh, they said, in the wedding, we know you don't drink. And by the way, Christians ought not to drink. They said, we know you don't drink. So when we do the waiting time with the with the toast, we're not going to put champagne in yours We're gonna put ginger ale and it looks just like champagne, so nobody will know What am I going to do? I'm not drinking liquor, but it sure looks like I'm drinking liquor. I'm not disobeying God. Is there anything sinful about drinking ginger ale? No. I'm not breaking any commands. But it sure looks like I am. So we had the wedding and I said they said all right said that and I said um so we did the wedding we're on the way to the reception I'm in the car I don't know any of these people I'm sitting in the backseat there I've only been a Christian not too long I'm sitting in the back seat kind of looking out the window and they got rock music playing this going on. I'm sitting there and lo and behold they break out a bottle of, I don't know what, rum or something. Passing around. Person beside me hands it over to me. What am I going to do? I'm in a car. Nobody would see me. What am I going to do? So no thank you, I don't drink. What? Y'all listen to me? Come on, take a swig. So no thank you They said, come on, what are you? Some kind of funny dog. I said, No, I'm a Christian. I don't I don't drink. I'm not going to do that. And I'm telling you, they harassed me the whole way. I said, I won't do it. See, why are you telling us? I want you to know what a great guy I am, how amazing I am No, I'm trying to illustrate something. We got to the wedding. There it was. Sure enough. That glass was there. I smelled it. It's ginger ale. So it came time for the toast. Everybody picked theirs up. How's the old Fuddy dud? Sat there with my hands on my lap. They all did their little toast. So I'm not going to do it. Now it's time for the dance. You got to dance with the uh uh what's the ladies called? Bridesmaid. You gotta dance with the bridesmaid. This is gonna be wonderful. Get out in there and dance. I said, I'm sorry, I'm a Christian. I sat there in the corner all by myself and they're all out there dancing. I looked like an idiot. People thought I was an idiot. I tell you, I walked out of there with a clean conscience I felt like I had pleased my God. Did I like being a fool? Did it would I like to have been accepted? Sure. I'm more c I was more concerned about God being pleased with my actions than anybody else being pleased with me. with my actions. I'm not saying that to say I'm something I'm and I assure you I had my times where I didn't live up to my convictions like I wished I had. I didn't drink liquor, but um Some areas where I wished I'd have done better than what I did. But I am trying to say this, Mordecai, his conviction stood They stood. Now you and I need to get to the point where we decide what is right and wrong. We need to decide, is this pleasing to God or not? And if it's pleasing to God, need to say that is my commitment. I am going to do right. I'm going to trust God. I'm going to follow His instructions, whatever the price may be. Amen? I think the day and age we live in it becomes more and more important. Father, I pray you'd take these stumbling words, and maybe you'd challenge us in this day and age as we see evil men and seducers waxing worse and worse. And we see this old world turning its guns on your people, I pray you'd help us to have faith in you. Help us to stand for our convictions. And God help us to be true. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder if there'd be some Christians here this morning. Say, preacher, I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. God in his grace and kindness and mercy save my soul from hell. There's no doubt about that. And you'd say, preacher, I need to give attention to what my convictions are as a Christian. I need to get in the Word of God and establish in my own heart and mind what is right and what is wrong, what God expects and what God forbids. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I would be able to establish as a child of God Bible convictions. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, that's what I need. God bless you. A bunch of hands around Maybe there's some would say, preacher, I know what's right. I've got those convictions in place. And you'd say, preacher, pray that God would give me the courage and the fortitude that my convictions would stand. And that I'd be true to them and not compromise them. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? I need God's help and God's courage. God bless you. We're not trying to be legalistic. We're not doing any of this. We're saved by grace. But it's simply a matter of doing right, even if the stars fall. I'm going to do right. Maybe there's someone here this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure my sins are forgiven. I'm going to heaven. I'm not sure I'm saved. You'd say, preacher, pray for me. I'd like for God to help me know in my heart and life that God has forgiven me and that when I die I go to heaven and not to hell. Is there any like that this morning? Preacher, pray for me. I don't want to go to hell I'd like to know for sure that God has saved me from sin in hell. I'm on my way to heaven. Any like that by the uplifted hand. I'd like to pray for you also. How about it? Any at all? Father in heaven, bless now our invitation, Lord, and have your way in Jesus' name, Amen. Let's stand together heads of battle