He's got his artwork all over Western Maryland here, spilled over into West Virginia, and uh he has been a great blessing. How many people are familiar with the term, I think you are, but the term kindred spirit. Anybody know? No, when we talk about that. Brother Williams is a kindred spirit with myself and with our church. And um we just he agrees with me on just about everything. So he's very smart man And uh but no we just get along so well and appreciate him so much and God use them. Wasn't that a message last night? What a powerful, powerful message. Let's get our Bibles out. He's gonna preach to us now real quick I guess I'm on. I got it. Alright. Four chalk drawings done. Now let's find out who the deer hunters are. There's some of you sitting clear in the back And uh you are you're just you just miss it. When you set back that far and all this empty space up here where you could see the picture, you're just missing it. You need to come up where you can see it. How about it? Is that right? Huh? Here in the front? Yeah. Okay. How many like this from the best for the week? Let me see your hands. Okay, we got uh we got several. How many like the Bambi picture back here the best? Okay, all the sissies. And then the how many like the elk? All right, there are those guys Who's from Colorado? Stick your hand up where I can see ya. There you go. What are you doing in the back there? Did you look at the elk picture? That should have brought back, I mean that should have been h home there for you. Amen. Right. Hey, I'm so glad that you made it out tonight and and we got a good crowd tonight on Wednesday night. We thank the Lord for each one of you that made it. I really uh honestly, I really believe this that uh Each one of us are here by divine appointment. I don't think it's an accident. Uh you say, Well, it's Wednesday night you have to come. Well you could be, but uh you're still here. You're still here, and I'm glad that you're here. And and I look out and I see a lot of people that I I don't know, don't recognize, so that means you're visitors apparently. Uh and I don't want you to know we really appreciate you being out here and it it uh kind of makes things uh makes things special when you have visitors in the in the congregation. And we've got us uh I d I reason I the the reason I did a deer my wife said you did another Deer. Hey, I know I look like a giant Easter egg, right? That's not me. I'm white and black, okay? My wife is blue and if I'd wear it pink, but I'm not wearing pink, okay? I'm I don't have my masculinity in stock enough to do that one. Okay. But anyway, uh uh I wouldn't I just wanted you to know, I know what they look like. I just can't get one, all right. I know what they look like though. Okay, let's take our Bibles tonight and go to the book of Genesis, chapter 24. Genesis chapter 24. And we're going to start reading in verse 1, and we'll just read down through several verses there. And if you'll stand with me and do reverence to the Word of God. Genesis chapter 24 and verse 1. The word of God says, And Abraham was old and well stricken in age, and the Lord had blessed Abraham in all things. And Abraham said unto his eldest servant of his house, that ruled over all that he had, put I pray thee, thy hand under my thigh, th and I will make thee swear by the Lord th the God of heaven and the God of the earth, that thou shalt not take a w wife unto my son of the of the the daughters of the Canaanites among whom I dwell. But thou shalt go unto my country, and to my kindred, and take a wife unto my uh unto my son Isaac. And the servant said unto him, Peradventure the woman will not be willing to follow me into this land. Must thy needs bring thy son again into land where from whence uh thou comest and uh cameest. And Abraham said unto him, Beware that thou bring not my sons thither again. And the Lord God of heaven, which took me from my father's house and from the uh land of my kindred, and which uh spake unto me, and that swear unto me, saying unto thy uh seed, will I give this land? He shall send his uh angel before thee, and thou shalt take a wife unto unto my son from thence. And if the woman will not be willing to follow thee, then thou shalt be clear from this thy oath, only bring not my son thither. Again. Let's pray. Father in heaven, as we as we uh uh preach this message, Lord, we uh ask you to just to clear our minds and our thoughts so that we can be focused properly on your word and and Be sensitive to the Spirit of God and we ask you, Lord, tonight, to speak the hearts of per perhaps there's someone in our midst that uh does not know you as in the free pardon of sin, could not save beyond a shadow of a doubt if they were to die right now. I pray, Lord, that uh you'll uh speak to our hearts not only through the the preaching of the Word of God, but also through the message in the picture. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. And amen. You may be seated. I like this story because it uh uh it does several things. It's not it's not hard to see uh the typology in the in the uh uh in the in this particular story because you you see Abraham is a type of God the Father and you see uh Isaac is a type of uh God the Son. And then you have the servant, the servant, who is a type of the Holy Spirit. I notice uh there's a lot of confusion about uh the Holy Spirit today. uh confusing uh teachings uh that uh take people down the wrong paths. If you really want to understand what the teaching of the of the Holy Spirit has to do with, well you need to go to John chapter 4 fourteen, fifteen, sixteen and you'll find there where the Lord uh defines the purpose of the Holy Spirit and and it's not for some of the stuff that we see on television and and that we hear about. And I'm not going to get into that that tonight. But I noticed one thing down through this chapter that there's one word that keeps popping out when it's referring to this uh this person that uh Abraham has uh sent out to get a bride for his son. And that is the word servant. It's found in verse nine, and the servant pretty hand under his thigh. Verse 10 and the servant took ten camels. Verse 17, the servant ran to meet her. You can just go down through it and and here and there throughout the chapter you'll find the mention of the servant. Perhaps this is an indication that we can see what the Holy Spirit is really here for. the w term servant speaks of something, something special. You see, it seems like that uh that those who are so so caught up in the thing of the Holy Ghost And the Holy Spirit seemed to have the the idea that everything should point to the Holy Spirit. But if you read back there in the New Testament, there in John uh 145 fifteen sixteen, those chapters, you'll find that the the the purpose of the Holy Spirit is here for for uh one thing that it always does is it lifts up Jesus Christ. And it always points to him. The reason it always points to him is because, simply is because Jesus is the one who came to see seeking to save that which is lost. It is through Jesus Christ and his shed blood that a person has the remission of sin. And so the Holy Spirit is here to do something. It's here to convict individuals of their sin, to show them their lost condition, so that God can do something in their heart. If a person does not realize they're lost, they can't get saved It's just that simple. He came to seek and to say that which is lost. And so if you don't get lost, then you're not going to get saved. You say, well, I I don't think I'm all that bad. I know people who are Christian. Christians who claim to be Christians and they they don't seem to be I mean th I'm they're no better than I am. I mean I I don't do some of the things that they do that I think is wrong. And you may be right. You may be a whole lot more moral in your uh your outward living than uh than someone that that claims to be a Christian. But the determination whether you're saved or not has nothing to do with what you do on the outside. side. It's what you did with your heart in receiving Christ as your Savior. And so you need to keep that that thought in mind. But the Holy Spirit here In this story is uh is uh depicted by the servant. Now you get the picture, you know that today, that right now, the Holy Spirit is in this world today, and he is doing a he's doing something special. He's calling out a bride for our heavenly son. That is the Lord Jesus Christ. He's searching out a bride for Jesus Christ. You read about that in the book of Revelation. We don't have time to fool with that. that but uh at this point uh you need to understand that the reason the Holy Spirit is here is that he is seeking out a bride. He is he is speaking to people's hearts, he's dealing with individuals, and he is uh convicting them of sin, showing their lost condition, and when that takes place in your life, then you're ready to get saved. That's the wonderful part about it So let's let's look at uh uh look at what happens when the the servant goes into the area where Abraham tells him to go back to his people. And uh he finds himself at a well. And as he's uh as he uh uh is there waiting on the well, he pray And he asked God uh to send somebody along and he said the person or the girl that comes along that uh not only gives me a drink of water but also gets water for all my camels Why he said, I know that that's the one. Well, lo and behold, here comes a gal named Rebecca. And uh she must be a little sweetheart. And she comes and they they converse a little bit and the next thing you know we see Rebecca's and she said can I get you a drink of water? And I'm paraphrasing you. course and and uh and he said let me get water for your camels also. So doing, you know, that's where uh uh the servant realizes that that uh this is the one. And so he talks to her about going back uh to hi the parents and meet the parents and the family and and so forth and so that he can tell them all about Abraham and his son Isaac. And the quest that he's on, that is to choose a bride for Isaac, the son of Abraham. So that's where the story comes to, and we're now uh in uh uh In verse 53 of Genesis chapter 24. And it says, and the servant brought forth jewels of silver. and jewels of gold and raiment, and gave them to Rebecca. He gave also to her brother and to her mother precious things, and they did eat and drink, and he and the men that were with him, and tarried all night, and they rose up in the morning, and he said, Send me away unto my master. And her brother and her mother said, Let the damsel abide with us a few days, at the least ten, and after that she shall go. And he said unto them, Hinder me not, seeing the Lord hath prospered my way. And send me away that I may go to my master. And they said, We will call the damsel and inquire at her mouth. And they called Rebecca, and they said unto her, Wilt thou go with this man? And she said, I will go. And they sent away Rebekah, their sister, and their nurse, and Abraham's servant, his men. And they blessed Rebecca and said unto her, Thou art our sister, be thou the mother of thousands of millions, and let thy seed possess the gate of those which hate them. And Rebecca arose and her damsels, and they rode upon the camels and followed the man, and the servant took Rebecca and went his way. And Isaac came from the way of the well La Hyara, for he dwelt in the south country And Isaac went out to meditate in the field at eventide. And he lifted up his eyes and saw, and behold, the camels were coming. And Rebekah lifted up her eyes, and when he s when she saw Isaac, she lighted off the camel. For she had said unto her servant, What man is this that walketh in the field of And the servant had said, It is my master. Therefore she took a veil and covered herself. And the servant told Isaac all things that he had done. There's the story. The Lord today, through the Holy Spirit, is calling out a bride. And it's for that time when one day we'll be at the Marriage Supper of the Lamb. When we're called out of here according to uh 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, where the dead in Christ rise first, we which are alive in the rain shall be called up together with them in the air. And so shall we ever be with the Lord. It's it's a uh You know, this story just is a is special. But the question that uh is uh brought forth to Rebecca was this. Wilt thou go with this man. And that's the question I ask you tonight. And we're talking of this man refers to the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit of God that right now walks these pews back and forth and up and down these aisles and is permeating this service. The Holy Spirit is here tonight. He's here in the fr the person in each individual Christian who is But he's also here in His very presence, His uh omnipresence. He's here And he is dealing with people's hearts right now. You may not hear it because it's still a still small voice that he speaks with. It's not some loud clamor, you know, that that he's bombarding you trying to that's not it. It's that still small voice that gets down into the heart and begins to deal So the question tonight is, wilt thou go with this man? You say, well, where will he take me if I go with him? That's the message tonight. And here's the first place that he'll take you. The Holy Spirit will first take you to Calvary. That's the first place. He'll take you to count. What's he take you there? He takes you there, number one, through the conviction of the Holy Spirit. As I mentioned a while ago, the the one thing that the Spirit of God does is when the Word of God is preached, he always uses the Word of God. There's two things absolutely necessary In order for a person to be saved, there must be the preaching of the Word of God. Faith cometh by hearing and hearing by the Word. So the preaching of the Word of God. And the Holy Spirit takes the Word of God and jams it into the heart of an individual who And the Word of God then begins to do a work. Between the Spirit of God and the Word of God, it convinces that person of sin, and they become convicted of their sin. You don't hear a whole lot about conviction today. But listen, I can tell you it's a reality. And there's people here that can verify the same thing I remember the those days prior to the day that I trusted Christ as my Savior. I remember those vividly. Because I remember at night I'd I'd be laying in my bed and I would pray. Oh, before I was saved, I prayed. Oh yeah. I prayed that God wouldn't burn the house down while you know while I was asleep so I wouldn't go to hell. That's what I was praying. I was cr concerned about this thing of death and hell. Uh something that's never bothered me ever since I got saved. Isn't that wonderful? You don't have to worry about death and hell after you've trusted Christ as your personal Savior. But I remember those nights. I remember the days that that I'd go along and all the clatter and the clamor of of daily living would keep you uh be all right uh so you you didn't think about spiritual things, you know, your work and people you talked with and the the music you played and and all the things you did, you didn't hear this Holy Spirit because his voice is still that quiet, still, still voice. But all when things got quiet at night and you laid your head down in the pillow and the lights were out and all at once it's just absolute silence, then all at once there's something that begins to speak to your heart. And it's the Holy Spirit, and He's saying you're guilty. You're guilty, guilty, guilty. That's that conscience that the Holy Spirit has activated, and now you understand that you're guilty before God. That you've sinned against the holy and righteous God and sin, the wages of sin, is death. And that's not just a physical death, that's not what it's it's all in that verse. It's a spiritual death also, which is an eternal separation from God. So the Holy Spirit, perhaps even this moment, is speaking to someone here Wilt thou go with this man? Will you go to Calvary with him and let him take you there through the conviction of the Holy Spirit? There was a story about an old preacher down in the hills of West Virginia or Virginia, I'm not sure, but it was in that area. And uh the story goes like something like this. I may enhance it a little bit. That's my privilege as an evangelist. You know, I can make it whatever I want. But I'll try to stay basic enough that it tells it's the truth. But the preacher, as I understand it, they called him old Hawkeye. And and Hawkeye, I don't remember the last name, but Hawkeye was a nickname. that he was given and it was because the reason he was given that name is because he he it seemed like his preaching was so pointed that the people thought he was sneaking around looking in the windows and picking up good sermon material and preaching on their sins. And so uh they called him Hawkeye. And then every year he'd he'd make his he was one of these circuit riders. And uh today we called an evangelist. But anyway, a circuit rider and he'd go to different towns and preach. and they go to the next town and so forth. And so uh he was going to have a meeting in this particular town in the mountains there, and there was an old bartender there. Uh and his his name th they had nicknamed him Mad Dog because he was really a bad guy. Mad Dog Hagen was his name And uh he owned this saloon and of course uh all his cronies would come drink, get drunk, and that whole thing, and uh I mean he was was making his living off of uh off of uh the liquor sales. Well whenever this preacher'd come into town it it kind of hurt his liquor sales So he didn't like it at all. And when he heard he was going to have another meeting this year, why he d he got flung mad about it and decided he's gonna do something about it. So he w he thought he'd just beat up this preacher and send him on his way, you know. And so when the preacher that day started up through the the uh middle of town there and he's uh shaking hands with everybody, bless God. You know, we're gonna have a meeting out here. Just come on out the brush arbor, you know where it's at, and we'll just we'll just pray and and see what God's gonna do. You know, he was just all excited about the meeting. Well, bad dog Hagen heard he was coming up the st street so he went out to meet him. He stood in the middle of the street just like this, waiting for him to get where he could get a hold of him. And when uh old Hawkeye saw him, well he just made for him I mean he wanted to talk to anybody and everybody. And so he he walked right up to him. Perhaps he understood, maybe he didn't. I don't know. But uh it It's it's obvious the Holy Spirit was putting a protection on him because he walked right up and grabbed a hold of his hand, just jerked his hand out from his side and shook his hand, he said, Bless God he said, We're gonna have a meeting out here and we want you to come and and we know we're uh we'll know that you You really want to be there and and thank God for you and and and we'll be looking for you. And turned and walked away and mad dog Hagin he's he's standing there going He didn't know what to do, you know. And finally, when the preacher's walking away, he goes back in the saloon and and all afternoon he just fussed over that You know, I I'll bow I'll go out there, I'll bust that place up, I'll smack somebody I you know, he was really getting all tore up and already he noticed it His uh business had fallen off that afternoon. People were gonna go to the meeting at night and it would go smelling like a liquor store, see. And so uh uh long about uh right after dark when everybody came out of the field and they went out to the brush harbor to have the meeting. That's the way they used to do it. Why, uh uh oh w mad dog Hagin he said uh I guess it's about time for me to head out. So he he's gonna go out there to the brush harbor. He is going to bust that place I mean he's gonna break the meeting up, send that preacher on his way. So man, he starts down the street towards the the end of town there where the brush arbor is, and and he gets about halfway down and there's a storm that breaks through the mountains and s starts coming right up the right up the valley, right towards him. And lightning, thunder and everything, and next thing you know, why started pouring the rain down, so he just slipped under a uh the eaves of the house right there along the street. And he's right by his head, right beside a window there. And all at once a a lady came in and lit a oil lamp and he kinda slid over and he didn't want to be a peepin' Tom and and And so he just sort of slid over and and uh then he heard some talking in there and it was a little girl and the mother and the little girl uh she said, Okay, mommy, can can we pray now? And she said, Yes, honey. We can pray. Let's kneel down here. And so Mad Dog Hagin, he's listened to all this. And this little girl's right beside the window there, praying out loud. And And she said something like this. She said, Dear God, I pray that you'd help the help the preacher tonight as he preaches and and and then she looked up at mom and says mom can we pray for for mad dog hagin too mr hagin and she said yes honey you can pray for For him, and she just prayed a prayer that just melted heaven just about, and it sure did do a work in old mad dog's heart. He stood outside the window. And it wasn't very long until I thought at first maybe it was rain running down his face, but it wasn't. It was tears streaming down his face. He heard this little girl praying for his soul. his soul salvation. He stood there for a good while and he began to shake and he began to weep. He walked out into the rain and when he got out in the rain it just uh miraculously stopped and he went on out to the brother He walked into the end of it and and the uh the old preacher looked at the end of the the uh uh down the aisle there and he saw s uh standing at the end of it, Mad Dog Hagen. And he he could tell it was a different, whole different attitude about Mad Dog this time. It wasn't hands on the hip and the lower lip stuck out and and a big frown on his face, but rather it was a broken man. And the reason he was broken was because of the convicting power of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit had used a little girl's prayer to deal with a man's heart. God can use anybody and he can use anything thing to accomplish his will. The convicting power of the Holy Spirit. It's real. David had experienced it back in the book of Psalms. You have to turn back there uh to get it. But it's uh Let me see if I can find it now. It's in Psalm thirty two. In Psalm thirty-two, and uh in verse three, it says this Listen, listen now, understand just try to grasp exactly what he's saying here. He says when I kept silent, my bones waxed old through uh old through my roaring all the day long. When I kept silent, when I wouldn't confess my sin, when I wouldn't go to God and recognize my sinfulness, for day and night, thy hand was heavy upon me. Now I remember that. I remember the heaviness, the convicting power of the Spirit of God as begin to deal with my sin. And the burden became heavier and heavier and heavier. Until one night I heard about a revival meeting over here in Laughlin. And I went to the The OEB church there in Loch Lynn. And that night I walked the aisle and I received Christ as my Savior. For day and night thy hand was heavy upon me. My moisture is Turned into the drought of summer. And then something happened. He said, I acknowledge my sin unto thee, and mine iniquities have I not hid. And I said, I will confess my transgressions in the Lord, and thou forgavest. the iniquities of I since you see there is hope if the Spirit of God is dealing with you about your sin If you feel that urgency to trust Christ at your Savior, understand that's the Spirit of God dealing with you. Over in the book of Acts, there's another place over there where people the Bible says they were they heard the message that Peter preached and they were pricked in their heart. That's the convicting power of the Holy Spirit. So wilt thou go with this man? Will you allow the Spirit of God to take the word of God and convict you of your sin, to convince you of that you're a sinner? And to convert you, that is to change your mind, that would bring about an action that turns you away from sin. Will you go with this man today If you're lost here tonight, I beg you to listen to the Spirit of God as He takes you to Calvary and shows you that the only way to heaven is through the door. And Jesus said, I am the door. And if any man will open, he said, I'll come in and sup with him and him with me. That's what God wants. Fellowship with with With him, with you. That's what he wants. The purpose of creating man in his own image was so that there could be that fellowship between God and between his creation. But your problem, you see, if you're here lost, you're dead and trespassed in sin. And you need to have a rebirth in order to be able to fellowship with God. And that comes Through the Holy Spirit convicting you over sin and you receiving Christ as your personal Savior. Back in in Genesis channel twenty-four. Wilt thou go with this man? You say yes. I'll go with this man. And some of you have already made that choice. You said, Yes, I will go with this man. You went to Calphy, you trusted Christ as your Savior, and now you're seated here. before me, saved on your way to heaven. But that's not the end of the story. Wilt thou go with this man? I mean Don't just stop at Calvary. Calvary is just the beginning. That's where the road begins, uh this straight and narrow that we're supposed to be on. That's the road that's where it starts. to the Calvary. Now, now wilt thou go with this man? You say, well where will it take thee? Well I'll tell you where it'll take you. It'll take you to church. I know there's a lot of people say, well the church, you know, it's it's all that's you know the church age is all past and and the church has failed and doing its duty and so there. I want you to understand the church hasn't failed How can it fail with Jesus Christ, the head of the church? He's the head of the church. We're the body. He's the head. The gates of hell shall not prevail against the church, the Bible says. So how can it possibly fail? You say, well, it just doesn't look to me like we're converting the whole world. No, no. Not everybody's gonna get saved. I wish everybody'd be saved. God will he's long-suffering, not willing that any should perish. But I want you to understand something. There are going to be some who are going to go to hell. He's going to come back before some get saved. You're going to die before you get saved. Some of you are going to die before you get saved. That's just the way it is. People have died before they were lost. So just understand that the church, though, is still a viable organization or organism, I should say, because it's a living thing. The church is a living thing. And he'll take you to church. And it ought to be a church, a church of prayer. It ought to be a church of his presence. It ought to be a church that cares about people. Wilt thou go with this man? If you go with this man to church then uh it ought to be a church of praise also. Aren't you tired of dis uh old dead services where nobody smiles and everybody just sort of sets stiff and like this and just can't wait till the services aren't you tired of those kind of services You read the book of Psalms and particularly in the lat the latter Psalms there, you'll find that there's a lot of talk about praise in there A lot of talk about saying Amen or a Hallelujah. That'd scare most of us to death if somebody would break out with Hallelujah, you know. Everybody'd be all shook up, you know, and people start going starting to move towards the door, you know. But I want you to understand that That th there is a place for that. Also, there it you know, it let's face it, it can be overdone. Some sometimes all that uh sc screaming and yelling stuff is just to draw attention to themselves There's nothing wrong with saying amen when you agree with some point the preacher is preaching about. Or some song that's sung that speaks to your heart, you say, Amen. Praise God. That speaks to my heart. When something speaks to you, it's no shame to say amen or praise the Lord. I'm not very outspoken when I set the service. I hear the good preaching. I'll say Amen, and maybe the pr the person in front of me might hear it, might not. But I know it, and God knows it. I'm just saying we ought to be a church that praises God. There ought to be a church of His presence. Where the Spirit of the Lord is, there's liberty, the Bible says. And I thank God for this church here. There's never been a time that I stepped behind this pulpit that I didn't find and feel the liberty to preach whatever whatever God lay on my heart. The liberty to say whatever I need to say that the Holy Spirit Spirit has prompted me. Where the Spirit of the Lord is, there's liberty. Well, you see, I've uh I've joined the church. I've become a member of the church and and uh now what? Well, wilt thou go with this man? He's not done with you yet. Just join the church is not the end, just like getting saved is not the end. Getting saved is great. And you need to get saved. And that's the important thing. That's the most important thing. Second thing, hey, being in the house of God and being a part of the body of Christ, that's an important thing. step. There's a lot of things you do in the body of Christ that is you learn, the Bible says to study and show yourself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed. You know if I lived in this town Which I do a lot of the time when I can. Uh, I would I would go to this church This is the place I would go. You don't know why? I I've never heard and and you may close your ears, I don't want you to get big headed. I didn't say bald headed, I said big headed. I've I'm serious about this. There's two men that I I really lift up before God as far as teachers are concerned. that I've bragged about out of their presence and in their presence. One of them is my own pastor, Brother Bob Cutler. He's a he's a great teacher and a and a good And brother uh brother uh Dr. Leatherman is a great teacher and a and a great preacher You got a real Jim here. He's kind of rough and you might have to shine him a little bit, but he he's really pretty good. He's really pretty but I'm saying if I was lived in this town, this is a place I'd go. Because this is a place where you'll get taught the word of God, not just some some leafy stuff off the top, but down deep where it's where really counts where you learn about the Word of God. You'll learn about soul winning here. This church has more to offer. I've never seen such a a busier church than what this church is. Right here. Just something going on all the time. All the time. So you need to go with this man, Calvary to get saved, church. And what do you do? church. You serve through the church. You don't serve in the church. You serve through the church. Everything that you do for God should be through this local church. church. I don't give any money outside of our church. Everything goes through our local church. We uh my wife and I have supported uh Bibles to Muslims and also uh Bibles to Russia for years But we write the check to our church. It goes through our church. When we serve God, we serve through our local church at home. This ministry that we have here that we're presenting to you this morning This week is a ministry of my my local church back in Campbellsville, Kentucky. That's where we're pa where we're min uh where we're uh members of. Wilt thou go with this man? You say, well, if you go to church, isn't that enough? Nope. Sorry. Where are you going to go next? Well, if thou wilt go with this man, the Holy Spirit will take you to the community. Wow. See, there's where the ministry is. It's out in the community. I want us to go through some some verses of scripture. I want us to understand what we're doing out there. Why are we going into the community? What's the purpose? Well, the Bible tells us go to all the world and preach the gospel. Well, back in the book of Acts, it t it says that uh uh talks about going out uh into all the world and beginning at Jerusalem and in Judea and Samaria and the uttermost parts of the east. In other words, getting the gospel message out in the community is the is the next step. You're a member of the local church, that's great. But if all you're doing is coming in here and studying and then just going home, and you're at there's no ministry out in the community. then you're only fulfilling part of your your obligation to God. You're not really accomplishing anything for God, just sitting at home You say, Well, I give my money, well praise the Lord. You know, if he he can turn rocks into money if he really needs money bad enough. Your money is important as far as keeping and the lights on and all that, but I want you to understand the most important thing about you as a Christian is that you serve him in the community. Listen to these, listen to these verses. And I want you to understand, we're talking about the Holy Spirit. Okay, now where is the Holy Spirit? Right here. We're indwelled by the Spirit of God. That's what the Bible teaches. What know you not? Your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit. That's what the Bible Scripture teaches. So why in the world would he put the power of the Holy Spirit in the body of a Christian? To go sit and watch television all day? To just uh piddle around at home and and uh indulge yourself in whatever it is you some activity that you want to do? Is that you think that is all the I mean that's why God is living within your bosom and that's it? Now I want you to understand. He has equipped us for battle. Ephesians chapter 6 and verse 13 says, Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God? That ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all to stand. Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, and having on the breastplate plate of righteousness Your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace, and above all, taking the shield of faith wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked, and take the helmet of salvation, the sword of the spirit, which is is the word of God, praying always with all prayer and supplication. Do you understand you see what he's doing? He's he has equipped the Christian for what? To set home and do nothing? No, he's if he's equipped the Christian. For battle. This is a warfare. There's a spiritual war going on. It's not a a war with weapons of that are carnal, that is physical weapons. You don't take your your uh AK-47 out there and start blasting. That's not it. It's a spiritual warfare that we're battling. Well where is the spiritual warfare? The warfare is when you try to take something that Satan has. And what is that something? It's the soul of lost men. That individual who's never been born again by the Spirit of God, Satan has him, and he's directed him towards this place called hell, which is a reality whether you want to face it or not. He talks more about hell than he does about heaven. Read the book of Revelation at the end of that, talking about the great white throne judgment where they're tossed in the lake of fire which burns forever and forever, where the smoke of their torment riseth up forever and forever. Understand it's real what we're talking about. And because it's real, God has equipped the Christian to get out there. He has the breastplate of righteousness. He has the shield of faith, the helmet of salvation And he says, I want you to go into all the world. I want you to wage a spiritual warfare. I want you to win the souls of men. I want you to fight the battles and to grab those lost souls away from Satan. And put him into the camp of God Himself. That's our ministry. Psalm 126 Verse 5 says, They that sow in tears shall reap in joy. He that goeth forth and weepeth, bearing precious seeds, shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bearing his sheaves with him. In Proverbs 11, 30 says, the fruit of the righteous is the tree of life, and he that wineteth souls is wise. James chapter 5 and verse 20 says, Let him know That he which converted the sinner from the air of his ways shall save a soul from death and shall hide a multitude. Daniel chapter 12 and verse 2 says, And many of them that sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt. And they that be wise shall shine as the brightness of the firmament, and they that turn many to righteousness as the stars forever And forever. You got that? And there in Daniel, what's he talking about? He's bringing up this thing. He says, listen, there is going to be a time when the when there'll be a a resurrection. There'll be the righteous, and there'll be those who are lost and on their way to hell. And then he stops in the midst after he mentioned that and he says And they that be wise shall shine as the brightness of the firmament, and they that turn many to righteousness as the stars forever and forever. He that winneth souls is wise. If you're not a soul winner, you're not wise. Does that make sense? I was reading some illustrations and this is one I came across. A company of the harvesters or pickers are seated beneath the the shade taking their uh their noontime repass, lunch break. They see a solitary figure crossing the field with slow and irregular steps and he carries a staff before him. And now and then he trips and stumbles on unseen surfaces. They perceive that he's blind, he's he's out of his path also, and he has no guide. A little way off in the direction that he's following, there's a precipice, a sheer cliff of over a hundred feet. He moves on towards the brow, piloted with his staff as he fills himself along. Nearer and nearer he draws to the to the edge of that precipice. As he kind of approaches the edge of it, his stick goes beyond, out into nothing, and it slips from his hand. So he takes a step and bends over to retrieve it. And as he bends over, he falls over the precipice and obviously falls a hundred feet and is killed. They who watch him are silent and unmoved. No voice is lifted up, no hand is stretched out. They see him Pacing steadily on the awful verge, his staff, meeting no obstacle, slips from his hand into the abyss abyss He takes a step forward and stoops to recover it, and still no warning from the pickers. His foot overhangs vacancy and his His bending form leans from the brink. A wild cry and he's gone. What have they done? Nothing. Nothing. They did not put out his eyes. They did not lead him to the precipice. They did not push him down. They have done nothing. They have only neglected to do. And yet his blood shall be required at their hands. We're not responsible for the sins of others, but God will not hold us guiltless if we fail to warn them. Who are lost. Back in the book of Ezekiel, I'm sure it's a verse that you're all familiar with. Ezekiel chapter 3 and verse 18 says, This when I say unto the wicked, Thou shalt surely die, and thou givest him not warning. Nor speakest to warn the wicked from his wicked way, to save his life. The same wicked man shall die in his iniquity But his blood will I require at thine hands. God did not empower the Christian today. For his own selfish, self-centered reasons. He empowered the Christian that they might do the bidding of God The purpose for you and I to be here on this earth is to win the loss to Christ and to glorify God the Father through Jesus. Christ. If you're here tonight and you're lost, your first step is towards Calvary. That's where the Holy Spirit will bring you. He'll bring you to Calvary where you can trust Christ. Christ is your personal Savior, the Bible says, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved, for with the heart man believeth unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. Whosoever, whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. That's what God wants to do tonight. If you're here without him As many as received him, to them gave you power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name, he wants to save you. But perhaps you're a Christian. You've already been saved. You've been to Calvary. You've been even went to the church. But somehow or another you're neglecting the command that He's given to go into all the world and preach the gospel. It's easy to give her money, isn't it? Oh yeah, we can we can shell out of twenty if we don't have to go out visiting. We can you know, we can but we We just don't, it's just hard, isn't it? But listen, he has given the Spirit of God to live within your bosom that will empower you, will motivate you, will help you when you need the help. We need Christians who will see the need. Wilt thou go with this man tonight? You know, there's one more place that the Holy Spirit will tell me And if you're saved, you have nothing to do with it. And that's what we talked about just a little bit earlier. When the Holy Spirit lives within the bosom of an individual. It makes that individual always looking up, listening, listening for the trumpet. And one day the trumpets will sound And the dead in Christ shall rise first, and we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with him in the air. We will ever be with the Lord forever I don't know about you, but I look forward to that day. Wilt thou go with this man? Will ya? Will ya? If we'd have the lights out, I'll show this chalk drawing.