In during this revival time since Sunday, and so whoever invited him uh responsible for him being here, uh be sure and stop by the table. And I think there might be some others that are first time for this meeting And uh so you see us afterwards and and uh pick up whatever it is you're supposed to get and then work hard. Let's work hard the next two nights. Look, tomorrow it's not supposed to we're not supposed to have a cloud burst you know, at six fifteen. Uh it's supposed to wait till like midnight or something. So uh tomorrow night it'd probably be a little easier to get some of the peripheral people that m you know they're always kinda on the edge. They're not sure if they're coming or not coming. And it doesn't take a whole lot when you're in that situation uh to uh not be able to come. And then of course there are people, uh some especially some senior adults that uh a little bit nervous about driving in that kind of weather. Matter of fact, I'm not sure Nancy and I would have come if we hadn't been able to just walk across the parking lot. But uh we we we prayed about it and decided, oh well it's probably in the best interest to go uh you know love offering and everything, you know, and uh uh you know he's trying to try to work it out. But uh all kidding aside, I do want to say this. I don't know who's in charge of this side, but you're doing a good job. Whoever's over here needs to get with the program Who who's in charge of this side over here? Is it you chief? Is it chief back there? Are you in charge of this side? Okay, no. I'm just kidding. But you know this is a great I counted. I I took a quick head count And we have 120 people in this room. See, I count ears and not noses. And we double that way. And uh that's a good way to do it. But no, seriously, uh we've got there's there's about sixty, maybe sixty-one or two in here, maybe some in the nursery, I don't know, or or maybe somebody out patrolling the parking lot or one of the deacons out taking a smoke or whatever But uh well whatever whatever uh I believe I honestly believe I honestly believe that we could d that we can increase tomorrow night and Wednesday night. I believe we could have a hundred Wednesday night. I I really do. And uh and I want to encourage you uh to pray in that direction. Pastor's got amazing goals for the church for the days ahead and And uh he's working hard and w and uh and has a great burden and I'm excited about what the Lord's doing. And I tell you this has been a good week already for us. I mean this is just the second day, Sunday, yesterday, and then today, but I preached half the revival yesterday. I preached Sunday school, Sunday morning, Sunday night, that's three, and now I've got Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, that's three Three more, and uh tonight will be the end of it. And of course there could be something about Butler and who's that other team? Uh uh uh uh UConn uh playing tonight. I'll tell you you'll be home before that happens, I I tell you that. And uh so you'll you'll be okay if for those of you who are NCAA uh fans that but I tell you we have eaten so much this week We have just eaten. And in the room, here's this huge basket full of packed up. of refrigerator full and cupboards full. And then there was another basket that the previous speaker left and it was half full. And you know Being a very conscientious person, I feel like when people do something for you, you've got to show your appreciation and take advantage of it. And and so I've been working on it and and I'm gonna try not to leave as much as Ab Thomas did, you know, and uh but uh but we're we're working on that. It reminds me of the teacher who had the kids uh to come and give the did I tell you did I tell you about the the the the teacher that said it's show and tell in school and she said I know it's maybe a little politically incorrect, but we're going to talk religion. Said I want each of you to come and bring a representative from your religion and tell us about it And so the next day the kids showed up, three little boys decided to participate. First one got up, he said, Hello, my name is Abraham, and I'm a Jew, and I'm Jewish, and this is a star of David. He held up a star of David. Second little boy got up. He said, Hello, my name is Joseph, and I am a Roman Catholic, and this is a crucifix. And he held up the crucifix. Third little boy got up, he said, Hi y'all, my name's John, and I'm a Baptist, and this is a casserole. That's the way we Baptists do it, isn't it? Uh I mean, you know, we we rush out. But hey, between Sunday school and church on Sunday, the preacher had to get up and say, now we've got about fifteen minutes and there's some coffee and there's some donuts over there. Well, you know, again, trying to be a responsible person and not not offend your host, uh, and my son being a cop I'm not a cop, but my son is, so I had to get to where the donuts were. And and so I rushed back there and uh and got it got a donut That's that's kind of the way it is. Well let me just tell I I got I like blonde jokes. I I I've got to tell you a couple of things here. And uh and then I'll save I'll save a couple of them for tomorrow night, so I hope you'll be back and I've got some doozies. But uh did you hear about this this one blonde, unbelievable? She was uh she was at the Walmart And it was like eleven o'clock at night and the evening news was coming on. And she was standing there back in the electronics department, standing there at the counter, looking up at all those flat screen TVs. And she was just like mesmerized by it. She was just staring at them. And uh the folks uh that were watching her there and she and finally a uh a businessman walked up to her and he said, ma'am, what are you looking at there? She said, look at there So that guy is up on top of that tall building and he's threatening to jump and take his life and see the policeman over there trying to get close to him. and they're trying to talk him down and and they got his mama on the phone and and they're trying to get a phone to him and and the fire department's down below and they got a net they're trying to they're they're trying to save his life The man said, you know what? He said, I I believe that man's gonna jump. She said, Oh, I don't think he'll do it. And he said, I'll bet you twenty dollars that that man jumps. He reached in his bill fold, pulled out a twenty-dollar bill, laid it on the counter in front of her, and said And uh she said, well, I go over there at uh at uh Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church and Brother Leatherman really preaches against gambling, but this is too good to pass up. And she got out her twenty dollar bill and she said, okay, I'll take help on that. Just as she was about to lay that dollar, that $20 bill down, that man did a swan dive off that building to his death. Took his life. And she said, oh, I can't believe it. She said, okay, you win. Here's the money. The man said I'm not going to take your money here. I'll take mine, but I'm not taking yours. It wouldn't be right to win money over somebody dying. And she said, she said, no, no, a bet's a bet. Fair's fair. He said, ma'am He said, I I'm not going to take your money. He said, he said, you don't understand. That was on the five o'clock news this afternoon, and I saw it, and I knew that man was going to jump. She said, Well, I saw it too, but I didn't think he'd do it again. See, some people just don't get it. You know, it's all over their head and it's kind of like the the blonde that was that that was uh she was sitting there and she s was staring She'd been staring at the orange juice, the can of orange juice she'd been staring at for 20 minutes. Finally her husband said, Well, what are you doing? And she said, Well on the can there it says concentrate. You know. So anyway Take your Bibles tonight and we'll get right into the Word of God this evening. Psalm number 85 If you have your Bible, turn there and we'll stand together and read the scripture. I'll read it and you can follow along. Then we'll go back and reread the text verse together. This evening I'm preaching to you on the subject of revival. The Bible says in Psalm number 85 Lord, thou hast been favorable unto thy land. Thou hast brought back the captivity of Jacob. You know, God's been, yes, God was good to Israel, but God's been pretty good to America, hasn't he? What a blessed nation we live in. He said, thou hast forgiven the iniquity of thy people. Thou hast covered all their sin. Selah. God's been good to his people. God's been good to you and me. Covering our sin, forgiving our sin. He goes on to say, verse 3, thou hast taken away all thy wrath, thou hast turned to thyself from the fierceness of thine anger. Have you ever stopped and think that if God gave us what we deserve, what a horrible fix we'd be in But God looks the other way, it seems, so often. He really doesn't look the other way, but he forgives us and he puts our sin under the blood of his precious son. But he said this. He said invert look at verse number four. I'm sorry, look at verse number three. Thou hast taken away all thy wrath. Thou hast turned thyself from the fierceness of thine anger. Verse 4, turn us. He said, You've turned yourself from your anger. Now God, turn us, O God, of our salvation, and cause thine anger toward us to cease. Make something happen in our life that will get us going in the right direction. Turn us, O Lord. Put us on your on a straight path. Help us, Lord, to find your direction. Turn us, O God. Isn't that amazing They were literally praying for revival, weren't they, in their life? They said, we're going the wrong direction. We're doing things that anger you. God, please turn us. I wonder how many folks in this room tonight. Would be willing to be honest with God and say, God, the areas in my life where I know this is not a secret. This is not a secret. I may not know. The preacher may not know. Maybe nobody on this planet knows, but God knows. Where in your heart are in your life You're not on the track you ought to be. There's something. There's something in your life. Maybe an anger management, maybe gossip, maybe lustful thoughts Maybe going to the wrong places with hanging with the wrong people, listening to the wrong things, reading the wrong kind of books, watching the wrong programs, using the wrong language in the wrong crowd It's amazing to me how full-grown adult mature men will come to church and saying, oh hi, I love Jesus, and then down at the shop have to let out a few little cuss words to prove they're still men, you big sissy. Shame on you. I don't know what's going on in your life, but God knows. And these folks said, God, we know you know. You have every reason in the world to be angry with us. God, turn us. Turn us. Are you willing to ask God to turn you tonight? Are you are you will look 99% of the people that attend anybody's church on any given Sunday walk in that church house without taking 20 seconds to say, God, speak to my heart this morning. Do something in my life. Feed me from your words. I just don't do it. People come to a revival service on Monday night. Dedication. Thank God for you. I love you. I'm glad you're here. And I'm not fussing at you. I'm trying to get your attention. But I wonder how many said, God bless the preacher tonight. Lord, speak to my heart Lord, I know that there's a lot of people with a lot of needs, and I can see them pretty easily. You know, I can criticize others. I'm pretty good at that. But Lord, help me to really open my heart to you tonight. Do something. God turn me. Turn me. Pretty strong statement, isn't it, when you stop and think about it. Look what else he said here. He said, Wilt thou be angry with us forever? Wilt thou draw out thine anger to all generations? Look at verse six. Wilt thou not revive us again that thy people may rejoice in thee? Show us thy mercy, O Lord Grant us thy salvation. And by the way, they're talking as though they are saved people, the God's wife. So he's not talking about salvation uh in the context of we're lost on our way to hell, save us so we'll be on our way to heaven. He's talking in context that as your children Help us not to waste our lives, help our lives to be saved or salvaged, so they'll be useful to you You see the difference? See, it's a sanctification thing again. I'm sanctified. I said this before. I'm sanctified from the penalty of my sin because I've trusted Christ. I'm saved. I'm being saved from the power of sin in my life. And that's what they're talking about there. I'm being sanctified as I grow in Christ and as I go through life. I'm already on my way to heaven, but I've still got to live here for a while. And God, I need you to help me while I'm living here to live a Christian life. And then one day I'll be saved or sanctified from the very presence of sin. When I in heaven with Lord, no more temptation, won't that be good? But meanwhile, God left us here with those same tendencies because He wanted the lost world to see how God's people could be victorious. If they depend on him, I've got to read on here so I can give you a let you sit down. But he said he said uh surely uh Verse 8, I will hear what God the Lord will speak, for he will speak peace unto his people and to his saints, but let them not turn again to folly. Surely his salvation is nigh them that fear him, that glory may dwell in our land. Oh, how we need God. to help us have a land that glorifies him again. Mercy and truth are met together. Righteousness and peace have kissed each other Truth shall spring out of the earth, and righteousness shall look down from heaven, yea, the Lord shall give that which is good, and our land shall yield her increase, righteousness shall go before him, and shall set us in the way of his He said, we're going to have revival. Verse number six is our text verse. Let's read it aloud together. If you have it there, please. Psalm 85, verse 6. If not, if you don't have it there, just listen. Ready? Begin. Wilt thou not revive us again, that thy people may rejoice in thee? Heavenly Father, bless us tonight. Lord, I sure love this church and these folks. They've been so kind to us. And Lord, just almost we just feel like we're at home. And I pray that you'll bless us. Lord, we need to hear from heaven tonight. Lord, I need you to speak to my heart. Lord, I want to be a growing Christian. I want to walk in the way that is pleasing to thee. And I pray you'll work in a mighty way now. We love you. We thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. Ladies and gentlemen, churches are dying. Approximately 3,000 churches per month are disappearing off the American continent. It's unbelievable the number of churches. You say that preacher it can't be that many. Well yeah, there's 325,000, so it'll take a few years before we get down to just maybe 100,000 churches It'll take maybe eight or ten years, but meanwhile our population continues to grow. Meanwhile, that we've gone in the last ten years from a handful of mosques to over a thousand mosques in America And ladies and gentlemen, we need revival in America among the people of God. We are at ease in Zion, and that's not God's plan. We're still in a warfare. We're not on R and R, rest and recreation. We're right here in the front line of the battle, and we don't even acknowledge it. We think that as long as I've got food on my table and a roof over my head and clothes for my back and wheels for my vehicle, that somehow I've got it made, I certainly must be a spiritual giant, because look how God has blessed me. And we're riding on the coattails of the price that others have paid. And we need revival in America. I believe we're at the crossroads of revival. I believe God has allowed us to come to this point and the choice is ours to make. Our young people are the hope of the future. I'm glad to see these young people sitting right down front here. Our young people are the hope of the future. I hope maybe by Wednesday night we can have twenty young people. Well all you teenagers and people, bring some, bring about a handful of friends with you. Two hands full or a pickup truck full or something. And uh and uh bring in neighbors. Let's r let's get some young people here. But you know what's happened? Let's face it, folks, we have fumbled the ball. Now, if they're going to have any hope of raising their children in ten, fifteen, twenty years from now, raising their children in a Christian nation, somehow they're going to have to pick up the ball that we fumbled And run with it and try to score for God, try to do something for God, and and literally we are letting them down if we don't rise up and do something to allow God to revive our lives again. We can't just say, okay, I'm going to serve the Lord whenever it's convenient and whenever it's comfortable. I know I'm preaching to the choir. I mean you're the folks that are out here on a rainy, thundery, lightning Monday night. And I don't mean to be too harsh, and I'm not trying to indict anyone or prosecute anyone or persecute anyone. But I am saying, ladies and gentlemen, we need revival in America. And it's not that we're going to sit here and try to make a list of people that aren't here so we can say, yeah, look what they did, I'm better than them. It's not a matter about that. It's a matter of, hey, I love them, I want them Part of it too, so I'm going to do everything in my power to get them in. And let's have rebellable in our church, in our county, in our country. Let's touch the world with the gospel of Christ. Let's make a difference. By the way, that verse, Psalm 85, verse 6, most of you won't know this name. But Psalm 85, verse 6 was Hyman Appelman's signature verse, and I assume it was his life verse. I had the previo privilege to know Hyman Appelman and one night I'm going to preach one of his outlines. You know, when people start preaching writing better sermons, I'll start preaching better sermons, you know. I told Brother Leatherman today, one of the sermons I preached, I preached a couple years ago at Shawnee when I was still pastor there, and the title of the message was Plagiarism is Fun. You know, just to copy what everybody else is is doing. But there's nothing new under the sun. Every preacher I ever talked to, I say, Where'd you get that sermon? They say, I got it from God. Well then it must be free open, you know, for everybody then. You know, so there you go. But uh Dr. Appelman, that was his life verse. And today we're inundated with drugs and gangs and natural disasters and illicit sex and perversion and families having problems and dysfunctional families and all kinds of things and how we need revival in America And we don't just need revival. Listen, we need personal revival. You know what that means? That means I need revival. means you need revival. Individually, we need revival. Let me give you three or four simple thoughts. Number one, revival is from the Lord. He said, Wilt thou not revive us again It's not, I can't work up revival. God has to send it down. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above and cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom there's no variableness, neither shadow of turning. Everything that's good in our life, God sent it. And if we're going to have revival, then we have to look to God and say, Lord, wilt thou not revive us again? Revival has to come from the Lord. Point number two. Not only should we need revival to come from the Lord, but revival is in response to prayer. God's capable of sending revival, then why hasn't he? Because we haven't asked. Remember where James said ye have not, because ye ask not. We haven't sincerely gone to God with a broken heart because of our sin and because of the direction of our country and because of the destruction that we're facing right now, imminent destruction, revival or revolution, I believe right here in America or rapture, Jesus takes us home, one of those things, and and sure that the Lord's coming on May the 21st. It was the 21st that I got that thing It wasn't made twenty I I don't believe uh the the Bi my Bible says th if this guy's right he knows something the angels don't know. Isn't that something? And But but uh i if i if if the Lord doesn't come on May twenty-first, my friend, I'd say we're in a pretty good situation to be having a a revolution in America like seems to be sweeping the globe right now And in many of our states with folks picketing the the the the state capitals and all this kind of thing going on and the violence on the rise and you say, well America's not that kind of trouble. We're not going to have any kind of problem. Hey, let me just ask you something. How many of you do have a TV? Let's just see. I got I got like four or five of 'em. All right, let me just uh let me just tell you something. Did anybody watch when Katrina came in? Did anybody watch the rioting in the streets and the shooting and gunning down of people and folks running out of stores with televisions and and everything else. Do you see that? Right here in America, in New Orleans. Do you see that? Same thing hit Japan. Worse. Hit Japan. You don't see all you see those people doing is trying to help each other out. America has become an unbelievably corrupt pagan nation. You turn your back and they'll stab you. The world thinks the people in America think the world owes them a living. And they think anything's not tied down, then they have a right to it. And it's amazing. And you just wait and see if a famine hits America, if if a major uh catastrophic event takes place. And uh and literally power is out. We don't have all of our technology and our communication and uh and and and food and water is hard to come by. You better bar the door and get your gun loaded, my friend. It's not going to be like Japan. We're living in perilous times. America's right on the edge of becoming a third world country. We need revival We need revival. The Constitution of the United States of America will not work for a non-Christian nation. It was designed for God-fearing people, not for pagans and atheists and heathen. I'm saying we as Christians need to get back to serving Him. And prayer is revival is in response to prayer. God sent Moses when the people cried in bondage. God sent the judges to revive and save Israel when they prayed. God sent Peter to Cornelius in answer to prayer over in Acts chapter ten, verses one through five. God sent Paul to Macedonia as he prayed in the night. The Bible says a vision appeared to Paul in the night. Acts sixteen Verse 9, and there stood a man in Macedonia and prayed him, saying, Come over to Macedonia and help us. God works in answer to prayer. He said, Jeremiah 33:3, call unto me, and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. We have not because we ask not. We need to believe God. How many believe how how many of you believe there's a God in heaven? How many of you believe that Almighty God could change America and send revival if somehow uh it became his purpose to do so? How many of you believe God answers prayer? Well, what in the world is wrong with us? Why aren't we daily on our faces begging God to send revival? We're more worried about an ingrown toenail. We'll weep and cry and pray about that more than we pray about God saving our nation and saving our young people and giving them a future. You want to know why in the world here's a retired couple we could be li we could be living at ease in Zion ourselves Why are we on the road all the time? Why are we giving stuff away? Why are we trying to challenge young people? Because they are the hope of America. But you and I are going to have to hold the ropes till they get to the place where they can do it. And by the way, there's a whole lot young people can do right now. The greatest soul winners I know are teenagers. They have a boldness. Once they break through that ice of fear and start passing out tracts and talking to people about the Lord, children and teenagers are the boldest people on the planet. They don't get so hung up on what people gonna think about them. They say, look, this is what I believe and this is what I'm gonna do, and I don't care what you think They've got a little bit of that audacity. You say, yeah, and I don't like that either. Well, I love it. If they got it pointed in the right direction. If they're using it for the Lord Jesus Christ. And so, American missionary efforts, it's no accident that some of the great awakenings in history have begun in prayer. A prayer meeting under a haystack and a rainstorm in eighteen oh six led to the first large scale American missionary efforts 1830, 30,000 people were converted in Rochester, New York, under the ministry of Charles Finney. Later, Finney said the reason was the faithful praying of one man who never attended the meetings but gave himself to prayer. D. L. Moody, in eighteen seventy-two, he began a campaign in London, England, which was used of God to touch countless thousands of lives. And later he discovered that a humble, bedridden girl had been praying, and she had prayed that God would bring Mr. Moody and Revival to England. And in fact, God did When you don't know what to do, pray. Pray. Pray. I remember, yeah, you can have misguided prayers, but I think God overlooks it. God knows your heart I remember when I first went to work in the ministry, I was at Glendale Baptist Church in Bowling Green, Kentucky, and that was like 42, 43 years ago. And uh I became the assistant to the pastor, and the pastor got what got some of these things on his vocal cords, these polyps or whatever and for preaching so much and he began losing his voice and he lost his voice and he went to the doctor and the doctor said, You cannot speak a word. You can't even whisper for six weeks. weeks. He said, you need to get out of town. He went to his mom's house in Louisville. That was in Bowling Green, Kentucky. I was the only male staff member there. And he said, you're in charge and left. This was a church. At that time, that church was running about 300 people. And I'm in charge. And and and I I didn't know I had no idea. Here I am, I'm preaching some, getting other people to preach. Doing all kinds of things trying to make it work. The deacons were helping out, and one day I decided I was going to write Brother Richard Oldham, that was his name, a letter And let him know. And so I wrote him a letter. Couldn't call him on the phone and talk to him because he couldn't talk. If I called, I had to talk to his mom and then he'd write it down and she'd tell me his answers and That kind of thing. And so I just wrote him a nice letter to let him know he was paying for it. And then I got down to the end. And you know, when you're saved and spiritual, you put a Bible verse on there. And I thought of this Bible verse over in Samuel. It says, God forbid that I should sin against the Lord. And God forbid that I should sin against the Lord in not praying for thee. And so he said, I'm not going to fail to pray for you. And God forbid, it would be a sin for me to fail to pray for you. And I thought, boy, that's a good verse. So I wrote down there I wrote down there 1 Samuel 1223. And I sealed it, dropped it in the mail. And then I had this thought, wonder if that was 1 Samuel or 2 Samuel. I don't know. So I said, I better look. So I went to 2 Samuel 12, 23. And it said, God forbid that I should sin against the Lord in ceasing to pray for you. I said Uh-oh. I sent 1 Samuel 1223. Wonder what it says. And I flipped over there and 1 Samuel 1223 said Now he is dead. Wherefore should I pray? And I was, oh my goodness, what a great verse. Instead of saying, God forbid that I should cease to pray for you, it said, what's the use in praying? He's a dead man, you know. Forget it. So you can you can have m misguided prayer. And we all make mistakes, but God knows our heart and he knows our intent. And Romans 8:28 is still in the book, and he works all things together for good to those that love him, to those who are the called according to his purpose. I'm saying revival is from the Lord. I'm saying revival is in response to prayer. R. G. Lee, who preached my ordination message He said, if all the sleeping folk will wake up, if all the lukewarm folk will fire up, if all the dishonest folk will confess up, if all the disgruntled folk will grow up, if all the depressed folks will cheer up, if all the estranged folks will make up, if all the gossipers will shut up, if all the true soldiers will stand up, if all the dried bones will shake up, if all the church members will Pray of then we can have revival. Dr. Curtis Hudson preached to Shawnee on several occasions. One of the last times he preached there before he came down with cancer and went on to heaven. He gave an outline from R. A. Tory. Later on, I was reading one of Tory's books. And I ran across a chapter where he actually preached this, and Dr. Hudson said he got this formula from oratory. And R. E. Tori said this. R. Tori was the successor to D. L. Moody. He was his partner in the ministry. When D. L. Moody went to heaven, R. E. Tory took over the ministry. He held revivals in Australia, in Europe, in America, all around the world. He had people, he would have meetings like you think of like with Billy Sunday or something, where tens of thousands of people would show up and thousands would get saved. I mean it was just that kind of guy. And here's what he said. Listen to this. R. A. Tory said, I can give a prescription. Listen. I can give a prescription that will bring revival. Revival to any church or community or city on earth. He said, first, let a few Christians get thoroughly right with God. If this is not done, the rest will come to nothing. That means boys and girls. That means senior adults That means adults. That means teens. That means all of us. That means preachers in the pulpit, as well as lay people in the pew. He said, He said, first, let a few Christians. Hey, if there were a handful of people in this room tonight who would say, Dear God, I'll be one of those people. I'll do all I can to lay my life on the altar and say, God, here I am and cleanse me and empty me of self and fill me with thyself, that I may have thy power on my life. If a few people will get thoroughly right with God, not partially right. Not, okay God, I've cleaned out my house except for this one little closet. I'm just reserving something here to fall back on just in case Get rid of it. Get rid of it. Get rid of it. It's like the guy gave up drinking but kept the case in the basement just in case he backslid. Well, I guarantee you he's gonna backslide Like the young person decided they wasn't going to dress worldly anymore, but they put their worldly clothes in the bottom drawer just in case they ever needed them. That's not what he said. He said, burn them babies, bust those bottles, get it out of your life. Make no provision for failure. Pretty strong. He said, so I want you to understand what we're talking about when I say, first, let a few Christians get thoroughly right with God. Not talking about Making a shallow decision. If this is not done, the rest will come to nothing. You've got to decide if saving America giving our young people a future and being used of God in your own life to between now and the time God takes you home to heaven, you've got to decide, is it worth really selling out to Him Like the old timers would say, lock, stock, and barrel. Given God it all. He said If this is not done, the rest will come to nothing. And then he said, secondly, let them bind themselves together to pray for revival. Until God opens the windows of heaven and comes down. Hey, we don't put a timetable on God. We just say, okay, here's me and here's a couple of buddies, or maybe here's ten people, or maybe there's twenty Or maybe there's a church full. And they say, okay, we're going to give ourselves wholly to God and we're going to surrender. We're going to become a little bit more accountable to each other and and try to stay on track. And then we're going to start Praying. We'll pray as a partners. We'll pray sometimes as a group. We'll pray individually. But we're gonna we'll we'll bow together to pray. How long are we gonna do this? We're not putting a time limit on God until God comes down. We're just going to do it. We're going to show God we're serious. about this. God said, I want us in revival, but I don't think you really want it. I don't believe you really want it. So he said, second, let them bind themselves together to pray for revival until God opens the windows of heaven and comes down. And then he said, third. Third. Let them, listen to this now, this is important. Let them put themselves at the disposal of God for his use as he sees fit In the winning of others to Christ. That is all. So number one, Get thoroughly right with God. Number two, bind yourself together with other Christians with a commitment to pray till God comes down. And then number three. Number three, say, God, I'm available. You can use me any way you see fit. In my job, in my neighborhood, with my family circle, as I'm shopping, as I'm playing. You can any way you see fit. You speak to my heart. You give me, you impress my heart with something to do, and I am available. Put yourself fully at the disposal of God to be used in the winning of souls as He sees fit. None of this, well that's not my personality. Well I'm just not a good talker. Uh I just don't have enough training. I don't know. I've never been to the uh to the seminary. None of That it's okay, God. It's a tough pill to swallow, but I'm gonna do it. Because We need revival. I need revival. So listen to this. He said First, let a few Christians get thoroughly right with God. If this is not done, the rest will come to nothing. Second, let them bind themselves together to pray for revival till God opens the windows of heaven and comes down. Third, let them put themselves at the disposal of God for his use as he sees fit in the winning of others to Christ. That is all. Here he says this. He said, I have given this prescription around the world And in no instance has it failed, it cannot fail. Wow It can't fail if we refuse to fail. I put myself at the disposal of God, then if I mess up, I'm going to confess that sin and re put myself at the disposal of God. I'm going to say, God, I'm not going to give up on this thing. I'm going to do it. I'm going to do whatever it takes. I'm going to keep at it. Jim Elliott. Slain by the Alka Indians in the fifties. As a missionary once said, God is still on his throne. Man is still on his foot, still footstool, there's only a knee's distance between. He also said he is no fool who gives what he cannot keep to gain that which he cannot lose We need to pray and keep on praying, and we need to be believing God as we do it. Number one, prayer is from God. Number two, prayer is an answer to prayer. I'm sorry, revival is from God, and prayer, uh revival is an answer to prayer, and number three, it's God's people. It's you and me That need revival. He said, Wilt thou not revivalish again that thy people may rejoice in thee? It's God's people who need that revival 2 Chronicles 7:14, if my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then will I hear from heaven, will forgive their sins, and will heal. Their land. Psalm number 57. He said, cast up, prepare the way, take up the stumbling block out of the way of my people For thus saith the high and lofty one that inhabiteth eternity, whose name is holy. I dwell in the high and holy place, with him also that is of a contrite and humble spirit. God said, I dwell with those who have that contrite and humble spirit. You see, the problem is it's God's people that need revival. I won't take time to go and read there, but you ought to read the first number of verses in Ephesians chapter 2. It talks about the church at Ephesus. You know who it is. It's the church that left its first love. God had a lot of good things. He said, I know your work, your diligence, and so forth. And he mentioned it twice He said, but I have somewhat against thee. Thou hast left thy first love. Hey, look, listen to this. Listen. God didn't say you lost your first love. It's not that you lost it. It wasn't one day you just got busy and you looked around and forgot where you put it. He said you left your first blood. You made a decision. To leave that zeal you once had for God, that love you had for Him, that passion that you had for Christ. You made a decision to let something else stand between you and that. It may be some hobby, some sports thing It may have been your work, your ambition. It may have been family. It may have been whatever. Look, I'm challenging you tonight. Let's put Jesus back in his first place in our lives. Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. All these things will be added to you. We let all these things take priority over serving God. He said, You've left your first love. And he said, you need to repent and get back to that first love. What about it tonight? Think of that. Revival Is from the Lord. Revival is in answer to prayer. And revival is for God's people And when revival comes, listen to what he said in Psalm 85: Wilt thou not revive us again that thy people may rejoice in thee? Revival brings rejoicing to the people of God. You know why I enjoy you know I want to be in a state of revival and I tell you I can tell the difference when I get away from the Lord just a little bit all of a sudden my spirit starts drooping And I tell you, I like living on the positive side. I like being on the upside. I like rejoicing in the Lord. I like telling a few funny jokes. I like laughing and enjoying life. Yes I have a burden for souls. Yes, I have a burden for young people. Yes, I want to see revival in America. Yes, there are things that trouble me. But I want to tell you something. I'm going to visit there occasionally. I'm going to make it a matter of prayer. I'm going to pour out my heart. I'm going to ask God to do something, and I'm going to move. God to sin revival, and I'm going to tell everybody I can, anyway I can, how they can be ready for heaven. But ladies and gentlemen, the rest of the time, I'm going to be rejoicing in the Lord. I'm going to have something That when the lost world looks at me, they're going to say, I wish I had what he has. They may not like me, but they sure would like to have the joy that I have in my life. They're tired of their negative living. They're tired of being depressed and discouraged and downhearted. Revival brings rejoicing in God's people. Psalm 85, 6. Wilt thou not revive us again that thy people may rejoice in thee? Bible says, they that sow in tears shall reap with joy. Psalm 15, he said, These things have I written unto you that my joy might remain in you, and that your joy might be full. Happiest people on the planet ought to be God's people. You know what that do? If we have revival in our lives and the joy of the Lord starts flowing through us, you know what that joy is? It's like a spiritual magnet. People will be drawn to you and to this church You go out and complaining and talking about, well, that preacher, he preached a long time. And I have, I've preached a long time, and I've preached, oh, 15, 20 minutes. Or maybe a little longer. But it didn't seem long. No, I'm just kidding. That's what you're supposed to say. That's what you say when you go out tonight. It didn't seem long at all, preacher. No, you better not encourage me. I'll go longer tomorrow. Folks, we need revival. The serious matter is we need revival. Do you really want revival Are you willing to get back to that first love? I want us to bow our heads together, please. With our heads bowed and with Christ right here with us. The Holy Spirit speaking to hearts. Revival is not something we do for a day or a week It's a Holy Spirit-led long-term decision that we make. It's a choice to yield to the working of God through our lives How many folks here tonight can say, Brother Lonnie, I am saved. I've trusted Christ. And I know I didn't preach just the pure gospel tonight, but I'm not going to let the service go by without asking. Do you know for sure one hundred percent that you're saved? Are you a hundred percent sure that Christ lives in your heart? Or do you have some doubt? I wonder how many can say, preacher, I have no doubt. I'm a hundred percent sure, I know that I'm saved, and I'm thankful for it. Would you slip your hand up? How many can say that? Well, isn't that a great thing? Aren't you glad you're saved? Thank you. You may take your hands out. Perhaps there's someone you say, preacher, I couldn't honestly raise my hand and say I know that, or maybe you raised your hand and in your heart of heart you said, I'm lying through my teeth here And you say, Preacher, pray for me. I I really am not a hundred percent sure, but I sure would like to be. Pray for me. Would you slip your hand up a moment where I can see it? Just slip it up where I can see it. Preacher, pray for me. I'd like to have that assurance. I'd like to know That I'm saved. Pray for me. Anyone at all? Anyone at all? Anyone at all. I wonder who's here tonight and you'd say, preacher. I really do want to be part of God's cure. I don't want to be part of the curse. I want to be part of be part of the cure. I want God to use me. I want to be part of God's revival. I want revival in certainly I want revival in America. We'd all like to see revival, just not very many people want to personally have revival. You'd like to live in a nation where everybody is godly and god-fearing, but you don't want to leave the charge. See, that's one of the problems that we're facing. I wonder how many say, preacher, I really do want revival. I'd like to see it in our church. I'd like to see it in my life. I'd like to be used of God. Pray for me. Would you slip your hands up? How many steps are going to slip it up all over the room? God bless you. Tell you what, the music's going to begin to play right now. The altar's open. Let's quietly slip to our feet.