Oh yes. All right. Check, check, check. If you love Jesus, say man. Amen. You know what? I'm so glad tonight That I'm saved. Woo! I don't know about you. I'm so glad I'm saved Amen. God's Word changes lives. And and those of you who've been around for the 25 years that I've I've heard some folks tell me they've been around here 25 years. One thing you know for true for sure, those of you were who were in the nursery 14 years ago when Mary Elizabeth was Just a little tiny girl standing on the side of the bed. Hey, look what God has done. Amen. Amen. I want to reintroduce you to my family all that God has done through us and with us. Would not be possible if it weren't for the loving support of my wife. Amen. Mrs. Antoinette Kearney. Amen. And second to my salvation, she's the greatest gift that God has ever given me. And she's given me four beautiful children. And And in our presence this evening is Michael. He's just finished uh high school uh incredible, incredible, incredible service to the Lord over the last 13 years I remember I never saw them as as little boys. I always saw them as daddy's little men. And they always were there to make the difference. whether it was to teach a Sunday school class, play the accordion or play the trumpet or play the French horn. Michael has been a blessing. uh incredible soul winner, passionate for the souls of his peers and souls of individuals, uh, has just been faithful in his service to the Lord. And and we just thank the Lord. The Lord has just showered him with blessings and and we we're looking for more. Amen. Because he can use them. Amen. He's going off to West Coast Baptist College. He'll be the third courney to go. And so we're looking forward to uh God meeting his needs in a in an awesome way uh as he goes off to West Coast Baptist College. He plays the piano, he plays uh Oh, just God has used them. Amen. Thank you. You can sit down now. Amen. And then next. Amen. I would have had 12 boys if the Lord the Lord wouldn't have given me Mary Elizabeth. Amen Because I had to have my little girl. Amen. And God has given us our daughter, Mary Elizabeth, saved my wife a lot of trouble. Amen. Mary Elizabeth is just a gift in the ministry. She reaches out to the young ladies in the area of purity. She uh heads uh what we call true daughters, junior true daughters. Uh there's a different age group that's older and but she reaches out to the 11, 12 uh year olds, 13-year-olds, those who are younger than her. She's an incredible Sunday school teacher, soul winner, just a passion for the things of God. And we thank the Lord for all that God has used her to do. Her burden and her desire is to minister in Korea. She's actually wants to uh take a survey trip to Korea uh just to to she's learning Korean. Uh Steve and Michael and Mary, they both uh got so Korean they learned Taekwondo they have black belts. And so uh They're uh lethal weapons, but most of all they love the Lord. Amen. And uh we're excited about all that God has done in their lives. And I thank the Lord that all that we have experienced is in the service of the Lord. Amen. It it has yeah, thank you. You can sit down. And and so my wife, amen. My wife, my wife uh is My I don't know what I'd do without her. Amen. She heads uh a program uh called Timaleap uh literacy education assisted project and it's an outreach uh to uh the community. In Ghana, uh you simply don't go to school and go from one grade to the next to the next You go to a level what we would consider junior high. And at junior high you take tests, and if you don't pass those tests, you go no further And and and then there are also children who uh because of the depth of the poverty in which they live uh their parents may decide they never got an education so why do my children need it? And so you have a group of children who uh would stay home from school and just basically work around the house and do the activities. uh of daily living. Uh and they these many of these children uh had become part of our ministry and so we saw the need And so we reached out in that way to start a program that would fill that gap where we were seeing our children not get a quality education. And the basis of our literacy program is biblical discipleship. And so they learn the Word of God. They learn the truth of God's Word. They memorize Scripture. get and they have a biblical world view uh based upon the teaching and the education uh that they're receiving through Tim Alip. And so I want you to just, as I've kind of mentioned various things in our ministry, continue to pray. We have Also, our medical outreach, it's not near as active as I thought it would be when we went, but we're looking to the Lord to do some great things. and in the years ahead, uh we're still using it as a modality to reach out. Uh we have uh A music program. We have a 32-piece orchestra in its strength when all are together and that just gives us an opportunity to make a joyful noise. Amen. And uh it it another opportunity to disciple and and see young people under the tutelage of God's word, learning uh uh I thank the Lord for the support that you have given us financially over the last 14 years. I believe it has been. But just as much I appreciate, and I realize that we could not have come as far as we have had it not been for your prayers. Amen. Amen anyway. Amen. And I I want you to know that I thank you for every prayer that you've prayed, every time that you've looked at if if you have a a prayer guide. And if there are prayer guides, Michael, if there are prayer guides in the back, I want every single person to have one. Make sure everybody gets one. I want you to turn in your Bibles this this evening to Deuteronomy chapter 32, Deuteronomy chapter 32. And we're going to read there in just a few moments. But we arrived in the United States on July fourth. And we kind of planned our our our trip so that we would be able to uh go down to the mall and and uh hear and see all that represents uh America the place of our birth and the the place from which we are launched to be a blessing through the power of God's word And as we walked by the Archives building, uh I I don't know how many Air Force men we have in the room or military men, but uh there was a and and I looked up And and the only reason I guess I uh I wasn't terrorized because those planes were on my side. Amen. But but uh the they they flew over, I guess it's probably the largest military plane that we have, the stealth bomber. It it the wings were so wide. It was this uh black uh omnius huge. Is there a bigger one? What is it? What was that what flew is that what was flew over? Okay. But but it was huge. The only thing in life that probably I've experienced that was more encouraging but yet well more intimidating when we were in the Poconos and and my children had just gotten out of the car. And just walked in the house. Literally, the door just closed. And it looked like the bear was as wide as this aisle and probably this towel. And it just went. And I thought, well, what what do you do? What do you say? How can you there's nothing you can say and when I looked up and I saw the wings of those planes That thought just began to churn in my spirit and in my heart. And I just began to say, what does the scripture have to say About wings. What can I find in the scripture about wings? And how does it apply to me as a missionary? In Deuteronomy chapter 32, verse 11, we find these words. I'm on my way, I'll be there in just a moment. Chapter thirty-two, verse eleven It says as an eagle stirreth up her nest Fluttereth over her young, spreadeth abroad her wings And taketh them, beareth them on her wings. Let's read it again. As an eagle stirreth up her nest Fluttereth over her young, spreadeth abroad her wings, taketh them Beareth them on her wings. Let's pray. Father, I thank you tonight for the Bible, which is the Word of God. God, I thank you that it has every answer to every question in our lives. And God, tonight we ask that you would speak. God, that you would speak to hearts, that you would speak to minds. Lord, that you would speak to souls. And God, I pray that tonight that as your word comes forth, that someone's life would be changed. Someone would be saved. Someone would be encouraged. Someone would be strengthened. Father, we love you. Help us to love you more. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. When I read this passage and and I use my imagination I can't help but to remember a National Geographics documentary that I saw about eagles. It went into detail about where they uh normally make their nest. It it it showed the enormous of their nest It went into a little bit of detail of the very things that are brought forth here in Scripture. And when I think about what our passage says tonight, it says, as she fluttereth That that the word that I would use as she stirs up the nest The time of stirring up the nest is the completion phase of nurturing. Nursing and growing up a baby Eagle I want you to know this morning that that this evening when when an eagle hatches out of the egg, it's a little ugly creature. It it it it it doesn't have any feathers. As a matter of fact, it has a lot of hair. It looks like a hairy creature rather than a than something that would fly. And as mother nurses and nurses it and and brings the food, that little creature begins to pluck out a wing here. pluck out a feather here and pluck out a feather here and and then it gets to the point where it is a fully clothed eagle But still, there's something about that ego that enjoys being fed, being spoon-fed, or mother bringing the fruit to it. And so that eaglet doesn't just innately jump on the side of the nest and take flight. No, it doesn't happen like that. Mother Eagle begins to stir the nest to make that place uncomfortable and and that little eagle ouch! And and it moves over. And all of a sudden the place that was a place of safety, a haven where it rested. All of a sudden becomes, or over a period of time, becomes a place of misery. And the mother eagle. With that God-given instinct, understands what comes next And she takes that eagle that has never taken a flight, and and I don't know exactly how she does it, but she manages to to place it on her wings or on her pinions and and and she goes off and she just begins to fly and that eagle is on her and and she sails and and and and I can imagine the The little inglet on our mother's back is always saying, wow! Oh, me! You're like me! Woo! And then all of a sudden, Mother Eagle goes like this. And the eagle begins to fall. Gravity has taken its course. It has wings, but it's not flying. It's falling. God in his infinite wisdom has placed something within that mother eagle that she understands when it's time to come back under. And she comes right under and she catches him again. And takes them on our wings again. What you understand, these wings are called the wings of learning. What is it that God is trying to teach you? What is it that God wants to show you What is it that God wants to do through you, that He wants to wake up in you, that He's placed within you, that you just don't quite get it yet? But yet and still he bears us up. He takes us back up again. We stumble, we fall. But he takes us back up again and and he takes us up and things are great and we're feeling good and the problems are are being solved, but again, all of a sudden But guess what? It may take two times, three times, but all of a sudden, there becomes some equilibrium. And that little eaglet begins to realize, I can fly. He begins to work his wings and realizes, man, I have visual acuity. I can see what's down there. I'm hungry. And he sees that rabbit hopping along and And I can see him right now just as he's all of a sudden he just goes into a nose dive and he's coming down. Grabs that rabbit and picks him back up, takes it up and he devours it. Are you flying on the wings of learning? You know, and when we went to Ghana, West Africa, there were some things that God wanted to teach us. And I guess the the best way to to to to know what God wants us to learn is go to the Beatitudes, right? He wants us to have the right attitude. Blessed are the poor in spirit. Blessed are they that hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. I don't know what it is that you're going through. I don't know where you are. But I know that if if we will allow the wings of learning To become real in our lives, and we will learn from the lessons that God puts before us He will receive the glory. He will receive the honor. And we will be used of God. The wings of learning. I want to introduce you to another set of wings. Look with me at Job chapter 39. Thirty nine thirteen Amen. Twelve thirty nine thirteen it says Givest thou Gavest thou the goodly wings unto the peacock, or wings and feathers unto the ostrich. The picture that scripture paints it for us here is the very first one is the peacock. And and when you when you see the male peacock and he and he opens up his tail, you see, oh, so many eyes And that is a type of the omniscience, the all knowing of God. There's nothing that catches God by surprise. There's nothing that that that that is like, oh, I didn't know that was going to happen. No. He knows it all. He knows where we are. He knows what we're going through. But I think about uh the all that that that has gone on over the years and Uh he knows when when I laid in the bed and I felt so powerless to protect my family. Hello We've been robbed nine times. Hello? Uh-oh, you don't know what to say. In Ghana, when I say hello, they say hi. Hello! Amen. Now we're communicating. Amen. And and and and it's it's it's it's it's it's interesting because uh when we first got to Ghana, we got a welcoming party And and they they broke in and and and they took all of our possessions, and that was like welcome to Ghana. And then about uh probably ten more times. The same thing happened. But you know what? God was aware. God knew it all You know what? In the same community, people were shot and killed. People were beat by the very same robbers, but they never touched us one time. God knows. It didn't catch him by surprise. And what we have to do is we have to rest. In him. In his knowing, in the in the the the all-knowing the knowledge of God. And realize that he doesn't allow anything to come our way. That we can't bear. His grace is sufficient. But the next one I really, really like. It talks about the ostrich. Verse verse verse verse 13. The wings of the peacock or wings and feathers unto the ostrich. Now, the ostrich represents in Scripture the omnipotence or the all-power of God. Now, an ostrich It's it's it has big wings that that really can't fly, but it has strong feet And the feet that the ostrich has, when they kick, the power is enough to kill a lion. Who's the king of the jungle? The Lion King. But guess what? The power of God is greater than any other power. And and there's no one who can who can box with God and win. It brings me back to the first person I I had the opportunity to share the gospel with in Ghana. I was Outside in our front yard, and I was uh trimming uh the bushes, and and a gentleman came walking by. And I said, my wife had been trying to teach me tree. I'm kind of hard-headed, but she was trying to teach me tree, and I said, I'm gonna uh use my tree, and I said, machino, and uh He didn't say anything. I thought to myself, wait a minute. Ghanaian people are very hospitable and very kind. This isn't like what I'm experiencing. And then I thought to myself, you got the wrong one. So I ran up to him and I said, Good morning. My name is Pastor Kearney. And he said, My name is Pastor Evil Spirit. And he walked away. And I thought to myself, God, what could you do in this man's life if he gets saved? And for about, oh, I don't know, maybe six weeks, I saw this person on occasion. And and when I would see him, I would pull up next to him and I would say, Hey, can I give you a ride? And he would jump in the car and I would ask him his name and share the gospel. He never told me his name. And finally Uh about the fourth or fifth time I gave him a ride. I invited him to come to church. I said, uh Victor, would you come to church? He said, yes, I'll come. Now if if if Everyone in Ghana who said that they were going to come to church would come to church. We wouldn't have a place to sit them. Amen. there would be overflowing. So I kind of took it, you know, lightly, you know, just like everybody else. At that time we were meeting in a school and and I was on the second uh floor of that building uh teaching Sunday school and I looked out and I saw a figure coming and sure enough it was Victor He walked and I thought, I hope he doesn't walk by. He walked in the gate. He walked in And that morning I preached. And I preached as hard and as clear as I could the gospel And then I I I labored over the invitation. Sometimes we have short invitations. But I I just stayed and and and and I just kept Inviting and inviting it and he responded. He came forward. And so I I took him in another room and I explained the gospel to him. And went through it one time, clear as I possibly could. And I asked him, would you like to receive the Lord as your personal Savior? He said, I'm not sure I understand So I did it again. And I explained as clear as I possibly could the gospel. And I said Victor, would you like to get saved? He said, well, I said, well, okay, I'll get a translator. And so we we went through translation process. And at the end of it all, he said, Yeah, I want to ask the Lord Jesus Christ into my heart. We prayed. And let me tell you tonight, he didn't make a profession. The Bible says, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be I don't hear you. Didn't say it like you really believe it. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be amen. He got saved Hey, on his way to heaven. I can't tell you that I got a bunch of mileage out of his wife, but God got him. And I thank the Lord that the gospel is the power that will never fail. The omnipotent power. God's word changes lives. I'm convinced of it I won't back down from it. I'm gonna hold on and see what the end is like. And see if there are some souls that come and say, thank you for bringing me the gospel. And you know what? Everyone who got saved, they'll be attributed to your account. Because you prayed, because you gave. And you're faithful. I want to look at another set of wings. Turn with me to Psalms chapter thirty-six Power to save. Amen. Psalms chapter 36. Well, this is my technology. It failed me. It's gone off. The battery is dead. Amen. Look at verse seven. It says, How excellent is thy loving kindness, O God. Therefore, the children of men put their trust under the shadow of thy wing. Can I tell you this morning, this evening, I'm trusting in God as my Savior He purchased it. He completed it. And this word kindness engulfs two words. Those words are mercy and grace. Mercy is not giving me what I really deserve But I have a real good definition for grace. Grace is Frederick Kearney in the cafeteria line. Amen. And Mama's friend is one of the culinary artists behind the counter. And when it comes to my plate, she kind of gives me a smile. And she puts one scoop on, and she gets a second scoop. God's unmerited favor. There's nothing I can do to earn it. But yet He gives me. Grace upon grace. And the grace that I'm talking about tonight is saving grace For by grace are ye saved, through faith, and that not of yourselves. Lest any man should boast. I can't earn it. God gave it to me. And you know what? Because I'm saved, I want to see as many folks saved as I possibly can. And I pray that that's your desire as well. That you would begin to appreciate the wings, the wings of learning. The wings of omnipotence, the wings of omniscience, and the wings of grace and mercy. Tonight, there there's one last wing that I want to look at. My computer failed me and I didn't write my notes, but I'm going to try to find my verse anyway, Matthew 26. Hm. Can someone help me? As a mother hen Twenty sixty Well, the scripture tells us that the protection Of a mother hen, how a mother eat mother hen sits over her chicks. And and we all know and have heard the story Of the barn that burned down. And they found a scorched mother hen. 2337. Amen. Amen. Matthew 23, 37. Amen. Right. I got it underlined, got it dotted, but amen. O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, thou that killest the prophets and stoneth them, which are sent unto thee, how often would I have gathered thy children Together, even as a hen, gather her children under her wings, and ye would not We have the greatest protection under the umbrella of the cross When we stay under the cross, we can live in divine protection. My prayer for you tonight. Is that if you haven't found yourself at the foot of the cross, seeking the salvation of Jesus, That tonight that you would yield your life to be under the divine protection that Jesus gives. Tonight, the wings of the United States made me feel great joy. But the wings of Jesus gives me Greater joy. Every head bowed and every eye closed. Father, tonight we thank you. For the wings of learning. We thank you for the wings of omniscience and omnipotence. Thank you for the wings of mercy. And grace. Thank you for the salvation that is found under your wings. The protection under your wings. Lord, I thank you for where you brought us from. I thank you, Lord, for what you have brought us through. So many here tonight with so many situations, so many circumstances Lord, help us to learn whatever it is that you're trying to teach us. Help us to know that your grace is sufficient. In every situation, in every circumstance. Father, we love you. Help us To love you more. As we continue in the invitation, Pastor, would you come? Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many tonight would say, Preacher, I don't know what's happening, but God's been stirring my nest a little bit. God's been challenging me in recent days to step out in faith and just uh uh trust him in some areas maybe you never thought of before. But God's been stirring up your nest. Is there any like that? Say, preacher, pray for me. God's been doing something. I'm not sure. And he's stretching me a little bit. God bless you. That's the Lord working in our lives. And and stretching us and getting us out of our comfort zone. And then maybe there's some others you've been going through trials or difficulties. And just tonight you need to just come and quit worrying, quit being all stressed out, and just say, I'm going to rest under the wings of Jesus And I'm going to trust him to bring that thing together. And how many would say, Preacher, pray with me? There are some trials going on. There's just stuff I just need to learn to trust the Lord with. Any like that? By the uplifted hand, I just need to trust God with this thing. God bless you. And of course, if there's any here tonight, you don't know Jesus Christ, your personal Savior. Most important decision in the world is come and trust Jesus, accept him as your Savior. And so we invite you to come this evening. Father, bless this invitation. Thank you for a good message. And I pray you'd help us in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.