Philippians, boy, what a tremendous book. I you know, every book in the Bible is It's so exciting when you get, you know, reading it and studying it and and uh seeing what the Apostle Paul's going through and his life and when you understand what's going on, it just makes it such a blessing And so I want us uh to look at uh Philippians chapter three, and uh we'll read uh a few verses here. Let's start let's start in verse uh well let's get let's go ahead and read verse four, starting at verse four. The Word of God says, though I might also have confidence in the flesh, now The apostle Paul here is going to give you a rundown of how if he if he wanted to, he could really brag on himself, you know. But that's that's not his life. And so this is what he says. He said though I I'm might also have confidence in the flesh If any other man thinketh that he hath whereof he might trust in the flesh, I more. Circumcised the eighth day, the stock of Israel, the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of the Hebrews As touching the law, a Pharisee. Those are pretty heavy credentials. He's Dr. So-and-so with all the letters behind his name. And then he says, concerning zeal persecuting the church. He's talking about before he was saved, and touching the righteousness which is in the law. blameless. In other words, he was very as a as a good a Pharisee of the Pharisees, he was one who was meticulous in knowing what the law was, the law of God we're talking about, or Moses' laws they referred to as some, and and doing it and paying particular attention attention to dotting the eyes and you know Crossing the T's, everything. I mean he was very meticulous about it. But listen to what he says now in verse seven and eight, because this is what we're we're we're gonna kind of look at more But what things were gained to me, those I counted loss for Christ. Yea, doubtless, and I count all things But lost for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of many things and do count them but dumb. that I may win Christ, and be found in him not having my own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ. the righteousness which is of God by faith. And those tremendous verses. Our Father Thank you so much, Lord, for for this week. It's been a good week and we've enjoyed it. We've enjoyed the fellowship with the folks and with the pastor. And uh Lord you've blessed in these chalk drawings. I've been amazed myself at at what what you've accomplished with my talent in in that area. And that's been such a blessing to me as well as as the people In the messages, Lord, I I just trust that uh you'll continue to run some of the truths that we presented over and over in the minds of the people and down the road uh perhaps a decision will be made that'll honor you. But here tonight, Lord, as we look at at uh the verses here and other verses and and some thoughts, uh I just pray that you would help us not only to see them, but but grasp the truth and the principles and and hang on to him and and realize what we really have in Jesus Christ. We ask it in his name. Amen. And amen. My wife loves to win. I don't care what she plays, she plays to win. She will cheat, she will do anything to win. No, she won't cheat. But she w she I mean sh she really uh if you've ever played any games with her, you know that she plays to win. She w she and I will play uh uh phase ten, you know, and uh uh she usually beats me about uh probably three to one. Yeah, yeah. It's not because she's smarter than me, 'cause she's not. Yeah. It's just that she just watches the cards better. But she's a winner. There's no question about it. When she married me, that that proved the point right there She loves to win. Well a and I used to say, Well, you know, you just you really like to win. She says, Well who wants to lose? And I say I don't I I I don't care whether I lose or win, but you know the truth of the matter is I do like to win. I like to beat her. Especially after she's beat me about ten in a row, you know, I like to win one once in a while just to keep it, you know, where she feels like she is owing me something. Winners. You know, we're born losers. That's hard to say when you look down in the face of that cute little babe, you know, and And they're just so cuddly and and then they open their mouth and you know then there's a loser right there in your arm. You know what I'm talking about. The Bible says we've all sinned come short of the glory of God. We're shaping in iniquity. You know, from our birth, we're, you know. We're losers. We're born losers. The Bible says that all of sin comes short of the glory of God. There's none righteous, no not one. All of our righteousness is our filthy rags. You know, we can just go on and on and talk about how bad we are, but uh that's not what I want to emphasize. But I want you to understand that. That we're born losers. It's not till you're born again that you become a winner. And that's what I want to talk about. I want to I want to talk about winning and victory. I see so many Christians today it just seems like that they they uh Th they they look like they're on the losing side. I don't know why that is, but they have a tendency to walk around with their you know, with their Like that, you know, and and it's it's really uh it's kind of disturbing. I when I'm home, uh I teach the the uh the young at heart class That's a misnomer because everybody's over there's got white hair in that class. You know, but but that's what that's what I uh you know I teach that class. And uh you know I've noticed that And and I don't know, maybe you've noticed too. But if if uh particularly an older person now okay I'm an older person, all right? So you can just look at me. And if I just relax it's not a pleasant sight, is it? The old you know, y you got the what are you laughing at? You got him to You look like Charlie McCarthy, you know. The puppet. You guys didn't know what that who that was, right? You know what I'm talking about? Yeah, the lines are there. I found out though she uh I look in the mirror once in a while and I say, That's sorry. And I'll go Yeah that helps. Yeah. It does help, Pastor. It's just I don't want to walk around like this all the time. Anyway, what I'm saying is that so often we even though we're even though we're saved, we've got everything to be thankful of. And when you think of what the Apostle Paul was saying there, you know, to know him and the power of his resurrection, to know him, to know Christ, wow, we're winners. Just that alone is enough to make us winners and to give us the victory. And that's what I want to talk about. The victory. The victory life. We could put the numbers down and say, okay, number one, confess your sins. Number two, you know, read your Bible. Number three, pray, number four, and you'll have victory But that's I I don't want to talk about that. We all know that. I want to talk about maybe some other things. I have to go up here and find out what other things they are I can't help it, Pastor. I don't remember all this stuff. How about victory number one? Victory is a choice. You know it's the truth. You choose whether you're going to have victory or not. You make the decision. Now here's the thing. If you're not saved, you really don't have a choice. You're just going to keep on sinning. There's not going to be a thing you can do about it. Oh, you might be able to hang on for a while, but you're going to fall right back into it Because you don't have anything inside that's in motivating you, that's keeping you from doing it, giving you the power to make good decisions. You see, losers, the reason a person is a loser, you know, loser, all right. Loser, right? The reason you're a loser is because you're making wrong decisions. And as long as you make wrong decisions, you continue to be a loser. Now the first decision you need to make, of course, is to to trust Christ as your personal Savior. That that automatically puts you in the in the right position to be a winner, to have victory in your life and and to enjoy the abundant life that Christ wants us all to have. But if you're if you continue to make wrong decisions, you're going to find those wrong decisions will bring you down the wrong path. That's just common sense. It it doesn't take a genius to figure that out. So it's important that you begin to make right decisions. You see, when you make wrong decisions, it's usually based on a misconception or a lie. And when you make decisions based on a lie, that becomes a stronghold. And we're not going to get into strongholds tonight, but it becomes a stronghold, a bad stronghold. Because that stronghold only gets stronger the longer you let it go. That's why you should deal with sin and deal with uh wrong thinking immediately instead of letting it get out of hand Yep, we uh we have a choice to make Jesus has conquered death, hell, and the grave. He's given the victory. He's the the guide. He's the one that we look to. That's why that's why the Apostle Paul was putting so much emphasis on knowing Christ. Knowing him as a personal Savior. But listen, knowing Jesus Christ as a personal Savior is more than just knowing him. It's more than just, you know, how can I put it? I don't know exactly how to how to illustrate it. Well, maybe I can illustrate this way. I know Nan. I know Nan, no Nan. That's a rather funny sound, doesn't it? When I first met her, it was uh I'd been in the army and I'd come home on leave and went to a skating rink, and lo and behold, there was a gal out there skating. Caught my eye immediately. So I bought me a pair of skates, I didn't buy them, I rented me a pair of skates and off I went. The only problem was that she could outskate me. She was she was a great skater. And uh I was a mediocre skater. But I didn't give up. See, there's a secret in winning is you don't give up. And uh a year later I proposed and she married me. Isn't that great? And uh How can I say it? I knew her then and I loved her and uh now we've been married for years. Many years. And uh the thing about it is that now I not only know her, but I know what she's thinking. She and I, we think alike. Do you know what I'm talking about? If you've been married very long, you know your husband or your wife, many times you'll start a sentence and they'll finish it. Is that right? How many can witness to that? Yeah. Yeah. That's what I'm talking about. Wouldn't it be great if if all Christians would know Jesus like that? Know what he thinks and think what he thinks. Act like he acts. Go where he would go. Do what he would do. Do you see what I'm saying? Isn't that simple? I know it's it's deep for a lot of you, but isn't that simple? To know him To know him. That's what the Apostle Paul, he didn't just know him. He knew him. Just like I know my wife. We've become we've become one. When we were married, we became one. But now we've become one. You see what I'm saying? There's a difference. And if you want to be a winner in the Christian life, then you get to know the one who is the is the leader, the one who has won the victory. The one who has conquered death held in the grave, who has conquered temptation, who has conquered that evil one Has conquered the the emotions, has conquered the flesh, he's conquered the yeah, he's he's the the the conqueror And because he is conquered, uh he's the conqueror, we too can have that same victory and be a conqueror. There's a verse in there that has that word in it and I've just forget what it was But the truth of the matter is that that we can have victory in our Christian life because of him and because of his resurrection power that is imparted to that individual who will be born into the family of God. When the Spirit of God comes in, he empowers you. The second thing is, victory is a promise. Let's go back to in the book of Exodus. And here's the here's the people of Israel. They've just been freed. from the uh from Pharaoh. They've crossed the Red Sea uh with the the walls of water on both sides and and uh uh uh now they're they're at Kenishbarnia. God told the people, he told Moses and the people, he said, listen. This is a place that's filled with milk and honey. I've had the heathen in there, they've taken care of the land for you. All you have to do is go in and claim the land, and I'll go in before you and I will fight for you. How about that? That was a pretty good promise. And what happened? They sent spies in. Well what is that an indication of? It's an indication of a lack of faith. They didn't believe what he said. If they didn't believe what he said, they would have, you know, got four or five bands of guys together and went in there and whooped a whole bunch of them. They just believed God. But instead, they sent the spies in. The spies came back and and laid out a scenario that nobody in their right mind would want to go in there. The cities are walled, there's giants in the land, and we were like grasshoppers in our own eyes, and so there they were, and they wouldn't go in. And as a result, they wandered around the wilderness for forty years because of their unbelief, Hebrews tells us. But what I'm saying is the promise was there. God had given him the promise, go in and I'll go in and fight before you You and I have the same promises in this Christian life that we have. He's promised never to leave us nor forsake us. What does that tell you? That tells you that no matter where what path you take, that he's right there and he'll empower you in any path that he lights up. You see, he's he's a in the Word of God is a light to our path, there's a lamp to our feet, and light to our path, and When we decide to follow him, he'll put the light out there and show you where to go. He'll put the lamp at your feet, make sure you don't step in a hole while you're on the path. He's made the promise he's going to light the way. He's the light of the world, and we are supposed to follow him When he gives us a commission to go into all the world and preach the gospel, is that not, isn't that the promise that I'll watch out for you when you go? I'll take care of you. I'll show you where to go. And then in one place he told the apot or told the uh disciples, he said, Don't even worry about what you're going to say. I'll put the words in your mouth whenever the time comes So the promises. We can have victory because of his promises to us. Does that make sense? Victory. We can have victory. The victory is the Lord's. That's a good one, isn't it? Don't have to say much on that because everybody knows that. Here's Joshua there and they just crossed the r the uh Jordan River now. They've under forty years. Everybody's died off that uh uh had uh the first you know th the the first trip around and now everybody's dead that uh said no we're not gonna go in. Now the new generation has come on And uh now Joshua instead of Moses leading this uh leading the the army. Trying to think where I'm at. I lost it again. Talk to yourself till I get ready. Ah that's a simple one. So what happens? They cross the Jordan River, and uh here's the the walls of Jericho, and Joshua goes out one evening to scout things out, and we scouts The walls. He's looking at him and he's trying to figure out how he's gonna do this. I mean this is a formidable place and all at once he sees somebody standing over there. And he's standing over there with a with a sword in his hand. And he looks like he knows what he's doing. And upon questioning, he finds out it's really uh the Lord. And the Lord is saying, take off your shoes, you're on holy ground. So he takes his shoes off and he kneels down, and the Lord lays out the plan of attack. What I'm getting at is that victory is the Lord's. When David went up against Goliath, it wasn't a little boy in a slingshot. It was a little boy and a slingshot. Well, it's not the kind of not that kind, but that kind. But it was a Lord. It was him that, you know, he was the one that empowered him. He's the one that gave him the courage. He's the one that put the incentive in his heart. He's the one that said, Is there not a cause? And he said Yes, there's a cause to himself, and I'm it. I'll I'll I'll take care of the situation. And he goes out and uh and kills the giant The victory is the Lord's. And if you try to get the victory on your own through the flesh, you'll fail. You'll fall flat on your face. Now let me say this. When I say the victory is the Lord's, that doesn't mean we can just sit down or can, you know, and not do anything and just say, okay, I'm trusting the Lord to do it. You have some sin in your life? I want you to understand the victory is the Lord's. I mean He's gonna give He ha He's given you the power. The Holy Spirit's living within. But he does not expect you to just set on your can and expect him to take away the temptations. The temptations are always going to be there We're always going to, in this body of flesh, there's going to be temptations every day of our life. There's going to be something that Satan is going to use to try to entice you to draw you away to himself. So what we need to do is trust the Lord, but understand the Word of God is given to us so that we can hide it in our heart that we might not sin against Him. The Holy Spirit has given to us to give us the power to say no to sin. Because this This uh this body of flesh, uh after the Spirit of God comes in, uh the flesh may be weak, but the spirit, aha, the spirit, there's there's strength in the spirit The spirit helps you. That makes sense? Amen Victory is in the Lord's hands. He's the one who'll give the victory. I I I you read about David and Goliath, then later on he had a bunch of men. They were called David's mighty men And he had three particular guys that was were special. You know, uh Elijah, Shammah, and Adino, those are three guys that that, I mean, they did some tremendous things They fought lines and I mean they did they did stuff that, you know, really hard to believe. One of them fought 700 at one time and killed them. But at the end of each one of those verses there that tells about each one of these mighty men, it says, and the Lord gave them victory. The Lord gave them the victory. And you can you can expect God to be on your side when you make the effort and you say, Lord, this is something that I need to deal with and something I need to get victory over. And don't just sit down and say, okay, so give me the victory, you know, put it in my head that I won't uh so I'll I'll I won't sin. And all that's not the way it works. You say, Lord, I need your help You humble yourself at his feet and say, God, if you don't help me, it's not going to get done. It's going to keep messing me up. And so Lord, I'm asking you to help me. And so then you go about doing the right thing. You make good decisions You don't go by uh the liquor place if you're uh have an enticement towards liquor. You don't go walking by the door and smelling the alcohol, you know, as you go by If you're trying to quit smoking, you don't follow people around to have a cigarette and trying to suck in all the smoke You see what I'm talking about? You don't put yourself in a position where that sin is going to So the two of you together, through the power of the Holy Spirit. You can have victory over whatever it is that you're dealing with in this life. And then the final thing before I show the chalk drawing Victory Victory brings joy I was uh I was looking at places where it talks about uh winning and and victory and stuff like that. And I I ran across a verse back in the in uh Revelation and and I wanna I wanna read that. It's in Revelation chapter fifteen. John says, I and I'm looking at verse one. He says, and I saw another sign in heaven. Great and marvelous, seven angels, having the seven last plagues. For in them is filled up the wrath of God. Now this is then this is during the the tribulation period and uh the Jews are going through their their uh seventieth week of of Jacob, you know, the uh of their tribulation time where God is dealing with the Jews uh finally to bring them out of their backsliding condition. Verse 2 says, and I saw it as it were a sea of glass mingled with fire. You know, I try to visualize these things. Do you? When I read something like that, I try to visualize a lake of glass mingled with fire. Fire just dancing within the glass, not on top of it, but inside the glass. Maybe the glass is that thick, I don't know, but there's fire just dancing all over it, and you get You can see the, as you look out across it there, there's this smooth as silk, but there's you can see the glitter of fire dancing around. And then it says, I saw as it were a sea of glass mingled with fire, and them that had gotten the victory over the beast. Over his image, over his mark, over the number of his name And stand on the sea of glass, having the harps of God. I looked at that and I said, Good night Here are these are uh Jewish tribulation saints that have come through the tribulation period, but now they're in heaven. This is a vision of heaven. So they lost their lives, but they got the victory. Isn't that something? They lost their lives, but they got the victory. They got the victory over the beast. That was the the the the main foe of the whole thing. And then it says uh uh not only the the beast himself but the image of the beast. In other words, they they solved the problem of idolatry in their life. Have you solved that problem? Have do you have something that you put over God in your life? That's idolatry. Anything that you love above God is idolatry. Thou shalt have no other gods before thee. Thou shalt not make of thyself any graven images or bow thyself down to them. So when you do anything like that and you you put something ahead of God You're committing idolatry. And that's a that's a terrible sin against God. That's one of the worst. And so in this verse it says that they they not only won over the beast himself, But they went over his his image. And then it says they and then they uh uh and over the mark. No, they said, you're not putting the 666 on my hand or my forehead. I'm not going to do it. And they said, well, if you don't bow down, we're going to chop your head off. And so they killed him. And then it says and over the the number of his name, and they were standing on this sea of glass. Having the harps of God. And listen. And they sang they sing the song of Moses. How about that? The servant of God, and the song of the Lamb, saying, Great and marvelous are thy works, O Lord God Almighty, just and true are thy ways, thou King of the saints. Who shall not fear thee, O Lord, and glorify thy name? For thou thou only art holy, for all nations shall come and worship before thee, for thy judgment are made Manifest. Now what am I saying? I'm just saying that serving God here on this earth There may be people who look at you and uh they put they give you down the road. They give you a hard time. They make fun of you for taking a stand for God There's some of you teenagers, when you take a stand for God, there's some of your friends who'll make fun of you because they're not saved, and you are. And it's it's tragic, but that's the way it is. And there's some of you folks where you work, when you go in, you have to keep your mouth shut because if you say anything, why uh your boss will get on your case. I'm saying that that we need, number one, we need to take a stand, yeah. I'm not saying getting fired, but I'm saying that we need to take our stand, let people know who we are. And the ultimate, the end of the whole situation, joy is the finale. There is joy in serving Jesus There is a happiness and a joy. Blessed is the man. The scripture says it over and over. The one who puts Jesus first, who lives for him. There's joy and happiness in that. You may be going through some really rough times in your life today. As we talked about the storms of life, we may go through some storms today, but tomorrow Tomorrow you'll be on the the glass sea with the with the fire sprinkling around and you'll say, you know, Brother Williams was right. It is down in there. It looks really, really super And there'll be joy unspeakable and full of joy because you served the one who had the victory and gave us the victory. If you're here today and you've never been saved, you know you need to start making good decisions. Good decisions And the first good decision you'll ever make, when I made in 1962 an old-fashioned altar just like this one, and I was trusting Christ as my personal Savior If you're a Christian, hey, and you're walking around with take your fingers and go like this. And then say, praise the Lord. I'm saved and I know it. And to know him, and to know him. Everything else is but dumb. Just to know him. Are you saved today? Well, I sure hope so. And if you're not, I hope you get saved. Let's have the lights out and I'll show this final chalk drawing Oh, you can I don't care what kind of tribulation you're going through, what kind of problems you have as a Christian. Heaven will be worth it all. Be worth it all. When we see that golden city We walk through those pearly gates and into a street that's solid gold. We walk along the river of life. With the trees, with the with the the fruit of the knowledge of good and evil along the sides When we see that, and then we look up and well, there's mom and dad, or there's my little sister. Well there's my baby that I never got to see or enjoy. When we see them, ah yeah, it'll be worth it all. You'll say, I I've got the victory today. You can have it today. In this life, you can have the victory. Just need to claim his promises, trusting him, and enjoy the benefits. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. We can have part of the lights back on please. With heads bowed and eyes closed. Many of you folks out there, you know what I'm talking about because you've been saved perhaps as long as I have But maybe you maybe even though you know the things what I say is true, maybe you just haven't been what you ought to be. Or maybe you're here today and you've never really been born again. You've you know, maybe you've gone to church, but you've never really trusted Christ as your Savior. Never repented of your sin and said, Lord, I I need you. And I'm asking you to save me. You have an opportunity today to make a good decision. Perhaps there's a young person here You know that you got the big L on your forehead. Yeah. Yep, you've never been saved, so you're a loser. I'll tell you something, you're not a loser as far as God's concerned, though, because he's given you the opportunity to come to him. You know, he looks at he looks at our heart. And he looks at us and he says, you know, the potential that you have. I'd like for you to get saved. Because I see something in you that I can use. You're here today and God has spoken to your heart about something. Maybe you just need to slip out when this invitation begins. Heavenly Father, I pray that you'd help us tonight. I pray that you'd, first of all, that you'd help us to see. Help us to see the Lord Jesus Christ high and lifted up. Help us to see ourselves as He sees us. Help us to put on the mind of Christ. Help us to start thinking like he thinks and doing like he does. Help us, Lord, tonight to make the right decision here at this altar. I ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's all stand up.