Here we've really enjoyed ourselves. It's been a real blessing. We've enjoyed the accommodations and all the little goodies in the room. We've enjoyed the fellowship. We've enjoyed the meals. And well, we Baptists know how to eat. Well, I've dealt with that already. And uh but we are good eaters, and there's no question about that. And uh I just thank the Lord for what God is doing here at uh at the at your church at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. I'm looking for my notes even as I speak Uh no, kidding aside. I'm uh there we go. And uh no, they're not there. Uh let's see. Well they're in here somewhere. I tell you what, just take your Bible and turn anywhere. It's all good. And uh And uh and we'll we'll go on with this thing. Husband and wife they were driving on and they'd had an argument. I mean they had really been ticked off and they were And they were driving along and now there was silence in the car in the car. They're driving through the countryside, then a solid two hours of nobody speaking, everybody just Looking straight ahead and we're going about our business. And they passed this field, and out in that field it was full of mules and goats. The husband looking ahead and not blanking And I he said, uh, relatives some of your relatives over there? And she said, Yes, by marriage And and uh so I I think that's not what we're trying to generate here And uh am I on? Testing. One, two, three. Uh oh, now I am. All right. Whoa. Are we on now? Yes. Okay, good. And uh so so that's uh that's uh that's a good thing. And uh You know, I I carried my iPad with me. I used it for a couple of the sessions with the with the men and with the other uh earlier session And I use it just occasionally. I don't preach from it, uh hardly ever unless it's just an emergency situation. Uh uh I have probably a couple thousand sermons on that iPad that I downloaded uh that I get off the internet from other preachers and uh gives me something to say. So in a real tight spot you know I can come through. But uh no all kidding aside, I do have a lot of my sermons on there and that kind of thing. I love the smartphone. I I use it all the time and I tweet. And how many do you all tweet? Anybody tweet? Your pastor tweets? We he he's a he he tweets and I tweet and uh and uh and anybody on face uh Facebook. Anybody on Facebook? How could you be on Facebook and not tweet That just that that doesn't add up to me because Facebook is labor-intensive. Tweet, you're limited to 140 characters, and it's usually just prayer requests or updates or somebody sends you a picture of something and you're done And you don't have to respond to it and they don't post something on your wall where you have to decide whether you're gonna let other people see it or not. And you know, all this kind of stuff. It's uh Facebook. My wife has Facebook And and uh and all of you who are her Facebook friends know that she's hardly ever on there. But I tweet and I do that pretty extensively, maybe a couple of times a day. As a matter of fact, I I I'm gonna tweet some things about this thing. And did you hear that that I may have told you this before, but but uh YouTube and and Twitter and Facebook Have entered into an agreement where they're going to merge and become the largest, the largest networking, social network conglomeration in the whole world. They're going to control the whole thing. They're going to be so big They already got a name for it. They call it U Twit Face. And uh uh so anyway Uh yeah, you get on there, get on there, and then and then follow me and then you can see where I'm going. I can't follow everybody. I've started I've got to the place where I only follow preachers. That any new preachers that come along, I'll follow them, but I just can't follow everybody because you just don't have time to read all those things. You know, so I I I even limit some of the preachers. I don't follow liberals and and I don't follow women preachers. I don't follow women But a I have a lot of ladies that like to just follow and see where we're going or whatever, but I don't follow ladies uh because I just feel like it's not a good policy for me. And uh and uh it just it keeps everything right up above board, that kind of thing. I just follow preachers and some of them are questionable, you know. But take your Bible and turn to the book of Acts, chapter number thirty one, while you're turning there I'll give you my brief commercial again. We have a few of these, uh, just a very few, Shawnee Baptist College choir and tour groups and soloists. And I tell you, this is some of the most beautiful Christian music you'll ever hear, all of it professionally done, fully orchestrated. You will love those CDs. And then The uh Bible songs for kids. There's six of them back there. I highly recommend them for people with little children. Get one of them, get two of them. If you buy one, they're ten dollars. I mean we wholesale them, literally we wholesale them out They're they're ten dollars. Uh if you go online to buy 'em from the distributors, it'll be six fifteen ninety-five, that kind of thing. Uh we I uh uh don't tell Brother Fox we sell his CDs for this, because you know that He he might think we're cheap cheapening them. We're not cheapening them. We're just trying to get them out. We're not interested in making big problems. Matter of fact, everything we've made up to this point in our ministry, we just turn it into our church And uh we don't make any profit. This is not how we try to pay our way or whatever. We just trust God to supply that. But we this Bible songs for kids. It's each one of these CDs have twenty-five songs that are Bible screpture songs And the kids listening to them just learn scriptures. Remember all those songs, you know, you know, I like to give the world a break. You know all those so all those little ditties that you heard all your life? And just think, just imagine if you'd have been listening to some Bible verses instead. You would have hundreds of Bible verses in your memory that you would see something and it just jobs your memory. My kid said Dad, you've got a song for everything. And whatever they bring up, I can start humming a tune or singing and throwing in some words to some song. And you know you've got songs for everything. I said, yeah, I wish I'd have heard the b I wish I'd have had the Bible put in my heart when I was a young person, a teenager, like like I had like the world programmed me with all of all of its junk, you know. And uh So uh those those things they're ten dollars apiece. If you want to get all six of them, I'll knock another ten dollars off and they're fifty bucks for for all six of them, if you can if you want to get that. And then this Marriage Made in Heaven series, I talked about it this morning. I won't do I won't spend any time on it tonight. I just say it's got some good stuff in there and uh it'll be a help to you. And then the Shawnee Baptist College, uh the Shawnee Baptist College brochure If you know anyone that's interested, I tell you what, if you're a young person and you're interested in thinking, maybe in the next year or two I'll be heading off to college. If you will just tear this off Fill out the information if you have an email address or your address and put it in there if your parents have an email and they don't mind you getting an email on their email address sometime that they could give to you. Uh you could put that on there and uh and you know just once or twice a year the college will get in touch with you and let you know what's going on and uh just send you information. And uh that's some you know while you're window shopping for a Bible college, take a look at the take a look in the window at Shawnee Baptist College. It's uh it's not a college church like so many colleges have become where they spend millions of dollars promoting with all the slick brochures and all that kind of stuff. But the book of Acts is the book of Acts, whether you learn it in a classroom with thirty people or forty people or whether you learn it in a classroom with two hundred people. Personally, I think the room with 30 or 20 or even 15 people is better because then you can actually go up to the professor after class and ask questions and talk about things and get information. You know, it's just a better deal in my personal opinion And uh uh so I just want to recommend that. And uh I recommend Shawnee Baptist College very greatly. I founded the college, so I'm really in favor of it. I like it a lot. And uh that'll just get you the information, give you something to pray about uh as you seek those kind of things. And and I'll just leave a couple of those brochures with the pastor if you want to get them later But uh you feel free to take it tonight. If I can be of any help or answer any questions, uh you see me. I'll give you my personal business card. It's got my uh cell phone, my email address on it if you have questions you want to ask me further about school or whatever And uh that kind of thing. If you want to ask me spiritual things, I'll refer you to your pastor and uh let him uh help you with those things. Uh I only pastored one church that did that for thirty-seven years and I don't want to pastor another one, so not not at this point anyway. If God tells me to, I'd do it, but But uh uh I know some some evangelists and and pastors come through and and somehow they get a ever bet everybody in your church gets on their mailing list or something, you know, and that's kinda weird uh too. So I d I don't want to do that kind of thing. As a pastor that dealt with that kind of thing, I know the problems it can cause, so I just uh I told the Lord I w I wouldn't do that. But uh but I do want to be your friend. I'll help you if I can, especially with college information, if you want information about John Bethesda College. Acts chapter sixteen. Here we go. We're going to get out of here early tonight. We'll be out before midnight, I'm sure. Uh we're hitting that way uh quickly. And uh I was telling you, you know, we think about this thing of marriage and relationships and love, and tonight I'm gonna be going a little bit different direction, so I'll just tell you this one last story before I do One night my mom and dad, you know, my mom and dad both went to heaven in the last few years and they were married for sixty-seven years. And uh what a what a great romance. And And as a matter of fact, my dad, my mom had got Alzheimer's and died. My wife was the caretaker for both of them. So she was literally a shut-in for about a four or a four and a half, five year period And then we finally brought them to our house because she was living out there half the time and spending every night out there the la for a over a year and spending much time prior to that. And uh so she was a real angel to them. And uh she told Dad one day, I'm going home, and you can either come and live with us or go to a nursing home And uh obviously they opted to come live with us. And so uh uh sixty-seven years. And what a what a what a what a what a s what a measure, what a mark. And uh My dad, after mom had passed away, he continued to live with us and he got pancreatic cancer. And we we've taken dad to the hospital because one night he woke us up our I guess we weren't in bed yet, but we heard him fall in his room. I went in there. He was having these pains and we couldn't get him stopped. We ended up calling EMS. Long story short, we got him to the hospital And then he was talking and called my brother and he came and and so all the family was there, we were there with him, and my daughter was there and and uh uh And of course Nancy and I were there. And they said, We're going to take him back and do an EKG or something like that. I've got some kind of test they're going to do on him. They rolled him back there, and my brother and I said, Well, let's go get a cup of coffee and we can talk a while We were walking down the hall and we heard this cold blue and all that kind of thing going on. I said, Boy, what that hope that isn't add. And they said, No, it couldn't be. They just took him back to do that test. About the time my phone rang, it's my daughter Sherry, and she said, Papa just passed away. And that was Pat while they were they were coding him. And I said, oh wow. So we took off back there as quick as we could. And the nurse came out and she was telling the family She said, she said I was there, hooked him up to everything, and he was talking. He told me. He said I was married. my my wife and I, we were married for sixty seven years and she's been gone a year and a half now, I think it was, and he said, and I still miss her. And she turned around to turn on the machine to do something, and she turned back around and he was gone That was the last words out of his mouth. Wouldn't you like to have that kind of romance that lasts a lifetime And uh I'm praying, Lord, to let Nancy and I grow old together. Some of you young people looking and saying, What do you want? You missed it, preacher. You did and didn't know it. But we're still having the time of our life. I'm telling you, I'd have to be twins to have more fun. But anyway, mom and dad were sitting in the swing and and uh out on the porch and mom said mom said, Hey Remember when we used to sit out here like this? You didn't sit over there, you sit right up here beside me. He said, yeah, yeah, I remember, and he got up and he moved over and sat down right beside her. She said, remember, remember how it used to be? We'd sit here for a while and you'd put your arm around me He said, yeah, I I I remember and he reached up and put his arm around her and she leaned her head over on his shoulder and he said she said nibble on my ear a a little bit. He didn't say anything. He got up and went walking in the house. She said, Where are you going? She said, he said, I'm going to get my teeth out of the bathroom. So you know that That's not a true story. It didn't really happen to mom and dad. I just heard that and thought it sounded good to say that put a plug them in after telling you how romantic they were, but Acts chapter 16, I just want you to see this real quickly. Here's Paul and Silas there in prison for preaching the gospel of Christ. And uh here's Paul. Yeah, by the way, when you read Paul's epistle. One of the things you ought to put as you read his epistles, right at the very like where it says the book of Ephesians, right at the top of that, you ought to or right under that you ought to write, written from a cold, damp, dark prison cell. Hey, when you get to the book of Philippians, they ought to put on there, written from death row. That's where Paul was when he wrote that. He was in Rome, in prison, waiting for to be decapitated or whatever, you know, what tradition tells him. And and uh if you when you go back and read the Psalms, I had a preacher tell me this one time, every psalm you can start it. But with before you begin, you know, because of the blood, the Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. Because of the blood, you can begin every psalm with that. That red blood thread of Christ that runs through the entire Word of God. So, you know, when we're reading these things, let's not forget the perspective. Let's not forget to to put them to couch the thing properly Or we'll think it's just another good luck charm, just another little philosophy thrown out, or something like that. But make the Bible personal to you. and and recognize the that the the channels that the Holy Spirit of God used to pin down these truths were real people who made made real sacrifices, who surrendered their lives wholly to God to be used in the way that God used them. And that's a good thought. But here's the Apostle Paul and Silas. And now they're in prison. And uh and at midnight, instead of complaining and saying, I can't believe we're in prison, here we are, here we're trying to serve God, we're trying to do a work for God, we're trying to make a difference in the world And now here we are sitting here, rotten in this prison with a bunch of criminals. That's not what it is. The Bible said that they prayed and sang praises at midnight. Here it was, midnight, they're still having a service. They're still praying and singing praises. And I'll tell you what else I believe. I believe that they were given the gospel and they gave the gospel to every prisoner in that prison. And I personally believe they had a jailhouse revival. I believe every one of them got saved. And I'll show you. Why I believe that here in just a moment. And so the the Bible says at midnight an earthquake came. Meanwhile the keeper of the prison had fallen asleep, I mean everything's under control. He's sleeping. The ground shook, the the doors opened, the bars opened and and their chains fell off and every prisoner in that jail were were f was free to leave. And the prisoner woke up, the thing it woke him up, he looked there, saw the jail doors open And uh and he thought, man, this is a capital offense. I'm I I'm the king's guard. I'm supposed to be taking care of the prison. This is a capital offense to let these prisoners escape. There's insurrectionists and murderers and murderers and rapists and and molesters in this prison and thieves and and and I've let 'em all get away. I'll have to give my life as a result of this. I'm gonna have and I'm gonna keep my honor and I'm gonna take my sword and kill myself and I I can't face this thing and the the reproach it'll bring on my family. And he got the sword and he was ready to k take his own life And Paul, I guess, sent something. He stepped out, saw the keeper of the prison. He said, Stop! Do thyself no harm. Listen to this. We are all here. Not one of them left. Why in the world would these men, some of them perhaps on death row for their life? Some of them maybe had a life sentence or many more years to serve? Some of them were probably captives from other provinces or other countries. If they could have gotten out, they could have gone home and been safe, escaped across the border, or whatever else. And yet they all stayed. I think they stayed because they got right with God. Isn't that something? But that's not my sermon tonight. The Bible says, but Paul cried with a loud voice, verse 28, do thyself no harm, for we are all here. By the way, I'm in Acts 16, in case I forgot to tell you that. Then he called for a light, the keeper of the prison did, and sprang in and came trembling, and fell down before Paul and Silas. And brought them out and said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? Well, Paul forgot to tell him about how you have to maintain good works. And uh how you have to live by the Ten Commandments and the Golden Rule and and uh and join the church and be be baptized and all that sort of thing in order to be saved. But he did tell him this. I think he told him the right thing, told him the whole story. Right about said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? And they said, Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. Hey, look what Elsie said, and thy house. Said your household will be saved. You see, I believe household salvation is the plan of God. I believe God not only wanted to save you, but He wanted to use you as a tool to get into your family circle and save your loved We're talking about a family conference. What kind of family conference is it? Our loved ones, our cousins, our nieces, our nephews, our spouses, our children, our grandchildren, our aunts and uncles, our grandparents They died and they went to hell and we had the truth, and for some reason we didn't get it to them in time or the right way. They died without Christ. He spake unto them the word of the Lord. Look at this, the Bible says, and they said, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, thou shalt be saved in thy house. And they spake unto him the word of the Lord and to all that were in his house. He took them home with him. And they he called the family together and said, These fellows have something to tell us. And he took them the same night, the same hour of the night, that is, the keeper of the prison Took Paul and Silas the same hour of the night, and all of his family went with him, and washed their stripes, and and baptized and was baptized he and all his straightway They practiced believers' baptism after they believed the gospel and were saved. When he had brought them into his house, he set meat before them, and they rejoiced, believing in God with all his house. My friend, it's God's will. For us to be used of God to win those closest to us to Christ. I wonder how many of you in this room tonight You either have a family member, a relative, a distant relative, or maybe a close relative or an in-law or an outlaw or whatever. Or maybe somebody that's just a close friend or a neighbor that maybe you've been a neighbor to for years or or uh or someone that you work alongside with week in and week out. You know it's more difficult. Oh yeah, we might try a little bit the first time And if we get rebuffed, then we say, well, they know about it, so now I'm not gonna say it anymore. And but but you know somebody in that in that that circle of influence that you have that You agree with me that it's more difficult to witness to them than it is just to go to door to door and witness to total strangers. You say, preacher, I got somebody like that that I that I know. How many of you have somebody like that? Well, almost everybody in the house. Almost everybody in the house. You know what? If we could just win our friends, our neighbors, or our loved ones, we could double the size of this church overnight. Isn't that something? And double the our influence and our ability to reach out to a lost and dying world, we could make a difference And you say, well, I don't know we don't. You think I don't believe God's a respecter of persons. I believe we can win our loved Jesus Christ. Let's pray a minute and I'll tell you a story. Heavenly Father Thank you for the privilege we have to come to thee in prayer tonight. Thank you, Lord, for the Word of God. Thank you that it's quick and powerful, living, the living Word of God. That Lord, God breathed, and I pray that you take that word of God that you have breathed life into it and use it in our lives. to help us to have greater boldness, to win our loved ones to Christ, and have greater wisdom, to be wise as serpents and harmless as doves. Father, grant us liberty and power to accomplish that purpose. And we give you the praise in Jesus' name. Amen. I told you that uh Nancy's family I mentioned this morning how that when Nancy got saved and when I got right with God, I'd already been saved as a boy, but I wasn't in a church that told us about soul winning or personal responsibility or separation or any of those things. And uh when I we went to a little church in Bowling Green and it just inspired us. I got right with God. A few months into it, Nancy got saved. realized that she hadn't been saved even though she had been a a Catholic and she had been a a uh a a Lutheran and she was now a Baptist but she had never been saved. She got saved and then by the way after she got saved she got scripturally baptized If you haven't been baptized since you've been saved, you haven't been scripturally baptized. So you're disobedient in that area, and that could hinder your power with God. And it doesn't it won't hinder your salvation. You still go to heaven when you die, but it could hinder your power with God here to be the influence he wants you to be. So think about those things too But uh so Nancy got saved, and I got right with God. She wrote to all of her family, told them that how she'd gotten saved, said something about her testimony to them. and uh also put a gospel track in there. And she just thought, you know, y when you first get saved, you think, boy, if I'd have known this earlier I'd have done it. If my family knew this, I think they'd do it too. Well guess what? They didn't do it. They took it as an assault. They took it as an offense. And immediately we were, in one sense of the word, uh we were we were cut off from the family. Uh we were invited to family reunions, we weren't invited to birthday parties, we weren't invited, you know, that kind of thing We we'd begin to be shunned, so to speak. When we did hear about something through the grapevine, some maybe some family member that was halfway friendly toward us would say, Oh, by the way uh so and so is having a a party over at their house and and uh where all the family's gonna be there why don't you all come? Well well they didn't really invite us we didn't get an invitation how'd you find out well they called us or we got this thing Well we didn't get one and uh well well come on anyway, they won't mind. They just forgot or they didn't know your address or okay, we'll try. We'd go there, walk in. Well, hello there, preacher. Here, preacher, have a beer Uh uh you know, that kind of thing. All Roman Catholic, all all uh very uh antagonistic against anything else, and and uh and I don't know what it was, and and using their profanity and doing whatever they could to try to to try to light our fire or to push the buttons or or whatever like that. And uh and and and they just didn't want to really have anything much to do with us. They were more comfortable when we weren't there and we knew it. We could sense it. It was like you go in there and you could cut the ice. You know, that that that's how uh we felt Uh when we went into that place I had effects like that. I even had that same effect on her stepmom, who wasn't a Roman Catholic, but I don't know what the deal is, but uh you know but So we we just she started we just began to pray for her family and try to witness to them and to make a difference in their life And uh we worked at this thing. And let me just give you a few things that you can do. And I I've already told you this morning that several little folks Several of her family members have gotten saved. Several of them are raising their families in our church now. There's probably I I'd have to count it up. There's I know there's more than twenty people in our church right now that's in our church Not counting others that have gotten saved that are not in our church, that that have come to Christ through the testimony of Nancy and through our our attempts together. to try to witness to them over the years. And I just want to give you some pointers that will help you win your loved ones to Christ. Number one, win them by being a believer And I say by being a believer. Well, first of all, uh when I say being a believer, know for sure that you really are saved yourself 1 John 5. 13 says, These things have it written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that you may know that you have eternal life. He didn't say you hope you do, but know that you do. But when I say be a believer, I don't just simply mean make a profession of faith, be saved, and be on your way to heaven. There's a lot of people who believe in God, but they don't believe God So they're not really living the Christian life because even though God's word tells us what to do and how we can please Him, they're not willing to do that because they're afraid they'll have too much to give up or that it won't be satisfying They don't trust God to do what he said he would do for them if they would trust if if they would if they would not only trust him to take them to heaven when they die But trust him to give them a life that's overflowing and satisfying and joy-filled in the sweet now and now. You know, we're all looking at the sweet by and by, pie in the sky when we die thing. But hey, you know what? God wants your life and your home. The Bible even talks about the family that's doing right and and so forth being like heaven on earth. It's like a taste of heaven on earth And there's so many Christians that are missing that. And my heart goes out to them and I I plead for them. We uh in witnessing that Nancy's family, by the way, all of her brothers said nine brothers and sisters And uh all of them but but two now are are have passed away. And uh Nancy got to win one of her brothers about about four or five years ago he developed heart disease and she went up to the hospital to witness to him. His name was Jerry and she tried and she witnessed to him, showed him the plan of salvation. He listened And he said, Not now, sis. I I don't I don't want to not right now, maybe later. And she said, Jerry. She knew how sick he was, and he did too. And she said, What did you say to him? You might not ever get out. The doctors had told him he had he had chronic heart disease and there was no cure for it. There's nothing they could do. And she said, you may never get out of this hospital. He said Okay, I'll do it now. And there in that hospital, he prayed and received Christ as his Savior. Nancy had the privilege to lead him to the Lord. I had led his wife to the Lord. And uh we had another brother who I had led his wife to the Lord uh uh at one point in time and it all kind of gets foggy now as you look back But, you know, I've led her to the Lord at one point in time, and then she got a a a a debilitating disease and ended up dying from it. And after the funeral went by his house and set at his kitchen table and led another one of her brothers to the Lord Uh Dr. Joe Boyd went with me uh to go to make a visit. Remember Joe Boyd? Joe Boyd, Evangelist Joe Boyd. We went over and visited Mary and Duck. That was their name, Hayes. Mary was Nancy's oldest sister. And we went by there and while we were there we got to lead Mary to Christ. And uh Duck didn't get saved that day, but he wanted to real bad, but he didn't know what to do with the Masonic Lodge. He was a high ranking member in the Masonic Lodge and He said, Can you can you be a Mason? And so he wouldn't get saved. So after Joe Boyd uh was gone for some time and Duck started coming to church a little bit and he said, I want to talk to you And he said, he said, can you be a Mason and still be a Christian? And I said, Duck, you know what? I'm not a Mason. I don't know anything about the Masons, but I know this. If you'll believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and trust him as your Savior, you can be a Christian. You can go to heaven And Duck prayed with me and asked the Lord to save him, and in less than a year he had quit the Masons and had anything to do with it and uh that kind of thing. The Holy Spirit of God let him out I wasn't going to argue some kind of uh thing uh about that. See, we get off into arguments about things that are not the essentials. The essential is you have to believe on the Lord Jesus Christ to be saved And then point number two, for somebody to have a transformed life, it's not what they have within their power to start something or stop something. It's what they do with the help of the Holy Spirit transforming them from the inside out as they grow in Christ. And uh and and Duck uh became a Christian. They're still active, faithful members to this day Uh one night my uh uh one of our Nancy's nieces uh we were at a service and she went to my son John who's the police officer there in Louisville And she was crying and she was working for Mr. Brown of Brown Foreman Distilleries. She was his executive secretary. Big shot, Mr. Brown of Brown Foreman. And uh and they uh she was uh she couldn't uh she was making big bucks She had an important position. She sat at tables with President George H. W. Bush. She set put together the banquet for that. uh for that meeting and other big executives from around the country and all that kind of thing. Oh, she was a uh uh a big time operator. But she got saved that day I led her to Christ She came to me a few months later. She said, she said, Brother Lonnie, she said, I don't know what to do. She said, she said, I've got children growing up in my home. I don't want them to grow up Now all of a sudden her conscience, you see. She said, I don't want them to grow up knowing that their mama was involved in the liquor industry. What could I do? I said, well, the only thing I can think of is quit. She said, then what would I do? I wouldn't have a job and we we're depending on that money. That's good income. What could I do? I said, well, you could go work for the church for about one-fourth of what you're making there. And you could be I need a secretary and she became my secretary at Shawnee Baptist Church, and today she's the pastor's secretary at Shawnee Baptist Church And on and on. My nephew, my son, gave uh talked my nephew into coming to Northside Christian School. They lived in Bowling Green. He said, you ought to move to Louisville and come to Northside Christian School. You could play on the basketball team there 'Cause he was going to a public school. He was a little guy about five eight, five nine, and uh you know, not that s not that athletic and y there's no way he was gonna make a team in the public school. You have to go do tryouts and there's a hundred guys out there and And unless you're in the top 12 or 14, there's no way you're going to make the team. And and uh he said, basketball? And he talked his parents into relocating to Louisville They moved so he could go to Northside Christian School and play basketball. One day he was sitting, I told you that Mary had gotten saved, and she's now our church receptionist. One day he was over at her house You have to excuse this. He was in her restroom, using the restroom, sitting there, and he saw a gospel tract, one of these blue gospel tracts, sitting there, and he picked it up and read it, and right there in her restroom. He bowed his head and received Christ as his Savior. And today he's our camp director at Indian Creek Baptist Camp, one of the finest Christian camps in the country. You've got to check it out. But but but on and on I could go with stories like that However, it's not always that way. You know, sometimes I remember last April, just this last April, now Nancy had a lot a large family. She had another brother named Charles. And this last April Nancy went over to see Charles and her his husband Pat. And she went in there and she said h his his wife Pat P Patricia, Pat and Pat and Charles. And and she said she said uh she took uh uh our chairman of the deacon's wife went with her, Peggy Kendall. And uh went over there and uh they talked for a few minutes and everything was cordial and friendly and whatever, but there's always still tension there with some of the family, you know. And they're they always got their guard up and they're they're I don't want none of none of that stuff and and matter of fact some of the family uh had allowed their kids to come on some of the youth activities of our church, and those kids got saved, and they forbid them to ever come back. And uh and that kind of thing. I mean this I mean it was rough. And Nancy said to Charles after they talked a few minutes, and you know she'd given we'd given him tracks over the years, we'd tried to talk over the years They had come to funerals and that where I'd preached and uh for fa for family gotten saved and uh and had joined our church and then I had their funeral and when the family would come I'd always give the gospel. So I knew they'd heard the gospel and So Nancy, with the other lady there, she said, Well before I leave, I want I want to share something with you. And she reached in the Bible in her purse and pulled out her New Testament. And Charles said, Don't open that Bible. Just very abrupt. Don't open the Bible. And she stopped and put it back in her purse and got out a couple of tracks. She said, Okay, I won't open the Bible and we'll leave if you promise you'll read these tracts. And she gave one to him, one to her, and he said, Okay, we'll they said we'll read them. And they thanked him and they left. And we thought, well, you know, we're gonna have to try again. And so along about uh well anyway, the the point is you can see that sometimes it's pretty rough. Sometimes it's not quite as easy. Sometimes you get shut down. Some of you have been shut down by a relative or a close friend or something that says, I don't want to hear it, I don't want to talk about it, and whatever. That doesn't mean that the Holy Spirit of God is not dealing with their heart. It doesn't mean that if you continue to pray for them, that God won't eventually do something in their life, bring them to a crisis where they'll need something, and guess who they're going to call? Let me go on down through the list. Number one, win them by being a believer Believe God to honor his word and accomplish his work. Number two, introduce them to others who will help you witness. Introduce them to others who will help you witness. That third person influence. You know what? An expert is anybody from more than 25 miles out of town with a briefcase There that's an expert. I come in here, your pastor knows as much about the Bible as I do. He could have taught you everything I've said this week. Uh maybe he'd have said it a little differently or from a different angle or something. He knows everything I know about the Bible and probably a little bit more in some areas. And but but I'm an expert 'cause I'm from out of town. And and because I've you know because I've been doing it longer than he has So that must make me really brilliant, huh? And if you call me Dr. Mattingley, then I'm really up there, right? I go to these conferences, man, we've got enough doctors on the platform to start a hospital. Enough degrees to be a thermometer. I mean, come on. And and and really that's worthless. Dr. Curtis Hudson said, I have I have two D two doctors now. Makes me a uh a double doc or a paradox or something. I I don't Crazy things. But uh introduce them to other people that can have that third person influence. Okay? You say, how do you do that? A family member is in the hospital And you say to some spiritual leader in your church that you know visits hospitals occasionally and so forth, or you mention it to the pastor Say, hey, when the next time, if you go to that hospital in the next couple days, my relatives in there, and here's their name, and here's their room number, would you just stick their head in and let them know that I mentioned them to you in prayer See, that's all and and hey uh and so you go up and I've had I've done this for other people. If you have somebody in Louisville, Kentucky that has a need, if you'll give us their name and address, I promise you we'll visit them If they go to the hospital, we'll go visit 'em. But we've got to have your name so we can say, hey, yeah, so-and-so just mentions you in prayer. And uh and so while I was here visiting some of our folks, I just thought I'd stop in and and uh see how you're doing and I can get them a report. And by the way, while I'm here, let me invite you to our church. And by the way, while I'm here, do you know for sure if you die today you go to heaven? And by the way, you know, and and and that's just it's just at that third-person influence And that person could go, and we did that over and over again. We would visit them, but we would send other folks by to in times of crisis. in times of need. Uh at at funeral, if there was a death in the family, yeah, we'd go by, but we'd we'd I'd mention it in the church service saying, hey, if if some of you would like to, here's where they're going to be, if you'd just like to go by And maybe our church could send some food over and uh and if somebody would deliver that food and then while you're there, tell them you appreciate uh you know us being in the church that we were praying for them And uh, is there anything we can do for you? And and say, well, here's our number, you know, whatever. And just that that third person, let them know that we're not a bunch of monsters. Let them know that we're not a bunch of weirdos. And you see, here's what her family thought. Her family thought she had joined a cult They really, they were putting up this big, tough, hard, mean front. But the truth of the matter is they were scared of us. They didn't know what she'd got. Their poor little baby sister, she's the baby of the family. Poor little spoiled brat, I mean. But she's the baby of the family, and hey, this this this Wolf in sheep's clothing come along and and and and ruinder. You know, that kind of thing. So introduce them to others who will help you. Number three, witness to them when it comes opportunity to witness to them, witness to them just like you would to anybody else. Like Peter witnessed to his uh like like uh uh when when uh Andrew and and uh the they were there and Jesus Said uh uh I'm sorry, John the Baptist said uh uh behold the Lamb of God that takes away the sin of the world, and pointed him to Jesus over in the Gospel of John chapter 1. The Bible says in verse thirty five, again the next day after John stood and two of his disciples, and looking upon Jesus as he walked, saith, Behold the Lamb of God, and two of his disciples Heard him speak, and they followed Jesus. And by the way, may I just tell you this? We preachers, we know our goal is not to get you to follow us. Our goal is to get you to follow Jesus. John the Baptist understood that. We're not in competition with other churches. We just want to have the very best church God let us have to minister to the most people that we can and motivate and encourage them to reach a lost world for Christ. And the two disciples heard him and they followed Jesus, and Jesus turned and saw them and said, What uh following and saith to them, What seek ye? They saith, Damn, Rabbi, which is being uh which which is uh to say being interpreted, Master, where dwellest thou? He said unto them, Come and see. They came and saw where he dwelt and abode with him that day, for it was about the tenth hour of the night About the tenth hour, one of the two which heard John speak and followed him was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother. Look at this. And he first findeth his own brother Simon. And saith unto him, we have found the Messiah, which is being interpreted to Christ, and he brought him to Jesus. When Jesus beheld him, he said, Thou art Simon, son of Jonah, thou shalt be called Asephus, which is by interpretation a stone and on and on it goes and how that uh uh Philip and Nathaniel in the next few verses and that kind of thing. It's just a natural thing. When you really get right with God for the first time, there's that natural desire to want to share it with somebody And then somebody shuts you down, the devil tells you you can't do this, it don't work, and whatever else, and then you sort of give up on the thing. Please don't let the devil deceive you Instead, you just yield yourself to Christ and introduce them to Jesus just like you would anybody else. Use the Romans Road, use the gospel tract. I love using gospel tracts to witness. I don't have in my pocket right now. I forgot to pick 'em up when I left the house. Now so I feel happy to give me a book a gospel track in your pocket? Yeah. Use use a gospel track And uh just take that gospel track and say, Hey, could I just show you from the what the Bible says how a person can be saved? Here's some verses right out of the Bible And and just go through the thing. Get a good track that you can easily read and understand and read it over several times and get used to it and know what it says and and then use it. And then after they've prayed and received Christ, you can give it to 'em Say here, I just want to leave this with you. You can go home and look these verses up in your Bible. You can see this is the real deal. And you help them. Help them in their coming to Christ. Make a difference in their life. But you witness to them just like you do anybody else. Gospel track, use your personal testimony. Tell them how you got saved. You know, say, you know, before I before I came to Christ, I was just miserable. I was constantly wondering, how could uh what happens after you die? Do I know for sure I'm going to heaven But then one day somebody told me how to come to Christ, or I was in a revival meeting, or I was at this church, and the preacher preached about eternity and and I went forward that day and I received Christ as my Savior. And ever since then I've had perfect peace about the matter I know I'm on my way to heaven. And then you end it by this. See, you keep it short, keep it brief, because this is just an introduction. And then you say this. Has anything like that ever happened to you? Has anything like that ever happened to you? Do you know for sure you're going to heaven? And that and that just opens the door. Use your testimony. Just get get yourself a little thumbnail testimony, something you could write on a three by five card My life before I was saved, how I got saved, and now after I'm saved, and has anything like that ever happened to you? Don't have to go into all the details about it, just that brief little outline And just be a witness. Just learn. Make it just make it s so so natural. You say, well, preacher, that just comes natural to you. You know why it sounds natural to me? Because I put it down and I rehearsed it. So you mean it's a canned speech? No, it's my testimony. And I just want to make sure that I say it in a way that it's easy to be understood and it gets to the point. There's nothing wrong with that. And we just do that. That's the kind of thing we do. And use invitation evangelism. If you can't do that, you can certainly invite your loved ones and your friends to church, to big days, to special events to Christmas musical, to different musicals or things that's going on. I mean whatever's happening at your church, invite folks, invite friends, and invite folks to come and hear it. One of the things that uh I I gotta move on. Number one, win them by being a believer. Number two, introduce them to others who will help you witness. Number three, witness to them like you would to anybody else when you have that opportunity. Number four, be practical in your approach. Let me give you several things under that That's why I decided I've got to skip and get on to this. Number one, be careful not to be preachy or an embarrassment to them. Be careful not to be preachy or be an embarrassment to them. You say, what are you talking about? I'm talking about, okay, I go over to my in-laws' house and there's five or six of them in there, and they're making little off-color comments. They're saying, hey, preacher, want to be here. I don't say, you guys just need to get saved. I never said that, not one time. Never said it. Uh I never said I I never said, hey, uh, hey Bobby, let me let me take the Bible and show you here how you can be saved while everybody else is looking on Because he's not gonna go all that he's gonna do is put that wall up higher because that male ego thing for one. He's gonna have to prove it. So what do you do? You wait and you look for opportunities where one by one and one on one you can sit down with them and tell them how to be saved. Now, you can get them to funerals where you know the gospel is going to be preached or something like that, or bring them to special events where they're going to hear the gospel in church. And you don't care what kind of crowds you have then, but but but I'm t what I'm saying is be careful not to be you know you don't want to humiliate them It's like in Louisville, our church is located within a mile in either direction, there's a motorcycle game. On one side there's the Grim Reapers, and on the other side there's uh what's the game? I I always Forget the name of the the the outlaws. The outlaw motorcycle both national motorcycle gangs on both sides of it. I mean we're like the right in the middle. We're the battleground. And honestly, you see those guys out there, they're having swamp meat days and that kind of stuff, and there's a hundred motorcycles parked in the yard, all these guys up on the porch smoking dope and their tattoos hanging out and their stringy looking hair and their bandanas and their uh all this different thing and their rebel flag flying out front. You don't walk up on the porch and say, hey fellas, could I just take a few minutes and preach a little sermon to you? You know, you might end up just kind of disappearing off the face of the earth. But I tell you this, there's been more than one occasion. Where one of my members, and on a couple occasions myself, have run into one of those guys, or even, I think, even my wife has talked to him individually You run into those guys, you're you're at the Kroger parking lot or at the grocery store or Walmart and they pull up on even on their hog and and park that thing there and get off. They got to run in and get something, and every now and then they're by their self And you say, man, that's a good looking bike. I I like that. And uh I mean they say, oh thank you, thank you very much. It sort of takes them aback because here you are dressed like a human being and whatever And you walk up and say, hey, hey man, look, uh uh a couple of our guys church ride Harleys, but but they don't look as sharp as that one. Hey, I I uh I'd like to invite you to to come visit with us uh over at Shawnee Baptist Church They'll take that and say, yeah, you wouldn't want me there. That's typically what they'll say. All of a sudden, they're not that mean, ugly, rude, crude. There's nobody there to impress. And most of the time, I'm not saying there's not exceptions to this, but if they do, so what if they do? So what if they cuss at you? They nail Jesus to a cross. But nine times out of ten, they say, oh, you wouldn't want me there. So oh yeah we would. I said, do you go why do you go to church somewhere already? No, I don't go. Man, you're just the guy we're looking for. Come bring your bring your family or friends or anybody. We'd love for you to come. Oh, really? And there have been occasions on two or three times where we've actually been able to go through the plan of salvation and lead a gang member to Christ. Right there in front of God and everybody. Folks, but but the it's using wisdom. Be wise as serpents and harmless as doves. And uh and uh and don't be afraid of their faces So be careful not to be preaching embarrassing. Number two, uh under this thing of being practical in your approach, do your best to interest them in big days and get them under the preaching. Uh you know I've said this over and over. Faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of God It just get them there for the big day. And you do it by invitation evangelism. Invitation evangelism is when you just uh when you ask them to do you a favor. Hey, we're having a big day and I told the preacher I'd get three visitors there and so far I'm up to zero And would you help me? If you'd help me, at least I'd have one. Would you go in? If you'll go with me, I'll buy you lunch afterwards. And get 'em there for that big day where the preacher's all pumped and he's primed and he knows there's going to be lost people there And he's going to insert the gospel in there very carefully and craftily, and and he's going to give a gospel invitation. And they're going to sit there quietly and they may not budge. They may walk out without trusting Christ. But now their seed has been planted. And that on on the lunch, you can go say, hey, what did you think about that message today? Isn't our preacher good? Didn't didn't you enjoy that? And didn't you enjoy the program, the testimony that one guy gave and that kind of thing? And just opens a door, gives you another opportunity. Say, hey, I'm going to go back tonight at at six what time's your evening service normally? Seven o'clock. I'm going to go back tonight at seven, and I'd sure like for you to go with me. Oh, you can't? Well, I'd like for you to maybe sometime another Sunday you can go again Hey, guess what? He was also there, and now you can give the preacher the name and address. Hey preacher, here's somebody you can maybe follow up, or here's one of the staff, or maybe a Sunday school teacher that teaches the uh age group that he would be in or whatever it is. And you can do that thing. So introduce them to others who can help and and and uh be practical in your approach. Be careful not to be preacher embarrassing. Do your best to interest them in big days. Next number is, don't be offended and argumentative. They say, well, if that's the way they feel about it, they're gonna treat me like that. Ain't nobody gonna treat me like that. I I just let them let them burn in hell. That's what they want. No, no, no. That's not what Jesus did. The whole world was in rebellion against God when Jesus came, and he came anyway. He died for our sins. Bible says in Psalm 119, 165. Psalm 119, verse 165, it says this. Listen Get this now. By the way, this helped you in your marriage too. He said, Great peace have they that love thy law That's us, right? That's you and me. We love the Word of God. We spend time in it. We meditate on it. We memorize it. We study it. We read it. Great peace have they that love thy law, and nothing shall affect Nothing shall offend them. When I find myself getting offended at my wife or anybody else, I find that it's me that has a spiritual problem. My relationship to the Word of God isn't what it ought to be at that moment. I need to stop and ask, first of all, ask God to forgive me because I'm not really right with Him, and then I can help deal with the other situation. Got that? So don't get offended when they rebuff you, when they slam the door in your face, when they cuss you, whatever the You just say, well, God bless you. I'm sorry. If I've offended you, I I certainly that wasn't my intent, and I'm going to leave this gospel track for you, and we're on our way. Next number. Place them on your daily prayer list. James 5:16 says, the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. Pray for them daily. We prayed for Nancy's family day in, day out. Almost every day. I won't say every day, but I'd say majority of the time that they would come to Christ we prayed for them over and over through the years. Next number is Galatians 6. 9. Don't give up. Don't give up. Don't say, well, I know my grandpa. I tried to talk to him before, and he's not interested, and he's not ever going to get saved. Don't give up. The Bible says in Galatians 6:9, let us not be weary in well-doing, for in due season we shall reap if we faint not. And then don't give in to their testing of your faith. And then, last one, be consistent but kind in your stand for Christ. They should know that even though you're not going to budge from your faith in Christ, And from your desire to see them saved, they need to know beyond a shadow of a doubt that you do love them and that you're not there to judge them, but just to try to win them to Christ. I told you about Charles told Dancy, don't open that Bible. One month later in the month of May, we had graduation at Shawnee at at Shawnee Baptist Church at at uh uh at uh Northside Christian School the school we operate there. And we were having uh one of the one of our graduates who was one of our nephews, I think uh was uh uh on Nancy's side of the family, of course, uh because we've got so many of them in our church and in our school and in our m staff now. And uh uh and and And we went to that it was a Sunday afternoon graduation party. They were all meeting at somebody else's house and and they said come on over and and uh we'll have some fellowship and some food and you know it was a Baptist thing, so there had to be food there And so we went, we had the and we were there, and when we got there, lo and behold, Charles and Pat, they had inv invited him. Charles and Pat were there. They were sitting out there to picnic tape. Everybody there had just come from church. We all had on our suits and ties and shirts and skirts and shoes, dress shoes, and all this kind of thing. We just come from church But Charles and Pat were sitting there and he had on his shorts and a t-shirt and and looked, you know, pretty rough, whatever, but they were sitting there and they were having a good time and and uh seemed to be enjoying themselves and we said hi to them. I shook their hand and tried not to be, you know, intimidating or intimidated either way. and uh went on about my business. Uh l none both to me, but she told me later. Uh she went up to Charles, put her hand on his shoulder and says, Hey there, Charles, uh, we're gonna come and see you this week. I'm gonna come and see you this week And Charles said, listen to this. He said, Well don't bring the Bible. Taking that hard stand. You know what she said to him? She said, Oh, I'm not going to bring the Bible. I'm going to bring the preacher. And he said, Well bring some cream puffs if you come. And cream puffs, that's one of Nancy's specials. She makes them all the family members love those and nobody else makes them as good as she does. And and they they all love her cream puffs. Puffs. I wish she could have made some this week while she was here. You'd have all wanted more. And uh and but he said, Well bring some cream puffs if she comes. Well that week went by. That was Sunday. Now it's got to be Friday. We're getting ready to go up back out of town on Saturday And and uh and so we said, then we gotta get by there. So on Friday we drove over to the house. We pulled up out front, they were sitting on their front porch swing, and their little granddaughter that they were babysitting was on the porch there playing And Nancy opened the door to get out. He said, Where you been? I thought you were going to be here Wednesday. Boy, that's immediately I was encouraged. I thought, they've been watching for us all week long. She said, I didn't say we'd be here Wednesday. I said we'd be here this week, and it's still this week. And we went up on the porch and started talking just a little bit, and I sat down in a little uh glider that was right across from the swing. They were swinging in, and Nancy said, Hey, can I take your grandbaby and we'll just go up and down the sidewalk here, take her for a walk, and away they went Now I'm sitting there with her brother and his wife. And we sit there and we just small talk for a few seconds. And I said, hey, while I'm here, I said, I I'd like to share something with you. I said, I know you don't want the Bible. I know you told Nancy not to bring the Bible, not to open the Bible. I said, I know that she told me about it I said, but I'd just like to share with you what it is we believe. I said, you know, you you said you believe your way and we believe our way, but I don't think you really know what it is that we believe And I'd like to take my the this this little paper here that has some verse. I'd just like to share with you what it is we believe so you'll know what it is that you don't believe. I said, we may not be as far apart as you think. I said, and here here's the key. I said this little this little paper here ha is i it's got mostly verses that was written by, listen to this terminology, it was written by Saint Paul to the church at Rome so they could know for sure how they were going to heaven. I said, you guys are Roman Catholics, right? Yeah, we're Roman Catholics Yeah. Well Paul wrote this this this letter to the church at Rome because looks he knew just like you know and just like I don't there's a lot of people in the Baptist church that aren't going to make heaven. I know that. And you know there's a lot of people in the Catholic Church that aren't And I said, Well, I said, Paul said, I want to make sure that even though you're a church member, I want to make sure that you're on your way to heaven. And he gave some principles and some things here. I'd like to share them with you if you if you'd let me. They talked about his wife interrupted, did something. He said, No, no, no, go ahead, go ahead, just do it. I guess, you know, get it over with. I went through the plan of salvation Very carefully. And when I got done, I said, Now, I'm not gonna I'm I I I'm not gonna uh this is not a requirement. I said, if you don't want to have anything to do with it, you just tell me and that'll be the end of it, and our conversation's done. We'll talk about something else. I said, but if you'd like to pray and receive Christ as your Savior, I'd be glad to lead you in a simple prayer. You're not praying to me, I can't save you. But I'd be glad to lead you in a simple prayer to the Lord Jesus, and you could invite him to come into your life, and he'd be your Savior too. And both of them said, we'd like to do that. And Charles and Pat got saved. They prayed. Well Nancy, she could, you know, she read the body language and so forth. She knew we were done. And so she comes on up the sidewalk, turns around the corner, and I said to Charles, I said, Charles, you ought to tell your sister. I said it would thrill her, it would really make her happy to know she got saved. I said, Why don't you just tell her when she here He said, okay. She walked around the corner and he said, What did he say? I guess you want to be active addressing Christmas. And she said, I am happy. And he said, I knew you would be. And, you know, that thing. They all hugged and we all hugged and all that thing, that kind of thing. And folks, don't give up Don't give in, keep praying. Forty years ago she wrote that letter and put those gospel tracts in there and sent it to her family. They shut up us down. Say, well, I tell you, they they believe this religion I don't believe in. And look, you know what? I I've had I've had people say, well my niece is getting married. They invite us to the wedding. It's going to be at a Catholic church. I'm not going. I wouldn't darken the door. We went to every wedding, we went to every funeral, we went to uh everything that we could possibly go to. We went. And you said, well, what'd you do? We went in. We didn't take any wafers. We didn't take any drinks. We didn't bow at the thing. We didn't get any holy water. We just slipped in near the beginning time and sat in the back And afterwards we had a gift with us for the for the bride or groom or whichever it was that their niece or nephew was getting married. And after the wedding, we'd go to wherever the reception was going to be in the reception hall And we would get there early before everybody else arrived if we could. That's what we sit near the back. And we would say to the mom, Oh, what a beautiful wedding. That was great. If the bride and groom happened to get there uh quick enough, we'd say hi to them, tell 'em how beautiful the wedding was and how pretty she was and whatever else. We didn't say we felt like there was also a lot of paganism in it. We didn't say that kind of stuff. We said, oh you made a beautiful bride and what a wonderful thing that uh that and and and and and we wanted to give you this gift and or we'd put it on the money tree or whatever it was they'd have and we'd say hey you know what We've got to get out. We'd always leave before the b booze started flowing and the music started rocking and the dance started and all we would leave. We wouldn't be there and participate in that. But they knew we were there. We knew what they knew we loved them. We built some bridges to their lives. And and we didn't say we think you're a bunch of rebel infidels, because they weren't. They were they were exactly what Nancy was before she got saved, except praise the Lord, she had made a decision growing up in that kind of home that she was never going to drink and smoke and do those things and so she lived a pretty good Christian life. She was she lived a better Christian life than I did. I'd gotten saved when I was nine, but I'd gotten pretty worldly over the years. She was living a better Christian Christian life than I was. We'd go to the Baptist church and she'd fuss at me for lighting up as soon as I walked out the door, you know, that kind of thing. Well, praise the Lord. The Lord delivered me from that last week. Before I was in the ministry, God delivered me from all that. And uh