Before we turn our Bibles, I'm going to ask the ushers to go ahead and start giving out our track month forms and just give one to everybody and I'll explain it while we're doing this. About 15 years ago, somewhere in that range We began having a yearly uh effort to um uh distribute as many tracks as we could. And I've got to get my microphone on And uh so what we did was we took one month out of the year, we called it track month. We uh purchased um uh A huge quantity of tracts, and each week we would make available to the church a different gospel tract, and we would challenge everyone to give out as many gospel tracts during that month as they possibly could. That went that was a tremendous success. We've got uh thousands of tracks given out that first year we did it, and so we've done it every year since then We developed it a little bit, and what we do now is we divide the church into two teams. You'll notice in the bulletin we have the church members and those that attend regularly. We've got you assigned to a team. I already found out I missed one family. I don't know how I did that. So if your name's not on there, please let me know and uh we'll correct that. But um we divide the church into two teams. We select commanders for that team to keep the teams fired up and motivated to give gospel tracts out This year, our theme for track month is Search and Rescue from Luke 19. 10, for the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. Our two teams, as you'll notice over here on the wall, are the searchers and the rescuers. The captain for the searchers team is Andy Clemens. Yay, Brandy. And uh and then the and his is the boat there. And that's gonna what we're gonna do is each week we'll record how many gospel tracts we give out with a little form. Keep mental note as the week goes through how many gospel tracts you give out And that little boat's going to zoom across there. And we've got 5,000, 10,000, 15,000, 20,000, which is our goal. And so that's going to go across there. And then the other team competing against the searches are the rescuers. And the captain of the rescuers is Brother Mark Heinball. Where's Brother Mark at? He's down in Children's Church. Oh, right there he is. Brother Mark Heinball. Yay for Brother Mark. And if he's your team commander two for him. And uh he selected that eight-wheel amphibious rescue machine there, and he specifically wanted that one. And so we got that form. And what you have in your hand now is uh I call it a commitment form for lack of a more creative name. You'll notice it says search and rescue, our theme, by God's grace and with his help, I will make every effort to distribute a blank number of tracks every week through the month of April. And what I want you to do there is just give yourself a realistic but challenging goal. How many tracks you think you can give out that week throughout the month, but it's weekly, you know, a hundred tracks a week or whatever. Put your name and date on there if you would, and uh we'll turn these in here a little bit later, and uh we're gonna kick off our track month and see if we can't by the first week of May have 20,000 tracks distributed throughout the area. Now in the bulletin you'll notice we have several road trip that we have planned on Saturdays. and going to outside of our immediate area here and we just go in on a busload or several car loads and get out in a place, a neighborhood, and just go through and leave gospel tracts on the door. You don't have to talk to people Uh you just leave them on the door. And uh somebody might say, you know, how effective is that really? Just saturating a place with gospel tracts I tell you what, without fail, every year we get response back. Some of it's a little negative, but uh overwhelming positive response back from folks. And last year, believe it or not, I'm kind of using my illustration of my sermon here, but last year we had a lady from Shanghai, China trusted Christ as Savior as a result of track month. Gospel track we gave out. Isn't that an amazing thing? And so God blesses this. We try to make it fun, but it's very serious business And uh we want everybody to be involved in this. We have on the back when you go out, you probably already noticed we have a table. It has tracks there as you go out the glass doors. And they're in packs of 10. We encourage you to take what you can use. If you get them all out, we got more here. You can come back. Next week we'll have a different track. And we'll have each week we'll have a different track so you can Sometimes give it to the same people, you give them a different track, and the God can use that. And uh hope you'll get involved and be a part of this, challenge yourself. And let's see what God will do. I like our memory verse. I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation. We give the gospel out to people, uh things happen. So that's what's going on. Pray about that and get involved. All right, if you would, take your Bibles, turn to Proverbs, chapter number um 11 Again, we had a great time on our uh our vacation. It was very nice to be gone, and I didn't have to worry about back here. We were just wrapped up in what we were doing I knew the church was in good hands. We prayed, of course, and kept tabs, everything going on, but we had a great time. And I didn't realize uh how important my jokes were before the service to people in the church. I listened to Brother Pat's sermon, and the fact that I didn't tell a joke the Sunday before I left was a big deal, at least in his house. So here we go A guy goes into a doctor's office and uh he said a doctor says, what's wrong? He says, doc, put your ear here to my hip and listen. The doc said, what? He says, put your ear on my hip and listen, tell me what you hear. So the doc's, okay. Put his ear down the guy's hip and it said, hey, give me five bucks, please. I'm desperate. I need five bucks right now. I just said, that's incredible. He said, I've never heard anything like that. I don't even know what this is. He goes, that's nothing. Put your ear to my knee. The doctor said, okay. He put his ear down his knee. He says, help, give me $20. I need it right now. I'm desperate. Please, buddy, give me $20 right now. He goes, this is the weirdest thing. I never heard anything like this. He got his books out and started looking through his books. I've never heard of anything. I don't understand this. He goes, that's nothing. Listen at my ankle The doctor went down and put his ear by his ankle. I need 15 bucks, buddy, please. Give me 15 bucks right now. Help, help The doctor said, uh this is this has got to be in the journals of medicine. Nobody's ever I've never heard of anything like this. He goes, hold on a second, he looked through, he goes, well the only thing I know for certain is your leg is broke in three places So there you go, Pat. Proverbs 11, verse number 30. I pa I tried that on my wife on vacation, I told it to her, and she goes, that's a good one, you can use that one. Look at verse 30. The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life, and he that winneth souls is wise. That little phrase, winneth souls, caught my attention. And so that's what I titled the message, Winning Souls. Let's ask the Lord to speak to our hearts as we look at this passage. Father, I thank you so much for your goodness on us as individuals, your goodness on our church. Lord, such a good and positive report has come back to me while we were gone, and that just blesses my heart as pastor. And now, Lord, we look forward. I'm grateful for the folks that are out this morning, visitors with us Will I ask that you would use your word, plaque our hearts, Lord, as you know that we have need. Help our faith in you to grow Help our confidence in your will and plan for our lives to be stronger. Help us to understand you a little bit better, Lord, that our lives can be full and can be everything you intend for them to be I yield myself to you, Lord. I present my body anew. I pray with all my heart that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. And that you would be the speaker, Lord. You would speak through me Open our hearts and minds. Make us willing to receive what you have for us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I've often said in studying the Bible that we can often learn Much by noting carefully what the Bible does not say. If you would, with that in mind, look at verse 30 again of chapter 11 of Proverbs. For the righteous is a tree of life. Now notice, and he that winneth souls is wise I notice the Bible does not say here, he that draws great crowds into the church is wise. It doesn't say he that attracts thousands of people is wise. Now, of course, we would love to have crowds in church. Amen? We worked very hard bringing people in. We worked very hard. We spent a lot of money advertising, inviting, and and uh getting out in the community and and personally individuals inviting folks And uh be honest with you, as pastor, I long for the day when every pew is filled aisle to aisle in the whole church and the church house is full. So we want crowds. There's nothing wrong with that. There's nothing wrong with reaching crowds. But the Bible doesn't say here he that attracts great crowds is wise. I notice also it doesn't say he that builds a financial empire is wise. Now, we always uh listen, don't take me wrong, we always take an offering up. We're Baptist. We dig offerings up at funerals. And uh no, not really. But uh you know, money's always an issue. And there's always, you know, boy, we could do more, we could do this, and we're you know and right now we're in the process of raising funds for our new radio station and I understand there's real progress being made there. Uh I haven't got the last report on it, but we're raising funds for that. You know, we need uh probably till it's all said and done fifty thousand dollars to get that thing up and running. So And then our trip to Kazakhstan. We're praying God will provide that and we can get the guys over there and and uh take our survey trip. So uh we always can use more finances and we always want to use the finances we have wisely And that's why we have uh deacons and trustees to help us make uh the best decisions and uh and the influence and do all that. But God doesn't say he that is Builds the finances up and is successful financially, that he is wise. Bible doesn't say that. I notice something else here. Now I struggle with this a tad bit, but I've got to take the Bible for what it says. It doesn't say here that he that establishes a perfect family is wise. Of course, we want God's will to be accomplished in our families. I trust I speak for the husbands here. I want to be the kind of husband God intends for me to be I'm trust the wives, feel the way that I'm trusting, I'm sure my wife feels. She wants to be the wife God intends for her to be. Oh, we want God's will to be done in our children. Amen. We want biblical homes. We want our families to be right and to be pleasing to God, to be everything the Bible instructs for us to be. We want our families to be everything God intends for them to be. But the Bible doesn't say here, he that has a perfect family is wise. It's possible, if I understand this passage correctly in other scriptural passages, it's possible to have the biggest church in the state, and yet, according to this verse, not be wise. It's possible to have the biggest budget and yet still not be a wise man. It's possible to have the greatest family and yet still not be wise. God doesn't say he that's a great leader is wise. The Bible doesn't say he that's a great preacher Is wise. He doesn't say he that's a great philosopher or a great counselor is wise. The Bible says very simply, he that winneth souls Is wise. He that winneth souls is wise. You can have a large congregation and not win souls You could have a large budget, a very successful financial budget, and not win souls. You can have a great family, ideal children, perfect marriage, and not win souls You can be a tremendous leader and not win souls. You can be a great orator and a preacher that keeps everybody's attention, wrapped attention throughout your message and not win souls. You can be a great philosopher and have the answers to life's greatest questions, yet not win souls. You can be a tremendous counselor and give people great advice on life and the issues of life and still not win souls. The Bible says, he that winneth souls is wise. Um Great soul winner, I came across this quote somewhere. A great soul winner has never been a great fool Because the Bible says, he that wineth souls is wise. Why is it wise? What's the great wisdom in winning people to Jesus Christ and seeing people be born again, trusting Christ as Savior, because of my influence. What is it about that that is so wise? I got thinking about that. I think uh uh be uh he that winneth souls is wise because of the subject that he's investing himself in. Souls The souls of men, listen, it is important for us to understand and remember that an individual person is much, much more than just flesh and bones. We live in a world, we live under a teaching of a society that suggests that all you and I are are flesh and bones. We're simply nothing more than an advanced animal. That when we die, our body decays away. That's the end of our existence. Nothing could be farther from the truth. The Bible is very, very clear that you and I, as individuals, every human being, I like to put it this way, and many of you are familiar with me saying it this way. I like to put it this way. You and I do not have a soul. We don't have a soul. We are a soul. That's what we are. We have a body. You and I are the soul part of us. We inhabit this body Uh if you're out there working uh in the bathroom, you're remodeling the bathroom and uh you're hammering a nail in the stud and uh If you're like me, you're poking holes in the drywall and tearing down the lights and busting everything while you're doing it. But uh you hit your thumb with your hammer Well, we won't discuss everything you might say. But you'll say something to this effect. Ah, and your wife says, What's the matter? You say, I hit my thumb. You don't say, I hit me. Oh, I hit me. Why? Because that thumb's not you. That arm isn't you. That head isn't you. That body isn't you. You are a soul. An eternally existing being that inhabits a body. So the Bible says, he that wineth souls is wise. I am investing when I decide to become a soul winner, when I decide to invest my life in bringing people to a saving knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ, I am investing in something that is much more than just flesh and blood I am investing in something that is much more than just the temporal existence of the physical world. I am investing myself in eternal beings. That are going to exist and spend eternity in one of two places, either heaven or hell. And God says when you invest your life, your efforts, your time, your talents, your abilities into winning souls. You are wise for that which you are investing in. So we are wise because of the subject we're investing in. I believe we're also wise in winning souls because of the object we're working towards. Winning souls. What does it mean to win souls? Now if you've been around Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church uh very long or if you've been involved in independent Baptist churches or light type churches uh long. You understand we talk about winning souls. We are talking about uh taking someone, introducing them to the Lord Jesus Christ And encouraging them and helping them in every way we can to accept Jesus Christ as their personal Savior To put their faith and trust and hope in what Jesus Christ did on the cross many years ago and dying for their sins, being buried and rising again, and accepting that which he did as their own personal Savior. The Lord Jesus is their own personal Savior. That is what we're talking about, winning that soul to saving faith in Jesus Christ. And it is wise. Now, what happens when a person trusts Jesus Christ as Savior? What happens when a soul is one? A person accepts Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. What happens? Well, number one is that soul escapes eternity in hell. Hey, I'd say that's a good thing, huh? If I can find someone who, if they died in their sins, in their condition, would go to hell and spend eternity in hell, lake of fire, and I can introduce that one to a person that can save them from that destiny. Forgive their sin and uh help them and uh save them from hell. Hey, that sounds pretty wise to me. How many people here appreciate our firemen? Amen. We have often over the years had 911 Sunday and things like that. We bring firemen in and we honor. Can you imagine a community without a fire department? Your house caught on fire, you're on your own. Uh you don't have the equipment, you got buckets, you know, or whatever, uh fire hydrants, try and put you're on your own And we appreciate so much the firemen will take and give their efforts to rescue people from being burned up in their home. Now God says if you try to invest your life in winning souls to escape eternity in the devil's hell, God says you're wise. Because of the object we're working towards. Winning souls. By that we mean keeping people out of hell. By that we mean introducing people to the Lord Jesus Christ. I'll tell you what, the greatest thing that ever happened in my life was on May 7, 1979, at 1030 at night. I trusted Jesus Christ as my Savior, and I began a relationship with God Almighty in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. The best person you can do introduce someone to is Jesus Christ. Hey, Christianity, and it's so important for us to understand this: Christianity is not a religion. It is a relationship with a living God. Say, I don't see no God. Don't mean he ain't there. Say, how do you know there's Jesus is alive and real? Oh, because I talked to him this morning. He's been working in my life, he's been intervening, and he's been uh he's real. And so when we win souls, we are taking people who don't know. Ephesians says they're without God and without hope in the world And we introduce them to the Lord Jesus Christ by faith, and their life has changed, and now they have a relationship and they have purpose and meaning and fulfillment in their life. Because of Jesus Christ. Winning souls. We're wise because of the object we're working towards. Keeping people out of hell. Introducing them to the Lord Jesus Christ. Getting people into heaven Wow, think about that. Oh, what a wonderful thing it is to be able to say, I know for sure, that when I die, my sins are forgiven, and I'll go to heaven to be with the Lord. What a wonderful thing that is. To say that I know that. I know God has forgiven me. The worst thing that possibly happened to me is I die, and if I die, I go to be with Christ. Which Paul said is far better. God forbid. And by the way, we thank God we're very grateful for your prayers while we were traveling. 2,000 miles down and back, as I mentioned. And uh really didn't have any even close call on the whole way. Saw some crazy nuts, but um uh my wife was driving, but uh man, why do I do that? No pork chops for lunch today. Uh but anyway. Um I forget what I was talking about. God forbid God forbid, do we be out in the road and some Mac truck come broadside our car and be killed instantly? But you know there's something That there's a peace and assurance that God has settled in my heart. And if that happened, I know for sure, beyond a shadow of doubt, I'd immediately go to heaven, be in the presence of God. No worry, concern about hell whatsoever. You say, boy, you're kind of presumptuous, aren't you? You must really think you're something preacher, you're good enough to go to heaven. Hey, I'm the first one to raise my hand and admit I am not good enough to go to heaven. I'm a sinner just like anybody else. You don't believe me? Ask my wife. Second thought, don't. You don't have to ask her, I've already proved it. But uh the fact of the matter is, it's not because we deserve to go to heaven. We're good enough to go to heaven. The honest truth is, it's because Jesus Christ has forgiven us. He paid for my sins on the cross. In May 7, 1979, I accepted Jesus my Savior. He forgave all my sins. These things have I written unto you, he says in 1 John 5, these things. Have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that you have eternal life? God hope so, think so, maybe so We can know it's not us doing it, it's not us living a certain lifestyle, it's not us doing certain works or giving something or fulfilling some requirements. It's simply trusting what Christ has done for us and letting Him save me and forgive me take me to heaven when I die. Isn't that good? And so winning souls is wise because of the subject we're dealing with, the souls of men, and it's also wise because of the object we're working towards. We're trying to win those souls to Christ. See him Save from hell and have new life here on earth and have a home in heaven someday. Now, this is what caught my attention. Pat will appreciate Dr. Browning will appreciate this. That was the introduction So um I'm following Dr. Browning's leadership example here. I got looking at this, and by the way, the introduction's longer than the message, at least in my notes. I don't know if it will be Notice what it says, the fruit of the righteous, the tree of life, and he that winneth, souls. Winneth. That word winneth is a key word in this verse. He that winneth souls. It suggests several things. First of all, I think that word winneth implies a military conflict Armies win battles, right? Armies will win cities You hear them say, well, we won the city of Fallujah. Our militaries won the city of Fallujah. We've won the t the province of Akbar Mahala, or whatever the province's names are. And so that word winneth there is the idea of A military term, con uh conquering some area, a country or a city or a territory. And when he says here that he that winneth souls is wise. I believe the implication and the suggestion here is that there is a spiritual conflict involved in the Christian life. That there is a spiritual warfare for the souls of men. 2 Corinthians 10, 4 says this: for the weapons of our warfare are not carnal. It's not physical. We're not involved in a physical battle for the souls of men. But spiritual, but mighty through God. The fact of the matter is, the Bible is very, very clear, and many of us can testify by experience. There is a spiritual warfare that goes on behind the physical scenes If we could somehow, and now this, I don't want to go to seed on this, but it's very, very true and very real. If we could somehow open a portal or a window into the spiritual world that is all around us According to the Bible, we would see a real battle going on between the spit the forces of heaven and the forces of hell, between God Almighty and the devil himself, a warfare Not for territory or buildings or money, but for the souls of men, the souls of women and children. Devil fighting to keep him in darkness and keep him in unbelief. And God, the Holy Spirit of God, working to open their eyes and to see their need of Christ. And so when we involve ourselves in winning souls, we involve ourselves in trying to introduce people, the Lord Jesus Christ, it is much more than simply a mailman delivering a letter. It is more of an idea of a prayer warrior and a soldier of God serving God in the spiritual battle, trying to rescue the perishing, kind of Salvage of prisoners of war, so to speak, from unbelief and the bondage of sin and the devil. The weapons of our warfare are not physical, carnal. But mighty through God, spiritual. The devil will fight to keep the lost man lost. The devil will fight to keep an unsaved person unsaved Let me throw this out. The devil will fight to keep an unsaved church member unsaved. Huh? The devil will fight to keep the unsaved child of a Christian mommy and daddy saved. The devil will fight to keep the unsaved husband of a Christian wife saved. The unsaved wife of a Christian husband lost. The devil will fight that. We are involved in spiritual warfare. Matthew chapter 13 and verse 19. Jesus said that he illustrated winning souls like a farmer sowing seed. And the seed he said is the Word of God, and He sows it out into the fields in the earth, which is the heart of man And he said, some of that seed falls on the roadway, the pathway, where it's hard, and the birds come and take that seed and snatch it before it ever has a chance to germinate. And the disciples came and he gave several other illustrations. The disciples came and said, We don't understand what you mean by that. And he said, The field is the world, the lost world, uh, the sower, uh, the seed is the word of God And he said, that bird that comes and snatches that seed before it has a chance to take root is the devil. And he does all he can to keep a lost person lost. He does all he can to keep an unbeliever unbelieving. He does all he can to keep a person that's on their way to hell to keep them from finding Christ and finding new life. It's a spiritual warfare. There's no doubt about it. 2 Corinthians 4 and verse 4, the Bible says that Satan blinds the minds of unbelievers, lest they should believe the glorious gospel and be saved. Satan is opposed. Listen, I may be talking to someone maybe through the internet or maybe here in the service this morning And you're unsaved, you don't have assurance in your heart that if you die now you go to heaven. Maybe you're at a point where you say, you know, if I die now, I have people all the time tell me, ask them, do you know for sure if you die right now you go to heaven? They say, Oh no. If I die now in my condition I go straight to hell. If you're in that condition, if you're in that position spiritually where you don't have assurance that your sins are forgiven, you're on your way to heaven, I'm here to tell you the devil will do everything he can. He will bring up every excuse possible To keep you from trusting Christ. To keep you from accepting Jesus Christ as Savior. He'll say something like this, Ah, you're too, you don't want to do something like that. That's embarrassing. I'm here to tell you that pride will send more people to hell than any other sin. I'm afraid what people will think. I'm afraid of this. I'm afraid of that. I don't want this. I don't want. And he'll do everything he can. There's a spiritual warfare involved in this matter of a person coming to Christ and being saved. Devil doing all he can to keep them unsaved, God doing all he can, the people of God working and praying, trying to persuade them to trust. The battle for the soul. There's others in the church here who could give the same testimony or similar, I should say. January of 1979, a new year. I wanted to start out. My life was such a mess. I had blown it so bad. I knew if I kept on going the way I was living, it was just going to get worse. And I began late at night. I wasn't going to church. I had no interest in God or the Bible or anything. But I late at night, I remember so clearly, I I prayed one night, four o'clock in the morning, got in. I said, God You've got to help me. I've made such a mess. God, you've got to help me. It wasn't an audible voice I like the way the one preacher said, Brother Jimmy Rose, said it wasn't an audible voice, it was louder than that. Is that in my heart? A Bible. Read the Bible. The answers are in the Bible. I get up at 4 o'clock in the morning, January, up outside Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, dug through my dresser doors, and found a Bible a Sunday school teacher gave to me when I was a little. little kid. I began flipping through that thing and it was like it was written that day just directly to me Now, it looks like if the if I had any common sense, I'd have trusted Christ right then. You know what I found out to be true? There was a battle for my my soul. Devil wasn't going to just give it up and let me trust Christ. And man, all of a sudden excuses started coming. All of a sudden all the buddies. And for five months, I struggled with that thing and struggled with that thing. And so I'd read my Bible. I knew I needed Christ. And then this battle in my mind would go on. Now this sounds silly and I don't say it often, but the night I trusted Christ, I had gotten in bed. I was so under conviction, I was such a mess. I read my Bible a little bit, unsaved, drunken, drug addict. I read my Bible a little bit and I put it up and I was laying there crying and praying and uh God something has to happen. And again, not of audible voice and this You know, this is just the way it was. I don't know how else to say it. But it's like I could hear the devil laughing. You will never get saved. You will never get saved. You will never get saved. That's like I could hear this laughing And I got so scared. I slipped out of my bed and I got down on my knees. I don't remember the words, something to God, have mercy on me, come in my life, forgive me. I accept you as my My Savior. And God changed my life. And I learned something. There's a battle for the souls of men. The devil will do everything he can to intimidate To humiliate and keep us from coming and trusting Christ as Savior. He that winneth souls. There's a battle involved, there's a spiritual warfare involved. If I'm going to have an influence on somebody coming to Christ, I need to understand there are spiritual forces at work here. Dark forces trying to keep that person unsaved. If you're going to have a successful military campaign, you've got to be strong. We need the power of God as we go into track month. If we're going to see the gospel have an effect and see people come to Christ and escape the clutches of sin and hell. We've got to have the power of Almighty God on us. We've got to be filled with the Holy Spirit of God. I've got to pray for His power. God, use us, overcome the forces of evil. If you're going to have a successful military campaign, you've got to have some strategy. You don't just go marching in there. You say, all right, we've got a flank here and flank there and this, that, and the other. They got a plan, we got air air cover, we're gonna go in with a uh we're gonna do a no-fly zone and then we're gonna do this and send in recon and boy guys I'd make a great military leader, wouldn't I But there's some strategy involved. And you know what? There's nothing wrong with strategizing and getting together. You know, we get a little training on what to say and how to go about it. We pick an area and hit it very strategically. Strength, strategy. I put this down, a military campaign, there needs to be a shield or a defense. You know what, I'm talking to us Christians now. I'm talking to church members here now, those of us that know Christ. You know what? We gotta keep our guard up. We've got to keep our lives pure We've got to keep the world out. Brother, we've got to have a defensive perimeter around our lives. It's called convictions. It's called principles. It's called standards. Where we keep the devil's influence out of us So we can effectively influence others and win them to Christ. So there's a military aspect to this. He that winneth souls is wise. But I got looking at that word winneth again and think about it. But there's also the idea. of a sporting conflict. You win a ball game. You win I used to years ago I used to play tennis a lot. And I know looking at my figure, it's very obvious that Uh I was a tennis player, but I enjoyed tennis. I played a lot and I'd like to think I was pretty good. I beat my little sister, she was five, and um But you win a match, that tennis match, and uh uh you win the game. If you would, take your Bibles and how everybody doing okay? Everybody alright out there? Alright, if you would, turn with me to the New Testament. And turn with me to 1 Corinthians chapter 9. New Testament, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Acts, Romans, 1 Corinthians. And chapter nine. And Paul, if I understand studying scripture, uh it looks to me like Paul was kind of a sports fan. He was kind of an athlete. He made several references to sporting analogies and different things like that in 1 Corinthians 9. He does that here. And notice beginning in verse 22 of 1 Corinthians 9. To the weak became I as weak, that I might gain the weak. I am made all things to all men. Now look at this. This is setting the context of the following verses. That I might by all means what? Save some. He's wanting to see people saved. That's the context. He's talking about this matter of winning souls. Bringing people to a saving knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now look what he says. And this I do for the gospel's sake, that I might be partaker thereof with you. Now look what look look how he ties this in. Know ye not that they which run in a race run all, but one receiveth the prize. So run that ye may obtain And every man that striveth for the mastery to win the match, to win the game, striveth for the mastery, is temperate or self-controlled in all things. Now they do it to obtain a corruptible crown, but we an incorruptible crown. I therefore so run, not as uncertainly, so fight I, not as one that beateth the air But I keep under my body and bring it into subjection, lest that by any means, when I have preached the gospel to others, I myself should be a castaway. I become useless, I become ineffective And so what is he saying here? He's saying, I must be in shape spiritually. If I'm going to win souls, if I'm going to see that person trust the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. I've got to exercise spiritually. I've got to read my Bible. Let me say that again. I've got to read my Bible every day. To keep my heart and soul strong, I've got to pray and seek the Lord's leadership and direction and guidance in my life. I've got to be faithful to church. Listen, I'm I'm not trying to be unkind, I'm just trying to be honest with you. How many folks here, when you go to the doctor, you want the doctor to be honest with you I said five people. Hey listen, if I'm sick, I want them to tell me. You know, I want to know. What do I what's what's the deal, Doc? The one doctor said, he goes, I've got good news and bad news He says, uh, all right, give it to me. What's the good news? Good news you have twenty-four hours to live. He said, good night. That's the good news. What's the bad news? Uh bad news was I was supposed to tell you yesterday. And um Uh I'm trying to make up for lost time, Pat. But I'll be very honest with you. I've never known a Christian that was a strong Christian and had a powerful influence on winning others to Christ. that was not faithful to church. I'm sorry. I need the influence of God's people. I need the teaching and preaching. I need God's people around me. There's something in our heart and soul. God has designed us that we need the camaraderie, the fellowship, the input of God's people around us. And so I've got to be in shape spiritually if I'm going to win souls. There's a I've got to operate within the regulations, Paul says here I've got to uh uh be temperate in all things. I've got to uh I've got to run the race, uh uh I've got to be uh uh within the the rules of that race. And so not just anything goes Listen, if we want to see people come to Christ, if we want track month to be effective, we've got to do it by the word of God. Somebody says, somebody said to me years ago, the most important thing in the world is getting people saved. Now my first response, an immediate response is, yeah, that's true. But then you think about it, wait a minute. Most important thing in the world is obeying God. Now, I can't disobey God in order to try and win someone to Christ. I've got to do it within the framework of God's Word. Um, I knew a guy down in Tennessee when I was down there and uh I think he was as sincere, but I think he was very misguided. And we had talking one time, he says, yeah, I go in the bars, I sit down and have a beer. I said, You're a Christian, what are you doing? He goes, well, I use that as a bridge to be able to witness to the guys sitting there so that I'm one of them and they'll listen to me. I said, You're nuts, man. That's unscriptural. You can't dis you can't do wrong in order to get a chance to do right. You've got to do right. And so if this is a Sporting conflict here, kind of that word implies that. And we've got to operate within the rules. And let me give you my last thought here from uh Proverbs chapter eleven and verse thirty. He that winneth souls is wise. To me, that implies a compassionate motivation. He that winneth souls is wise. A young man wins that girl's heart. Huh? Boy, he won her heart over. Boy, she won his heart. Um uh years ago I met my wife and she chased me till I caught her And uh she won my heart over. Won my heart over. And you know, if we're going to be effective in winning people to the Lord Jesus Christ, we've got to have some compassion. It's not a cold, hard thing we do. Oh, you better get saved or you'll burn in hell. There's no compassion in that Huh? The Bible says in Matthew chapter 9 and in chap in Mark chapter 6, Jesus was moved with compassion. When he saw the multitudes. In Jude chapter 1, there's only one chapter, verse 22, it says, those having compassion make a difference. Compassion. Compassion. Um, our job is not to save the lost We can't do that. I try very hard to make it clear. In fact, I've contemplated buying a big hat in the newspaper, putting Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church cannot save the lost. Our church can't save anybody from sin in hell. You say, you're a pastor, you couldn't save them. No. Hey, I couldn't even save myself. How can I save someone else? Hey, and listen, there's denominations out there that um, you know, I don't want to be unkind, but they're they're they're wrong. A preacher, or whatever title you want to give him, priest, cannot forgive another man's sins on God's behalf. There's only one mediator between God and man. And that's Christ Jesus. The Savior. He's the only one that can save a soul from sin in heaven. He's the only one. Over and over, Jesus would say in the Gospels, he would say, Thy sins be forgiven thee. And his critics and the Pharisees would say, Who can forgive sins but God only? Of course, Jesus could forgive sins. He's God in the flesh. We can't save people. Our job isn't to save the lost. Our job is to win them to Christ so He can save the lost. lost. He saves them. There was a guy here years ago who trusted Christ in Mountain Lake and got baptized and boy he was growing just he was a fun guy. He was just just simple, but he was a great guy. Dave Stork, some of you all remember Dave What a hoot. And uh thing I always remember at the day, we used to sit right around here where Tom is. And I'd be preaching away, and he'd just get worked up. He's a big old chubby guy. And uh He'd be there and his right foot would just be going like this while I was preaching. You know he's getting all stirred up by whatever I was saying, and his face is all red And he'd be like that. And uh one day we're going out, Pastor, that was a great message. He goes, sometimes I just want to yell, Amen. I said, let her rip Next Sunday morning sitting there and I don't remember what I was preaching on something. He's getting all worked up again. Oh, and that old right foot spun like this. And uh finally said Amen. Shh, it was like a t it was like a volcano exploded. Dave was taking me out one time. He said, I got some friends. We need to go get saved. All right. So we went out and he's introducing me and he'd introduce me. This is Pastor Leatherman. He saved me. Said, Dave, I didn't save you. Jesus saved you. I just introduced you to Jesus. That's what it is. Some having compassion make a difference. Some really care whether that person's going to heaven or hell. Some really care whether that person knows Jesus Christ as Savior or not. Some really care whether his life has any meaning or purpose or direction or not. And those are the ones that make a difference. Those are the ones that have an influence and are able to win that soul to Christ. If you're here this morning, or as I said, perhaps listening in through the internet, and you're unsaved, you don't have that assurance that your sins are forgiven on your way to heaven I tell you right now, there's a very real spiritual battle going on for your soul. Very real. I don't see anything. Nevertheless, it's there. There's many Christians praying. I believe we have a significant number of our church members that have a genuine burden and compassion for souls to be saved. And they pray earnestly and regularly that folks will come and trust Christ as Savior. They work very hard to compassionately share the gospel with others And if you're under the sound of my voice and you don't have that assurance your sins are forgiven, you're on your way to heaven. I'm telling you right now, there's Christians pray that you'll trust Christ. Receive Him as your personal Savior. Find forgiveness, new life, a home in heaven. He that winneth souls. It's a spiritual warfare involved in this. Somebody put this challenge out They said, so suppose someone were to offer me a thousand dollars for every soul I might earnestly try to lead to Christ. I wonder, would I endeavor to lead more souls to Christ under those conditions than I am now Is it possible that I would attempt to do more for money, even at the risk of blunders or ridicule? than what I hesitate or shrink from doing now simply in obedience to God. Listen to this, and this challenged me. Is my love of money stronger than my love of God or souls? Suppose Suppose there was a multimillionaire who anonymously Assured us that for every gospel tract that a person gave out, you would receive $100 in cash. I wonder how many of us would be very, very diligent in giving out as many of those as possible, even if somebody laughed at us, even if it was embarrassing, even if it was we were ridiculed. I wonder how many of us would work more diligently. Man, if I give out a hundred, that's a thousand bucks. I get out a thousand of them. Man, I could pay this debt off, I could pay that, I could buy this gun, I could pay, I could buy a car. Man, if I a whole month, I could end up with a couple hundred thousand dollars Now let's be honest. Don't we think that way? Is our love for money that much greater than our love for God and concern for souls? It's challenging. I mentioned last year we were supposed to go to Pennsylvania up outside Pittsburgh and help a church give out literature, part of our track month. It was storming real bad and we weren't sure we were gonna pull it off. So the last minute we decided to go to Morgantown, we had was Was it two busloads? Two busloads of folks for track month. So we said, let's go to Morgantown. So we drove over there, we had covered the area here pretty good. We got in all those apartments from the colleges and just thousands of apartments. We had our stacks of tracts and the weather cleared and we piled out and we spent about two hours just covering Morgantown, a college area there with gospel tracts. We put them everywhere I got a few phone calls that were interesting. But that night we got back, we were all done, everybody left. I was locking up the church, go home and get my mom And everything ready for the next day for Sunday. And the phone rang. That's hello. He said, Brother Leatherman? I said, yes. He said, this is so-and-so. I'm a missionary. I'm calling from Shanghai, China. Uh-huh. He is, I said, really? I said, what's going on? He says, um, we got a lady in our church. She's an older lady. She trusted Christ a year ago. She has a daughter that's a student at WVU. She's been praying and emailing her and trying to witness to her and trying to get her daughter to trust Christ. From China. She was emailing her daughter over here. He said, we just got a call from her daughter. Her daughter wanted to know who we sent by To give her that gospel track and talk to her about the Lord. And he said, we told her we didn't send anybody by. W what's what did you get? She goes, I got this gospel track. He said, What's the information on the back? He said, it says Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church and gave him the address and phone number, website, and everything. He goes, we had never heard of them. We don't know anything about them. So he called me up. He said, thanks for going by. She said this. I don't know who you sent by. This is the Chinese girl in Morgantown telling her mom over in Shanghai. I don't know who you sent by, but what I read in that gospel tract was exactly what I needed. That's something. We tried desperately to find a girl. We got her name and everything. We never could find her. This past, was it January, Kathy? Somewhere around there. Phone call comes Wednesday night, just quarter till seven, just before church starts, and I'm running around here like I always do. Kathy answered So finally she hangs up. That was the guy in China, the Shanghai guy. And he was all fired up. He said, I thought you'd like to know. She finished school, came back to China in October, and the girl trusted Christ as Savior. A gospel tract from Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church on a door in Morgantown ends up in a girl in Shanghai, China being one to Christ. Tell me that doesn't stir your heart up. If I had hair, I'd be standing on end right now Kathy said, by the way, we noticed on our website we've had almost 500 sermons downloaded off of our website into China. Would you happen to know anything about that? He goes, oh yeah. The Chinese pastor here in the underground church we have here We went on your website, he's downloaded all your sermons, and he's making copies of them and handing them out to English-speaking pastors and people around and having them listen to them From Mount Lincoln dependent Baptist Church in China. Because a little gospel track was left on the door. By the way, there's a Leatherman Baptist Church in China now. I've never been there. He that winneth souls is wise. It's a spiritual warfare going on. It's very real. It's for the souls of men. Jesus Christ died and suffered hell so that souls would be saved. What are we doing? All we gotta do is take the Message, pray. If you're here and you've never trusted Christ, you're listening to me, you've never trusted Christ, with all my heart I plead with you, accept Him as Savior. We can show you from the Bible How to trust Him and how to have that assurance. If we know Christ, let's commit to this and get the gospel to unsaved people. Scripturally, but diligently and prayerfully. Father, bless us, Lord, help us. To be soul winners in the biblical sense of the term I pray you'd help us as a church and as individuals to examine our lives, our walk with you. Make sure we're in a condition where you can use us and we can have influence. God, give us a heart for souls to care. Help us to be wise. Again, in the biblical definition. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher, I'm saved. I know God saved me. There's no doubt about it. I've trusted Christ. You say, preacher, I want to be wise. In the context of this verse, I want to be someone that has an influence on others for good and for Christ and see people saved. They're one to the Lord Jesus. You say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me be that soul winner. Very general invitation here. But how many are that? Say, preacher, pray with me. God bless you. Hands all around. Amen I can't imagine a Christian not desiring to be a soul winner. Just can't imagine that. How many of you here say, preacher, you know, my Christian life isn't all it ought to be? There's areas of my life that are no doubt a hindrance to my effectiveness in representing the Lord Jesus. And maybe the Spirit of God's dealing with you. Some things that need to go, some things that need to be incorporated into your life. And you'd say, Preacher, pray with me that I'll make the adjustments that need to be made. I'll trust the Lord and obey Him. So that I can be an effective soul winner. Is there any like that? How about it, Christians? There's areas in my life that I know need adjustment to be an effective witness. How about it? Any other God bless you, many hands around. That's the Spirit of God dealing with us. He's trying to purge us. He's trying to mold us and get us in a condition where we become effective and have an influence. It's a matter of community. Compassion. There are any here this morning who say, Preacher, I don't know for sure if I die now I go to heaven. You certainly don't want to go to hell. You say Preacher, I'm concerned about that. I'd like to know in my heart. I'd like for God to help me settle that in my heart. That He's forgiven my sins, that when I die, I go to heaven. Not to hell. And you'd say, Preacher, pray for me also. When you pray for those other folks who raise their hand, pray for me also that God will settle that in my heart. I don't have to worry about that. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me also. I'd like to know that my sins are forgiven. And when I die, I'm going to heaven and not to hell. How about it? Any? Now, Father in heaven, you know our heart