Ecclesiastes, chapter number four, if you would turn there with me. Ecclesiastes, working our way through the book of Ecclesiastes. I'm gonna just read two verses tonight and um then we'll look at them and See what we have. Ecclesiastes chapter number four. Give everybody an opportunity to find it. And I'm going to begin reading. I'll turn my mic on here, Dave. Begin reading in verse number 13. Ecclesiastes chapter 4, verse 13. Better is a poor and wise child. than an old and foolish king who will no more be admonished. For out of prison he cometh to reign. Now that's referring back to the poor and wise child. For out of prison he cometh to reign, whereas also he that is born in his kingdom becometh poor. He's contrasting here a poor, wise child. And what how that turns out, and a old and foolish king. And how that turns out. So I just titled the message for lack of creativity. I just entitled it, Wisdom is Greater Than Wealth. Wisdom is greater than wealth. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now our study in your word. I ask with all my heart that you fill me with your Holy Spirit. Lord, I present my body anew in this hour, as do so often, and I yield my will to you as best I know how, Lord, and I ask that you fill me with your spirit, that you would speak through me and challenge us and I pray that every one of us here that this coming week would be a week of victory, that we would um overcome sin and temptation, that we would have a testimony this world of your grace, as Connie's saying. Your power in our lines. So give us wisdom. I pray from this passage of Scripture. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Solomon was at one point in his life the wisest man on earth. He was given supernatural wisdom by God. If you remember, he asked not for riches. God says, you ask what you will, I'll give it to you And Solomon did not ask for riches, he asked for wisdom. And God, in response, gave him both. And so at one point, Solomon was, as Jesus said, the wisest man on earth. And he was used of God to record the book of Proverbs, the book of wisdom. Now something happened through a series of influences on his life and various influences, he went from being the wisest man on the earth to living what I referred to a month or so ago as living a horizontal life. He had gotten his eyes off the Lord, he has gotten his mind off the Lord, and he started doing the very thing he warned us about in Proverbs 3, 5, and 6. He started leaning on his own understanding And he saw the world now from the perspective of under the sun. He is horizontal. He's seeing life. He's seeing the world from a purely human perspective. He has pushed God out. We see that in our world today. If people act if for those that do, many times for those that do acknowledge God's existence, they ignore Him. They push them completely out. They say, Oh, they may be a god, but they're not concerned about it. They're not concerned about their relationship with the Lord. And it's an encouraging thing, of course, as a pastor, I know for for many of for all for us as Christians to come across somebody that is genuinely concerned about their spiritual well-being That's an encouraging thing. If we knock on a door and we talk to people and they say, Yeah, you know, I think a lot about spiritual things. I think a lot about my relationship with God. I am concerned about that That's an encouraging thing. But Solomon had pushed that all aside, and now he's living a horizontal life. He's leaning on his own understanding. He's looking at the world from a purely human perspective. God's out of the picture. However, We noted this a little earlier. Every now and then, in this book of Ecclesiastes that Solomon wrote, it's actually a sermon, I believe, he preached in Jerusalem, every now and then Some of that insight that he had earlier in his life seems to break through Some of that wisdom that was ingrained in his heart and mind that God had supernaturally given to him, every now and then it shines through and he makes some statements that are from a heavenly perspective. Generally, I'm finding them to be just basic truths, nothing real complicated, nothing real complex, just some real basic truths. And I think that's the case here on the verses we're looking at. I've found that successful Christians and successful ministries are experts on the basics of the Christian life. I found that successful ministries become experts on the basics of the Christian life. I think about some of the great Christians that I've uh been able to meet and know over the years. And every one of them, without exception, have focused and lived by the basics of the Christian life, not the complexities. They're intensely I like this statement, they are intensely simple in their Christianity. Let me illustrate. Years ago, uh when we went down to uh college down in Chattanooga, Tennessee Got involved in the bus ministry and eventually took up my own route and uh the fellow that was doing the route before me took me around and introduced me to the riders and showed me the areas all inner city projects I referenced did I think this morning. Inner city projects, uh government housing, just very, very rough, very, very poor, and uh just in what you would call inner city ghetto is what it was And we went around there and he took he said I got one lady I want you to meet, she's going to be a blessing to you. And he took us into the government housing. Of course there's no grass, it's all just dirt and there's beer cans and it wasn't uncommon to see it. uh heroin syringe laying around. It was just it was terrible. He said, I want you to meet Mrs. Tate. And uh went up and knocked on the door and this dear little black lady, she was probably about that tall, f uh white, snow white hair Can't couldn't hardly see and she came door and he said, Mrs. Tate, I want you to meet uh they called me Mr. Denny back then. So no comments So I want you to meet Mr. Denny. That's who I was on the bus route. And uh she said, come on in. And over the next several years, I got to know Mrs. Tate. What an amazing woman Mrs. Tate was. I say without hesitation, she was without a doubt one of, if not the most godly person I have ever met in my life At that point she was in her late 80s, maybe early 90s. She had outlived two or three or four husbands. She grew up, she told us over the years we got to know her as we visit her every week, she grew up in Alabama, worked in the cotton fields. And had gotten saved as a teenage girl and loved God dearly. You know, Mrs. Tate, she knew her Bible inside and out. We'd go visit her and we'd talk. I called her house my little haven of rest She had no TV. She had one little radio that played the radio station from the the church we were at there. It's all played, no TVs in there. Just a plain, simple house, clean, spotless. But not much to it. I'm telling you, she was a happy, godly lady. Just joyful She invite us in. We'd talk a little bit every Saturday and she would say Brother Danny, get my Bible over there on the counter. I'd go over and she had a big large print Bible And she'd say, find chapter so-and-so in the Bible somewhere. And she goes, all right, I want to see if I still remember this verse. And she'd quote 20, 30, 40 verses at a shot. Perfect. That dear lady was in church. Now she had another Baptist church she went to there, but she was in church every time those doors were open. She prayed, she meditated and memorized and read her Bible. She kept kept her heart and mind pure. And uh love God and sh you pr if you'd ask her about pre tribulation and and post millennialism and Uh all these great uh great doctrines of the Bible and uh she probably wouldn't know that, but she'd know this. She'd say, uh I know Jesus my Savior. I know the Bible's God's word. And she had mastered the basics of the Christian life. And I found that is true across the board that those that walk with God, that have the presence and power of God in our now I'm not saying we shouldn't learn great great doctrine and all that. I'm not suggesting that. We ought to But I'm saying is we ought to have the basics down. We ought to have that daily walk with God, that faithfulness to church, that love and commitment to the Word of God, ingraining our hearts and minds. Keeping our hearts and minds pure, trying to be a witness. And uh I noticed that in Mrs. Pate and others over the years. And I think uh uh the Christian life, successful Christian life is not complicated I like this in the Bible. It refers to the Christian life as a walk. The walk. How many people here, well maybe for Mark it might be, but walking is not complicated for most people. Right now Mark's a little complicated. But generally, how many people agree with me? Walking's really not that complicated. What does walking consist of? It's simply just putting one foot in front of the other, doing the same thing over and over and over and over and over. So what does a Christian life consist of? Everybody's wanting to come up with something new. All this modern Christianity, contemporary Christianity. Oh, we got this new secret. Oh we got the secret to spiritual power. We've got the secret to victory. We've got the secret to this. There's no secrets. It's just a basic thing. I love God. I read my Bible. I do what it says. I go to church. I love the people of God, I confess my sins, I uh be a witness and just keep doing that and doing that and doing that and doing that. How many people grasp what I'm trying to say? And I think that's what Solomon is touching on here. He's touching on just some basic things that are not complicated, that are not profound as far as the world is concerned. And it's pretty much, this is what he's saying. To be prosperous and to have a great position is vain if I push God out of it. Um, I may be very wealthy, I may have a very powerful position, be a king, be very, very wealthy, but if I don't have wisdom And I'm I'm dried up spiritually, that is a vain life. And he tries to illustrate this. And what he's telling us here is since he's learned this, and again, this is Some of the wisdom coming through is prosperity and position, what the world is so hungry for, what the so world is so desperate for, it cannot fill the vacuum That only God can fill in the heart and life of a believer. The things the world wants so badly are the things that we need so little. What this world does not need is more prosperity. What this world needs is more of a relationship with God. And God's wisdom. So I'm gonna I'm not gonna have an outline like I normally do. I just want to make a few observations here. Just list a series of observations. I like to have uh a series of points. I try to like to uh I like to try to uh uh ill uh uh alliterate them. I'm not going to do that just a few observations I want to give you and if you want to jot them down. Number one Just very basic things I see in this passage. Number one, it is possible to be a child, and the word child there actually means youth. It is possible to be a child or a young person and still be wise How many older folks sometimes get the impression young people are kind of knuckleheads? All the parents raise their hand And I like to tease the young people and I like to give them a hard time. But the fact of the matter is, a young person can be exceedingly wise. A child can be very wise. Look what he says there in verse number 13. Better is a poor and wise child than an old and foolish king. So that tells me it's possible a young person can be very wise. The world has convinced us that young people have to get out there and just live wild, and they can't be good Christian. We've got to compromise and we've got to do this, and they're just going to sow their wild oats. That's not what my Bible teaches. I believe it's possible, and the Bible tells us it is possible for a young person to be very godly, to be very mu uh strong spiritually, strong in their faith, and be a wise person, even as a child. We don't have to think of uh equate uh rebellion and disobedience and bad attitude. We don't have to equate that to youth, a young person can be very, very mature spiritually, can have a tremendous attitude, can love God and be wise in the decisions they make So, my observation is this: it's possibly a young person and still be very wise. The word child there has this idea: one who has not reached maturity. Now, I'm going to use the word ignorance there, and I don't mean it in a derogatory way. But ignorance does not necessarily equal foolishness. A person may be ignorant in that they don't have a lot of information and yet still be pretty wise I've known some folks, particularly back Kathy's hometown and then that area, preaching a lot of churches in years going by, I haven't for a long time. I got in some of those churches back in the hollers out there in Nicholas County and down towards Webster County in that area there And um uh I got back in there and there was some folks back in some of those back woods areas that I didn't have a low whole lot of learning. This is the way they put it. Oh Brother Lutherman, I ain't got much learning. You know what? I got to know those folks and they were pretty wise. They had some real wisdom. And so just because a person isn't hasn't reached uh the level of adulthood perhaps they're still a ya child, they're still maybe immature in a lot of ways, they haven't had a lot of education, they may be, and I don't again, I don't mean this drug, tour, may be ignorant in a lot of ways, yet still be incredibly wise. What is wisdom? What's the beginning of wisdom? Fear of the Lord. Fear of the Lord. Let me ask you a question. Is it possible for a ten-year-old boy to fear the Lord? Absolutely. Is it possible for a fourteen-year-old girl to fear the Lord? Sure, absolutely. The devil has convinced a lot of people that young people can't live for God. They're going to be impure, they're going to be rebellious, they're going to be selfish, they're going to be bad attitudes, and I don't buy that for one minute. I think a young person can be just as spiritual and just as godly as the most senior uh Christian in our church. The filling of the Holy Spirit does not discriminate by age. Little boy, six years old, can be just as filled with the Holy Spirit as the 57-year-old preacher is. And so a child can I I guess I want to say this to our young people, you can be godly. You can have God's presence in your life. You can have an influence in this old sinful world for the Lord Jesus Christ. You can live a life with the joy and fullness and presence of God in your life. It doesn't have to be empty. It doesn't have to be angry. It doesn't have to be self-centered. You can know God and live for Him and have His presence and power in your life. Make a difference in this old world A poor uh uh what's he saying? A better is a poor and wise child than an old and foolish king. I appreciate Pastor Brett and Jenny. You know what? They believe that the young people coming here can be something for God. I believe that, and God believes that. And so it is possible. What do we study this morning? What about Samuel? As a child, he ministered to the Lord. What a profound statement. What an amazing and that word child there is talking about a young child. And he's serving God and he's living for God. And I know I didn't get the whole message this morning. But uh there's times the courage of that young boy when God speaks to him and says, and the message that God spoke to him, when he said, Speak Lord, for the Lord for the servant heareth. Remember reading that this morning? What did the Lord say to him? He says, You go and tell Eli that I'm going to judge him and his sons for their sin. And it and we didn't have time to to it so I'm gonna preach it now because I didn't have time this morning. But uh The kid was scared and said he couldn't sleep. Imagine that. A little boy's got to go to the priest of God and tell him God's going to judge him. You know what happened? You know what? When that morning when Samuel got up, you know what he did? He says he went and told him, and I'm putting my own words, he told Eli exactly what God told him to tell him. Here's a young boy that's pretty wise. He's teachable, he's submissive, he's willing to let Eli teach him. What should I do? I keep hearing my voice called my name called. He goes, well say this, speak Lord, thy servant hear it. So he does it. And God says, go back and tell him I'm going to judge him. And you trust God. He obeys encouraged. So my point again is this. It's possible for young people to live for God. It's possible for a young person to be wise in the decisions they make. I tell you, over the years I've just seen young people that know the truth and they know about God And they make such horizontal decisions. They make decisions as if their only part of their life is what's under the sun. And it affects their lives, and they have to deal with those decisions down the road, 50, 60 years down the road, they have to deal with these foolish under-the-sun decisions. They don't have to be that way. And so it's possible for a young person to be wise. We see that in Samuel. The beginning of wisdom is the fear of the Lord. The fear of the Lord is simply a reverence and submission to God. Number two, I put this down. It is possible to be poor yet prosperous. Look what it says. Better is a poor and wise child than an old and foolish king. I like that word better. I got looking at it and how it's used different places. The word better there has this idea to have to have an advantage or a benefit. A poor and wise child has an advantage, has a benefit over an old and foolish kid. It's translated, actually that word better is translated six times in the Bible. Prosperity. And the idea is this: a poor and wise child is more prosperous than an old and a foolish king. You say, how can that be? How much money does a poor and wise child have? How can he be prosperous and old, even though he's foolish, he's a king? Here's the thing, God's definition of prosperity is not the same as the world's definition of prosperity. The world suggests that being prosperous means having everything you want. I like this definition of rich. Rich is not necessarily having everything you want. Being rich is wanting what you have. I thought that was really profound. I thought everybody would be amazed by that. That's a good statement. Just sit me wanting what I have. If I if all I want is what what I have, then I have everything I want. I'm a rich person. The world's definition of prosperity is not the same as God. I heard Curtis Hudson say many years ago, he made this statement: success is finding God's will and doing it That is success. I studied my Bible and I found out that when I stand before the judgment seat of Christ as a Christian, God's not going to count up how much money I have to determine my rewards. God's not going to go by the the the the the the value of the house I lived in to determine my rewards Success is finding God's will and doing it. Finding God's will and doing it. My faith in God and my obedience to God is not dependent upon my position or my possessions. Now I'm going to talk about tithing, it's a popular subject. But a person that will not tithe on a hundred dollar paycheck a week Is just as disobedient to God as the one who will not tithe on a million-dollar paycheck a week. Follow what I'm saying? My prosperity, the world's definition of prosperity, I can be very poor and yet still be prosperous as far as God's concerned. Let me give you number three. That one didn't go over so well. Let me give you number three. Age does not equal wisdom. It's kind of a restatement of the first one, but age does not equal wisdom. Old and foolish, he says, better is a poor and wise child than an old and foolish king. I don't know about you, but the phrase old and the word foolish, word old and the word foolish seem like a contradiction. Generally, you think of a wise old man, a wise old woman. That's not necessarily so. Just because a person is up there in years doesn't necessarily mean they're very wise. Job put it this way: In Job 32, verse 9 says this: Great men are not always wise. Neither do the aged understand judgment. Now, I believe we ought to honor aged folks. Amen. We ought to respect our elders. We ought to do that, but I've had advice given me at different times over the years that real by older folks that wasn't necessarily lined up with the Word of God And so just because that king may be old, he could still possibly be foolish. And the last phrase in verse 13 explains what he means by foolishness. Better is a poor and wise child than an old and foolish king. Then he explains what he means by old and foolish, who will no more be admonished. Now, what does that mean? Here's an old king. And the he's foolish, and by foolish we mean he will no more be admonished. What do you think that means, no more be admonished? What what's he talking about? He won't accept advice. I put it this way, he refuses to be teachable. You know what foolish is? Foolishness is refusing to be teachable. No matter what age we are, we ought to be teachable When I was twenty-seven I figured by the t uh when I was when I came out of Bible college I knew everything. I did. I had a I had a degree, Bible college degree. I squeezed uh I squeezed four years into five and um I had a Bible Bible College degree and I graduated in one of those laudy things up there somewhere and um I had all these awards and all this stuff and I came out of Bible College and said, Here I am world, I'll solve your problems. Then I became youth pastor and there was a few things I found out I didn't really know about. Then I would work in Bible time, then I was an intern pastor and I found out, oh, there's a whole a few other things I didn't really know as I thought I did And I've been pastor now almost twenty-four years and I found out I don't think I know nothing. Oh what happened? Dr. Creed was here And we were talking back there, him and uh Ms. Creed and Kathy and I, and he says, You know, I think the older you get, the dumber you get. I found out it's important for me to be teachable now just as much as I was important for me to be teachable before. Because when we refuse to be teach when we become unteachable we come very, very foolish. We need to be willing to learn. We need to be willing to be taught some things. An unteachable spirit is foolish. Would you turn real quickly with me? And I'm just about done. Come to Proverbs chapter 1. Now this is Solomon When he's right with God. And I'm finding more and more as I'm work working on Ecclesiastes that uh there's a lot of correlation here between Ecclesiastes and Proverbs, although a lot of it is is reversed. He gets an ecclesiastically, he's doing the opposite. But look at chapter 1 and verse number 5. Look what he says about a wise man. A wise man will what? Hear. He's going to listen to what others have to say. Will hear and will what? Increase learning. And a man of understanding shall attain unto wise counsel. What's he say? Wisdom is dependent upon my being teachable. I have to be willing to let God teach me. Um I can't help when I'm looking at this. Now think of somebody in the Old Testament with me. And if you don't if you if you think of the person I'm thinking of, then you're very smart and you're right. Better is a poor and wise child than an old and foolish king Can you think of somebody that started out pretty poor and they were wise and they ended up an old and foolish king? Anyone thinking of the person I'm thinking of? King Saul. King Saul. And I have the references, and for sake of time, we're not going to go there. But 1 Samuel chapter 9, verse 21, we see Saul as a young boy is very humble. He's an anointed king, and he's like, who am I? I'm just among the Benjamites, and I'm just uh something. And he's talking, he's talking very humbly, and it's a very humble view of himself. You get a little bit later and he becomes king and he goes through a series of uh of changes that take place in his life, and by the time you get to 1 Samuel chapter 15, verse 22 and 23 Saul uh King uh uh uh Samuel the prophet is rebuking him and he says stubbornness is as the sin of uh witchcraft, rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft, and stubbornness Is well let's turn there and look. Let me read it to you. First um first Samuel chapter fifteen And notice what he says here in verse number 22. I thought I could quote it, but I'm not going to be able to. 1 Samuel 15, 22. Now, when he's young It's very humble. Look what he says. And verse twenty two. And Samuel said, Hath the Lord his great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices, as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice To hearken them the fat of Rams. Look at this. For rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft, and stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry. Because you have rejected the word of the Lord, you would not let God lead you, you would not let God teach you. He has also rejected thee from being king. A poor and wise child became an old and foolish king because he became unteachable. And then verse number 14, let me end with this. He says, For out of prison he cometh to reign, whereas also he that is born in his kingdom becometh poor. I'll just I'll just summarize it, but I put this down. My past Does not have to dictate my future. Here is a in prison, he came out to reign. Can you think of anybody in the Bible that was in prison? poor and they ended up being a king. He ended up reigning. Anybody think of anybody in the Bible like that? Joseph. I couldn't help but think of Joseph. You talk about in the bottom of the barrel Betrayed by his brother, sold as a slave, falsely accused of assault and rape, and he's passed in prison, completely forgotten about. You talk about a bleak future. You talk about a hopeless situation. But the thing is, God never forgot about Joseph. And Joseph behaved himself very wisely. And he ended up being a king. Listen, I don't know what your past may be like. Some of you I know a little That past may be horrific. That past may be terrible. There may have been terrible foolish mistakes made. There may have been terrible sinful decisions made But I'm telling you, if we will trust God and let Him lead us and be wise in fearing Him and letting Him direct us, God can use us and give us a great future. Our past does not have to dictate our future. And here's an here he is. And he that was where is also he that is born in his kingdom becometh poor. Here's somebody. that's born, he thinks it's handed to him. He's I'm born in the kingdom. I'm born in the family of kings. I've got it made. And he ends up poor. Because he thinks because what he was in his past that guarantees a great future and he acts foolishly. Uh I don't know, uh Bill Barrens, when he was here, we were talking one time. And I I love that man. He be he became one of my dearest friends. I miss him dearly. We were out to eat or somewhere, he was preaching here and we were having lunch or something together. I forget what we got to talk about everything And he said he was in Chicago, and I'm trying to remember if it's a big mall there or if it was just where there's a lot of stores and one of the sidewalks and they're walking down something in Chicago and And Bill Barens was a boxer in his early days and he had followed boxing and he knew it pretty well. And he said they were walking one day down the street or there was a hall in the m in the mall or down the street, I don't remember which, but There was an old ratty bar, whatever it was they walked by and it's just a nasty old bar. And there was a bouncer standing out front of the bar door standing there just bouncing, I guess. And Bill Barrens walked by and he said, I saw him and he said, I know that guy. He said, I got walking down there I He says, I know he was apparently a famous boxer, very, very wealthy at one point. He goes, that's that guy, that boxer. Man, that guy was fantastic Man, he made tons of money. He said, I'm going to go back and talk to him. He went back and he said, Are you so-and-so? And I don't remember the name. He said, Are you so-and-so? And the guy he said kind of hung his head and he said, Yeah. He goes, man, what happened? What are you doing here? And he said something to this effect, I played the fool. I played the fool. And I squandered everything I'd been given. And here he was, a bouncer, making a couple bucks an hour when he had so much in the past. And that's fair. That's it. I guess he just assumed because he had made it that everything would be taken care of and he made a series of foolish decisions A poor and wise child is better off than an old and foolish king or an old and foolish boxer or an old and foolish Christian. And we need to be wise. We need to let the Lord keep teaching us. Let the Lord keep leading us. Keep looking to the Lord. Teach me. Show me your ways, Lord It's interesting, some of the Psalms written at the end of David's life, he said this, teach me thy ways, O Lord. Teach me thy paths. He remained teachable. Does that make sense? And so let's be wise. And young people, yeah, you can live for God. You can be godly, spirit-filled, and have a profound impact on your world. If you'll be wise, let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to take these thoughts and help us and challenge us. I pray, Lord, as we go into this new week. Had a good day today that you would just stir our hearts tonight, that we would seek you and let you lead us and direct us on a daily basis. We want to be wise. We don't care what this world says or has to offer. We just want to be right with you. We want to fulfill your will for our lives So help us, I pray, Lord. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I this coming week I really need Lord's wisdom? I need the Lord to lead me and direct me. Maybe you have some decisions to make this week. Maybe you have some issues you're facing. Maybe there's some decisions you're making today. God's been dealing with your heart. And you'd say, Pastor, pray with me that this week I'll be wise. I'll fear the Lord. I'll trust him and let him lead me and teach me and direct me so that I can be in his perfect will. Exactly where he wants me to be. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand, preacher? I need Lord's wisdom. How many would say this, preacher, I know there are some areas in my life that are not what they ought to be? Maybe some attitudes. Maybe some young people say, you know, I know I can I can be that Christian God wants me to be. I don't have to uh have a bad attitude. I don't have to be this, that, or whatever I can be what God wants me to be. And by His grace, I want to be that wise child. Trusting God. God leading on me and God using me and God filling me. Is there any like that? Young people maybe say, preacher, pray for me. I want to be that young person. Or maybe some adults say, I want to be that person, that wise child. God bless you, hands all around. Now we're going to have Lord's Supper I think it's a wonderful thing to find a place in old altar and just pour our hearts out to God and deal with God and get things right and confess what needs to be confessed. And make those decisions according to God's will and let him have his way. Father, bless our invitation time now, I ask. Take these stumbling thoughts, I pray, change our lives, and give us wisdom. In Jesus' name. Amen.