James chapter 3. We're working our way through the book of James. I might want to turn this mic down just a little bit. I came across a quote by Thomas Jefferson. He said this, he said, patriotism is not a short and frenzied burst of emotion. But the long and steady dedication of a lifetime. Although that's a good statement. But I tweaked it a little bit, and I was thinking of that. And I put it this way: Christian living and Christian service Is not a short, frenzied burst of emotion, but it's the long and steady dedication of a lifetime And I like that thought. We had a big week with Bible time. A lot of us worked hard and really gave ourselves day and night as testimony was, and we thank God for that. But I want to challenge us to not just make our service and our living for God just to be one week of very, very intense, frenzied emotion. But let's make our dedication to Christ, our service to Christ, our living for Christ, just one long, steady lifetime commitment. I believe that's what God is looking for. I believe that's where the impact and the long term influence is, as we just get where God wants us to be, get involved in serving the Lord And so I thought that was a good statement. Something else before we get in the message I learned something about eagles and snakes. Now I didn't know this, but apparently eagles do not like snakes. And what I come across this, and this ties into our message, an eagle, according to this, an eagle will not fight a snake on the ground. If an eagle gets in a fight with a snake, gets tangled up with a snake on the ground, that snake will bring the eagle down, kill the eagle. What an eagle does is it comes down and grabs the snake with its talons and then brings it up into the air, up into the snake's element. And it'll lift it up high up and um then release it back to what did I say something backwards? The eagle grabs the snake. And uh the eagle will come down, grab the snake by its talons, and lift that snake up into the air out of the snake's element. And in the air, the snake is useless. It's weak. It's vulnerable. It can't function like it does on the ground. The snake will then drop it, let it drop to the ground, come back down and get it. And it'll do this. But the the the the the lesson here is this. The eagle doesn't come on the ground where the snake is wise, where the snake is deadly, where the snake has its power. The eagle brings it up into a higher realm and fights it up where it's powerless. Now, here's the lesson. In our Christian lives We need to take our fight with the flesh and the world and the devil into the spiritual realm. If we try and fight the world on the world's ground, we're going to lose every time. If we do battle with our flesh and the devil on their ground, we're going to lose every time. We need to get up into God's realm. And fight the world and the flesh of the devil in the spiritual realm and fight with spiritual weapons, prayer, the word of God uh faith in God, trusting God, the breastplate of righteousness, the uh the belt of truth and all these things. You follow what I'm saying? And that just challenged me. I'm maybe I've been making a statement uh lately uh more and more, but There are victories in the Christian life that can only be won with spiritual weapons. That can only be won by prayer, fasting, and the Word of God and soul winning and those types of things. So with that in mind, we come to James chapter 3, and I want to read the whole section here to keep the context together. I'm going to begin reading in verse number 13 We're going to come down through the end of chapter. We're just going to look at one verse and just part of one verse tonight. I think you might be happy with me tonight, but I doubt it. Look at verse 13. Who is a wise man and endued with knowledge among you? Let him show, out of a good conversation, his works with meekness of wisdom. But if ye have bitter envying and strife in your hearts, glory not, and lie not against the truth. This wisdom descendeth not from above, but is earthly, sensual, devilish. For where envying and strife is, there is confusion in every evil word. Now, this is our text tonight. We already looked at the earthly wisdom and the characteristics of that and the consequences of that Now verse 17, but the wisdom that is from above is first pure Then peaceable, gentle, easy to be entreated, full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality and without hypocrisy And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace of them that make peace. We've been pointing out that in this passage, James, under the inspiration of God, is presenting two types of wisdom that people can have. Two competing thought processes Two competing ways of thinking or perspectives on life and reality and the world. One is earthly. That is the first one mentioned here. That perspective, that way of thinking excludes God from the equation. All my problems are solved, but God is not a factor in the solution. My life is lived, my decisions are made. But God is not a factor in the decisions I'm making or the way I'm living my life It's earthly. And we saw the consequences of that. Now he contrasts this wisdom that is from above. And this wisdom begins with God's perspective on decisions I'm making. It begins with God's word, God's revealed will, and that is the major factor, the governing factor. In the decisions I make and my problem solving and the direction of my life, the Word of God, the will of God, the wisdom of God is the factor in how I live my life. And so you have these two competing wisdoms, these two competing thought processes. And every one of us here tonight are operating under one of those two thought processes. Either we're exercising wisdom that is from above, or we're exercising wisdom that is from the earth, earthly. And so let's pray, and I want to look at just this one aspect of this wisdom from above. Father, we're grateful for a good day, good week. And these testimonies tonight stir my heart and young people coming to Christ, trusting him. And then, Lord, we ask you to seal these decisions and Lord, hedge these young people back that they could go on and have a lifetime live for the Lord Jesus. Lord, they're going to need wisdom. They're going to need heavenly wisdom. And Lord, we need wisdom in our ministries here, in our church, in our personal lives, our homes. So, Holy Spirit of God, open our hearts. Lord, help us to trust you and let you have your way. I yield myself to you. I ask through the filling of your Holy Spirit now as I preach. In Jesus' name, Amen. How we view life And how we think has a profound impact on our lives and on our world. Proverbs chapter 14 and verse 12 says this: there is a way that seemeth right unto a man But the end thereof are what? The ways of death. There's a way that a man thinks and he looks at his life and he makes his decisions and he functions. under this way of thinking, but it's not good. It ends up in death. That's earthly wisdom. And so there is a very heavy price to pay when we exclude God from our decision making. There's a very heavy price to pay when we exclude God and His Word from our plans and our purposes. And what we need is wisdom from above. We need to be able to see our lives. We need to be able to see this world. We need to be able to see what life is from God's perspective And then live and function in light of that. Now, I want to look at verse 17, and I really wanted to preach the whole message tonight, but I'm not going to. I want us to notice, first of all, our connection to this wisdom that is from above. And then Lord will and next week we're going to notice the characteristics of this wisdom from above as it's listed here. By the way This is way ahead. This is a message or two ahead. But I notice there in verse 17, but the wisdom that is above is first pure. than peaceable. Notice there is a very specific chronology to these things and how it takes place. And God says this is the very first characteristic of somebody functioning under heavenly wisdom. But that'll have to be another message. What I want to look at tonight, just briefly, is how to connect to this wisdom. What is its source? Notice it says the wisdom that is from what? Above. Are you looking there? Wisdom that is from where? Above. This is not wisdom that the earth produces. This is not wisdom that I can go to a state university and get the wisdom from those professors. It is not from earth. It is not from man. It is not from experience. It is not from intelligence. This wisdom is not of this earth. It has one source and one source alone. It is from above. Now, this term above has the idea of a higher heavenly place. It's referred to in Scripture as the presence of God. It's referred to in Scripture as the place where God is. So the wisdom that he describes in verse 17 is actually what he's saying. It comes from God It is wisdom from above, from heaven's perspective. Hey, mark this down. This wisdom comes from God alone. It has no human source. Um I have tremendous respect for older folks, elderly people. I think we ought to respect our elders. Can I get an amen? And the more elder I become, the more I feel that way. But wait a minute, it is possible for a person to have many, many years behind them. And yet not have wisdom from above. Not all the aged are wise. Because the wisdom he's referring to here is not something I can accumulate. It's not a uh it doesn't come from experience, it doesn't come from education, as I just said It comes from God. That's its source. It is a supernatural. It is a heavenly wisdom that comes down from God. God gives wisdom. Now, here's my, how do I connect to this? This is my message, this is what I want to give you real quickly. How do I connect to this wisdom? How do I get this wisdom from God? I can't get it from the university. By the way, you can't even necessarily get it from a Bible college. Comes from God. I'm all for education. I'm all for Bible college. I think every young person you ought to if you're in fifth grade, you ought to be planning now. I'm going to give at least one year to a good fundamental Baptist Bible college. I think you ought to do that. But that is not necessarily going to give you this wisdom from above. It has to come from God. And so how do I do that? How do I connect and get this wisdom that I really need so I can live my life? And I can make decisions, I can solve my problems, I can function in my family, I can have a ministry that is from God's perspective, that has God's blessings, that when it's all said and done It's going to be exactly what my creator intended it to be. How do I get this wisdom? How do I get it? Well, I put a few things down. Number one, I jotted this down. One, I must fear God. I must fear God. I am afraid in our country and around the world there is a there is very little fear of God. You see the pickup trucks, and I mention this every now and then. You see the pickup trucks says no fear. In my mind, what I'm reading is I'm a fool. Because only a fool does not fear God. Uh Psalms chapter one hundred and eleven and verse ten says this the fear of the Lord. Is the beginning of wisdom. So if the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and I don't fear God, that means I don't even have the beginning of wisdom. Proverbs chapter 9 and verse 10 says, verbatim, the same thing. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. And so if I want this wisdom from above, I want this wisdom that only God can give, I want to be able to live my life wisely. And not make foolish mistakes as far as eternity is concerned. I don't want to get to the judgment seat of Christ as a believer. And hear the Lord say, I'm ashamed of you. All you have is wood and stubble. You were foolish with your Christian life. You were foolish in your decisions. You were foolish in how you lived in your home. You were foolish in how you engaged with the world. You were foolish. I don't want to hear that. I want to hear God say, well done, Dennis Sleatherman. You were faithful, you acted and decided and behaved and lived your life as I intended for you to. Now, if I'm going to be able to do that, I've got to be wise and I've got to fear God. Now, what does it mean to fear God? I tell you, it does not mean this, to cower in terror before God. Now, there will be a day when the unsaved will cower in terror before God. Job references the king of terrors. And he's referencing a place, real place, called hell. And the unsaved who never trust Jesus Christ as Savior die in their sins, they will end up in hell. And there will be terror of God in hell. But that's not what he's talking about here. As a believer, I do not need to cower in terror before God. But to fear God, it had this idea: to have a humble but intense reverence for God. It is to have a reverence that is in awe of God's power and God's holiness and God's wisdom and God's knowledge. And to be in a reverential awe of that that humbles me before God. When I get in that position, when I recognize God's power and his wisdom and his holiness and it produces a uh a reverential humbling awe before God That is the fear he's talking about. As I said a moment ago, it seems that there is little fear of God in our world. Would you agree with me? You just go you can go stand down outside of sheets or any uh public area market and you can hear people take God's name in vain. and have absolutely no awe or reverence for God whatsoever, to take God's name in vain with absolutely no fear And to say things about God and to say things to God and have no fear of and no comprehension of that whom they are talking about. And we wonder why our world is so foolish. We wonder why there's so much chaos and all of this. The verses, what's described in the previous verses, 15, 16, 17, leading up to this and the uh uh the chaos and all of that going on because there's no fear of God. There's no reverential, awe, humbling awe before God on our part. And I hate to say this, but that has crept into our churches. You hear what some of these quote-unquote preachers on TV say, and it is absolutely blasphemous. And no fear of God. I heard a fella years ago, and he's going around telling how you and I can command God That God has given us kingdom authority and we command God. Listen, we never command God anything. He is God. And we are the creatures. We are his servants. We are to serve God. Tell you what that is. That is not fear. And people function and operate with that way of thinking. It has disastrous results. We are to fear God, reverence, not cower and tremble before Him. No, no, no. But we have tremendous humbling reverence for him. In fact, the Bible tells us as believers we can come boldly to our Lord. We're not terrified of him. We come boldly But we come boldly with a reverential fear, humbling fear before God is holy. God is all-powerful. Were you ever in the presence of something very, very powerful and it makes you feel small? Um you get around um uh we were somewhere, I think it was out in Utah. And we went across a huge dam. Is it Hoover Dam out there? Or is it uh Flaming Gorge? I c i I could say either one. You have no idea. So But they they had these huge turbines in there and you could go down. We went down and those things, the power those things were producing And I tell you, you feel like a little bug. And I think that's the idea before God. God is so powerful. And I just feel like nothing. Until I recognize and respect God's power and authority, I will have no genuine wisdom. When I can flaunt when I can flaunt myself in the face of God and I can live my life as if God doesn't know what he's doing and I know better than God does, I don't have wisdom from above. So how do I connect this wisdom? First of all, I've got to have the attitude, I've got to fear God. I need to humbly recognize His authority and His power and reverence that and respect that. Number two I put this down. First of all, fear God. Number two, fervently pursue God's wisdom. Now, if you would, go to Proverbs with me. And uh if you have that there, go to Proverbs, and I'd like for you to notice chapter 2. I love this portion of scripture. Proverbs chapter two, and notice verse number one Proverbs is written, of course, under the inspiration of God, but it was penned by Solomon, and he was writing his son. So, of all the books of the Bible, the book of Proverbs is directly designated for young men. And I encourage young men to spend a lot of time reading Proverbs. It's kind of who the it's written to. And notice he says there in verse one, My son, Solomon writing to his boy, if thou wilt receive my words now watch carefully what he's saying If thou wilt receive my words and hide my commandments with thee, so that thou incline thine ear unto wisdom And apply thine heart to understanding. Yea, if thou criest after knowledge and liftest up thy voice for understanding, if thou seekest her as silver and searchest for her as for hid treasures, then Shalt thou understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God? Verse 6, for the Lord giveth wisdom, out of his mouth cometh knowledge and understanding. He layeth up sound wisdom for the righteous. Then he goes on, is he the buckler to them that walk uprightly? He keeps the paths of justice, of judgment, he preserveth the way of saints. But you notice he says verse 1, if, verse 3, if, verse 4, if, verse 5, then. If you do this, and if you do this, then if you this. Then this will be true. And he's giving us here the how to pursue God's wisdom. So, first of all, if I want to connect with this wisdom from above, I need to fear God. That's the beginning of wisdom. Now if I really want to develop this and I want to be a wise Christian, I want to make good decisions, I want to uh live a a life that is pleasing to God. I need wisdom to do that. Then I've got to pursue that wisdom. Notice in verse number two, I've got to apply myself He says, uh incline thine ear unto wisdom. Can I just paraphrase that and put this in my thinking in the context of what I'm saying? I think one of the aspects of that applying myself to wisdom is uh apply my ear to wisdom is I go to church and listen to what the Bible has to say to me. If I sit at home and I watch baseball or football and I watch some ridiculous TV shows when God's word is being taught and preached I have the opportunity to go and hear God's word being taught and preached, and I'm sitting home watching the boob tube. Don't think that you're going to get much wisdom from God. Follow what I'm saying? If I'm spending all my time on everything else, but I'm not applying myself to hear what God says, to hear what God is wanting to teach me, if I don't apply myself to that I'm not going to have much wisdom. And here we've gotten so spoiled as Christians in America today, we think everything comes on a platter and everything is instant. And I don't have to do anything. I just mash a button and it all automatically happens. But listen, wisdom from above doesn't come by mashing a button or taking a pill or putting it in a microwave. I must apply myself And that takes time and effort, and I've got to uh uh uh uh apply myself to read the Word of God, to get into the Word of God, and let God teach me. And now look at verse 3 Yea, if thou criest after knowledge and lifted up thy voice for understanding, what's he saying I should do there? Pray! Pray. Pray and ask God. Then verse 4 he says, if thou seekest her, this wisdom, this knowledge, as her as silver, and searchest for her as for hid treasures, then thou shalt understand. The Lord giveth wisdom. So I need to apply myself. I need to pray and ask God for wisdom and I need to pursue after wisdom. I'm telling you If we would seek the will of God, if we would seek the Lord as diligently as we seek money, that's what he's saying there in verse numbers four. If I pursue after it the way I do silver and gold, we'd put the time and effort in that we do to get our paycheck into getting wisdom from God, brother, we'd get some wisdom. Now, I'm not suggesting you take 40 hours a week and sit and read your Bible. But I am saying, here's what I am saying That hav knowing God's will ought to be as important to me as getting that paycheck. Knowing God's will for my life and having wisdom from a heaven ought to be a super high priority in my life. And I invest time and effort in saying, all right God. What is your will? What is, I want to be wise on this. God, I need to know. I'm going to apply myself. I'm going to listen to what you have to say. I'm going to pursue after. I'm going to do what needs to be done. Requires diligence and desire. So, one, fear God. Two, fervently pursue God's wisdom, go after it, try and find it. I tell you, I respect some of these folks that get their education I saw a thing where a guy was 30 years old and he already discovered, I think, five sharks that nobody knew existed. And this just guy applied his life to find sharks. Now, personally, I try and avoid sharks. I don't care how many sharks we don't know about. In fact I'd be fine not knowing about any of them. Can I get a witness? But this guy just applied himself and accomplished great things. And I and I saw that and I thought, wow. What would our churches be like if God's people applied themselves as diligently seeking the Lord and his power and his leadership and his will as this guy is in trying to discover sharks? Now there's nothing wrong with discovering sharks, I guess. You follow what I'm saying? Some effort. Investing time, diligently, and desire. So number one, fear God. Number two, fervently pursue God's wisdom, apply myself, get after it. Number three, I put this down. Last of all, faithfully pray. Again, verse six If thou seekest her as silver and searchest for her as for hid treasures, then shalt thou understand the fear of the Lord. Or I'm sorry, verse 3. If thou criest after knowledge and liftest up thy voice for understanding Then shalt thou understand. For the Lord giveth wisdom. James chapter 1 and verse 5. If any of you lack wisdom, let him Ask of God, who giveth to all men liberally and abradeth not, but let him ask in faith, nothing wavering, for he that wavereth like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and toss. In other words, God gives wisdom. We end where we started. Wisdom comes from God. And if I'll get in the attitude that I really respect and fear God, And I'd understand a little bit about the holiness and the power and the glory and the might and the authority of God And I humble myself before him, and I reverence that who he is and what he is And then I pursue, and I more than anything else, I want to be wise in raising my children. I want God to lead me and direct me. I want to handle my finances in a way from heaven's perspective, and I want to use my time and I want to live my life so that when it's all said and done and I stand before my Savior I know that I was wise in the decisions I made. And I need that wisdom. And I pursue it fervently And then I, on a regular, regular basis, with all my heart, God, please give me wisdom. God, give me what nothing on this world can give me, wisdom from on high. We cannot separate earnest prayer from heavenly wisdom. I want to suggest to you, God is very eager to give us his wisdom. God wants us to be wise. God wants to teach us and show us. He wants to show us how to solve our problems. He wants to show us how to raise our children. He wants to show us how to handle our finances. He wants to He wants to show us how to use our time. He wants to show us how to have victory in our life. He wants to give us this wisdom. But if we don't care, and if it's not something important to us, and we're satisfied with just going along with the flow of the world, And operating on earthly wisdom, then God says, All right, but if you want it, you want it badly enough, I'll give it to you. Now my heart's been stirred The last several weeks, we've ended our Sundays. I don't know if you noticed this. I think the Lord's been stirring us. We've ended our Sundays with a good number of people at an altar on Sunday night. And I think that might be just a good practice for our church as we finish out the Lord's day and we go into a new week of out there in the world, in the workplace. And going about, I think it's a wonderful thing for God's people just to kneel at an old-fashioned altar and say, God, lead me this week. God, give me wisdom in the situations that arise, the problems I'm going to have to solve, the issues I'm going to have to deal with. Lord, I want you to lead me and show me and direct me. Help me to discipline myself, to spend time every day in your word, to get the wisdom that comes from the Word of God. Help me, Lord, to uh fear you and know a little bit more who and what you are like so I can Reverence you like I should and understand and then God give me wisdom, give me wisdom, give me wisdom. I want to challenge us. Maybe this is something From here out on Sunday nights, just spending a little time at the altar and saying, God, lead me and direct me this week Let's pray. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, for the Word of God. I thank you for loving us and wanting so badly for us to be victorious and be wise in our lives. And Lord, we need you to help us. I need you. And I pray you'd put it in our hearts to be willing to do what needs to be done to get the wisdom from above. To fear you. Teach us, Lord, to fear you. Reveal yourself to us. that we can understand a little bit of the awesomeness of who you are and respect that. I pray, Lord, you'd stir our hearts to desire wisdom. That we'd be willing to be diligent and apply ourselves And Lord, stir us to pray, just to ask you, in faith, believing that you will give us wisdom and you will lead us and direct us. With our heads bow and eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I want God's wisdom, I really do, with all my heart And we're not asking for a show, but just in the depths of my heart, I want God's wisdom to lead me and direct me in my life. Young and old, how many are that way with the uplifted hand? God bless you, hands all around. Now if any of you lack wisdom Let him ask of God. He gives to all men liberally. He doesn't hold back. He abradeth not. But we've got to ask in faith believing. So maybe we'd want to do that tonight. Father bless now as we go into our invitation. Have your way. One last question before we go. Is there anyone here tonight perhaps would say, preacher, I'm not sure that when I die I go to heaven? You certainly don't want to go to hell. Nobody in their right mind. And you'd say, Preacher, I'm I'm concerned about where I spend eternity. And you'd like for me to pray with you also, that God would help you settle that. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure that when I die I go to heaven, not to hell. I'm concerned about it. Any at all? Now, Father, bless our invitation I ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed.