Uh James chapter three, if you would turn with me there. James Chapter 3. Did you know that today is National Ice Cream Day? How great is that In that in light of National Ice Cream Day, I am I make a motion the whole church goes to Dairy Queen after church tonight. Can I get a second? Jacob, very good. All in favor, say amen Isn't that great? If if they if you vote for me for president, I'll make everyday ice cream day. Listen, I got some room to put it now, so you know, I can't say it. Now you got me all distracted with ice cream. James chapter 3. And we're looking at the two types of wisdom. Wisdom first earthly and then wisdom from above. I want to read this whole section because I want to keep it together in context. I know we've been here for quite some time and been going over this. But notice verse 13 of James chapter 3. Who is a wise man and endued with knowledge among you? Let him show out of a good conversation his works with meekness of wisdom. But if you have bitter envying and strife in your hearts, glory not, and lie not against the truth. This wisdom that produces the bitter envying and the strife, this wisdom descendeth not from above, but is what? Earthly, sensual, and devilish. Earthly, sensual, devilish. There you have our three enemies The world, the flesh, and the devil. And that's where this wisdom comes from. For where envying and strife is, there is confusion and every evil work. Now, verse 17, there's a contrast. But The wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, and easy to be entreated Full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality and without hypocrisy. And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace of them that make peace. Now we looked at the, it took a couple weeks actually, and we looked at the wisdom that is from earth, from below, earthly wisdom. And earthly wisdom really is man-centered wisdom. It's what we sometimes refer to as humanism. How many people ever heard that term? Humanism. Humanism simply is this: that man is the ultimate intelligent being. uh that everything in life revolves around us as human beings, and humans are the basically the center of the human universe And that is what this earthly wisdom is rooted in. It's the culmination of all of man's intelligence, all of man's wisdom. It's the best wisdom that man can come up with. It's man-centered. But the wisdom that's from above, that is wisdom that is centered in the Lord It's God-centered. Its source is from God. And so we want to look at this. Proverbs chapter 4 and verse number 7 says, Wisdom is the principal thing. Therefore, get wisdom. If this wisdom from above is so important, if it's the principal thing Then I believe we need to pay very, very close attention to what we're being told here in this passage. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now. I ask that you would give us this wisdom from above. We need it, Lord. I do as a pastor and every one of us as Christians. In our daily lives, in the issues at home, on the workplace. Lord, we see our world, our country changing so dramatically. We need wisdom, Lord, in knowing how to deal with this, how to respond. We see the world, the flesh, and the devil closing in on us. We need wisdom. And so we ask you to give it to us and teach us. I yield myself to you. I present my body anew. And I pray you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Now, what are we talking about? When we're talking about wisdom, there's a lot of different definitions. Um I don't think this mic is on, Brother Dave. I think I got it turned on. There's a lot of different definitions for wisdom, but I want us to consider wisdom as we look at this passage. I want us to consider wisdom from the aspect of how I view life. You have the earthly wisdom, as I said, and that's what mankind does, is he looks at life, he looks at issues, he looks at situations, and he determines the best response, and he bases that upon Uh man being the center and the end of everything. It's a very selfish approach. It's a very self-centered view of life. And that's what he described there in the first part. Now he's saying there's another way of viewing the world. There's another way, there's another type of wisdom, there's another way of viewing life, and that is from God's perspective. And I look at my life and I look at the issues I have to deal with in my life and the decisions I need to make, the people I interact with, the problems I have to face and deal with I look at all of that, not from man's view and how man evaluates it, but I look at it from God's perspective and what God says it is. And what God says are what is important in life and what is not so important. And what God says should be priorities in my life and what should not be such high priorities. And so that's what he's describing here. Now, if you notice in verse number 17, I believe it was last week, we looked at the connection to wisdom. He says here, but the wisdom that is from above. This is wisdom that God gives. Now here was the question we addressed. How do I get that wisdom? How do I make connection with God so that He will give me this wisdom that I need in deciding and raising my children and handling my finances and dealing with my problems and trying to be a good Christian and be serving the Lord and working the job and the boss that's giving me fits and the decisions I have to make. How do I get this wisdom from God so I can deal with that all in a correct way, in a in a in a uh a way that is is proper and right as far as a Christian is concerned. Well, we said, first of all, we need to fear God. How many people remember us saying that last week? We've got to fear God. That's the beginning of wisdom. If I don't have a correct concept of who and what God is, I have no respect I have no humble respect of God and His holiness and His power, then I'm never going to be able to be wise in the decisions I make. I'm going to make foolish decisions because I have a misconcept of who God is And then we said we need to fervent fervently pursue God's wisdom. I mean we've got to apply ourselves. I can't sit back on the couch and watch pirates baseball flip around and say, All right God, uh when are you gonna give me this wisdom? God says, no, you've got to pursue it. You need to get your nose in the book. You've got to pray and seek me. And that was our last point, is you have to faithfully pray. And uh the Bible says, if any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God Now I want us settle that to say this. And I don't want to preach this whole message in one because the next section I really want to give a whole one sermon to the the characteristics of heavenly wisdom. But I want us to notice, I put it this way. First was our connection. Now the chronology. There's a word when I was studying verse 17 that kept standing out to me, and I think it's significant. Look with me at verse 17 again. But the wisdom that is from above, what's the next word? First. I circled that word. I think that's a significant word in this verse. The wisdom that is from above this, but the wisdom that is from above is first Pure, what's the next word? Then and it goes down through the characteristics of wisdom. I believe God has given to us here a very important chronology if we're going to understand what it is to have heavenly wisdom, wisdom from God. There's a chronology to it Now, he tells us pretty specifically here what the characteristics are of heavenly wisdom. I alliterated them, and this is what I want to preach a separate message on, but I notice it's first pure. We noted that Then it's peaceable. And then he says it's patient. The word gentle there is the idea of patience. It's pliable, easily to be entreated. It's very pitiful. It's full of mercy. It's very merciful. It's pitiful. It's profitable, full of good works. It's impartial, he says, without partiality. And it's positive and profound without hypocrisy. Now I want to look at that later on, but that word first captures my attention. The word first there means to be first, it has two aspects to it. One is to be first in order. In other words, if purity is not in place, then Peaceableness, gentleness, easy to be treated, all the others cannot follow behind. Purity is a priority. It has to be first in order. How many people remember when you were in high school or whatever and you had lockers and you had the old combination for lockers? Anybody remember that? Do they still do that? I figure they just had fingerprints. You just push it and that's boring. But remember you had to have that combination. Was it just me or did those combinations drive me nuts I had a hard time with them. Anybody else have please somebody raise your hand. All right. Two people. Robin. And uh so um but anyway. You'd have to turn that thing and you had to have You had to have the numbers in the right order. Right? If you didn't get number 40 first, didn't matter what other numbers you put there, one gonna open up. That's kind of the idea here where he says is first pure, then peaceable. You've got to get that purity lined up first Or you're not going to have the rest of it. So it has the idea of being first in order in chronology. But it also has the idea of first in honor or in importance. The Lord is saying here from God's perspective, God's wisdom, of this whole list of characteristics, the first one That has to be in place. The highest, most important one, the uh the one of highest importance is purity. Isn't that interesting? When God looks at a situation, when God deals with a situation in his infinite wisdom, his perfect wisdom, it all begins with purity. If purity is not in place, then you're not going to have the wisdom of God. This is a very specific chronology given. And he says here, the very first characteristic of God's wisdom is purity. It is first pure. In fact, God's wisdom is based upon purity. So, any wisdom, this is what I want to say. Any wisdom that does not begin with and is not based upon purity, godliness, holiness Is not the wisdom of God. Do you get that? Um any mode of thinking That does not begin with purity, godliness, holiness, that does not fall in line with the holiness of our God, the purity of our God. Then that is not wisdom from above. Any application of knowledge That does not begin with and is not based upon purity, is not from above. You could put it this way. Here you have the rest of the list. But the wisdom that is from above is first pure then. Peaceable, gentle, easy to being treated. In other words, you could put it this way. If there's no purity, there's no peace. Did you ever hear the marchers walk around, no justice, no peace? No, anybody ever hear them doing that? You know what something would be good? Someone must make a bunch of signs and walk around, no godliness, no peace. No purity, no peace. No holiness, no peace. Because the wisdom that is from above is first pure Then it's peaceful. It brings, it's peaceable. That's the problem with our world. Our world is trying to establish peace without purity. Our world is trying to justify, excuse, uh, deny the existence of sin, and yet at the same time live peaceable lives and live peaceable uh uh an peaceable existence, but there must first be purity before there's ever peace. Um Any wisdom that does not begin and is not based upon purity is not from above. God has created mankind to be pure. In our thoughts, in our actions, in every aspect of our being, He created Adam and Eve to be pure, godly, holy beings. That is what we are designed to be. That is how we are designed to function. We are not designed mentally, emotionally, psychologically, emo uh physically. We are not designed to function in an impure fashion And when sin came into the world and man became impure, man became ungodly, unrighteous, suddenly now we have all these problems. Because we are functioning in a way that we were not designed to function. How many people understand if you put diesel fuel in a gasoline engine, you have problems? How many people ever put gasoline in a diesel engine? Anybody in particular happen to ever do that? Ah, we won't bring that subject up, but anyway. Uh you know why? You know why diesel fuel won't work in a gasoline engine? Now I'm not a mechanic, but I can I figure this out. A dance gasoline engine isn't designed to run on diesel fuel I'd be we're glad am I right, Stewart? Are you am I right, Stuart? Please tell me yes. Thank you. I'd be we were glad you came to church tonight and learned something. And God created mankind to be pure and holy and good and righteous. And sin came into the world. And what happened? When Adam and Eve sinned, it was less than one generation. You had murder. You had division. You had strife and contention and every evil work. Why? Suddenly man's not functioning like we should. Why? Because there's impurity has been put in, a d uh a machine, so to speak. That's designed for purity. Ungodliness has been injected into a system that was designed to function with godliness And God says if you're gonna have wis ha if you're gonna have wisdom from above, if you're gonna see life and be able to deal with life from God's perspective The chronology has to be in place. The priority is you must be pure. The actions must be pure. The motives must be pure. The end result must be purity. First, purity And then peaceable. And then gentleness. And then the rest of this list. Let me give you an illustration. Um and I uh I want to be very careful here, but uh there is a problem in the world with teen pregnancies. Anybody agree with me with that? It's a problem. And it's getting more and more all the time. Um I don't think it's exclusive in America. I think it's around the world and uh and and not just teen pregnancies, pregnancies outside marriage. So what does the wisdom of the earth, earthly wisdom, worldly wisdom, what does that say the solution is? Well, and I want to be appropriate here. But the world's solution is we have to design a way that young people and adults or whatever can commit fornication In a safe way. Right? We need to have some sort of birth control. We have to have some system in place, some methods we can do where they can sin. Safely. Now it is impossible to sin safely And any physical intimacy outside of marriage between a husband and a wife, any physical intimacy outside of a husband and wife marriage is sin. But the earthly wisdom says earthly wisdom does not begin with purity. Earthly wisdom begins, hey, we want to in we want our young people and mankind to be able to engage in fornication, engage in sin. And yet be safe from the consequences of that activity, that action. There is no safe way to sin. The consequences, the consequences of sin, of impurity, are always bad. Always And so worldly system says, all right, we're going to come up with contraptions and contraceptives, and we're going to be able to abort babies. I'm telling you, it is absolutely horrendous to me that we have a state-sponsored organization in our country that is not just killing babies. but is harvesting body parts from the babies. That is absolutely over the top unacceptable. Somebody say amen there. I mean the fact that we're killing hundreds of million uh well the fact that we're killing millions of babies and then harvesting body parts from it, it just blows my mind that there is not a revolution in this country saying no more. How barbaric have we become. Anyway, so the that's man's wisdom. It doesn't matter how barbaric it is. It doesn't matter how inhumane it is. We're going to figure out a way. We're not going to deal with the purity aspect We're going to try and solve the problem, quote unquote, with all everything else and make fornication safe. That's earthly wisdom. Now, what's the result of earthly wisdom? Look what it says. Verse 16, for Emre Strike, there is confusion and every evil work. And so now we have the absolute total breakdown of the family in the home. We have the absolute chaos as far as what marriage is. We've got people now don't even know whether they're male or female. Give me a break. That's earthly wisdom. We are getting what earthly wisdom produces. Now God says wisdom from above is first pure. So man's wisdom says, all right, we got a Figure out a way. You can commit fornication safely. That way you can get away with it and there's no bad consequences. That doesn't work. It hasn't worked. It's not going to work. God says, no, my wisdom is, first of all, be pure. You know what stops, you know what keeps teen pregnancy or any kind of pregnancy from happening 100% of the time, don't commit fornication. Come on now, I'm getting lonely up here. Stay pure You're not going to have that issue. Stay pure. Hey, I'll tell you this, I'm going to talk to the young people a little bit, but uh I tell you what, you keep yourself pure. Your marriage will be a whole lot happier later. You know what I found out? People don't keep their self pure before marriage have a rough time after marriage. That comes back and bites you. That those consequences, that sin and its lingering effects come back and you got at some point in your marriage you're gonna have to deal with it. And I think uh and I'm not trying to I'm just speaking generally here, but I think there's a lot of folks having a tough time in their marriage in their 30s and 40s and 50s because they didn't keep themselves pure in their teens and their twenties. And they cross the line and they broke God's principles. And the consequences of that and the lingering effects of that become his psychological and emotional issues and social issues in their marriage later on. Now I'm not saying that you messed up when you were young, you can't still have a happy marriage. Thank God there's millions who do. God is very gracious and merciful. But I am saying this, you've got to deal with stuff you wouldn't have had to dealt with If you'd just done right in the first place. Am I making any sense? But that just caught my attention. I was just studying this. The wisdom that above is first pure. That has to be in place. And I'm not just talking about physical aspect of it in every area of life. If the wisdom I'm trying to apply, I've got a situation I'm dealing with, I've got a s uh an issue I'm trying to solve, and I'm um I need wisdom to know how to deal with this. If my solution, if my response, my reaction to it is anything other than first pure, if it's not right and true and just and holy and good, By biblical definitions, then I'm not applying heavenly wisdom to that. I'm not applying God's wisdom. In other words, if it involves deceit In solving the problem or dealing with it, I immediately know that is not wisdom from above. That's man's wisdom. God's wisdom is first pure. If it involves any type of dishonesty, if it involves any type of uh of uh of uh uh uh uh anything that is not godly, not right, of any type of unrighteousness, even a shade of it in dealing with the Well, I know this isn't right, but you know, in this situation I just got to No, it's never right to do wrong. Never. I had a roommate in Bible college and he never la he lasted one year at Bible college. But um I had seen them after that first year. I was in my sec uh my third year c uh my fourth it might have been my thirteenth year of Bible college. I forgot there were so many. And but anyway I saw him somewhere, I said, Hey man, how's it going? We were talking and different things and um uh he said something about being at a bar. I said, What are you talking about? He goes, Yeah, I go to the bar and sit down and have a beer with these guys and that way I get to witness to them. I said, you're crazy, man. That ain't right. He says, there's people that if I didn't sit down and drink a beer with them, they would never listen to me. I said, one, I don't believe that. And two, even if they didn't, that doesn't justify you doing wrong. Listen, drinking beer is sin. Can I be real frank? It's never right To do wrong, even if it means getting a chance to do right, it's still wrong. And that wisdom is not from above There's a lot of churches making a lot of mistakes. They think they're being clever. They think they're being real wise, and they're bringing sinful stuff from the world into the church to try and attract people from the world into the church And that is not wisdom from above, because wisdom from above is first pure. It's not worldly. It's not fleshly. It's not of the of uh uh uh uh uh uh uh ungodly. And so I got looking at that and thought wisdom from above, first and foremost, it is pure. And if its purity isn't the basis and the beginning point of how I'm thinking and how I'm dealing with this situation, I know immediately That I am not dealing with this from God's perspective. I'm not dealing with this from heaven's perspective. Sometimes people have a rough time in their marriage. And maybe there was uh in and I know several situations over the years where there was infidelity. And uh I was helping one couple and another preacher had told them one of the one of the members had uh one of the uh partners Spouse had been unfaithful. And another preacher told them, Don't tell your spouse. Whatever you do, don't tell them. And finally it came to me and I was dealing with it. That obviously didn't work. And I said, listen, the very first thing you should do is go to your spouse and say, I messed up. I need you to forgive me. I sinned. Because wisdom from above is first what? Pure. It's not dishonest. It doesn't hide things. Doesn't cover things up. I need to come and you say, well, the B it will blow up and it'll be a big issue and all that. Listen Work it through. But don't lie. Don't hide. Don't cover stuff up. Come clean. Now, I hope I'm helping you tonight. And maybe in in uh you know maybe I've touched on something here, but they in that situation it might need to bring someone else involved, a pastor or somebody and involved and help break that ice and deal with that. But wisdom that's from above is first pure. It's godly, it's right, it's true, it's sincere, it's honest. And then all these other things fall into place. And so, let's ask God to help us. We look at situations. We look at circumstances. We've got issues. First thing I need to ask myself, all right, what is the right thing to do? According to the word of God, what's the right way to deal with this? What is pure, what is honest, what is true? And I want to start there. Then if I start on that basis, then these other things will fall in line and they'll come in behind it. Now, next week I want to look at what these other things are and look at each of these characteristics and deal with them. But let's get our chronology right. We begin with purity and godliness. Alright, let's pray. Father in heaven. I ask that you would help us to be wise. And I pray we would be able to discern which wisdom is from above, which approach, which attitude is from above, and that which is of this world. And Lord, give us discernment and help us to begin with purity, with honesty, with openness, with truth, with righteousness. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, let me ask this. How many folks this coming week you have some issues coming up that you really need the Lord's help with? You say, preacher, I see the next seven days. And there's some things coming up. I really need the Lord's help in this area. How many would say, by the uplifted hand, preacher, I do. I can see it this week. I got some issues. I need the Lord's help. God bless you. How many would say I've got some situations I really need wisdom? Maybe some decisions I've got to make in the next seven days And I need God to give me wisdom. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? I've got some decisions. I really need wisdom from above. God bless you. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. I wonder if there's some, say, preacher, and this is between you and God, to be honest. Because there's some tonight say, preacher, I've got some personal sins I'm struggling with. I know they're not right. I'm struggling with them, and I really need God to help me. I really need God to give me victory over this and get this thing right so that I can live for the Lord and be what he wants. Is there any like that? Preacher, I really got some. I really need the Lord help. God bless you. Hands around. God bless you. So someone here tonight, you're really concerned about a friend, a family member. You say, preacher, I'm really burdened for them. I'm concerned about their spiritual well-being. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I'd be able to be wise and maybe somehow be able to help them or know what to do. I'm so concerned. Is there any like that? Somebody I'm real concerned about. God bless you One last question. Is there someone here tonight, a brother or sister in Christ, and you're out of fellowship with them? You can't even talk to them. You can't fellowship with them. Things aren't right. And that needs to be made right. And you say, preacher, there's brother or sister in Christ, and I'm really not right with them, and I know it's not right that I'm not right with them. And you say, preacher, pray with me. I need wisdom. I need help to make this thing right. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand, preacher? That's true. I've got a brother or sister in Christ And I need to make things right. God bless you. A couple of hands around. Now here's why I ask those questions. We need wisdom in every one of those. And I like the idea of ending a Sunday night in God's house and ending the service going into the work of day week. Just kneeling in an old-fashioned altar and saying, Lord, I need you to help me this week. I need you to direct me. I need you to show me and give me wisdom in these various issues. Almost every hand was raised for something. And maybe it's a good thing to end of the Lord's Day before we go into Lord's Supper, just saying, God, I'm looking to you and I'm asking you. To help me, give me wisdom. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. If there's anyone here that's never trusted Christ as Savior, I pray that tonight would be the night of salvation In Jesus' name I pray. Let's stand together. Our heads about eyes are closed. Jennifer's going to play a few verses of invitation.