Older down there. How many folks find yourself talking about being older? How many yeah and uh all the different issues that come with it. I found that in my as I'm getting a little older I've developed a fear of elevators But I'm taking steps to avoid it. So how was that, Ethan? Where'd Ethan go? Alright, that was for Ethan Ecclesiastes chapter 7, verse number 19. As I said, I want to read down through verse 22. Wisdom strengtheneth the wise more than ten mighty men which are in the city. For there is not a just man upon earth that doeth good and sinneth not. What passage in the New Testament does that verse remind you of? Anybody think of one? Romans chapter 3. Yeah, 323. And actually the verses leading up there, Romans uh uh was it nine and ten in there where it says there is uh no man There is none that doeth good, no not one. So uh scriptural truth there. Then he goes on and says in verse twenty-one, also Take no heed unto all words that are spoken. I underline that in my Bible. Lest thou hear thy servant curse thee For oftentimes also thine own heart knoweth that thou thyself likewise hast cursed others. I'm having a hard time coming up with titles for our messages through here. I've just been called I just titled this Wisdom for sinners and servants. And so let's see what we can get out of this. Let's pray together. Father, I ask your blessing now and our time in your word. Lord, it's sure been a good day. And I pray that you would help us now bring this Lord's day together and that we would leave here humble And our faith would be completely in you, dear Lord, that this coming week, with the Christmas coming up, that we would have your hand and your power upon us as we seek to be a witness for you in this old sinful world And I pray you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit. Lord, I present my body anew to you. I pray you'd be our teacher of these passages in this unusual book. And so please bless. Give us receptive hearts. Give us understanding minds. I pray we'd be wise. We'd be wise Christians. In Jesus' name. Amen. Wisdom, uh the word wisdom is one of those words where you know what it means, but it's kind of difficult to define it. You follow what I'm trying to say? It's kind of like the word love. I know what love means, but how do you define it? How do you put it into words? Wisdom. This is my attempt to define wisdom in a coherent way. I put it this way: the ability to use information or knowledge In the most eternally beneficial way. You get that? I have information, I have knowledge, and the ability to use that information to act on that knowledge in a way that benefits. me and others for eternity. Not just temporarily, not just under the sun, but for eternity. I got thinking about wisdom. And having wisdom and being wise. Wisdom is really discernment Right? The ability to discern what is the best path and what is not the best path. the ability to to discern. It is an act of decision making. Wisdom is an act of decision making. Being able to make good decisions. In light of eternity. It is the ability to discern what is most eternally beneficial in any situation Most of the time, I'm afraid, now I would like to think we're exceptions to this, but I'm afraid a lot of the time, a lot of our decisions we make are temporary-based You follow what I'm trying to say? In other words, we'll make a decision based on what benefits me the most in a temporary basis rather than thinking beyond and thinking eternally. You everybody follow what I'm saying? But wisdom is able to look, all right, the decision I make, how would it affect me beyond Today or tomorrow or next week or even next year. This decision I'm about to make, how will it affect me when I stand at the judgment seat of Christ? And that's where wisdom kicks in. And that's where Solomon is talking. He's been talking up to this point about living under the sun, temporary, what I see, what I feel, what I hear. Just everything that's under the sun, that's all it is. And he exercised worldly wisdom. He was very successful in finances. He was very successful in fulfilling fleshly desires. He was very successful in building his buildings. But it wasn't wise. In the biblical sense, he was forfeiting eternal benefits. And so he's talking about wisdom here, wisdom here. If you would, take your Bible and turn to Psalm 111. I'm trying to lay some groundwork here, but if you just come back a few. uh pages here past Proverbs, go towards the front of your Bible to Psalms and chapter 111 We have a statement about wisdom. And I think maybe it'll help us grasp what we're talking about here a little bit. Psalms 111. And verse number 10, and this is familiar, no doubt, for many of us. In fact, there's a verse in Proverbs that is almost identical, worded to this. Proverbs 1. 11 and verse number 10 Look what it says. Would you read that with me, that first part of the verse with me? Ready? The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. And a good understanding have they that do his commandments. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. Now, this is my question. What does it mean to fear the Lord? What does it mean to fear the Lord? Does it mean to be scared of God? I'm scared of God. No, I think sometimes a little bit of that fear wouldn't hurt us. Little bit? How many folks have have maybe a grandpa or a dad? You loved them dearly. You know they loved you dearly. You reverenced them tremendously, but you were just a little bit scared. Anybody know what I'm talking about? That's not necessarily a bad thing, you know, to a degree. But the fear of the Lord is not being scared of God. What's the classic definition of fear of the Lord? Somebody tell me. Reverence, respect for God. And that absolutely is a part of it. I tried to put it this way. I put this: having a fear of the Lord is having a clear understanding of who God is and what my position is before Him. Follow me? Who God is, this holy, and I try, this has been gripping my heart for the last several years, trying to grasp what God is like. And um this past couple weeks I've been reading articles, I've been following a little thing on a computer from NASA, and they're talking about the universe. And I was reading one the other night uh uh that they're there the galaxy, we're in the Milky Way galaxy, and they are saying that there are billions and billions of stars in our galaxy. Many of those stars have their own planets. That's in our galaxy, billions and billions. And now they're saying that not only is there billions and billions of stars in our galaxy, there are billions and billions of galaxies. And then what I was reading the other night, they were saying that now they're starting to get the idea and look studying all this that there are actually clusters of galaxies. where they're kind of clustered up. And then there'll be another cluster of billions and billions of galaxies that have billions and billions of stars. And there'll be another cluster, and that these clusters of galaxies actually make up some sort of tapestry throughout the universe. And I'm reading this and I'm watching this and what they're trying to explain here, I thought, if this is true, this is mind-boggling. They were saying distances like 295,000 light years travel across this distance. The distance that light travels in a year for 295,000 years. Man, we live in a and I'm thinking, I'm watching this and I'm thinking, God. Spoke this into existence. How immense is our God. Solomon said when he dedicated the temple, he said, the heavens of the heavens cannot contain God. And I came away with this conclusion. The God that you and I pray to, the God that you and I trust, the God that wants us to love Him with all our heart, soul, and mind, that God is beyond our ability to comprehend. This invisible, immortal, eternal God. And so to fear God is to grasp to some extent who and what God is and my position before Him. Fear him. Fear him. These guys drive around, I mentioned this before, these guys drive around their pickup trucks, no fear. I want to write underneath it, you're a fool. Right? Um and so the fear of the Lord, so what God is telling us here in his book, God This God is telling us in his book that if we want to be wise, the very beginning, the foundation, the beginning point, the basis of being wise in this life Is having the ability to grasp to some extent who and what God is and what my position is before him. I am the created being. And you think about that for a minute, think about the audacity of mankind to say, no God, I'm going to run my own life. When this God's the one that spoke our life, breathed life into us. There's no life apart from God. Immaterial matter can't produce life. Only God can do that. And to think that somehow, as Solomon was thinking, that I can live independent of God, that I can decide what is right and wrong when this God is the one that designed all of this and established Standards of right and wrong. And for us to take upon ourselves to say, oh no, I think this. I was with Mark's brother, Steve, up in Connecticut last time I was up preaching for him. And we went out knocking on doors one afternoon, this fellow Kendor and Atheist, and I think I referenced him before. And here he lives in a government housing, and I'm not trying to be disrespectful, but you know it was just that type of situation. And he comes out very smart, blaspheming God right from the get-go, and he says very dogmatically, very empathically, he says, I'm telling you, I know there is no God. And I thought, man, the arrogancy to say that I know everything there is to know about the entire universe and I can come to a dogmatic conclusion. conclusion there is no God. And I just asked him, I said, well, would you allow for the possibility maybe you don't know everything? And maybe there is a God and you're just not aware of it? And he absolutely refused to acknowledge that possibility. I didn't say it to him. I felt like we were very respectful. It was very frustrating calling to him. I felt like we were respectful. We gave him the gospel. We just gave him the word of God. That's all you can do. But I walked away in the back of my mind, I thought, there is a perfect example of a very foolish man. The fool has said in his heart, there is no God. And I be honest with you, I don't know how in the world you can look at this universe, look at creation, and say, oh no, just nothing. That to me is the epitome of ignorance. Epitome of blindness and foolishness. So if we're going to be wise, if we're going to not be foolish, if we're not going to be foolish, if we're going to be wise, It begins with fearing God, recognizing who God is and what he is. And my position before him as his created being, he created me in love, but he created me for a purpose, for his purpose, to live by his rules. And so that's where wisdom begins. That's where wisdom begins. Would you agree with me? We live in a pretty foolish world. Let's bring it home. Would you agree with me? A lot of times we act pretty foolishly. Don't we? Even as Christians, a lot of times we'll act as if there is no God. But God says the beginning of wisdom, the starting point, if I'm going to be wise in my life, and when it's all said and done and I stand before my Creator, To give an account of what I did with what he gave me, the life he gave me, to give an account of what I did with it. I want to stand there and hear a positive response. I've got to be wise. I can't be foolish. I can't be foolish. And it's so heartbreaking to look around See so many fool people claim to be saved, acting so foolish. And then to look in the mirror. Say, man. Then I call myself Dan. Um, Dan, what's the deal? So the fear of the Lord, the fear of the Lord. So the best course of action for any person is to trust my creator and submit myself to him, and they're in his wisdom. They're in his wisdom. When we're wise, we understand all this when we want when we're wise, we're able to face issues in life with confidence. I know what I am, I know who created me, I know why I'm here. I know my purpose in life. I understand that there's more beyond the grave. There's more than just what's under the sun. And when I understand that, I can function in confidence, knowing that in this old sinful world, I know what my role is. I know what my responsibility is. What a tremendous thing to be able to be that way. And that's wisdom. That's wisdom. Proverbs chapter 4 and verse 7 says this. Great verse. Wisdom is the principal thing. It is that word principle there has this idea. It is the beginning point. It is the highest value. The greatest thing for you and I to possess, the highest pursuit in our life, in addition to the person of Jesus Christ, is that of gaining wisdom. Gaining wisdom. And I I'm again I mentioned this before. When you're preaching what the same place 24 plus years, you end up saying a lot of the same stuff over and over. But several years ago, when Brother Chip moved down to Florence to go in with Bible uh with um not Bible time uh thinking of truth When he went down there to go and stand, before he left, he says, Preacher, I'm going to pray for you every day. I said, I really appreciate that. That means a lot to me. I'm going to pray for you too. He goes, give me, what are your top prayer requests? What's something you want me to pray for you every day? And without hesitation, I already had them written in my Bible that I've been praying for for many, many years. As I'd like you to pray that God would give me three things. One, that God would give me courage to do what I know I need to do, do what's right, regardless of what anybody else thinks. And number two, pray that God would give me compassion, that I would love people, I would care about them. And I said, number three, pray that God would give me wisdom. Wisdom. And then more I'm studying Ecclesiastes, and I read Proverb every day, chapter of Proverbs every day after many, many years, the more I'm I'm reading this, The more I'm realizing how desperately we need wisdom. Wisdom. An awareness of who and what God is and our role, I position before that God. And so I see three things in our text. I said all that to get to our text. I'm going to give these to you really quickly. They're very simple. These really aren't that complicated. Number one, I notice in verse number 19 that wisdom gives us power. When we have this wisdom, we're able to discern what is best for eternity before our God, it gives us power. Look at verse 19 again with me. Wisdom strengtheneth The wise, more than ten mighty men which are in the city. I've come to the conclusion life is not very kind to weaklings. A weak Christian is going to struggle. Strong Christians struggle. But a weak Christian is really going to have a difficult time. Here's one of my favorite. I don't have very many. In fact, I only have one John Wayne quote. For some people that's almost quoting scripture, but it's not. But he said this, great statement. He said, life is tough And it's even tougher if you're stupid. Right? Listen, living the Christian life is not easy. If somebody told you that it's easy to live for God, a successful Christian life, they're lying to you. And if I'm going to be weak, if I'm not going to be careful, if I'm going to be foolish in my Christian life, I'm going to have a rough time living for God. I'm going to get beat up spiritually. I am going to get knocked around spiritually. I'm going to have a rough time. We have got to be strong. What did Paul tell the Ephesians church? He repeated it. Be strong in the Lord. Be strong in the Lord. Because this old sinful world is pretty rough on weaklings, spiritual weaklings. And so strength, look at that word there, wisdom strengtheneth The wise man. That word strengthen. I like this. It's used various ways throughout the Bible. Here it has this idea to prevail over struggles. Wisdom enables the wise to prevail over struggles. You might have a person with very few abilities, maybe not highly intelligent. But they're wise. They fear God. They understand the value of eternity. They understand their role in this world and they're standing before God. They might not have a lot of gifts, they might not have a lot of abilities, they might not have a lot of resources, they might not have a lot of uh high IQ. But if they have wisdom If they have wisdom, they can be greater in their life than the person that has all kinds of resources, has all kinds of talents, has all kinds of abilities, has a tremendous IQ And yet has no fear of God. How many people recognize this name? Enron. Anybody been around long enough? Enron You remember that? They're in the news everywhere. Enron, what was it back in the eighties maybe, somewhere around there, late eighties, back before some of you little children were born. Back in uh Enron was a power company, a company, an energy company out of Houston, Texas. And they were absolutely corrupt to the tilt. And there was an article, I forget what magazine, oh no, it was a documentary. I think PBS or one of them did a documentary on Enron, and they made this statement. The title of it was this: The Smartest Guys in the Room. And it was the top Enron executives. And you know what they found out? Those guys were highly intelligent. Those guys were very, very gifted. They had all kinds of abilities, all kinds of resources. But they were foolish. And they had no concept of integrity or of honesty or of right or wrong. And they absolutely ruined that multi-billion dollar company, and I think a bunch of them ended up in jail What I'm trying to say is this, there may be some little dear lady lives in a hollow of West Virginia that knows God and fears God has more wisdom than some power business guy in Wall Street in New York City. There may be some dear teenager that goes to school, nobody knows about them, but they love God, they fear God, they know what's right and wrong, they know what their position is in this world, they know what their purpose before God is That person is more wisdom, maybe, than the guy sitting in the White House. Do you see what he says there? Wisdom strengtheneth the wise, more than ten mighty men which are in the city So wisdom gives power. Wisdom gives power. Number two, I notice in verse number 20, wisdom gives perspective Now I looked at this a little bit and I'm reading down through here, and it seemed like it was just kind of thrown in out of off subject a little bit. But he says, For there is not a just man upon earth that doeth good and sinneth not. Now what's he trying to say here? I think he's saying two things are implied in this passage. Number one, and my idea is this, wisdom gives perspective. I can see clearly. And one is wisdom gives this perspective, helps me see clearly that I am a sinner. I'm a sinner. We must never forget that we are fallen individuals. We must never forget that. Now thank God through Christ we're forgiven. Amen? Thank God, through Christ, I have the righteousness of Christ. But while I am under the sun, while I'm living here in this body, I am living in a fallen, sinful, I have a fallen, sinful nature. I must never, ever forget that. When we forget that we are sinners, we begin messing up pretty bad. I had a person tell me years ago they messed up really bad, and they told me this. They said, Preacher, I've never been tempted before. I didn't say this to him, but my the way my mind worked was, you're a knucklehead. Either you're incredibly naive or you're lying. Because temptation is common to every man. Nobody goes through like, and you know what I think happened was they forgot to realize, hey, I'm a sinner with a sinful nature, and I have vulnerabilities Hebrews chapter 12, verse 1 says that we are to run with patience the race who is set before us, and that we are to lay aside every weight And listen to this next statement. Every way, and the sin which doth so easily beset us And what he's telling us here, what God is telling you and I, is that we are sinners and every single one of us have certain areas, certain sins that we are vulnerable to that easily beset us, easily attach us, easily uh can bring us down. There are some areas that some Christians are that doesn't tempt me at all. I have no appeal. There's no appeal to me. There's no enticement there in that area whatsoever. However, there's some other area where there is a temptation, there is a vulnerability. Your besetting sins might not be my besetting sins, and my besetting sins might not be your besetting sins. But I'm a fool. I'm a fool if I don't realize I am vulnerable to sin. Right? And so wisdom says, Dennis, you're going to be wise. You need to keep in mind all the time, not far from the back of your mind, you need to be aware you are a sinner. You have a fallen, sinful nature. And you need to keep that in mind and you need to be very well aware of that. That is why it's important for Christians to establish standards. Every Christian, whether a new Christian or a longtime Christian, ought to have personal standards that we follow that are based upon the Word of God. Do you know what I mean by standards? Things that are that we know and are convinced from the Word of God that they are right. There are some things I am not going to do that I have standards against that. I'm not going to do that There's some things I'm going to do. Standards are not a form of making me more righteous than others. Standards are a defense. Standards are a protection because I am a sinner. We ought to have some convictions about things. I like what Dr. Lee Robertson used to tell us all the time. He says you ought to have convictions. You ought to have Bible convictions. He says, if you don't have any Bible convictions, borrow mine till you get some. It's good advice. And so wisdom gives us perspective. I see that I'm a sinner. I understand I'm a sinner. 1 John 1. 8 says, if we say we have no sin, we are a liar. We're a liar. And by the way, let me throw this out there. When I am aware that I am a sinner, and I'm aware that I have a sinful nature, I believe, this is me, but I believe that makes the altar so important. When God speaks to my heart through the preaching, God touches an area and I know it's not right and that Holy Spirit how many people know what I mean when I talk about the Holy Spirit convicting us? Anyone know what I'm talking before? It touches? Maybe the preacher didn't even mention that specific thing, but the Holy Spirit touches my heart. I ought to be very, very sensitive to that and say, yes, Lord, you're right. I don't want to tolerate this. I'm not going to justify it. I'm not going to ignore it. I'm going to deal with it and make it right. Well that's why I think it's important to have an altar call so when the word is preached we can respond. It's important in our daily devotions, when God speaks our heart, that we deal with it right then Because we're sinner. A wise person says, I know I'm a sinner. I have a sinful nature. When God deals with that, I need to address it and touch on it. There was a fellow down at Highland Park. He used to ride bike all through Chattanooga and give out tracks. In fact, one year they recognized him. He had given out a million tracks, him personally, over a 40-year period of time. And they honored him and and recognized him for that. But I noticed when I first showed up down there in 1981, the fall of 81, That this guy was at the altar all the time. Now I'm a fairly new Christian. I'm sitting in this big auditorium. This guy, every time the invitation is given, he's at the altar. And I thought, my first thought was this guy is some terrible sinner. Good night He's at the altar of every service. He must be living in terrible sin. After I was there a little while, I got to know him. He was one of the most godly people I've ever met in my life I mean, just loved God. He was an old widower and loved the Lord and witnessed, gave out these tracts, and I learned something. I think one of the reasons he was so godly, he walked so close to the Lord, his heart and mind was so pure, he was so sensitive to the Holy Spirit, and God would deal with it. He wanted to go make that right. He wanted to go make right. He didn't wait until it was a disaster. I think he was very wise. He realized he was a sinner. He clearly saw, I am a sinner. I need to be sensitive. I need to deal with that. So I think there's a second area that wisdom gives us perspective, not only the fact that I am a sinner, but also I need to remember that other people are sinners. Right? I need to remember other people are sinners. When I'm dealing with someone else, I remember, listen, I'm a sinner. I've got a sinful nature. Hey, wait a minute. They're a sinner. That's why I believe the Lord Jesus Christ emphasized so much the importance of expressing mercy to other people. Being merciful to other people. That person's just as much a sinner as I am. We tend to expect other people to be flawless. We tend to expect other people to live up and not have any faults. And boy, if they have a fault, if they have a failure, they say something stupid, or they do something dumb, or they sin, God forbid. Man, we are all over them like uh anybody here ever raised chickens? Anybody here everybody anybody here ever know anybody that raised chickens? Anybody here know what chickens are? You got it, my grandfather raised five my mom's dad had a chicken farm, five thousand laying hens 5,000. He'd collect them all. And that was back before they had machines to everything. They go through every day. When I was real little, I remembered getting in on that a little bit. This thing I think I remember the most about the chicken farm, it was really, really stinky That's what I remember the most about it. But you know what happens when a chicken, when one little chicken gets a little blood spot, one little chicken gets a sore? What happens? They'll kill that thing. They will literally tear it apart and peck it to death. So what we do is burn the tips off the chicken. And flatten them out. That way it wasn't as damaging. And that was stinky. You burn those things off. That was really stinky. I remember a lot of stinky things from when I was little But you know, isn't that like Christians? A wise person, if I have if I understand who what my God is, I understand my role, my position before God, and I I have a perspective, I am a sinner And for sake of illustration, Pastor Brett is a sinner, trust me, is. And um when I see when he fails and when he sins, I'm not going to be like those chickens. And peck him to death and tear him up and destroy him. A wise person says, you know, he's a sinner just like I am. And I could have, and perhaps many times have sinned just as bad or worse. And so I need to show mercy. My Bible says that God is merciful to those who show mercy. It's in the in the Sermon on the Mount. So wisdom gives power. Wisdom helps me deal with the struggles of life and see this. Wisdom gives perspective. And to recognize not only am I a sinner, but others are a sinner. I want to remind those of us that are married, our spouses are sinners. Say, brother, I know that. I'm going to remind you, your spouse's spouse is a sinner. And they got to deal with it also, right? So a wise person has that perspective and is very, very gracious. I'm a sinner and I need to deal with my sin. By the way, there's two cautions here in recognizing myself as a sinner. Number one Uh I shouldn't think that I'm not a sinner. Alright, don't think we're above it. Oh I've never said there was this teaching went around. I don't hear it too much. I have reached sinless perfection in my Christian life. Oh, brother Ask their spouse about that if they agree with that, right? But the other end is this, and here's where we have to be careful, is we should never think, I am such, I am a sinner, therefore I am of no use I'm a sinner, therefore I I can't be of any good to God. I'll remind you of something, all God has are sinners. That's all He has to work with. And you read some of the greatest people that God used in the Bible, we're terrible sinners. But they recognized that and they dealt with it, confessed it, and forsook it and repented completely and got up and went on. Just man falleth Seven times in what? Rise up again. He realizes, hey, that's what I am, that sinner. I need to get up and go on. Need to get up and go on. The last thing I notice here in the last couple verses is this, and I'll just give it quickly. Wisdom gives patience. Look at verse number 21. I underlined this. I tell you, if you're in the ministry, you really appreciate what's said here Also take no heed unto all words that are spoken. Lest thou hear thy servant curse thee For oftentimes also thine own heart knoweth that thou thyself likewise hast cursed others. Wisdom gives patience Be patient. That phrase, take no heed, has this idea. I got studying that. It means this. Don't take it to heart. Take no heed unto all the words that are spoken. Don't take it to heart. Don't allow it. I like this definition. Don't allow it to touch your passions. You hear something said, don't let it get you worked up Take no heed to it. Don't let it get your passions worked up. Oh, what did they say? Um there that says, uh take no heed unto all words that are spoken, lest thou hear thy servant curse thee. The word curse has this idea. To declare to be despicable, to speak with contempt. In other words, um I hear somebody talking, some somebody over in another room, they're talking, my name comes up, Pastor Leatherman. I heard them reference me. And they say something that makes me look bad. I can't believe Brother Leatherman preached that long last Sunday. You can't let that stir up your passions. Don't let it get to you. Don't let it get you worked up. What did you say? How many people here, now be honest, you've ever said something about someone else, but if that was said about you, you'd really be upset. Yeah, some of you are honest. We have about five honest people here. And what he's saying here is, listen, just be patient. If somebody says something that makes you look bad and kind of takes you down or makes You know, it's disrespectful. They say something that doesn't lift you up, that maybe puts you in bad light. Don't pay attention. Don't take any heed to that. Don't let it get worked up. Don't react to it. Don't respond to it. Just drop it. Just die to self. I'm not going to react to that. There's a great example, and for sake of time, we won't go there. I really wanted to go there because I love this story. It's in 2 Samuel 16, I think. 2 Samuel 16, David's son, Absalom, has overthrown his kingdom. And David is fleeing the city of Jerusalem for his life, and he's got all these people gathered around. Absalom's on the throne. It looks bad. It looks really bad. And while he's leaving, there's a guy up on a mountain hillside while David's escaping, and he's throwing dust in the air, and he's throwing rocks at David and he's calling him all kinds of terrible names. Does anybody remember that guy's name? Shine I is how I say it. And since I'm the pastor, that's the right way. I mean Shemiah is cursing David. And he's saying all this horrible thing, you dog, you deserve it because you killed so many people. Yeah. And he's saying bad words, I'm sure. And he's saying all this stuff about David. And one of David's associates, uh What would they be? One of those guys with David, one of his mighty men, says, Who does that guy think he is? David, I'm gonna go up there, I'm gonna chop his head off. I'll just one straight and he'll be done. But David took no heed to all the words that he heard said. And he said, no, let him alone. I'm putting in my own words. If we had time, we'd look at it. But David said, basically, no, you let him alone. Maybe God told him to curse me. I'm going to let God deal with it. I'm not going to react. I'm not going to respond. I'm not going to let it stir up my passions. And David just went on. And let him go. And you know what happened? God did deal with it. When finally Absalom's overthrown and David is coming back into the kingdom, guess who was the first one to meet David with his face in the ground? Shime I. I have zero respect for Shimei. I would have been the guy, I'll take his head off. That would have been me And he comes back and now when there's a danger, when there's no danger to Shimia, he's running his mouth. But now when he's the threatened, all of a sudden he's humble and he's confessing his sin. And David says, Don't worry about it, he'll go on. David took no heed. He just let it go like water off a duck's back. Now I learned something a number of years ago when I was reading, and David was at the end of his life. Solomon is established to be king. And David is going through a list of things that he wants Solomon to do. And you know what he says? He says, Solomon, you take care of Shimei. You know what that told me? That bothered David, what Simei did. All that time it was eating at him. It bothered him. You know, things people say do bother us, don't they? Sometimes people say things that hurt us. Sometimes you get in an argument over something you don't even know what the issue was. Now you're mad and hurt by what was said, not what the issue initially was, right or wrong. And what Solomon is telling us here, he says, a wise person, they don't let the word said, everything they hear, they don't react to it, they don't respond. Here's the thing, you and I don't have to react to everything other people say. You don't have to respond to it. You say, yeah, but they said, so what? Better than being in hell Right? Being alive here, saved and forgiven on my way to heaven, have somebody say something disrespectful about me, it's better than burning in hell, so I'm getting more than I deserve anyway. A wise person says, I'm not going to react to that, I'm not going to respond to that. I learned this a little bit from my father-in-law, he's with the Lord now, and he was kind of a scrapper, to be honest with you. I know you'd never know that from Kathy, but he was a scrapper. And we were down fishing one time, we were driving around, these guys were cutting wood, and we drove by and fished one place, and we came back and fished another place. Then we drove by and every time we drove by these guys are sawing wood and they watched this go by. And so one time we stopped and he says, hey, how's it going? And the guy was, for whatever reason, he was aggravated with us. And he says, must be nice not to have any work to do and just drive around doing nothing but harass other people all day long I thought, oh brother, here we go. I'll sit down and watch this. This is going to be fun. And Kathy's dad looked at him, and I thought for sure he was coming out of that truck, that he was shooting or something. And he just went, huh, he spit and drove on. I said, that's one way to deal with it. And when I was studying this, I thought of that Don't let don't let what everybody don't let what another person says. Don't let it get it worked up. You don't have to respond. I tell you, the social media is a terrible place for that. Somebody puts something stupid on there. You don't have to respond to it Just ignore it. Turn it off. So what? Listen, you and I are not going to stop stupidity in the world. Right? And so just let it roll off the bat. Let it roll off the back. I've said things that I would like other people to disregard Do you ever say something to somebody and walk away and say, boy, I wish I hadn't said that to them. Can I get a witness? Anybody Sometimes people say something stupid to us, and maybe it would be, uh, just let it go. Maybe they wish they hadn't said it. Let God deal with it. I like what Spurgeon said, and this is true in the ministry. He said he was he had uh he had a preacher school. He had a school for p preachers, pastors. I think he called it pastor school, I think. And he wrote a book, Advice to Pastors, and it's a tremendous book. I've read it several times. But in there he says this. He says, if you're going to serve God effectively, now this would be true for any position, pastor, any position, church, any area of Christian life, really. He said, if you're going to serve God effectively, and I'm putting this in my own words, he said you have to have one deaf ear, one blind eye, and you need to have the height of a rhinoceros. How many people know what he meant by that? Don't react to everything you hear. Don't have to respond to everything you see. And folks are going to say and do stuff, you just gotta be a rhinoceros I'm not going to react, I'm not responding. And Solomon is telling us that's what a wise person does. That's what a wise person does. They're very patient. They're right perspective. And wisdom is the principal thing. So we need to be wise, don't we? Say, preacher, I know and I find myself doing these things, and I do too, as I was studying this, it's like, oh brother, I gotta preach this. This is dealing with me. So I need wisdom, Lord. I need wisdom. Where do we get wisdom? Where do we get it? What's James 1. 5 say? If any of you lack wisdom, let them what? Ask of God. How many folks tonight with me, you're going to ask God, give us some wisdom this week Not going to react to everything I hear. I'm going to be patient with other sinners. I'm going to ask the Lord to empower me not to be stupid, not to be weak, but to be strong as I live my Christianity. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us tonight. And I pray you'd use this challenge from Ecclesiastes that we would be wise. If nothing else, help us to be wise. We need you to give that to us. Help us to see who we are and what we are before, and who you are and what you are, what our role and our position is before you in this whole world. With heads bowed, eyes closed. I don't know, I kind of already did this, but how many would say, preacher, like you and with you, I really need wisdom? I really need it. I'm going to ask God to give it to me. How many? How many like that? Boy, what a difference our homes would be like. What a difference our churches would be like. What a what how more effective our witness would be. We just have these three areas true in our lives. And we can ask God, an old-fashioned order, we can just kneel and say, God, this coming week, for one week, Give me this wisdom. Father, bless our invitation, I ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed eye