I want you to take your Bible and turn with me in the book of Revelation, if you will. We'll be going to chapter twelve when we get there There's a scarlet thread that runs throughout the Bible. It starts in Genesis with a sacrifice of a lamb. To provide a covering for the first man and woman. And continues through to the Lamb of God that taketh away the sin of the world. When uh John the Baptist announced Jesus' ministry Every Old Testament saint, when you uh when you when you think about all the sacrifices that were were made as a result of uh Israel when they were built the tabernacle and all the uh um the sacrifices that were made upon the the brazen altar and uh and all that has probably we go into the millions. And yet the Bible says that the burnt offerings and sacrifices in Hebrews chapter 10, verse 6, says, in burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin thou hast had no pleasure. You kind of wonder why God would, you know, tell them that they ought to have sacrifice if he has no pleasure in what what is the purpose of this anyway? Well he has his own reasons. The death of the innocent in place of the guilty, this uh guilt displayed the awfulness and the wickedness of sin. That was one thing. But wait, it's not just the death of the sacrifice, it's the the blood that must be shed. Leviticus chapter 17 and verse 11 says this. For the life of the flesh is in the blood. And I have given it to you upon the altar to make an atonement for your souls For it is the blood that maketh an atonement for the soul. Then over in the New Testament, Hebrews chapter 9, verse 22, the first familiar with most of us. It says, and almost all things are by the law purged with blood. Without shedding of blood, there is no remission. So the connection here is is the blood. When you go back to the Old Testament and the uh when the uh people sinned against God They would come to the priest with their offerings. That was demanded depends on what uh their problem was. And as they confessed their sins, they placed their hands if it happened to be a goat sacrifice They would place their hand upon the goat's head and confess their sins and the priest uh would uh slit the goat's throat and and kill it, shedding its blood. For without the the blood there is no remission of sin. Here in the United States we uh we are uh facing a lot of problems. I think they started way back in the fifties. And maybe it was in the sixties when they took you know, uh Bible out of school and prayer out of the school and that whole thing took place. But uh we have an enemy that is more powerful than any any of us. All of us put together wouldn't wouldn't be able to defeat Satan. It's going to depend depend uh uh totally upon uh our trust in God if we're going to have have victory The Bible talks about this defeat of Satan here in the book of Revelation, here in chapter twelve. He uh We know who he is and we know how he works. But the question is, how do we defeat this rascal? We go to Revelation chapter twelve and we uh look in verse eleven. Oh excuse me, I my eyes have been kinda gut stuck in them, I think. Something like that. Verse 11 says, and they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb, by the word of their testimony, and they loved not their lives unto death. And they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb, by the word of their testimony, and they loved not their lives. Unto death. Heavenly Father, we come to you now again, as we have each evening, Lord, just uh uh let you know that we we need you. We need you in in the preaching. We need ears that will hear. Not just just hear the words, but they'll hear the meaning and and find a a resting place in your heart in their heart. We is we need uh your power upon the service. We need the Holy Spirit to to move in and out of these pews and up and down the aisles to speak to hearts. So that when whenever the the right moment comes that they can yield that heart to to you. So we ask you, Lord, to help us as we preach the message. Put it forth in such a way that all would understand it in Jesus' name. Amen and amen. There's three things mentioned in in this uh verse 11 that has to do with uh uh with overcoming Satan. Overcoming Satan. We're looking at uh uh verse eleven where it says, and they overcame him. There's the words. That's what we need to do in our life. is to overcome uh this this devil, this uh this Satan, this one who is known by many names They overcame him by the the blood of the Lamb. And we've already talked about the blood. We've talked about how the nation of Israel, uh, through their sacrificial offerings, uh, was a picture of something And the picture, obviously, was the picture of uh Jesus when he was uh uh uh when he gave his life on the cross of Calvary. So the first uh the first way we overcome the devil is we overcome him by the blood of the lamb, or Calvary's conquest. We were broken and unusable vessels. But in Acts 20, 28 it says that he purchased the church, that is us. with his own blood. In uh uh Romans 520 uh 59, we were guilty and justly condemned. But it says in Romans 5. 9, it says that we're justified by his blood, and we shall be saved from the wrath to come. That's a real good verse there. It tells me that that uh if I'm justified by his blood, that is I've trusted Christ as my Saviour and uh I've been justified by his blood, that we shall be saved from the wrath to come. And I believe that's a a reference to the uh the tribulation period. So that's a good verse for Christians to remember. We were evil and under the power of darkness, but in Colossians 1:14 it says, In whom we have redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness of sin, we were under the power of death And Hebrews chapter two and verse fourteen says this. Jesus took on the flesh and blood, that through death he might destroy him that had the power of death, that is, the devil. So the defeat of Satan begins with the uh uh Calvary's conquest That is, it begins that day when you trust the blood of Jesus Christ for the remission of your sin, trusting Christ for the justification. for your for your uh sin. I was uh I've used this uh uh other times, but Napoleon who was in probably you've heard before, probably maybe by me, I don't know Napoleon, who was defeated by the British Empire at Waterloo, said as he looked over a map with a red spot on Waterloo, he exclaimed, Were it not for that one red spot. I would have conquered the world. Surely there's a a red spot, uh Probably a a bloodstained spot on a place called Calvary, in which Satan in his war room probably has said much the same thing, or used the same phrase. Were it not for Calvary, I could have conquered the whole world. Because he's the only one. His blood being shed is the only way. That we have victory over the devil. This is what uh purchased your redemption, his, as Peter put it, uh his precious blood. The second thing I see in verse 11 is it says that they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb, by the word of their testimony. By the word of their testimony. What is the word of their testimony? Well, this is what I wrote down. It's a personal experience based upon the Word of God. You say, why is that important? It's important because an individual who has a testimony based upon the Word of God can be assured of one thing: that he has a home in heaven. The thing about uh I noticed that uh that John in Revelation chapter one he mentions uh the testimony Of Jesus Christ, he says, who bear record of the Word of God and of the testimony of Jesus Christ and of all things that he saw. Now remember, John the Revelator was a prisoner on the Isle of Pappas because of his personal testimony. based upon the Word of God. In Revelation chapter nine, in verse one, it says, I, John, who also am your brother and companion in tribulation and in the kingdom and patience of Jesus Christ was in the aisle that is called Patmos for the Word of God and for the testimony of Jesus Christ. We don't you know, we in the United States, though we have our you know we have our problems and wow they took the Bible out of school. Well, you know, uh we could say a lot of things about that But the truth of the matter is that w if Christians lived their testimony, what they c what they claim, uh there wouldn't be near the problems we've got today. That's where the where the problem really is. Uh I see moms and dads that uh they could care less about going to the what we call the PTA meeting you know, way back, I don't know what you call it nowadays, but uh pre parent teacher association meetings, uh where they have an input in in uh what curriculum is is being uh taught and so forth and so on But the word of the testimony of Jesus Christ is such a precious thing. And it's precious because of the blood that has been shed because of it. I think uh of uh the the thousands, I uh hundreds of thousands? I I don't know m maybe even millions, I I don't really know But we get if uh uh get um uh papers at home all the time that uh uh tell us how many how many martyrs there have been in in Africa and and India and so forth. Thousands or hundreds of thousands, I I don't know, but those were people who gave their life's blood for the cause of Christ, for the testimony of Jesus Christ Christ. That's what makes the the blood so so precious For the Word of God and the testimony of Jesus Christ. In a few more chapters in there, it talks about a book that has seven seals. And then it uh it goes through this this thing of, well, who's worthy? to open the seals on this book. And then finally someone comes up with the answer. It's an elder around the throne of God. And it says The line of the tribe of Judah is worthy to open the book. And then he goes through the different uh uh uh Well the there's the white horse and the red horse and the black horse and the pale horse and so forth. In chapter five, no one has found anything worthy until that uh until finally somebody somebody did And in the in Revelation chapter 6 and verse 9 it says, and when he had opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of them that were slain. of the Word of God and the testimony for the testimony which they hail. You see, you and I today, we have a Hm. I I I kind of uh hold back to use some of the terminology that I could use, but uh I I feel like we need to hear um We have a a uh uh trying to think of the word. Uh I don't have it written down or I'd I'd know it. Um A watered down Christianity. Watered down Christianity. Uh we get by with what we can. We tolerate sin. And uh we just uh you know, we if we carry your Bible in and the smile on our face, then it seems like that we we we get satisfied in this this little zone that we live in and we're just uh you know that's as far as it goes But for the same thing that we take so lightly, there are those whose lives were taken. And the Bible says that that they uh that they uh uh I'm trying to find the verse 9 of chapter 6. And when he had opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of them that were slain for the word. Word of God. And for the testimony, which say hell. Now I don't I don't wish that we we would have to go and have our heads lopped off or something like that. I don't you know I'm not saying that. And I and uh there is uh sometimes you get in deep water and it's hard to get out But I'm I'm simply saying that we as Christians need to recognize that for that which we take so easy, that people have given their life for And that's something that we we need to learn to treasure their gift of their testimony, their life's blood. I'm looking at the third thing. It's in verse eleven and it's about halfway down through there and it says this. And they love not their lives unto death They love not their lives unto death. Now we've already talked about about this uh Now we're talking about something altogether different. We're talking about a complete commitment to Christ. The first one was Calvary's conquest, the blood of the Lamb, God. The second one was the courageous confession, a willingness to confess Christ even at the cost of your own life. Now it takes now we come to the the the final and most important part of it. Because this this is the part of the message and uh such as it is, it's a part of the message that requires a response for you and for me. They live not their lives unto death. There's a story in the Old Testament that that uh illustrates this so so well that I've used it often. in uh this particular point. And I'm going to pass it on to you tonight. It's in sec 2 Samuel chapter 23 and verse 14 through seventeen. Now you can read or you can just listen. But it was a a uh it had to do with three of David's mighty men. He had thirty some mighty men, but there was three of his captains and And and I I think you'll probably remember the names that were a Dino and Eliezer and Shema or the the three. And these were guys that that uh they were the the ones that was right around the king. And the king was fighting the Philistines and he found himself on a hill overlooking the city of Bethlehem, which was his city. And so he he uh uh walked out on the corner there where he could look down over the city and see the walls of the city. His mind sort of roamed back to to the days when he was a young boy and many times had come into the gate there where there was a a well of water that was just cool to the taste. And his mind went back to those days and just thinking out loud in his own mind, but he was speaking words with the tongue. He said, Oh, that one might One might get me a drink of water out of the well just inside the gate of Bethlehem. Unbeknownst, as he spoke those words aloud, just quietly, just meaning it just for himself. Just the desire of his heart. He had three men who were listening. They weren't listening particularly for him. But they had an ear for his kin for their king. And they listened uh as they were talking about maybe they were talking about the battle or maybe they were talking about home Uh could have been a dozen different things they could have been talking about, but uh they finally uh all at once uh one of them said, uh hey, listen Listen, the king is speaking. And as they turned their attention to what the king was saying, they heard these words, Oh, that one might get me a drink out of the well just inside the Bethlehem, uh inside the gate of Bethlehem. And those three guys, they kind of looked at one another and something sparked in their mind. And uh I I can see Shammah as he He reaches in his bank and says, I've got a I've got a b water bag here we can you know and Eliezer says, Well what what are we waiting for See these were guys that that you know that killed a uh a lion in a pit, one killed seven hundred at one time with a spear. I mean these were not sissies by any shaf stretch of the imagination But these were guys who who uh uh wanted to do what the king said. I wish we had that sort of an attitude, don't you? We just w wanted to do what the king said. So anyhow I I see these three guys as they make their way around that they don't want the king to see 'em. He'd probably stop 'em because it'd be a foolish thing to do, amen. But they went around. I could see them working their way down through the rocks until they get down to the where they can jump on these girls' laps. I won't I may fall on them, but I won't jump on them But the the uh I can see him as the er as these three guys they make their way down to the floor of the of the the town there and And I get to at the bottom and uh they look at each other and one says to the other, you ready? And he did a big smile on her face, and I can see him yelling I'm not going to do it, alright. Charge. I'm not. I used to go, charge. But I won't do that tonight. They rushed those guards, it was at the entrance of the gate, overcame them to the well they went just uh as fast as they could. The weapons were lined up or stacked out in the out in the opening there. There was the all the soldiers started running, hey they're you know they're trying to we're being attacked and of course it was just these these three guys But they were doing the work of about fifty guys. I mean they were cleaning their their I mean they were doing the job. Shaman throws the water down uh throws the uh bag down in the water well or the well the water Water well. What well, okay. And uh gathers it in and he says, I've got the water, let's go and back up through the the rocks they go and and uh David's standing out here like this going What what is the what did you see that? He thought the guys were still behind him Did you see that? These three nuts ran across there and attacked that whole garrison of Philistines. And just about that time the thought hit. Who would be stupid enough to do that? And so he looked at the three guys again and uh sure enough it started two and two, added up to four instead of five. And so he uh He said, wait a minute, did you g was that was that you guys down there that ran across there and and attacked those guards? And I can see Shema and the and Eliezer and they're they're standing there going I but uh and David says, Are you guys crazy? Are you nuts or something? I mean, you you uh you went in there at the jeopardy of your own lives. And uh those three guys finally Elieh punched Shama and said, give him the water, give him the water. And so Shamra walks over to him. He kneels down before him I can see it. In my own mind, I can see him. And that water bag to David is king because he wanted Oh some water out of the well. And he said, Here Lord, this is this is what we got for you. We heard you and you said, Oh, that one would get us a get me a drink out of the well. We heard that And we just wanted to give you and please you. I could see David's tears running down his face. How precious is that? They jeopardized their own lives Just to give him a drink of water. How precious I see I see David then. He had the proper response. He didn't just gush that water down that would eventually You know, he got into the sand anyway. He uh he held that precious water that represented the blood of these three men. He held it up to God and he gave it back to God. And he said, it's too precious for me to take. And he poured it back, let it go back to where it came from. Because it was so precious. Their testimony that told the whole story. That's what God wants out of us It's just a, what is that, what was a complete sacrifice. That's simple enough, isn't it? And isn't that what we need? More than anything else is just a complete commitment to serving God Calvary's Conquest, Croazia's Confession, Complete Commitment. There's a poem where my granddad preached I don't think Sis remembered this, but when he preached he would uh often would uh uh quote a poem. He liked poetry. And uh I find myself doing the same thing when I find something that I like And this is one of those little short poems, but it has um it has one of those things where you you know you feel like shouting whenever it's over. And I kinda like it. Let me read it to you. I hear the accuser roar of ills that I have done. I know them all and thousands more. Jehovah findeth none. Through the though the restless foe accuses, sins recounting like a flood Every charge our God refuses, Christ has answered with his blood. Amen. Heavenly Father, thank you for the blood of Jesus that cleans us from all sin. Thank you, dear God, for these three men and their their bravery and their courage as they stormed up. Philistine garrison. Thank you, Lord, for the Word of God. It gives us our hope. Lord, I pray that something in the message tonight would be something would stir us to uh to some action. And I pray that you'd bless the action at the close of this chalk drawing in Jesus' name. Amen and amen.