Together. Ready? Here we go. For with God nothing shall be impossible. Let's say that again. For with God nothing shall be impossible. This morning I want to preach on this subject. For with God nothing shall be impossible. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask now, as we look into your word, that you would speak our hearts. And God, I pray that this one truth That is given to us here in this very brief verse, that would that truth would grip our hearts. And I know, Lord, there is no doubt in my mind that I am speaking to people this morning That have situations, have issues, have things going on that we need you to step in and do for us what we cannot do. And Lord, the fact that nothing is impossible with you, I pray that we would rest on that and we would live by that truth. And uh so please, Lord, fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will, I present my body anew with all my heart I ask for the filling of your Holy Spirit, and you would speak through me and help and challenge and encourage at this Christmas season. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I don't know about you, but that verse number 37 there, that simple little statement, in my mind is one of the most encouraging verses in all of Scripture. For with God nothing shall be impossible. And it's important to understand that that statement there is not just some sort of positive thinking cliche. You know, we say, oh, well, you know, with God, anything's possible. Anything's possible with God. It's more than that. This is a very clear, distinct, direct Factual statement that is given directly by God to Mary. With God, nothing shall be impossible. Now, the context of that statement is it's given here. It's given to Mary, as I said, and it is, let me get turned on here. It's given to Mary, as I said And it was at a time when the nation of Israel, Mary herself included, but the nation of Israel was anticipating and looking for the arrival of God's Messiah. For thousands of years, God had been promising to the nation of Israel, I'm going to send a Messiah. He had been promising that he is going to send uh a savior, a Christ uh that would come and would take away their sins. And all those uh hundreds and thousands of years Israel had been sacrificing animals to cover their sins, to just uh make them uh be able to have access to God through the priests and all the elaborate ceremonies that were set up so that sinful man could approach a holy God And uh through this this uh these temporary processes and ceremonies pointing to the day that a Savior would come when you and I As sinners, sinful beings, we could approach our Creator who is infinitely holy And yet we can come directly to him because of what this Savior, this Christ, this Messiah, was going to do. And so there was great anticipation, there was great longing. They were looking uh for this Messiah, this promised Messiah. So I got thinking about that and looking about that. It kind of stirred my heart a little bit, kind of the way many of us are anticipating the second coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. We are anticipating Jesus coming back. We are looking for that day. How many people this morning believe with me you believe Jesus coming back again? Absolutely. How many people would testify, preacher, I'm looking forward to that day? Now that is very similar the way things were, um that's very similar to the way things were. In the days of the coming Lord Jesus Christ. They anticipated it. They didn't know exactly how the whole thing would play out. They knew the basics that God had given. But they were looking for that, they were longing for that. As I said, much like we are today. How many people here ever watch the news or you read a news article and you think, good night, this sounds like the last days I saw and I think it's in Sweden where they are beginning to initiate putting uh little microchips into the hands of the citizens of Sweden. And the article was praising the benefits and how efficient the things will be and how more secure our finances will be. We won't be getting hacked and all of that. And uh they are promoting this very thing that the book of Revelation says will be true during the tribulation period. And so as each week goes by, we see clearer and clearer evidence that the Bible is exactly what it claims to be. And that Jesus Christ is coming back again, and what the Bible says is going to be true in the days of his coming, we can see all around us And so we're looking forward, we're longing forward, we're anticipating it. For a while there a number of years ago, there was a little campaign going on in some Christian circles And it was they were giving out little pins, and this was the statement, perhaps today. How many people remember that? Perhaps today. Everybody had it. And the idea was maybe the Lord will come back today Um I think, personally, I think that's a great way to live. To live every day, thinking today could be the day. Today could be get up in the morning. I may at the end of this day be raptured in the air with the Lord Jesus Christ by the time that today is out. And that's true. And so that's a little bit of the mindset among many of the Jews and Mary and Joseph, anticipating the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. However, the day that Mary lived in When all these events are taking place here in Luke chapter 1 and chapter 2, these were incredibly dark days. Again Very similar to the days we live in and the days preceding the second coming of Christ. They were very dark days. They were uh very troubled days. Um I put a couple of thoughts down about what society, what the world was like uh at this time when the statement was made here in verse 37. It were days of political darkness. You read the gospels very carefully, especially references to the political leaders, the kings and the governors And you find incredible corruption taking place. You get into the book of Acts, and as Paul is having to deal with governors and uh and uh Ponti and um um uh who was the guy Felix and uh all these governors and these these uh political leaders uh every one of them was about as corrupt as you can get You read through Jesus dealing with the kings and all that, and it was a time of intense corruption. It was a time of political confusion. It was a time of turmoil. There was uprisings taking place. In the book of Acts, Paul is apprehended one time for preaching the gospel. And they said, Oh, we thought you were that guy that was trying to raise up an insurrection And that was an indicator of the days where there was a lot of unsettledness in the political world. There was a lot of corruption. There was a lot of uh turmoil taking place. Uh the Roman government was waning in their power. They were no longer the world power that they were. Well they were the world power, but it was diminishing There was a lot of change taking place, a lot of confusion, fear on the part of a lot of people, particularly God's people, as they feared Rome and what Rome would do. So it was a time of political darkness, it was a time of personal darkness. Sin was rampant. It's interesting if you again as you read through the Gospels and Jesus interacted with people, it wasn't uncommon for him to come across folks that were described as publicans And sinners, thieves. Um if you remember it's a woman uh at the uh the woman at the well, he's witnessing to this woman. And here she's a woman who've been married multiple times, living in uh living in uh fornication with a man at the time. And that was so characteristic of society of that day. So sinful. And uh sin was rampant, even among the political leaders. Those Pharisees were hypocrites. The Pharisees were corrupt. Inwardly, they were as dead man's bones. They put on this show. It was a time of sorrow, a time of hopelessness So there was political darkness, there was personal darkness, and underlying all of that, there was spiritual darkness, unbelief Hypocrisy. Um people condemning one another. Um time of confusion. There was indifference to the things of God. Israel had seen some great revivals in their day. Israel had been times when they were spiritually red hot. They were on fire for God and they loved God and they were concerned about what was right and wrong. They were concerned About what God had to say about things, but that had all deteriorated, all that had cooled off, and now for many in Israel it was a time of indifference, time of biblical ignorance. And as I and as I'm giving this thought, I'm thinking it sounds so much like our day. Um there was a time when I first got saved back in the late 70s, early 80s, we'd go out knocking on doors For the most part, you would assume you could you people you talk to uh would know basic Bible truth For the most part, they understood who Jesus was. They understood who God was. They understood what the gospel was. Now they weren't all saved, certainly. But they understood those things. They had a basic biblical knowledge. I think those days have long gone. We live in days of biblical ignorance We live in days of biblical indifference. So one fellow, somebody said, What do you think about the apathy and ignorance in the church? And the guy said, I don't know, and I don't care. And brother, if that doesn't catch if that doesn't capture the spiritual temperature of the day and age we live in, I don't know what else does. I don't know, and I don't care And that was very similar to the day when Jesus Christ showed up, a time of spiritual darkness. What I'm trying to say is this when Jesus Christ showed up, when this announcement was made to Mary Israel was not in their strongest days. They had gotten off track spiritually. They were in dark, dark days. However It is often in the times of darkest sin. It is often in the times of dark is often in the darkest days. That God sends his brightest lights. Now that's more than just a cliche. In fact, I really hesitate in even using that statement because we just write it off, it sounds like some song. But it's more than just a cliche and it's not just a song. It is a biblical truth. In the darkest days, and sometimes and when there is the greatest sin God's grace and God's power is displayed greater than any other time. If you go back and study the great revivals of the church age throughout church history. You study the great revivals, most, if not all, of them took place in times of spiritual and moral depravity. When things were the worst. How many people lament our soci the spiritual condition of our society today? How many people watch the news, you see here, see or hear stuff on the computer, whatever, see and hear stuff, and you walk away and you just think it is hopeless. Our society, our nation is absolutely hopeless How could we, I see what's happening. And even within the church, I see what's happening, and I think, how in the world have we gotten so far from God? Darkness. But yet it is in those days, often, when God sends His brightest lights. That is often when revival takes place. I look at society, as I just said a moment ago, I look at society, I think it's hopeless And in the midst of that hopeless, I may be talking to someone this morning. I I have no doubt I am, and I don't know anybody in particular, but I have no doubt I'm talking to someone this morning. You have found yourself this Christmas season in a situation And you see, you know, I just don't see it's hopeless. I don't see any hope. I don't see how I'll ever be happy again. I don't see how I'll ever have peace in my heart again I don't know how I'll ever see, have victory or have the joy that I once had. I don't see how I can ever have that again. It's in those times. It's in those days that God comes and says, listen, I want you to remember, nothing is impossible with God. Can I put it this way? Nothing is hopeless with God. Nothing is hopeless with God. Times of great darkness is often when God sent his greatest revivals to the church. Can I just give personal testimony? Got saved on May 7, 1979. This May coming May will be 40 years ago. I can't even believe that. I don't even feel like I'm 40 years old Let me take it back. I feel like I'm ninety years old, but I don't I don't think I think like I'm forty years old. How many people here, in your mind, you're way younger than what you really are Then you try to act upon how you're thinking and your body reminds you, you're an old goat I tell you in 40 years, and there's folks all across here who could stand up and give the exact same testimony I'm giving, there's no doubt about it. But I tell you in that 40 years after I got saved, I've had some dark days. I tell you there's been a lot of there's been a lot of tears shed over those forty years. There have been some days where and and many of you could stand and say the same thing. There's been days where I thought, God, it is absolutely hopeless. I don't see how how I'll ever I don't see how I'll ever be anything for God again. But you know what? It is often in those periods of time, and it's often in those periods of my life where my devotions came alive. And God would use verses. He'd speak to my heart. And he'd show me, and he'd say, Dennis, there is hope. I am able to take whatever situation you're in. I am able to take whatever circumstance you are facing. I am able to take whatever need you have. I am able to take however broken your heart may be. I can heal that thing. I can meet that need. I can change that circumstance. I can bring you through this. Because nothing is impossible with God. I've been joking this week. Um we mentioned last um uh was it Sunday morning, Sunday night, but Pastor Matt ha is um he's a pretty big guy. Anybody notice that? And he's a power lifter, weight power lifter, and I've been trying to give him some tips on that. Well and um last Saturday he uh he won gold first place. Did we mention that last Sunday morning? I think we did. He won gold first place And with he lifted uh I mean it was three lifts. Uh it was over sixteen hundred pounds in three lifts. It was like six hundred at a shot. And uh one first place. And I was joking this week. I said that to say this, I was joking this week, and I was telling folks, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, the church with the world's strongest view pastor. Strongest view And he was kind of like, he loved it. I actually found out he went and Googled it to see who the strongest youth pastor in the world was Don't tell him I told you that. He's a strong guy. And maybe we are the church with the world's strongest youth pastor, I don't know. But I do know this. We are a church with the world's strongest God. There is no God greater than our God. There is no God more powerful than our God. There is no God in existence that can meet needs, change lives, solve problems, mend broken hearts. For God's nothing is impossible with God. What a great statement. In the midst of this darkness, in the midst of this spiritual ignorance going on, Gabriel appears to Mary. And he delivers this information that the Messiah has come. For hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of years, God has been saying, I'm going to send the Messiah, I'm going to send the Savior. Mary, Gabriel says, he's come. And you are the chosen vessel to carry and give birth to this promised Messiah. We talked about this last week a little bit. But again, let's just for a moment put ourselves in Mary's shoes. Right? This is mind boggling. And uh she said, how can this be? And Gabriel ends his announcements. And this passage is familiar to all of us. But in his announcements, in this information he has given to Mary that is going to alter her life And that her mind is racing, and she's trying to comprehend what he's saying and what this means. And he ends his announcement with verse number 37. Would you read that with me again? For with God nothing shall be impossible. Mary, you understand what's happening. We get that. Mary, this is humanly impossible. That a woman would conceive of a child without the seed of man. This is impossible, humanly speaking. This makes no sense. But Mary with God, nothing is impossible. Nothing. This is a declaration of God's unlimited power. Did you get that? God's unlimited power This is a declaration of God's unlimited ability. This is a declaration of God's unlimited possibilities. Gabriel was saying to Mary, Mary, this is what's going to happen. It doesn't make any sense. It doesn't seem possible. But with God, nothing is impossible, Mary. I like how Mary responds. Look in verse number 38. What a tremendous, what a tremendous testimony to the faith. And the spiritual understanding of Mary, when she hears Gabriel say, With God, nothing shall be impossible. Look what she says in verse 38. And Mary said, Behold. The handmaid of the Lord. Look at this next statement. Be it unto me according to thy word. God's declaration of unlimited power, Mary responds with her unlimited submission. God, because you have chosen me, because you you you are uh because nothing is impossible with you God, I trust you and I completely yield and submit myself and my will to you. You can do with me whatever you see fit I want to suggest to you that is the ideal attitude for every child of God. Can you imagine? Can you imagine what God would do? What God could do Through a congregation of believers that would say, you know, I am absolutely convinced, beyond a shadow of a doubt in my mind, that nothing is impossible with God And because of that, I'm going to submit myself to him. I'm going to yield to him. Whatever he says I will do. Whatever he promises, I will trust. Whatever he warns, I will heed. I'm going to just yield myself fully to him because nothing is impossible with him. Brother, you want to see a revival. That's where it starts We would see God's blessing. We see lives and society and homes and churches changed. We understand the power of God and we submit to that. You could, in the margin of your Bible, I don't know if you're in the habit of underlining verses. I underline verse 37 and I underline Mary's statement in verse 38. But you could write in the margin of your Bible beside verse 37, you could write this one word, omnipotent. Omnipotent. How many people have ever heard that word before? I use big words periodically just to try and impress you how smart I am. And that is a very big word. Only really smart people use that word. I'm joking, of course. What does the word omnipotent mean? The word omni, omni, omnipotent, omni, the word omni means all-encompassing, unlimited. Potent means what you think it means, power. And so when we say that God is omnipotent, that God has all power. He is unlimited in what he can do. Now I don't know I don't know, and I'm no doubt I'm I may be just as guilty of this as anybody, but that ought to stir our hearts To think that dwelling within, how many folks here are saved and you know it? Say amen. Dwelling within you and I that know Jesus Christ as Savior, I mean genuinely know Jesus Christ as Savior, dwelling within us. Is the Holy Spirit of God who is omnipotent, all powerful And that, I don't know, that ought to stir our hearts. That God is all powerful. You can write in the margin of your Bible, omnipotent, all-powerful. We must never forget this attribute of our God He is all powerful. Now let me give you my simple little outline here. Number one, here's my first thought. The definition of the statement that Gabriel made here in verse 37. He says, with God nothing shall be impossible. Now, I need to point out, and maybe some of you are already thinking this, there are some statements in the Bible where it says There are some things that it is impossible for God to do. I mean the Bible says that. We have a display every year at the county fairgrounds. We put a display up. We have for many, many years now. We have some little um uh the items out there to kind of intrigue people and catch your attention and come over. And um how many people ever saw our display? Anybody ever been by there? We put up put this basically the same thing up every year. And one of them we have real big letters. We have it there. It's a little box with little doors on. Real big letters, it says three things God cannot do. And I tell you, that gets some people, that gets under their s that provokes them. And more than once we had somebody come by and said, There ain't nothing God can't do. I said, Well look at it. Tell me what you think. We were given out tracts down at the parade a number of years ago, and uh one of the tracks we were given out, it said five things God cannot do. And then we were giving them out, and people were very responsive, very positive. We would get a lot of tracks out, usually several thousand. And as I handed it to this lady, and we went down, and I just barely got by. She looked at it and she goes, wait a minute! Said five things God can't do. She says, there ain't nothing God can't do. I mean, she was ready to fight. She was ticked. And I said, Oh yeah. I said, Read it and tell me what you think And so I went up and I'm coming back the other side and she made her way out through the crowd. She came out and she goes, You're right. There are some things God can't do. And the Bible says very, very clearly, one thing God can't do, the Bible says, is lie. It is impossible for God to lie. How many people are glad we don't have a lying God? How many of you are glad God is not dishonest? Hey, when you open your Bible and you read that Bible, you are reading Almighty Truth. Irrefutable truth. Because God cannot lie. Something else the Bible says in Malachi chapter 3, the Bible says that God cannot change. God cannot change. He's the same. Hebrews tells us about Jesus Christ, the same yesterday, today, and what? Forever. The God that Moses Watched part that Red Sea in awe. That is the same God That many of us knelt by our chair or our bed this morning and prayed to and asked Him to help and lead us and fill us and use us. That God that Elijah cried out to and brought down fire from heaven and consumed the water-soaked altar. That's the same God that back in the fellowship hall at the kitchen this morning about 8. 10, we bowed our heads and asked him to bless our bus routes as they head out and pick up boys and girls and riders, bring them into church. God doesn't change. It is impossible for God to change. It is impossible for God to lie. Let me give you a third one, and you could be clever with wording and maybe come up with some more. But there is a third one that's impossible to do, and it's impossible for God to accept anybody into his presence in heaven without them being born again. Without them being born again. Nicodemus came to the Lord Jesus Christ by night. By all accounts, he was a humanly good man, very respected, no doubt. He was wealthy, he was a religious man I believe he paid his bills. I believe Nicodemus told the truth. But he was a sinner like anybody else. And he came to the Lord Jesus Christ tonight and he said, Jesus, we know that thou art come from God, for no man can do the things thou doest except God be with him. And Jesus responds, he doesn't respond to the compliments that Nicodemus is saying, and this great praise, everything Nicodemus said was true, but Jesus cuts to the chase And he says, Nicodemus, ye, what's the next word? Must be born again. And he said, No man can see the kingdom of God except he be born again. Can I tell you this? Nobody ever, ever, ever gets to heaven without being born again. It's impossible for God to accept somebody into His presence that has not been cleansed and washed by the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ, been born again into the family of God, because our sins have separated us from him. Those sins must be dealt with. Must be dealt with. So the Bible is very clear. There are some things it's impossible for God to do. It's impossible for God to lie, praise the Lord. It's impossible for God to change, praise the Lord. It's impossible for Him to let anybody into His presence in heaven unless they've been born again. So what does it mean when Gabriel tells Mary here with God, nothing shall be impossible? Nothing shall be impossible. I believe this is what he's telling her. And I'll tell you this is tremendously encouraging. By the way, I would not want a God that could lie I would not want a God that changed. By the way, the world and modern Christianity is trying to change God. They can say whatever they want, they can publish whatever books they want, they can write whatever blogs they want, they can have whatever TV programs they want and say whatever they want about God. God doesn't change. God doesn't let anybody into heaven that isn't saved. So, what does he mean here? What is he talking about here? I believe this is what Gabriel is telling Mary and telling us. There is no situation That God cannot accomplish, there is no situation that will keep God or make it impossible for God to accomplish His will and His plan. There is no circumstance, there is no situation that God cannot overcome. Mary, you have not known a man. You are a pure, godly, holy virgin. Yet that circumstance, that situation, God is still able To give this world a child through your womb, that circumstance, that situation, does not make it impossible for God to accomplish His will. You follow what I'm trying to say The whole context is how can this be? This is impossible for me to have a child. And he says, oh no, no, no. There's no circumstance, there's no situation. That you will ever find yourself in that God is not able to still accomplish His will. To accomplish His plan. Throughout Scripture, God is referred to, in fact, 57 times, God is referred to as the Almighty God. The Almighty God. That word Almighty simply means this, to be infinite in power and ability. You say, preacher, I'm in a situation, it is impossible, it is impossible for this to ever be right. I'm here to tell you, nothing is impossible with God. God can take the most horrendous the most hopeless circumstance, the most hopeless situation, and he is still able to turn that thing around and accomplish his will. He is the Almighty God. I had a fellow tell me years ago, he said, preacher, God could never save me. God could never save me. I said, that is not true. If your heart is beating and your lungs are pumping air into your body, you can still be saved. You want to. You want to. Uh we were talking last night, Brother Heimball and I, at that wild choir choir party we had last evening. I'll tell you, that was something. And we got talking and Brother Heinbull said there was a fellow years ago, he said I always believed it would be impossible for that guy to get saved. He said he had money, he had he anything he wanted he could have. He had money, he had everything. And he said, in my mind, it was impossible that that guy would ever get born again, that that guy would ever get saved. And he said, but was it early 70s? 79, 1979, this guy that said it's impossible that he could ever get saved. He came to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. If I remember the story correctly, I've heard others tell me the story, but I think he sat back there somewhere. Am I correct? And the preacher preached the message on how to be saved. You must be born again. You must be saved. And Brother Heimbald told me he watched that fella get up and run to the altar. And trust Christ as Savior. Now some of y'all know Dana Umble. Trusted Christ got born again here. And it was said of him before, that guy can never get saved. That guy would never get saved. I'm here to tell you, never say never when it comes to God saving souls. It's never hopeless. And so when he says here that nothing is impossible with God, he's saying, listen, there's no circumstance, there's no situation that God cannot Accomplish his will. Job chapter 42, verses 1 and 2. Job had been through his horrendous experience I was talking with someone yesterday about scripture and they said, I have a hard time with the book of Job. He said, I just have a hard time following and understanding what it says. I like the book of Job. And maybe that I had a school, I had a Bible when I was in Bible college down at Temple, I had a teacher that I wrote a thing on Job, and she said, she goes, that's such a morbid book. I don't view Job as a morbid book. I see Job as a book displaying the power and wonder and sovereignty of God in amazing ways. And you get to the last chapter, 42. Job has been through all of this. The loss of his family. His wife betrays him. His health is gone. And his friends turn on him, they're throwing for chapter after chapter, they're just throwing accusation after accusation at him while he's sick, while he's in pain, and he's heartbroken. And then God shows up and starts asking questions. Job, where were you when I created the stars? Job, where were you when I did this? I mean, he goes through it. And then God, when it's all said and done, Job says, listen to what he says. He says, then Job answered the Lord and said, Now I know that thou canst do everything. God, you can do everything You can take the most the deepest heartache. You can take the most intense pain. You can take the worst betrayal there is. And yet, God, you can still accomplish your will. You can still bless and use me and make something out of this. Now, this passage, I don't know if it's possible for a passage to be too familiar, but sometimes we get so familiar with a passage we lose the significance of it. And we know. We know. That all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose God, there is nothing impossible, God. No matter what our circumstance may be, no matter what our situation may be, God is able out of that to bring something that is good, something that is, it brings glory to Him. if we will just trust him and follow his instructions. Love him. So the definition of this statement for nothing is impossible with God doesn't mean God can lie. He's not saying that. He's not saying that God can change. We know he can, but he tells us he can't and he won't But he is saying this to Mary and to all of us, doesn't matter what your circumstance may be, no matter what your situation may be. Doesn't matter how badly you may have sinned. It doesn't matter how badly you may have failed. It doesn't matter how badly you may have messed up. Doesn't matter how bad Really someone has hurt you I can still take that and turn that thing around and make it into something that brings glory to God and brings joy and fulfillment and purpose to your life In Revelation chapter 19 and verse 6, the Bible ends, uh the last book of the Bible ends with this statement, says The Bible doesn't end with this, but in the chapter 19 it says this, for the Lord God omnipotent reigneth. The God that rules this universe, the God that created all of this, the Bible says he is omnipotent, he is all-powerful. You say, you don't you don't think God you don't think God can meet your need, you don't think God can solve your problem, you don't think God can change your situation, you don't think God can melt a hard Unbelieving, rebellious, stiff heart, stiff necked heart Just look at the stars at night and say the God that created that can change that heart. He can change that circumstance. Look at creation all around us. As I said, I was joking this week, we're the church with the world's strongest youth pastor. We're actually the church with the world's strongest God And there's not a circumstance or situation that God cannot accomplish his will or his plan. God is not limited. So the definition of this statement is: God can take any circumstance, any situation, and he can accomplish his will. He can turn that thing around. The second thing is, the second point is this: the display of this truth. I kind of got ahead of myself a little bit, but we see God's power, we see God's unlimited ability in creation. I love Genesis 1. 1. I think it's one of the most significant verses in all the Bible. In the beginning, God created heaven and earth. And then he elaborates on that in the following chapter or two, and he says, God just staked these things into existence. It is mind-boggling to me. The power behind our God. That he can just speak and the universe comes into it. He can just speak and life springs up. What amazing. How many people ever saw a magician do something and you just whoa how'd he do that? Anybody know what I'm talking about? This is man alive. I'll tell you, all these magicians, they're tricks. You know that, right? That thing's not really floating. There's something that yeah, I know, a lot of you're disappointed on that. But I tell you what, we have a God that doesn't play tricks. It's not sleight of hand. It is unlimited power. And just speak. And there's galaxies into existence. I don't know about you. I would love to go back in time. And just somehow be on the outside of God's presence and watch him speak this place into existence. How would we respond? We'd fall on our faces. Oh, what kind of God are you? What kind of power? We see God in creation. Genesis 1. 1, in the beginning God created the heaven and the earth. Psalms 33, 6, it says this, by the word of the Lord were the heavens made. You doubt God's ability? Look at creation. We see God's power displayed, this truth displayed in the nation of Israel. There's no other explanation for the nation of Israel than the fact that there is a God in heaven that is all powerful. To bring them out of just one man, Abraham, and then deliver them from bondage in Egypt, and then disperse for years, hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of years. Then bring them back together in nineteen forty-eight. And today, in the Middle East, there is a little nation there that is a testimony to the indescribable, unlimited power of God The nation of Israel. Study then. God's power. God's power. We see God's power in the virgin birth, as we've been looking at. We see God's power in the resurrection of Christ. And we see God's power in salvation. The salvation of a soul. Last week we had a couple little kids downstairs. Brother Matt preached. They had a couple young young children, uh probably fifth, sixth grade, somewhere around there, and they responded, and those little kids Sitting beside a counselor with an open Bible, made a conscious decision to accept Jesus Christ as Savior. And in doing that, God saved their souls From sin in hell. And I want to say this is what I'm trying to get at here. When that took place last Sunday morning, we trust maybe it will happen again today, which is what we pray for But when that took place last Sunday morning, something happened in the basement of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church that no man that ever has or ever will existed is able to do. To save a soul from hell, to impart into that little heart and life, eternal life. You can't do that, I can't do it, the greatest scientists can't do it, nuclear physicists can't do it, medical doctors can't do it, only God is able to save a soul from sin in hell. That is Almighty power. Almighty power. By the way, if you're here this morning and you never trusted Christ, God's able to save your soul. The only thing that's keeping a person from getting saved isn't God's power. It's man's willingness to let God save us. God's not willing that any should perish. He wants people to be saved more than we even understand that we want to be saved. Power of God displayed in creation, in the nation of Israel, in the virgin birth of Christ, in the resurrection of Christ, in the salvation of a soul. Hey, we Listen, my concern is that we as a church and myself individually, we never get used to souls being saved. And it just becomes, oh, anybody get saved? Yeah, I think there is one. Man, that is the almighty miracle, miraculous power of God in saving us all. From sin and hell. How many folks here got saved a long time ago? How many folks here you still never got haven't got over it yet? If you have gotten over it, we're going to give an altar here in a few minutes. You need to get right with God and get back under it. If you've gotten over it, you need to get back. Never mind. You understand what I'm trying to say? We see God's power. We see it. And last of all, I am with this, the dynamic of this truth. In other words, how do we respond to this truth? When we realize how powerful our God is, nothing is impossible with Him. How do we respond to that? Oh, ho-hum, that's nice. Praise God. And walk on nothing? Let me ask you a question. How did Mary respond when she realized what God was doing in her life It was a miraculous power of God what he was doing in her life. She said, Lord, be it unto me as you say. I totally unlimited unlimited submission to you, dear Lord. Can I give you just real quickly some ways we ought to respond to the Omnipotence of God, the unlimited power of God. Number one, we ought to worship God. You don't hear a lot of talk about worship, and a lot of we talk we hear about worship, I think, is unscriptural Worshiping God is not coming and crossing your heart and hope to die. Worshiping God isn't some ritual we go through. Well, we're going to church to worship God. I hope we're worshiping God. But it's not just going to a church service and going through ceremonies. Tell you, it breaks my heart. I think something we've got to fight against, even within our independent Baptist, Bible-believing folks, is just letting church be something we do And it's our life. So what does it mean to worship God? Here is my definition I developed from scripture years ago. To worship God, I believe, is that means is this. To recognize God's supreme power and authority over my life. And to submit to that power by humbly trusting Him And obeying him. That is worship. God, you have supreme authority over my life. You are the God of my life I recognize that. I submit to that by trusting you and obeying what you tell me to do. That's worship. That's worship. You can sing worship songs all day long, not worship God. Have a hard, stiff heart. God ain't telling me what to do. I don't care what the Bible says. I don't care. It doesn't matter. I tell you what, you can go to church every day of your life. You can sing hymns. You can put a thousand dollars in there. Every week. You're not worshiping God until my heart recognizes that God is all-powerful. He loves me. I submit to him and I'm going to trust you, God. I'm going to do what you say. Worship. Abraham worshiped God when God told him take Isaac up and offer sacrifice up as a sacrifice made no sense, seemed to fly in the face of everything we know about God and what his uh what his uh uh commandments are, it flew in the face of everything. But Abraham said, God, I worship you. Genesis 22, read it. He worshiped God. He recognized God's authority, and he submitted to God, trusting him, doing what God said. Of course, God intervened. God had a plan, a purpose for all of that. But Abraham worshipped God in the midst of his confusion when it didn't make any sense He says, God, you are in control. You are God. I submit to you. I trust you and I'm going to obey you. God worked it out a miracle. The Bible says that Job worshiped God. Everything's taken from him. Everything. And Job worshiped God. God, you give And you take away, blessed be your name, I submit to you, I trust you. You tell me what to do, I'll do it. That's worship. We think of God's almighty power. And we have a society where people raise their fists and say, no! In the face, raising her fist in the face of omnipotence. How foolish! The proper response is to worship. Worship God. I believe there's a second response, and that is confidence. I like what Paul said in Philippians 4:13. I can do all things. What? Through Christ which strengtheneth me. I wish we had more time because that deserves some study. He doesn't say I can do all things That would be arrogance. That would be self-confidence. He doesn't say I can do all things. He says, I can do all things what? Through Christ. He's all powerful. Nothing's impossible with him. He's instructed me, this, that, and the other. God's instructed me in things. I can do what he's instructed me to do through his strength, through his power. Confidence. I have an Almighty God behind my Christianity. I can trust him and he will use me. And number three, I put this down in anticipation. If nothing is impossible with God, regardless of what circumstance I find myself in, I can fully and completely anticipate that God is going to do what He has promised. Does that make sense? Are you with me? Everybody with me? I can anticipate that he's going to do what he says he's going to do. Those early Christians, they had no money, little or no money. Those early Christians, they had no programs, master clubs, teens alive, bus ministries. They didn't have any of that. They had no facilities. They didn't have beautiful buildings and sound systems and radio stations. They didn't have any of that. But they turned the world upside down. They transformed nations How'd they do that? They had an almighty God behind their Christianity. And they preached the word of God and they lived lives of supernatural power. Because they had a supernatural God. An all-powerful God. And what I'm trying to say is this, we need to get back to New Testament Christianity. where we see this God working in our lives and through our lives and in our ministries and in our churches. Nothing is impossible with God. How can we reach the world with the gospel? Nothing is impossible with God. Oh, I had so much more I wanted to say. God let me let me end with this. I read about a little town in Texas right after World War II. It's called Ick. Itasca, Texas. Itasca, Texas. Right after World War II, they had a school, a little school there. The school caught on fire tragically while the kids were in the school It burned down 263 kids were killed in that fire. Tragic As a result of that, the school board and town got together and said, we need to do something so this never happens again. And what they did was they instituted the very first ever water sprinkling system in a public building. And it was state of the art and they spent huge amounts of money to put this sprinkling system in the school. They were very proud of it. They brought the families and parents in and community in and we went through and showed the sprinkling system. Year after year went by they never needed it. Finally the community grew and they needed to add on to the school. There was more kids. And when they began building in addition onto the school, somebody went and looked at the sprinkling system and they It's all something. That system had never been connected They had never connected it to the water. It was dry. And it looked great and it looked wonderful, and everybody had a sense of security, but it was never connected to the water. And I'm afraid that's true for a lot of Christians, a lot of churches, a lot of ministries. We go through the motions, we got it all there, we think everything's just fine and hunky-dory, but we really don't have the power of God working in our lives We really don't see the Lord doing for us what we need to do. And what we need to do is get connected to the power of God. Nothing's impossible with Him. And one of my motive, I have two motivations for preaching this this morning. One was, I read this in my devotions some time ago, and that phrase stuck out, and I thought, thank God, nothing is impossible with God. My second motivation was this. I know that at Christmas time, a lot of times there's heavy hearts. There's going to be some empty chairs at Christmas this year. There's some families, maybe kids are away from God, living in sin. Mom and dad's going to be heartbroken I said, I don't think I'll ever see my child live for God. Maybe some children have unsaved parents, and you've been praying, trying to be a witness to your parents. You think, I don't know if God's ever going to save my parents, and at Christmas your heart's broken. I'm here to tell you nothing's impossible with God. Doesn't matter how far that child may be from God, doesn't matter how deep in sin they may have gone. There is not a sin that the devil can come up with that God is not able to forgive and cleanse and erase. There's not a failure that you and I can can uh can experience that God can't change and correct and bring it back. There's not a heartache that God can't heal. I'm here to tell you, nothing is impossible with God. God can save your soul. God can change your life and He can give you victory. He can give you joy even in the midst of dark, dark days. Father in heaven, I pray you'd use these thoughts. Help us. Lord, maybe one heart would be encouraged. Maybe one soul would be stirred. To worship you and submit to you and say, yes, Lord, I want your will to be done in my life. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. I wonder how many this morning would say, preacher, My heart's heavy. Say, preacher, I've got a situation, I've got a circumstance, that it just humanly, I just don't see how that thing can turn. But you say, I'm going to trust this in this unlimited God. That he can help me and turn that thing. Is there anybody like that this morning? Preacher, I have a heaviness in my heart. I have a circumstance, situation, my heart's so heavy. Any like that by the uplift in the hand? God bless you. Hands all around. Now I want to suggest to you this morning that you worship God. Recognize his power. Submit to him. Say, yes, Lord, I'm going to trust you. You tell me what to do, I'll do it. I'll worship you. Is there some this morning say, preacher, I know someone, and I hate to say it, but in my mind, I see no way they'll ever get saved. I don't see any way they'll ever get saved. Maybe somebody away from God, you say, I don't see any way they'll ever get right with God. But you say, preacher, I'm going to trust God that he can Still get a hold of them and say them. Any like that, I know someone, a heart's burden for them. I'm going to trust God that He can. I'll do what He says. Be a witness. God bless you. Is there someone this morning say, preacher, I'm not sure I'm saved? Not sure that my sins are beginning all my way to heaven. I want to know that God loves me and God will save me. I want to trust him as my Savior. I need that. Is there any like that this morning? Preacher, pray for me. I need to trust him as my Savior. How about it? God bless you. Now, Father in heaven, bless our invitation. I ask you would help us. I pray, Lord, you'd help us to trust you in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. James playing our invitation, Him.