Of uh a verse. I'm gonna read a verse and I'm gonna have us all read together one portion while you're uh uh finding that What did the, I'm under pressure now, you know, I've got to keep coming up with these pitiful jokes. But um uh what did the necktie say to the hat? This is a good one, Mary. Uh you go on ahead, I'll just hang around. That was not bad. What happens when a frog parks illegally gets towed. So all right. So Pastor is ahead of Mary, two to one. Joel chapter number one. If you would look at verse number twelve with me. I'm going to read down Uh the first part of verse 12 and that last phrase there I would like for us all to read together. I'll indicate when you join in and read it with me. But just verse number twelve. The Bible says, the vine is dried up, and the fig tree languisheth. the pomegranate tree, the palm tree also, and the apple tree, even all the trees of the field are withered. Now altogether, that last phrase. Ready? Because joy is withered away from the sons of men. I'll speak this morning on withering joy. Withering joy Let's ask the Lord to speak our hearts and help us. Father in heaven, we bow now before we get into the message. And I want to first of all thank you for the blessing. of the music and the fellowship and all that's taken place here, the sunny school hour, all that's already taken place this morning has blessed my heart and encouraged me personally. I trust many others Now, Lord, we have our Bibles open before us. I pray that you would open our hearts and minds to your will for our lives, that you would direct us, teach us. Some cases we need you to confront us. And Lord, we're asking to challenge us, our faith, through the Word of God. Lord, as always, I readily acknowledge I have nothing in and of myself, my own wisdom. That can help anyone spiritually or eternally. It has to come from you and your word. So Lord, with that in mind, I yield my will to you again. This hour I present my body anew With all my heart, I plead again, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, that you would be the speaker, you would be the preacher. Speak through me to all of our hearts and lives. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I have no way of documenting this, and so I I can't vouch for the veracity of what I'm about to say. But apparently in 1900 there was a survey, a pretty major survey done Throughout the United States of America. And the survey was this. It was a simple question. It was this. What must you have for you to be happy They asked several thousand people, what do you have to have for you to be happy? They took all the answers, they put it together, and they came up with this. There were seventy-two Different various answers that people said that they needed for them to be happy in life. Seventy-two. That was in 1900 In 1950, they took the exact same survey. Apparently I'm told. They took the exact same survey and they asked the American people again in 1950. What what is the thing? What must you have? What do you need to have in order for you to be happy? In 1900, they had 72 different items were listed, various items listed, various things listed. In 1950, that number jumped to 496. Different things, situations that people needed in order to be happy. I'm wondering in the year 2017 If they would take that survey again and ask the American people, what would you have to have to be happy? Now I don't know, but I would venture to say that number would have multiplied many times over. People are looking for happiness. People want to be happy. They want to have peace and joy down in their heart and soul. And they're looking to things. They're looking to circumstances. They're looking for situations to bring that peace and that happiness The book of Joel addresses the subject of joy, that peace, that happiness that people long for. In verse number 12, we touched on it, we read it there where he touches on this subject. I just want to give a little bit of background of the book of Joel. It's a prophetic book. The book of Joel is a prophetic book. In other words, he is Prophesying about future events. Um Book of Joel would be considered a minor prophet, one of twelve books of the Old Testament that are considered minor prophets. There are major prophets, Ezekiel, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Daniel's considered a major prophet. Then you have these 12 minor prophets. Now don't confuse that name. The word minor does not mean it's minor insignificance or importance. The book of Joel and the other minor prophets are very significant, very important, especially in understanding future events, the second coming of Christ, and God's plans for Israel in the future. They get the term minor prophet from simply the fact that it is very short. It's very brief, as opposed to Isaiah or Jeremiah, much, much more lengthy prophet. So It's a minor prophet. And the minor prophets I've found have what I think believe to be the most neglected books of the Bible. I believe I say this all the time, but Christians ought to read their Bibles. Amen. And uh they ought to read their Bibles every day. It ought to be part of my schedule. Where I get to spend some time alone with God, s searching the scriptures, reading the Bible, meditating on what God says, and then of course incorporating prayer into that time. So Christians ought to read their Bible, and many, many Christians, I think a very large percentage of our church folk read their Bibles on a regular daily basis. And that's a good thing. That's the way it ought to be But I think a lot of Christians have certain portions of Scripture they gravitate to. Certain books of the Bible that we tend to enjoy and and uh we feel comfortable with we find a lot of uh we get a lot of uh input from those passages for instance the book of psalms people like psalms right I try to read a psalm every day. Don't always get it. I try to read I particularly like Proverbs for my personal Bible reading. I try to read a chapter of Proverbs every day. I try to co I try to correspond it with that calendar day. For instance, today is the 30th. So this morning I read Proverbs chapter 30. And so we have certain portions of Scripture we tend to gravitate to that we like to read over and over again. And there are portions of scripture that tend to get neglected For instance, the minor prophets. Now I'm not going to ask anybody to respond visibly in any way, but I'm wondering, wonder how many people here ever read through the book of Joel. Ever read through the book of Hosea, Amos, or Obadiah? Well, those tend to get pushed aside. Those tend to get neglected, and we'll read these other passages. And so I'm not trying to rebuke anybody or anything. I just want to challenge God's people to read the whole Bible. At some point, get to the point where you're reading from Genesis to Revelation, all scripture is given by inspiration of God. And it is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, structure, and righteousness, that the man of God may be fur uh uh may be thoroughly furnished and uh uh and God can help us grow And so these minor prophets, the book of Joel being one of them, is sometimes pushed aside. Now, coming back to the book of Joel, we don't know a whole lot about this fellow. The book is named after the man that penned it. Of course, God is the author. But God used this fellow by the name of Joel to record this prophecy, this small book. One thing we do know about Joel is his name means this. Jehovah is God. Jehovah is God. So that tells us a little bit about his upbringing. We're told his father's name in verse number one is Pethuel. That name means the vision of God. So apparently, the just little implication from this we can glean from their names is apparently they're a very God-fearing family. I would take it that Joel grew up in a home where mom and dad loved the Lord, were faithful to God, they trained him in the things of God. And God used them in a great way, particularly to record this passage. Other than that, we don't know a whole lot about them, just a little trivia. Joel's name means Jehovah is God. But the name Isaiah is God is Jehovah. Although that was kind of interesting, just a little play there, reversed on the meanings. But outside of that, we know little or nothing about Joel. We see in the book of Joel, we find that he preached primarily to the people of Judah. of the southern kingdom. Of course, Israel is a divided kingdom at this time. Israel in the north, Judah in the south. And so he's preaching to the people of Judah And he's focused on Jerusalem. Look with me if you would at chapter 3, verse number 1. And I'm just giving a little background here, just to give you a little information about this man and about the book. that God has preserved for us. Chapter 3, verse number 1. For behold, in those days and in that time when I shall bring about uh bring again the captivity of Judah and Jerusalem Come over, if you would, to verse number 17 of chapter 3. He says, So shall you know that I am the Lord your God dwelling in Zion. My holy mountain. Then shall Jerusalem be holy, and there shall be no stranger pass through her anymore. So apparently Joel had a real heart for Jerusalem. He was very concerned for Jerusalem. His message is focused on the city of Jerusalem. And uh Jerusalem is an important city. It's uh uh it's uh uh God's uh has chosen Jerusalem. And uh I just want to make this statement again, just on a little on the side uh we remind you that Israel i are the people of Israel are God's people. And in this day and age in the political situation we find ourselves in the world where good whatever side you're on and whatever issues One thing every Christian ought to be aware of, the nation of Israel are the people of God. And God has promised that He would bless those that bless them, and He would curse those who curse them. And I believe it behooves our country to be friends to the nation of Israel. Doesn't necessarily mean we have to agree with everything we do or endorse everything they say and do, but we do what we ought to be their friends, we ought to be their allies. And so that ought to be a factor when you and I go to the polls, consider are these people friends, supportive of Israel or not. So that was free, that's a side, you will not be charged for those thoughts right there. But Joel is focused and burdened, and his message is focused upon Jerusalem. One thing the book of Joel emphasizes is the day of the Lord. The day of the Lord, the day of the Lord, the day of the Lord, chapter 1, verse 15, chapter 2, verse 1, verse 11, verse 31, chapter three verse fourteen in references The coming day of the Lord. The coming day of the Lord. The coming day of the Lord. There are two events in the book of Joel that are associated with this day of the Lord. One of them was judgment coming upon Judah. In fact, that judgment was carried out shortly after this prophecy. God came and God judged his people. You say, surely if they're God's people, God would not judge them. God's judgment on Israel was a form of chastisement. He's correcting them. He's wanting to get them back in line. God loves his people. And because God loves his people, he does not let them continue on in sin without stepping in and intervening and correcting that. Just like a good parent, just like a good father, good mother, does not let their child just run wild and do whatever they want and get in all kinds of mess. They step in, they intervene, they very lovingly, very firmly, very consistently. Discipline and chasten and correct that child so that they can function in this world. And God does that for His children And God did that for Israel. So one aspect of the day of the Lord was the fact that God would judge his people, and he did And he addressed that. There's another aspect when he addresses the subject of the day of the Lord, and that is the coming judgment on the world. And he references that throughout the book, particularly the tribulation period immediately following the rapture. So I'm trying to say this. The book of Joel is an important book. In the subject of prophecy and what God has planned for His nation of Israel, even in our future yet, and how that will affect the rest of the world. I believe We would be wise to take very seriously the judgment of God. As you and I as Christians, we will someday stand before the judgment seat of Christ. As a believer, we'll stand before God not to be judged for our sins. That was already judged on the cross when Christ died. He was judged in our place. But we will be judged and we will be and then rewarded for how we lived our lives as Christians. And the works we did as a believer and what sort they were. And that of course is where Christ gives out the uh uh the rewards uh and um we'll cast them back at his feet because if it wasn't for him, we couldn't do anything for him. At all anyway. What I'm trying to say is this we ought to be take very, very seriously the fact that God will judge his people and God will judge the world If you're here this morning, I need to give a very stern, very serious word of caution. As a preacher of the Word of God, as a believer in this book. If you're here this morning and you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, if you've never been born again, as the Bible describes that, there is an awful judgment you are facing in that condition. And that is called the great white throne judgment. And that is after death, and that is where God judges those who are not found written in the book of life, and they're cast in the lake of fire for all eternity. You say, oh, surely in 2017, in this modern era, with all our technology and with all our intelligence and with all our knowledge. Surely you still don't believe in an actual literal hell and lake of fire. Listen, Jesus believed it. The Bible teaches it. Mark it down. It is true. There is a hell. There's only one place a person goes after death, it's either heaven or hell, and only through trusting Jesus Christ as our personal Savior Can a person uh make it to heaven and escape hell? And so our church cannot save a person from hell. That baptistry cannot wash away sins and save a person from hell. I cannot save a person from hell. I couldn't even save myself, let alone someone else. Only Jesus Christ can forgive our sins and give us eternal life and save us from sin in hell. Amen or not? And so judgment is a very serious issue. It's very prominent all through Scripture. And Joel particularly emphasizes this matter of a coming judgment and being prepared for that. Now, we come back to chapter 1 and verse number 12. And I was reading this a couple weeks ago in my devotions, maybe not this past week, the week before, I believe it was. I'm running reading down through here And I saw this phrase in verse number 12 that caught my attention. And it says this because joy is withered away from the sons of men. Now he's addressing Judah. He's warning them their sins and various things are there's judgment coming. If they don't repent and make things right, they're going to have to deal with this. And he makes that statement, joy is withered away from the sons of men. Now, in chapter 1, he mentions three groups of people. That are going to be directly affected by this coming judgment. In verse number five, he addresses what I'm calling the partiers I'm leading up to, this is introductory, I'm leading up to my message. But look at verse number five. He says this, awake, ye drunkards, and weep. And how, O ye drinkers of wine, because of the new wine, for it is cut off from your mouth, and he goes on down there. And he's addressing what I'm going to refer to as the partiers. These are people, they're out living it up, they're out drinking, they're out carousing around, and he says, beware, awake. You better wake up to the lifestyle you're living. You better wake up to the direction your life has gone. You better wake up To what you're doing to yourself. And he addresses these partiers. Liquor is the downfall of any nation. Personally, I believe liquor ought to be illegal. You say, oh, they tried the prohibition, it didn't work. It still ought to be le illegal. Liquor has never helped a nation. No nation has ever been stronger or better morally or better in any way. By allowing liquor in the in that nation. It is the downfall of every nation. Awake ye drunkards, he said to the nation of Judah. Liquor had come in there. Partying mentality was taking over that uh those people and judgment was coming. Liquor, uh liquor is the downfall of a community. I'm opposed to liquor in Garrett County. Not just being sold on Sundays, but Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday. Does nothing Liquor does nothing to help the City of Oakland in any way, shape, or form. Does nothing for our community. It is a harm. It is a blight. We ought to repent from it. Let me say this. Liquor is the downfall of any and every home. Any and every home. Listen, I've been in the ministry for a little while, 1985, 30 plus years. You know what I've never found, not one time, not one time have I found liquor helped a young person be a better person. I've seen young people grow up in the church. I've seen young people come in on our buses here and in Indianapolis, out in Colorado when I was out there traveling in the As a youth evangelist with Bible time, I've seen young people grow and they start messing around with liquor, they start drinking a little bit of beer, they start smoking a little bit of dope. They start rocking and rolling and start living the party life, and not one time has that young person turned out to be a better person than they were before they entered that. I'm telling you the truth. Liquor has never helped a young person live a better life or become a better person than they would have been without it. Liquor has never helped one marriage. I've seen marriages that for the most part were pretty good, but liquor comes in and they start drinking and start partying and start going down that lifestyle, and I'm telling you It destroys a home. No daddy is a better daddy because he drinks liquor. No mother is a better mother because she smokes dope and drinks liquor and parties. Doesn't do a world doesn't do a thing to help anybody. And by the way, I say this all the time, these advertisements on TV for Bud Light and Miller Light and all these things, they are liars, liars, liars They know that their product kills people. They know that their product destroys lives. They know that their product hurts a land. So they put these little warnings up, be careful, moderation, because they know it's destructive. And so God says to the drunkards, awake! You better pay attention. Listen, if I'm talking to somebody this morning and you've never touched liquor in your life, I'm saying as your preacher, as a preacher of the Word of God, don't ever bring liquor to the lips of your mouth Stay away from it. And by the way, if you've already drunk liquor and you're already drinking that type of thing, I say this morning, make a decision before Almighty God, I will never touch it again. We were young, uh boys were young, we were uh walking, I don't remember where we're going fishing or something. Well I don't know, if you had boys when they grew up, they pick everything up they see. Right or wrong. We're walking down train tracks one time. They're bringing they're picking up all these big spikes, the big nails. They're picking them up stuff in their pocket and I'm not paying attention. We got down the road got down a hundred yards or so, I looked back, their pants are falling down. They got so many nails in their pockets. Going by one of the boys, there was a beer can there. He didn't know. He just picked it up and got it and it spilled on him. There's some beer in it, and it spilled on his arm. And um he said, Dad, I looked over and I said, but throw that down. That's beer. He began sobbing and crying, because we always taught him it was of the devil and it was destroy you. He thought his arm was going to burn up and melt away. And uh I tell you what I like that mentality in their minds. And that's ought to be the attitude we have. Say, why are you going off on liquor? I like what uh uh one preacher said, I think it was Sam olda who was that Methodist preacher years ago, Sam Sam Jones, down south, old fiery Methodist evangelist. One time he was preaching, he went off on liquor One of the people afterwards said, what was the deal going off on liquor? He said, I saw a person on the front row lick their lips like and it looked like they might like it. So I thought I'd better deal with it But seriously, God addresses it, he says, Woe unto you drunkards. So it's coming judgment. This coming judgment he addresses These three groups of people. One is what I'm calling the partiers. The second of all is the priests and the spiritual leaders. Look at verse number eight. Lament like a virgin girded with sackcloth for the husband of her youth. Here he's using an illustration and he's saying, this is like a young lady that's about to be married, and apparently in this illustration, this young lady, this virgin, before she's married, her husband is taken in death. She never is able to go through the marriage, and so she is lamenting like a virgin, girded with sackcloth For the husband of her youth. Then he goes down. He says, the meat offering and the drink offering is cut off from the house of the Lord. The priests, the Lord's ministers, mourn. And he goes on down And he's addressing the spiritual leaders, the priests and the spiritual leaders. And I want to suggest to you: not only is liquor a key factor in the downfall of a nation, but also spiritual apathy. When people begin to neglect the things of God, there is an awful price to pay. When a nation starts pushing God out of that nation, there's an awful price to pay. There are consequences to that. When a home neglects the things of God and church is not as important as it used to be, and Bible reading is neglected in the home. And prayer is never heard of in that home, and the things of God are pushed aside and neglected, that home pays an awful, awful price. I believe every home, every regardless of who makes up that home, there ought to be a time on a regular daily basis where that family comes together for prayer and Bible reading, maybe singing hymns and worshiping God as a family. That is so important. And yet here they had pushed him out, became apathetic. A nation, a community, and a church and a home. When they become apathetic They begin to die. They begin to die. Listen, we're in dire straits here in the United States of America. I'm studying the book of Joel and I'm thinking of the United States. And I see the party mentality as absolutely taking over our nation. And I see spiritual apathy on every side. And even that which is spiritual is so worldly anymore. There is no Spirit of God in it. There is no power of God in it. And it's a sad, sad day. And so Joel was addressing the nation of Judah. He says, hey, you drunkards, wake up. Does the priests, the spiritual leaders? Better pay attention. And then I see in verse number 11, he addresses the plain, hardworking people. Look at verse 11. Be ye ashamed, O ye husbandmen. Now that's like the farmers, sort of O ye husband, how, O ye wine dressers, for the wheat and for the barley, because the harvest of the field is perished. Judgment is thummy, and God's judgment is going to impact every part of society Not just the spiritual leaders, not just the partyers out there, not just the the uh political uh leaders of the country, but every s every city, every village, every home, every farm Is affected by God's judgment. By God's judgment. So it's a very sober message that Joel was bringing to the people of Judah. And he makes this statement here again in verse number 12. He says, because joy is withered away from the sons of men. Now if something withers, if something withers, what happens to it? It's with it it dries up. It means to it starts fading away It loses its freshness. Um I was down in North Carolina for the sword conference this past week and my wife had made a salad. She makes these big salads. and um there for me. And um but I was gone for like four or five days. And I came back and I went to get the salad and all the lettuce in there had been in there four or five days And it was withered. It wasn't fresh. It was yuck. So I just poured more dressing on top of it and ate it anyway. And I told her, this is delicious. This is the best salad I've had. It means to lose its freshness, to fade away, to dry up, to decay. I have in my backyard a few tomato plants. And um my three favorite foods in summer, watermelon. Amen. Come on now. Watermelon, this is good preaching right here. Watermelon, zucchini. I grilled a about three zucchinis last night, ate them all. But um uh zucchini and tomato sandwiches. Man, with m with mayo on there and salt and pepper, yeah. On bread, sagi. That's good stuff. What was I preaching about? I can't remember. I've got these tomato plants out back and uh Brother Nichols and I were talking. He said something he says, I got something they're starting to the plant the the branches that above them are starting to wither and die away And I thought, he's telling me, was that last week you said that? I thought, man, I'm glad that's not happening to mine. I got back from the meeting, I look went out and looked at my tomato plants. Guess what's happening? All the bottom are starting to wither. In fact one whole planet's about that big, that whole thing is hanging down wither. And I know it's not because it didn't get enough water. And so I don't know what's happening to them, but they are withering away. They lost their health. They lost their vitality. The life is draining away from them. And he says to the people of Israel of Judah, he says, the joy of the men is withering away. It isn't what it used to be. It's lost its vitality. It's lost its freshness. Something was happening to the people of Judah. That the songs that they used to sing to God, when they would get together and they get the hymn books out, so to speak, and they sing these great hymns. My faith has found a resting place, not in device nor creed. And they sing these hymns like you and I sing today, and there was a time When that meant something to them and they rejoiced in it, and boy, they could sing these songs with gusto and sing them to God with all their heart. And now that's withered away And now if they sing at all, they're just going through the motions. Rejoice, rejoice And there's no joy. And the songs become just a ritual we go through, and there's no life to it. There's no joy in it. Something happened. Something changed. The old songs they would sing had withered away, the joy in their songs, the joy in the church services. Remember back when you first got saved and going to church all week long? You just looked so forward to getting to church. Man, you get there early and you got your Bible. I'm so excited. And man, you'd leave and you just felt like a new person and God had done a work. But over the years, something's happened. And something's changed. And now it's like, uh, church. Come flying in the last minute, forgot my Bible. Sit there, when's he gonna get done? What happened? The joy of assembling together with God's people withered away. Withered away. He says the joy of men has withered away. The joy in serving the Lord. Man, the opportunity to do something for God. The opportunity to be involved and maybe work around or sing in a choir or do this or just something I can do for God. He's been so good to me and God has blessed me so much and just excited And now it's like, uh five time. Uh I'm so busy, I don't know what I've got And that joy of singing praises to God, and the joy of assembling together with God's people, and the joy of serving the Lord and doing something out of love and praise for my Savior. All that withers away, withers away. Bible reading. Man, remember when you first got saved? Man, I couldn't read enough of the Bible. Just devoured that thing. And man, God's speaking in my heart. But something happened. And something changed, and that withered away. And now if you get it out once a week, if you happen to get it and read it, it's just kind of a duty I got to go through. The joy's withered away. It's withered away. The joy of prayer. Spending time in prayer, man, it was just all the time. My mind was on prayer. Drive down the road and I'm thinking of people, I'm praying for them. We talked about this in Sunday school. People come to mine and I'd pray for 'em. Night before I go to bed, no, I know I want to s I need to pray a little before I go to bed and I get on my knees and pray. In the morning, get up All right, before I go back today, I gotta spend a little time with the Lord. Be it prayer meeting, special calls for prayer. Yeah, I'll be there. Something happened. That's withered away. Withered away. Their joy in the Lord. Their joy in their Christian life. Their joy in their walk with God. Withered away, withered away, wither away. I just got a couple minutes. Let me give you a few reasons that I see in Scripture, a few things that will make our joy wither away. A few things if we're not careful and get in there and that joy of the Lord and that peace in my heart and that presence of God in my life and that vitality that was there, if I'm not careful, these things can cause it to wither. Number one, I put this down. Sin in my heart and life will wither away our joy. Take your Bible, if you would, and turn with me to Psalms chapter 39. Psalms chapter 39. Unconfessed, unrepentant sin in the heart and life of a believer will wither away joy. Millions and millions of Christians have lost their joy of the Lord because they've allowed sin To dwell in their heart and life. They don't confess it, they don't forsake it, they don't repent, they just cherish it, they hold on to it, they hide it. And the joy is dying, dying, dying. I've seen happy, growing, soul-winning Christians wither and fade when they allow sin to be tolerated in their life. Psalms 39. Look with me if you would at verse number 11 I saw this a number of years ago in my Bible reading, and it struck my heart. Notice in verse 11, when thou, speaking to God, when thou with rebukes dost correct Man for iniquity, look at this, thou makest his beauty to consume away like a moth. When thou with rebukes dost correct a man for iniquity, thou makest his beauty to consume away like a moth. I put in the margin of my Bible, sin uglifies. That's oh that's one of my words I invented. It uglifies. The beauty consumes away. The word beauty there has this idea to be a pleasant to be uh um uh attractive, beauty. Something about this person. And there was something about their spirit, not talking about their physical appearance, although no doubt that's affected But it's talking about their spirit, their attitude, their look on life. And they've allowed sin to come in their heart and life, and it fades away. Notice what he says here: it is consumed. Thou makest his beauty to consume away like a moth. And the whole word picture he's giving here, this mental picture we have, is here's a person. They've had a beautiful countenance. They've had a beautiful spirit about them. Very attractive, pleasant. They're happy. They're joyful. But they've allowed sin to creep into their heart and they did not deal with it. And they refused to acknowledge it and they refuse to forsake it. And they hide it and they cover it up as best as they can And that beauty, that attractiveness, that pleasantness begins to fade away like a moth eating away at a garment. Now I don't know if it's as big a deal now. I know back in the day he used to put mothballs in the c in the in the closet. Anybody remember that? I don't know if they still do that anymore. No, it's now it's all All our clothes are chemical now, but back then the moth would get in there and just chew away at them. There'd be a little thin spot here. Anybody know what I'm talking about? It doesn't all sudden just boom But it just slowly eats away, eats away. It withers away. Sin, when I regard an iniquity in my heart, It may not be too visible. It may not be evident to everybody, but in my heart and life it's there. And like a moth, it eats away at my joy. It eats away at my countenance. It eats away at the spirit of joy and blessing, that attractiveness that Christ gives us. It eats it away, it eats it away. And that joy is with it away. Turn with me, if you would, over to Psalms chapter number 51. Now, a lot of us are familiar with Psalms 51. This is David's prayer of confession. He had committed a horrendous sin of adultery with another man's wife. He tried to cover it up. For about a year, he tried to cover it up, tried to hide it. They had a child as a result of this. And finally, Nathan the prophet confronts him about his sin that he is covering. And David, to his credit, when he is confronted, he acknowledges it and he deals with it And Psalms 51 is a record of David dealing with his sin. It is the most public confession of sin in the history of the world, as far as I'm concerned. And I believe Psalm 51 gives us an account of the most thorough way to address sin. And if you come down, Psalm 51, if you come down to verse number 12, notice a statement that David makes In verse number 12 of Psalms 51, restore unto me, if you're restoring something, what does that imply? You're putting it back. It implies it was there initially. Right? And then something happened to it And now it needs to be put back into its original condition. It needs to be put back the way it was supposed to be. He says, restore unto me, look at this, the what? Joy of thy salvation. Then he goes on, uphold me with thy free spirit, then will I teach transgressors? And he goes on, he continues to address his condition But that's an interesting statement David makes there. Notice what he doesn't say. He doesn't say, restore unto me thy salvation. David did not lose his salvation. Nobody ever loses their salvation. David did not lose his relationship with God, but he certainly did lose the joy of his fellowship with God. He had fallen out. Now I'm not going to ask anybody to respond. I'm sure very few people here has ever happened to. But if you're married, if you ever you and your wife had a falling out. I'm sure that very seldom happens to anybody here, but a little fuss. How many people you're happier when you and your spouse are getting along than when you're not getting along? Anybody here testify? You guys are scared to raise your hands. I know it right now. I've I'd I I like it a whole lot better when Kathy and I are getting along good. Huh? Come on, don't don't leave me up here all alone. You guys help me out a little bit here. The relationship, the marriage is there, but the joy of our fellowship is broken. And that's what David's addressing. He says, I've allowed sin to come in my heart and life. I've allowed sin in my life, and it is withered away the joy of my salvation. He says, I want it restored. I want it back the way it used to be. I want it back the way it's supposed to be. Anybody here ever have old furniture refurbished Anybody know what I'm talking about? Man that thing's worn out and the and the the fabric is worn through and the springs are sticking out and and uh the padding is all through and the wood's scarred You say, I need this refurbished. I need this restored, made back to the way it was intended to be. I like to on every now and then on television, I like to watch these where they fix up old houses Anybody know that? Uh uh differ there's different ones they'll go in and man they'll fix that thing up. I keep waiting for someone to knock on my door and say, Oh we're gonna do that to your house. Restore it back to the way it was, back to the way it should be. And what's David saying? He's saying sin has withered my joy away. My walk with God and the joy I had in the Lord is just faded and dried up. And God, I need you to put that back. God, I need you to make that right again. You know what revival is? Revival is getting back to the way God intends for things to be. Getting back to the way he originally made things. Getting back to that joy and that fellowship, that simplicity of faith I had when I first got saved. Lord, revive me. Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. I'm telling you, sin is a serious thing. It is a major subject from Genesis to Revelation all through the Bible. Addressing sin, addressing sin, addressing sin. And I'll just throw this out. Any preacher that does not preach against and about sin is failing God Almighty. And he's hurting his people by not addressing that. Sin will steal our joy, it'll wither away. I think it's interesting. I wish we had more time. But David comes back and he addresses that, and through the chapter of Psalms 51, several things he does to get that joy restored. Number one, he acknowledges his sin He says, against thee and thee only have I sinned. Yes, God, it's true. This is wrong. This is sin. This ought not to be in my life. Then he accepts personal responsibility. It's not going around blaming everyone else. Oh Bathsheba, she wasn't dressed right. Oh her husband, if he'd have been a better husband, she wouldn't have been. Oh, if my wife and oh He's not blaming anybody else. He says, listen, it was my decision. I made the decision. It's my sin. I'll tell you what, it'll do us all a heap of good if we learn to accept personal responsibility for our own sins. Personal responsibility. So he acknowledges the reality of the sin. He doesn't deny it or excuse it or justify it. He accepts personal responsibility. Then he agrees with God as to its severity. God, this is terrible. I tell you what, I've heard all, and I'm probably guilty of this myself, but I've heard all the ways that people Christians try and minimize their sin. Well, I'm not perfect, but at least I'm not like Ethan. You know. Well, I'm not great, but you know, I haven't done this. I'm not that bad. Listen to me. Sin is sin is sin. And it is horrendous. And in the eyes of a holy God, we need to acknowledge, God, this is wrong. It's not a mistake. It's not just a little accidental. No. It was wrong. It's very serious. And David accepted all of that. And as a result of that, God forgave him. And you read some of David's greatest psalms, some of his happiest psalms were written after his restoration. After his restriction, blessed is the man whose sins are covered, whose iniquities are forgiven. That sounds like joy to me. Sounds like happiness to me. So their joy is withered away. Sin will wither away our joy. Number two, I put this down. Having my sight fixed on my circumstances. Will wither my joy. My sight fixed on my circumstances will wither my joy. In other words, I get looking around at the awful circumstances I'm in, the awful situation I find myself in, and all I see is that. And the joy of the Lord and my fellowship with God and that happiness and peace that was there starts to wither away. Turn with me to the book of Mark, if you would. Here's an interesting passage. Mark chapter number 14. If you will, we're using our Bibles a little bit this morning. We brought them to church, we might as well use them, right? Mark chapter number 14. And notice with me, if you would, in verse number 26. Verse 22 through 25, the Lord Jesus is instituting the Lord's Supper In the upper room. Now, you Bible students there, after he institutes the Lord's Supper, what happens next on the chronology of Christ's life? What happens next? The Lord's Supper in the upper room, they go out, and where do they go? Garden of Gethsemane. What happens there? He prays and he sweats, as it were, great drops of blood, and this great spiritual warfare is going on, this great spiritual battle. And there he prays, and ultimately Judas comes up and betrays him, and uh he's taken off, and he goes before the court, and he's beaten, and you know the story, he's crucified, and all that takes place. So In verse number, chapter number 14 and in verse number 26, he has just finished the Lord's Supper. He's instituted that with his disciples. Judas has slipped out. He's going to get those soldiers to betray him. And Jesus Christ, all-knowing God, omniscient, he knows what is about to take place. He knows this valley that he is about to go through. He knows that he is about to be judged for every sin ever committed by mankind. And notice in verse number 26 what the Bible says. And when they had what? Sung a hymn. What in the world? He's about to go through this horrific crucifixion. And he's singing a hymn? Seriously? It's interesting, the word hymn there has the idea of a song of praise, a song of joy and rejoicing. Some Bible scholars suggest that it might have been some from Psalm 118. This is the day, this is the day that the Lord hath made, that the Lord hath made. We will. Rejoice, we will rejoice and be glad in him. Wait a minute How in the world, in the situation Jesus Christ finds himself, in the circumstances he is in, how in the world can he be so happy? How in the world could he be singing a whole song of praise? We will rejoice. How could he do that? How could he do that? I tell you the answer is given to us in Hebrews chapter number twelve. Come over there with me very quickly. My point is this, our circumstances, when we focus on our circumstances, That will can and often will eat away at our joy, wither our joy. In Hebrews chapter 12 and in verse number 2 The Bible gives us how Jesus Christ could be happy and joyful even in these circumstances. Hebrews 12, 2. Look what it says. Looking unto Jesus, by the way, that's our motto for the church here. I love that. Looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, look at this, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross. Despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God. Can I tell you what I see that we're being told here? Jesus Christ didn't joy in his betrayal. He didn't rejoice in the fact that he's going to be beaten with a cat of nine tails, have a crown of thorns platted on his head. Be nailed, start naked on a cross, dying in front of the whole world, and then God Almighty turning his back and pouring out the eternal wrath on him. You didn't enjoy that. Hebrews 12, 2 tells us he endured it. He endured it. But his focus wasn't on that. His focus was on the joy that was set before him. On the other side of all of that. And I tell you, when you and I get so wrapped up in all we can see, and I've seen Christians guilty of this, I hate to admit it, but I've been guilty of this. And all I can see is the circumstance I'm in. And all I can see is what's happening to me And I get my eyes off of God, and I forget that there's a God in heaven that is all powerful, that loves me, and has a plan for my life. And he will not allow anything to happen to me that cannot be work out for good If I won't just trust him, but all I see is my circumstance. All I see is the darkness around me. And that will eat away at our joy. It'll dry up. This whole lost world says, how in the world can you be happy in a world like this? Our focus isn't on the world as it is, our focus is on Christ. Remember Peter? In the boat, the storm, the waves, the wind. He sees Jesus walking on the water. He says, Lord, if it be thou, bid me come. Or he says, Come on. And Peter steps out and his eyes are on Christ and he's looking at Christ and he's walking on water. The Bible makes a statement, but he saw the wind and the waves, and he began to what? Sink. He got his eyes on his circumstance. I've seen Christians get so overwhelmed by their circumstances, got their eyes off Christ, and they sank. They lost their joy. They lost their vitality. They lost the presence of Christ in their life. That joy and presence and peace of Christ. And they become so overwhelmed. If they're not careful, they become bitter. And angry, and the joys withered away. I have no doubt, I'm talking to some folks right now, you have difficult circumstances. I have no doubt, I'm talking to some folks right now, people of God, people who are saved, and you are and find yourself in a situation or circumstance that is absolutely overwhelming, and the temptation is to just focus on how terrible everything is. I'm challenged to you is this. Get your eyes off the circumstance and get it on Christ. Focused on Christ. Set your affection on things above, where Christ sitteth at the right hand of the Father And trust him and wait on him and let him lead you and direct you. Sin in the heart and life will wither away our joy. Our sight fixed on our circumstances will wither away our joy When Abraham focused on the famine rather than the promise of God, his joy withered away. When David focused on King Saul, Rather than on God's promise that David would one day be quiet king, his joy withered away. When Jonas focused on the wickedness of Nineveh, rather than the grace of God, his joy withered away. He wanted to kill himself When Israel focused on the size of Goliath rather than on the power of God, their joy withered away and they cowered in fear. When Peter saw the winds and waves, rather than focusing on the presence of Christ, he began to sink. And last of all, let me give you my third one. Sin will wither our joy. Sending our sights on our circumstances will wither our joy. Number three, self on the throne of our heart will wither our joy. God did not create and design us to be Lord of our own lives. He didn't make Dennis Leatherman to be Lord of Dennis for Dennis Leatherman to be Lord of Dennis Leatherman's life One created that way. All creation, mankind included, is designed to function in submission to God To operate under His sovereignty and His rule. And when we are submitted to God, when self is off the throne and Christ is on the throne of my heart, there is joy and there is peace. But when I usurped Christ and I say, no, I'm going to live my way. I'm going to make the decisions in my life. I'm going to decide what I'm going to do. I'm going to be Lord of my own life. That joy begins to wither. That joy begins to wither. Our biggest cause of the lack of joy, I believe, in our lives is our own selves. Our own selves. We decide what we're going to be. We decide how we're going to respond. We decide. We decide. We decide. You know how I think the most miserable being in existence is? The devil. I believe the devil is miserable. You find nothing happy About the devil. Read the Bible. What the Bible says, you find no joy, you find no peace, you find no happiness in the devil's experience. He is miserable You know why? Isaiah 14 tells us, he says, I will be like the Most High. I will be my own God. Joy was gone. Peace was gone. Blessings are gone. It's confined to hell. Listen to me. Self. Self-will, self-worship, self-promotion, self-righteousness, self-exaltation, self-worship. Will make us miserable. It will wither away our joy Most unhappy, insecure people in the world are people who are focused on themselves, who are living for themselves Listen, dying to self is hard to do. I don't know. That's not easy. Because my own self-will wants to run this ship My own self will wants to be captain of this ship called My Life. And the Lord says, as long as you're trying to run that show yourself, Your joy will wither away. You were not designed to be the captain of your life. You were not designed to be the God of your life. You were not designed to be the Lord of your life. You were designed to To live your life in submission to God Almighty And have him be Lord of the life, and have him be King of Kings and King and Lord of Lords in my life. And until I get to that point, joy will wither away. You know I think the happiest place in all existence is. You know where the happiest place in all existence is? Heaven. Right or wrong Heaven. They sing the praises of God, the joy in the perfect, uh flawless joy of heaven. You know what happens in heaven? God's will is done completely. Completely. What did the Lord say in the Lord's Prayer? Let thy will be done on earth. As it is in heaven. And that is where joy is. When I die to self, get myself off the throne. Um, the biggest mistakes I've made in my life, the most unhappiest times of my life Have been times when I trusted in myself and not God. The hardest times of my life have been when I leaned on my own understanding rather than acknowledging God in all my ways. Looking for things, taking things into my own hands rather than waiting on God and trusting Him and letting Him lead me, instruct me, and follow His instructions. When I tried to call my own shots and be my own God. Billy Sunday said, to see some people today You'd think that the essential of Christianity is to have a long uh have a face so long you could eat oatmeal out of the end of a gas pipe You look at Christianity today, we got loud music and we got the sounds and we got all that stuff, and I'm telling you, Christians, many of them are unhappy. I had this view of Christianity before I was saved. I thought you had to have a gigantic black Bible, you had to wear a black suit, and you had to look like this And if you do that, then you're a good Christian. That is the lie of the devil. Jesus says, My joy I give unto you. There is real joy, there is real peace, there is real uh joy For you and I to experience as a believer. But if we're not careful, that joy will wither away. If we let sin creep in. We cover it up, we excuse it, we justify it, we ignore it. We gotta deal with it. Acknowledge it, confess it, repent, forsake it. If we get our focus on our circumstances, oh this is terrible, this is horrible, oh I'll never be happy again, oh never No, no, no. Don't look at that. Look at God. He's all powerful. He's above all of this. A guy said to John O'Race one time, there were interviews from John O'Race said, well, how are you doing? He goes, Well, under the circumstances, I'm okay. John Ar. Rice said, what are you doing under the circumstances? You've got a God in heaven. Look above that. And then if I ain't got self. If my whole thing is everything about me, self, self, self, look at me, self, self, self, self, self, self, self, self, self, self, self. I don't see Jesus taking selfies. Do you? I don't I don't see Paul taking selfies. Look at me. And I'm not trying to be ugly, but I do want to be happy. I do want the joy of the Lord. And the more I get off of self and more on Christ and others, the happier we'll be. I don't know if this helped anybody or made sense. Let's pray and ask the Lord to help us. Father in heaven, I pray you'd challenge us and help us that the joy of the Lord would be very real, very evident in our lives. For your glory and so for the good of others to come to Christ. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, there'd be some here this morning who say, Preacher, I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. I know I've been saved. I trust in Christ. He saved me But you'd say this morning, preacher, my walk with God and that joy of the Lord isn't what it once was. It isn't what it once was. I need the Lord to move and work in my heart and restore unto me that joy. Not let it wither anymore, but turn that thing around and make it alive again. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. I need revival in my heart and light. That's what it comes down to. I need revival in my heart and light. Would you slip your hand up any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I need revival. God bless you. Hands all around. Probably if all of us were honest, every one of us would raise our hand. I need revival. Now maybe there's some, and I'm not going to ask you to respond visibly, but maybe there's some this morning, there's some sin there, and the Spirit of God has addressed that this morning. You know what it is. The Spirit has brought it right to your mind I want to plead with you as your pastor. Get alone with God. Get an altar. Acknowledge that. Deal with it. Forsake it. Confess it. Repent. Let the Lord restore that joy Maybe there's some this morning you got your eyes, you're in a terrible situation, and nobody would deny it's terrible. But you got so overwhelmed by it, your eyes got off of Christ, and this morning you need to say, I need to get my eyes back on the Lord, start trusting him, put this thing in his hands. and trust him to see me through it. Or maybe that's selfishness. I'm not submitted to the Lord. I'm not letting him lead me and direct me. I'm directing me Whatever it is, let the Lord have his way. Would there happen to be someone this morning say preacher I'm not sure when I die, I'm going to heaven. Say, preacher, I'm concerned about it. I don't want to go to hell. You say, Preacher, pray for me. I want to know for sure my sins are forgiven on my way to heaven. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me I need to be saved. Any at all? Now, Father, bless our invitation, I ask. Have your way in our lives. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed. Eyes are closed. Jennifer's plan.