Month and giving some tips on personal soul winning, on sharing the gospel with others and how to witness and different situations that arise. And uh while you're finding Mark chapter five, yesterday I received, I'm going to turn this on, Dave, or whoever's back here, so be ready. Everybody hold your ears. Ah. Very good. Received yesterday the report from our website and the number of sermons downloaded through the month of December. It was down a little bit. We normally run about 600, 600, 700. We had 480, so it was a little down The number one sermon downloaded through the month was a Wednesday night sermon, Love Your Enemies, 20 Twenty-two times somebody downloaded that. And it's interesting, they always give the top ten, the top the first five, five or six, actually, five first five are all Sunday night and Wednesday night messages. I thought that was interesting from James and from the Sermon on the Mount. And a pretty significant number. The total number uh of uh states it was downloaded into 32 different states downloaded sermons anyone want to guess the number one state West Virginia with thirty-nine sermons downloaded into West Virginia. Well I'll tell you, they need it. But um The second state is California. Twenty-seven sermons out in California, and then all the way down through there, just They really need uh and Rhode Island is on there. What in the world? And um and then uh the countries Get this. 22 different countries downloaded sermons off our website. Number one country was Germany. 39 sermons downloaded into Germany. United Kingdom, Canada, Vietnam, Saudi Arabia, Spain. Qatar, Russian Federation, Australia. The fella there's a fella in Australia, I got an email from a number of years ago. He's a retired missionary I have no idea who he is. He's not with any of our organizations that we know of, and I don't know I don't know anything about the guy, but he emailed me and he says he loves our sir our our website, he loves our sermons And um he uh listens to everything that we put on there. Isn't that amazing? And so we got Australia there And um South Africa, India, Jamaica, Malaysia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Philippines, Brazil, Ethiopia, and Fiji. Isn't that amazing? I think uh they ought to contact us and have us all go visit them around the world. Wouldn't that be great? Mark chapter five. Tonight I want to talk about I just want to give you a few tips. I don't know if I'll get to all of them or not But I want to give a few tips on winning a loved one to the Lord or winning somebody that's very, very close to us. Maybe it's a family member. uh a spouse or a child, a brother or sister, a parent in some cases. They're not saved. You're burdened for them. You want to see them saved, you want to witness to 'em. It might be outside the family. It might be a real, real close friend that you've known your whole life. Somebody's real dear to you or a co-worker that you've gotten close to. But we're talking about a situation other than a total stranger, like we do many times just go out cold turkey knock on doors. That's a whole different type of approach or there's a lot of different scenarios. But this is one where we're very, very close. Look in Mark chapter five And I was going to read the first twenty verses, but for sake of time I'm not going to. I think most of us are familiar with the situation that is recorded here. This is the maniac of Gadera. He's in the in the cemetery. The guy is possessed with devils. I mean uh dozens of them, I mean hundreds of them. A legion And nobody can keep this guy. Nobody can restrain him. He breaks the chains. He's running around the cemetery naked. He's he's uh possessed of the devil, he's out of his head He comes the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus shows up. He runs the Lord Jesus Christ. You know the story. Jesus casts the devils out of them. They go into the swine. Swine run off the hill, into uh the lake there, and die Now notice in verse number 17, the people come out. Well, let's back up to verse 15. And they come to Jesus. These are the town folk. And the people that had the swine, they come to Jesus, and they see him that was possessed with the devil, and had the legion sitting and clothed and in his right mind, and they were what Afraid. I wrote in the margin of a Bible, Psalm 40, verse 3, it says, um, talks about he hath put a new song in my heart, and many shall see it and fear. They were scared what God had done in this guy's life. His life was so radically changed they didn't know how to comprehend it. They were afraid Verse 16, they saw it, and they that saw it told them how it befell to him that he was uh that was possessed with the devil, and also concerning the swine. So they get filled in on the story And they began to pray him, Jesus and this fella, to do what? Part out of coast. Get out of here. We don't want this around here. I mean they were scared of what happened. They didn't understand And when he was come into the ship, he that had been possessed with the devil prayed him that he might be with him. So here's the devil-possessed guy. He's saved now. His life is radically and instantly changed. And he doesn't want to hang around his hometown. He wants to go with the Lord away somewhere else. He wants to go be with the Lord. Now here's my question. I'll we'll get to the next part here. Why do you think I mean we we think a lot of reasons, but do you think w what do you think might be some reasons why he wants to leave, why he wants to go somewhere else? They might still think he's crazy, just crazy in a different way. How about this? The folks, maybe, I got thinking about this, maybe this guy may have been engaged on some things that now that he's delivered from, but he's still ashamed of. And people knew some stuff that he had done. And he had made some s maybe made some statements and did some things to people around him, even family members, that now that he's in his right mind He doesn't want he's uncomfortable being around them. Now I think, personally, I think the primary reason is he wants to be with Jesus. I think that's the whole thing. Jesus saved them, Jesus delivered them, Jesus changed like he wants to be with the Lord Jesus. But I'm going to allow for the fact that there may be some other reasons that he's very uncomfortable being around his loved ones, his family, the people close to him And he wants to be away. But look what the Lord tells him in the next verse. Howbeit, Jesus suffered him not, but saith unto him, Go where? Go home to thy friends. Regardless of what you may think about them, regardless of what may have happened, the Lord's saying, they're still your friends. You go home to them and do what? And tell them how great things the Lord hath done for thee and hath compassion hath had compassion on thee. And so here the Lord is instructing them. How many How many times do you think the Lord somebody that says, I got saved, my life has changed, I want to give my life to the Lord, I want to go out there and serve Him and travel and tell people about Christ? How many times the Lord say, No, you don't go out You stay home, you stay right there and tell your friends. And so witnessing to people who are close to us, witnessing to our in people in our home and our close friends, sometimes is more of a challenge than witnessing to total strangers. We're all a little different, and I've mentioned this often, I think I just did recently, but You know, Kathy and I are different. Praise the Lord for that. And I would hate to be married to somebody like me, but uh Seriously. I hard enough time just living with me. But um what was I saying? Oh we're very different. Kathy, what I'm going to talk about, I really should have her teaching that she is very, very comfortable talking to and witnessing to somebody that's real close to her That's somebody she works with every day and gets to know and has she's she can sit down and share the gospel with them. To take her out and knock on doors, total stranger, she's uncomfortable with that. She doesn't like that. I'm the exact opposite I would far rather go out and knock on a total stranger's door, introduce them, tell them uh who I am, and tell them how to be saved, and challenge them concerning their spiritual condition than I would somebody close or even a family member and sit down. Now why do you think that is? I don't want this little input here for you all. Why do you think it's hard to witness to somebody very, very close to us sometimes? They know you very well. And we're going to touch on that. They know the stupid things we've done, and they know even sinful stuff. So they know us. But I think there's some other factors also involved Why else maybe would it be difficult? Rate of failure. Okay, personalities are different. What's that? Rate of failure. Afraid of fa yeah, I'm afraid I might fail in sharing it with them. I think this is the factor. I think this is my thinking a little bit. If I offend them Or if I turn them off or somewhere and they get upset about what I'm saying, I still have to interact with them. And I've got to deal with the fallout. so to speak, of confronting them with the gospel and sharing the gospel. So they take offense and they get upset with the what I'm saying about them being a sinner in need of Christ. It's not like I just, oh well, God bless you and move on I got to see them the next day. I've got to live with them. I've got to interact with them. And so there's a little bit more of a challenge there. So there's reasons for this. But here you have this fella, for whatever reason, I'm convinced the overriding reason, he just wanted to be with the Lord Jesus But very possibly there were other factors involved. Lord says, No, no, no. You need to stay home. You need to witness to the people in your house and the people that are close to you, your friends, and tell them and sh and and uh share the gospel with them. I don't think I prayed, did I? Did I pray? Let's pray. Father, bless now this little challenge tonight. I ask that you would help us to uh uh gain in our confidence in witnessing not just to strangers, Lord, but to people who are very very close to us and be a little challenged. So please bless and help us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Excuse me. Uh now I have down uh if you would come over to chapter six and verse number four. Jesus touches on this a little bit, this whole idea, where it's a little more of a challenge, it's a different type challenge to witness to people close to us than to total strangers. Here you have the Lord, he comes, verse number one of chapter six of Mark. It says, um he came into his own country. So the Lord Jesus is coming home, so to speak. And it says on the Sabbath day, verse 2, he began to teach, and the people were astonished at him. I'm just buzzing through it here And they say, Where in the world does this guy come up with this stuff? Where where do you get this wisdom? And all these mighty what is all this? Is not this the carpenter's son, verse three, son of Mary, the brother of James and Joseph and Judah and Simon? And they were what? They're offended. Look at the last part of verse 3. They're offended at him. Who is this guy? We know him. I babysat him when he was a kid. And uh and then notice what the Lord says, verse 4. But Jesus said unto them, A prophet is not without honor, but in his own country, and among his own what? The Lord is touching on this whole idea that it's very different witnessing and being a testimony to people in our own home, people very, very close to us, then It is to a total stranger. They know us. They know our background. They know our history. They know, you know, a lot of them did stuff for us. We're beholden in some ways to some of them. And who are you to come? Tell me I need to be saved. So it has some unique challenges. Let me give you a list. If you got a pen and paper, I want to encourage you to jot some of these down. Some Well, none original with me, because they all come from the Bible, but some uh other people gay I picked up from others and some I just learned over the years maybe and I think will be helpful. Number one, my first tip tonight In winning an unsaved loved one to Christ, number one, I think this is probably the most important one, I put it this way, get And keep my life in line with God's Word. Get and keep my life in line with God's Word Another way you could say it was, get and stay right with God. Turn with me if you would, and we're going to go to a number of verses tonight. Turn with me to 1 Peter chapter 3. Get and keep my life in line with God's Word. What I'm trying to say is this. If my testimony is bad, my witness is powerless. Now I can go to a total stranger. I can go across town, cross the county, find a neighborhood, get me a handful of tracks, knock on the door I can share the gospel tract and witness to people, and I could have the most horrendous testimony at home, and it's not a factor in my witness to them. But if I've got a bad testimony at home and I'm trying to witness to somebody in my home, suddenly that witness is powerless. Look with me at first Peter chapter three and verse number one. Now this is address, I put point it right out front, this is addressed to a woman that has an unsaved husband That is the ab that's the immediate context. But there's a principle here that applies to all of us in this idea of witnessing to folks uh close to us in our own home. Likewise ye wives, be in subjection to your own husbands, that if any obey not the word. Now look at this next statement. Very important They also may without the word be won by the conversation of the wives. What's he saying here? He's saying, listen, your word, you're preaching at him. Now the immediate context is a wife, she has an unsaved husband. He's saying you're preaching at him Isn't going to win him to the Lord. It's your conversation. Now you know in the Bible the word conversations means more than just what you're saying. It means your manner of life. And he's saying, listen, you can be preaching all you want to. If your conversation, if your lifestyle isn't right, that preaching is meaningless. You're not going to win them to the Lord. Then he goes on and expands on it. He says, while they behold your chaste conversation, a very humble lifestyle, adorned with fear, fearing God. Len adorning, let it not be the outward. And he goes on. He says, listen, it's not how you dress, it's not how you talk, it's how you live your life that's going to have a impact on this unsaved husband. Now that's the context. The principle, I believe, is this and applies across the board. I can preach at that loved one, at that family member, all I want. If I ain't living right, that preaching is meaningless In fact, it's probably going to do more harm than good. And so, first of all, I've got to live the life. I've got to have my life in line. Would that mean the Be fully than down to your money. Yeah, if I come across the air, I don't want to look down on 'em or anything, exactly. And so My whole demeanor, I have got to be right with God. I have got to be humble before the Lord. I've got to be living that life right. I'm telling you, nothing will Nothing will drain the power out of our preaching and our witnessing than a poor testimony. So if we're here tonight, any of us here tonight, and we've got someone very, very close to us, and we've got someone dear to us, maybe it's a family member, a close friend, a Co-worker, we better first and foremost, if we're going to ever see them get saved, we've got to first and foremost make sure we've got a genuine godly testimony uh in our lives, that our lives are right. Because everything else we do, uh the rest of this list is meaningless if I'm not living the Christian life in their eyes. And that's where the challenge is, because if it's someone in my home, I tell you, it's a whole lot easier to be a great Christian for an hour and a half, two hours at one thousand five Broadford Road Wednesday night, Sunday night, Sunday morning, than it is to be a great Christian at 1000 Broadford Road Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday. It's my house Anybody you know what I'm saying? Everybody follow what I'm saying? So you've got somebody you care about. You got somebody that you're burdened for. The very first thing we've got to do is make sure I am right with God. And it's not a show, and you can't put on a show 24-7-pick it up I've got to be right with God. I've got to be right with God. Here's my question. As I was preparing this, here's my question. Do I really care enough about that person that I'm willing to adjust my lifestyle so that they can see Christ in me and and I got sav and they get saved Do I really care enough about that person's soul that they go to heaven and not to hell and they actually trust Christ? Do I care enough about that that I am willing to put aside that sin Or whatever it is I'm holding on to, or that area of disobedience that I'm cherishing so much I think I've got hidden. Am I willing to put that aside so that They'll respect what I have to say. They'll respect what the gospel is and maybe believe and get saved. So that's where the real test is. How b how much do I really care about them that I'm willing to adjust my life and change my life? so that they can see Christ in me and that what I'm saying actually uh has some v validity in their mind. So number one, first one, very, very important. Get and keep my life in line with God's word. Because anything I do, if it's not, anything else I do is going to be meaningless or and could even be detrimental. So number one. Number two, jot this one down This is one you probably all expected and and that's rightly so. Number two, pray. Pray. We've got to pray. uh for our the our unsaved loved ones. Um I put this be the beginning point for every soul-winning endeavor is prayer If I'm gonna win someone to Christ, if I'm gonna see people saved, and this applies even to out knocking on doors. I've got to saturate it with prayer When the Lord pointed out to the disciples that the harvest was great, but there's not enough laborers. The laborers are few. What was his solution? We all know what it is. Pray ye therefore, the Lord of the harvest, that he would send forth labors. I want to suggest to you that that same instruction applies to witnessing We ought to saturate the person that we're trying to win to the Lord. They ought to be saturated in prayer, praying for them that God softens their heart, praying for them, that God opens their eyes to see the need of Christ. praying for them that God will be working and help them see the Lord working in their lives. You read the book of Acts very, very carefully, and this just dawned on me a few years ago for some reason Years when I was in Bible college, when the Lord first called me to preach, it was from studying Acts, I took a highlighter, my senior year of college, I took a highlighter, I went through the book of Acts, I highlighted every time it referenced preaching And I went through that and it's just full of it. Went everywhere, preaching the gospel, preaching the gospel, preaching, preaching, preaching, on the streets, in the marketplaces, in their homes, everywhere. And and not just the preachers, the everybody was preaching the gospel. And God used that to challenge my heart, stir my heart, I want you to be a preacher, I want you to pastor. So I yield the Lord and I felt that was his direction and here we are all these years later. But a few years ago I went back and I've read it many, many times since then, but I went through again. This time I was looking at prayer You know what I found out? The book of Acts mentions the New Testament church praying as much, maybe more, than it talks about them preaching. And the thing I take away from the Book of Acts now, what I see in the Book of Acts in that New Testament church, that powerful church that was seeing people saved by the thousands, multiplying the churches, multiplying, you know what it stands out in my mind? Preaching and prayer, preaching and prayer, preaching and prayer. And I'm convinced if we're going to impact our community, if we're going to impact our world, we have got to get back to those two things. Preaching the gospel. and powerful earnest prayer. And if we're going to see a loved one saved, we're going to see that person dear to us and we're a little awkward witnessing to them. It's out of our comfort zone. And you know, they know a lot about us and that's intimidating. First of all, I get my life right. Second of all, I need to saturate that person in prayer. Praying, praying, praying that God's working in them. I think, I believe, and I'll challenge you for the new year. I believe every Christian should have a prayer list of unsaved people Every Christian you ought to somewhere in your Bible somewhere you ought to have a prayer list of unsaved people may be very, very long. I tell you, uh I'm learning to uh uh get a lot of help from my phone And I've got a little thing on that phone. I just have a great list of names and different people. Different folks have family members that mention are unsaved. I put them on there and I'm praying for them to be saved. I got people that I know and I pray on there to be saved. Whether it's on your phone or it's on a uh piece of notepad or somewhere every Christian ought to have a list of people that you are praying for to be saved. If you've got a family member, a spouse, a child, a parent uh uh extended family or a close friend or a childhood friend or somebody like that that's not saved your burden for, you ought to put their name on a piece of paper or somewhere and keep it in front of you and pray, pray, pray, pray, pray. Pray that they'll be saved. Every Christian should have a prayer list. I think every Christian, now there here, let me take it a step farther, and I believe this with all my heart Every Christian ought to be very comfortable, ought to be at home, so to speak, at the altar. If you've got a family member that's lost, you've got a dear friend that's unsaved I'm telling you there's something about that old time altar when the preaching's done and hitting that altar and praying for God to say. You know, back in the day when in the United States of America And there was great revivals taking place back in the days of Peter Cartwright and those guys and uh and uh um Jonathan Edwards up there and Finney and these guys. You know what they did? They understood the power of an altar. And Christians praying at order. That's where it comes from. And so I'm saying that old-time altar is a powerful place to be there at that altar. God save my child. God save my husband. God save my parent, my daddy, my mom, whatever it is. And praying, praying personally and myself and even at the altar there. Now let me give you a few tips about praying for loved ones Uh and this ties in with my first thought, number one, under this idea of praying for him. Number one, I want to pray with a pure heart Two things. If my life's not lined up, my witness is powerless. And if my heart isn't pure, my prayers are powerless. David said in Psalm 66, 18, if I regard iniquity in my heart The Lord will not hear me. And if I if I really care about that person that's lost, that's unsaved on their way to hell, I'm going to pray for them and I got to make sure my heart is pure, that I'm not holding on to some sin or something there, and I have that thing confessed and forsake it Here's something we have to be careful about. Sometimes if we're not careful, we'll get this idea. Well, I'll just pray for them and I won't witness to them. Now, prayer is not a substitute for witness. Prayer is the empowerment of my witness So I gotta be very, very careful that even in praying for that unsaved one, I don't have the mentality well. I'll just pray that way I don't have to witness to him No, no, no. You've got to witness to it. We still have to. At some point, they need to be confronted. So uh uh if I am not re I put this down, I already mentioned it, but if I'm not willing to repent of the sin in my heart and life to see a lost one saved, I am not going to be an effective witness to that unsaved one. I have to care enough to be willing to repent of the sin of my life. So that my prayers can be heard and my testimony is valid. And that way that person can be saved. Very, very important. Here's uh an i illustration of that. For four years, as most of you know, I was able to be chaplain with the hospice program here in town. Tremendous experience, and they I'm telling you they were fantastic to work for at least from my perspective as a pastor. I never had to compromise one of my convictions in any way, shape, or form. And I appreciated that a lot But I would get with folks, and the people, the names that were given to me were folks who had not been to church, did not have a pastor, had no spiritual concern up until this point. Now They've been diagnosed by the doctor, they have six months or less to live, they're on the hospice program, and suddenly they're very concerned about their soul. Or maybe the individual that's sick isn't that concerned, but the family members are. And they want the preacher to come in. And here's what they want Pastor Let's what they wanted Pastor Letterman to do. Not all of them, but a lot of them. This is what they wanted Pastor Letterman to do. You've got to save Grandpa before he dies. You've got to get grandma saved before she dies. Now I consider that a tremendous honor that they would look to me and it's obviously a tremendous need. But here's the problem For a lot of them, they were not willing to get themselves right with God, so that grandma and grandpa could see Christ and be saved. And they wanted someone else to come in and suddenly do for them what they were unwilling to do. You follow what I'm saying? I'm not trying to be unkind. But a lot of those situations they put the squeeze on me. You've got to get him saved before he dies. And my thinking was, listen, if you believe in salvation and you believe in heaven and hell Why in the world weren't you being a witness to them all these years? Why are you waiting now and looking to me? I never said that, of course But that's the thing. How badly do we really want that loved one to be saved? Oh, do we want them to be saved badly enough? We're willing to repent of our sins so that our prayers can be heard. And that our witness is valid. And so we've got to pray. We've got to pray with a pure heart. I put this down under prayer. Pray for God to be glorified in their salvation. That is ultimately the purpose for everything we do is that God would be glorified, right or wrong? What did he say? Whether you therefore eat or drink, or whatsoever you do, do what All to the glory of God. Corinthians tells us that. So I want to pray that my loved one, my family member, whatever it is, I want to pray that they'll be saved so that God will get the glory. You say, well why else? W wh why else would you pray? Well there's a lot of uh reasons we might pray that aren't kosher. If I'm praying for my loved one to get saved so that it will ease my conscience I feel bad. I never I'm witness they're not here, I'm saved, and they're not saying, oh, I feel bad about that. I want to get saved so I don't feel bad anymore. That's not a legit reason. I want to get saved so they'll bring glory to God, so they'll escape hell and Jesus God will be glorified. So I don't want to pray so that it'll ease my conscience. Here's another reason, a faulty reason to pray for a close friend or a loved one to be saved I want them to get saved so that my life will be easier. You know, maybe they're maybe they're living in wicked sin. Maybe they drink or whatever. Maybe they're married to someone, it's a drunkard and they're rough and mean and bad. It makes my life miserable I want them to get saved so I can get a break. Well, that may be a side effect of it, but if that's my motive for seeing them saved, I've got a faulty motive It's not about me. It's not for my benefit. It's for God's glory, ultimately. I want to see him saved to ease my conscience or to make my life easier. Or here's another reason I don't think This is real big, but from some circles it might be. I want to see them get saved so I can look like a great soul winner. Now this was a bit of an issue in Bible college because there was always this competition going on, you know, to some extent. Well, I I led someone to the I led a person of the Lord today. Did you really? I led two. Really? Well, I led three yesterday. You know what I'm saying? I mean that's exaggeration of it But we have to be very, very careful that we're not winning to the Lord just to make us look like we're some great soul winner. We need to le win to the Lord first of all so that God be glorified and two for their own sake, so they know Christ and know his blessing in their life. And so pray. Pray with a pure heart. Pray for God to be glorified in their salvation. Put this one down under prayer. Pray for believers around them, other believers to be a faithful witness. I'm wondering how many folks here, let me just ask this, how many folks here, you've got somebody dear to you that's unsaved, but they don't live near you, they live away. And uh but your burden for their salvation or their need. Anybody sure? We all have folks like that. I can't directly witness to them. I can maybe indirectly long distance, but I tell you one thing I can do that God will bring believers into their life. That God will bring faithful, godly soul winners across their path, and that they will be a faithful witness and they will have that influence. So that's a powerful way to pray that God would uh help believers around them to be faithful. And then a fourth point on this prayer, pray persistently and earnestly for them. Don't just do these little giddy prayers, oh God, please save my brother. I mean that's fine. But if we really care about whether to get saved, we're going to be earnest in that prayer. We're going to be persistent in that prayer. Inconsistent, dead, lazy prayers are powerless. Inconsistent, dead, lazy prayers are prowerless. God bless our oatmeal and Lord save Uncle So and so. Amen. Well that's fine as far as it goes. But if you really want to see that loved one saved You better get serious about that prayer, striving in prayer. Sometime we don't have time now, but mark down, write down Romans chapter 9, verse 1 through 3. Write down Romans chapter 10, verse 1 Paul said, in fact I wrote- I jotted some of the words down, talking about his burden for Israel to be saved, he said, There's great heaviness in my heart. There's continual sorrow in my heart. For my people to be saved. Then Romans ten one he says, My prayer to God for Israel is that they might be saved Brother, don't tell me Paul wasn't burdened for the salvation of his people. He had continual heaviness in his heart, continual sorrow. Great heaviness in his heart. In fact, he goes on there in Romans 9, he says this, and and I'm putting this in my own words. He says, basically, if I could be cut off from God and I could go to hell, so they'd go to heaven, I'd be willing to do that for them Whoa is right. That's what I say when I read that. How many of us would be willing to forfeit our salvation so that a family member could be saved and go to heaven? Now it's impossible to do. It's not a realistic situation. But Paul said, that's my heart. God knows my heart. If I could forfeit my salvation and give it to them, I would do that. Man, you talk about a burden, earnestness. In Romans 10, then he says, I pray. That's how I pray. And so, number one, make it my life in line with God. Number two, pray, and pray earnestly. for that loved one. Number three, write this down real quick, and I'll try and fly through the rest of these real quick. Number three, do not view them as an adversary. Do not view that unsaved person as an adversary. Whatever their relationship to me might be, don't allow myself to see them as an adversary. Now the reason I say that is this, they may be very antagonistic to your faith. They may be very critical. I mean I get don't didn't you get that impression from the maniac of Gadir there when he got saved? They were very critical. They were scared of him. They're saying, you get out of here, go away. We don't want you around here Now, how do I view them? Oh, they're my adversary. I need to conquer them with the gospel. I've got to win this conflict between us. No, no, no. It's not a conflict. They're not an adversary. I need to view them very lovingly, very kind, and very gracious. It's interesting in Matthew 26. Judas comes and Judas is betraying Jesus. And you know what the term was that Jesus used to address Judas? Friend. He called him his friend. What in the world? Jesus did not view Judas as an adversary. He called him his friend. Sermon on the Mount, we've been preaching verse by verse through this. What are we supposed to do? We're supposed to love our enemies. Bless them that curse us. You got a family member that's you don't want them to see them die and go to hell. You want them to know Christ and have eternal life and have the presence of God in their life and your burden for them. Man, they cuss you out and they mock you and they persecute you to extend. How do you respond back? Well they're my adversary. No, no, no I love them. I bless them. I do good for them. I do good to them. I pray for them. Turn with me, if you would, real quickly, to Proverbs. I love this verse. Proverbs 25. Now you read it right on the surface. I don't think you catch what he's saying. You've got to give it a little thought. Proverbs 25. And verse twenty one. Proverbs twenty five, verse twenty one. It says, If thine enemy be hungry, give him bread to eat, and if he be thirsty, give him water to drink. Why? Verse 22. For thou shalt heap coals of fire upon his head. And the Lord shall reward thee. Now, on the surface, what does it look like he's saying you should be nice to them so that what? It'll really steam them. You know, that'll make 'em mad. They're mean to you and doing all that. And you give 'em food and you give them drink. Ha, that'll get 'em. That's what it looks like on the surface. Well, you'll pour coals of fire on their head, ha put uh put hot coals in their hat and they put it on. Like the three stooges. I don't believe that's what he's saying. I think he's tying into what Jesus said in Matthew 5 with the Sermon on Matthew. I put in the margin of my Bible this: how to melt a cold heart. And I think when he's saying about putting coals of fire on their head, I think what he's talking to is about melting that hardness they have towards you and melting that cold attitude they have towards you and changing the way they think. And so if I've got somebody that's dear to me, somebody close, somebody that's difficult, it's awkward to witness to, One of the things I've got to be very, very careful, they may be antagonistic, they may make fun of my faith, they may criticize me for what God's doing in my life But I've got to be very, very careful. I don't view them as an adversary, but I treat them kindly and graciously, because that is the way their heart is going to be melted. That is how they're thinking about what my faith is and what God's doing in my life and what who and what God is. That's how they're going to change is by doing that. Number four, let me give you this one here real quick. Number four, look for opportunities to strengthen your relationship with them. Look for opportunities. I believe most people trust Christ. Now there are some exceptions to this, I understand that, but most people will trust Christ because the person witnessing to them, they trust them. They respect them. I found that most folks that come to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church get saved and go on for God. for the most part are because somebody else witnessed to them, somebody else had a relationship with them, somebody else had an influence and brought them in. Or they showed up and somebody here began a relationship with them Salvation soul winning, I'm learning this, the older I get, the more I'm learning this. Soul winning is more and more relationship-based than I ever dreamed in my early years. Even a total stranger, I knock at the door, it's very rare that total strangers just show up, they answer the door. Hello Hi, do you know that we're all sinners? Huh? And because of our sinners we deserve to die and go to hell? You're kidding. And Jesus died and suffered hell for us? Really? Yeah, if you call on him, you'll be saved. Yeah, call on him. Sh I've n I don't remember that ever happening Do you know what happens? Hey, I'm Pastor Leatherman from the Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Hey, good to meet you. Hey, why don't you come on in? Okay, you want a glass of water? No, thanks. I'm good. Wow, you got a nice house here. And we talk a little bit, and we actually establish a bit of a relationship. It's very shallow, it's very very embryotic, but it is the start of a relationship. And first impression, they'd see it. Hey, he's a nice guy. What do you got? Got something from the yeah, I'd be willing to listen to that. You see what I'm saying? And so that close family member, it may be a strained relationship. They may think you're nuts like they did the manicity there, but look for every opportunity I can to whatever relationship I have with them foster that And develop that. When they have a birthday, send you know make a big deal about it. Things that happen in their life that are positive. Build it up. Hey man, I gotta raise it at work. Praise the Lord. It's not gonna do you any good, burning in hell though Wait a minute, you know, back off a little bit. You know, say, praise the Lord, that's fantastic. If I want them to listen to me, if I want them Here, let me put it this way. If I want them to respect me, I've got to show a little respect to them. Especially somebody's close to us. Especially somebody that we're interact with on a regular basis. And so look for opportunities to develop and strengthen my relationship with them. What's next? Five? I've got to go quickly here. Share your concern for them with other believers. Get other people on board praying for them. Now do it tactfully. If you're home, you got an unsaved, let's just say for sake, you got a child, you know, maybe an adult child there, they're on safe. And uh you and your wife are you know trying to witness them there, and the preacher shows up The preacher comes in and you say, Preacher, will you pray for our daughter here? She's on her way to hell. She's not saved. Will you pray with us that she'll get saved? Not a good idea. You're putting them on the spot. You're m you're making them look bad. You gotta be tactful about this. And so get other people on board, but do it very, very tactfully. Everybody understand what I'm saying? I'm telling you, I'll tell you who I want praying for me. If I've got a need or a burden And I really need somebody to help me pray. I'll tell you, there's two groups of people. One, I want some kids praying for me. Now you gotta be a little careful about that, praying for someone to be saved, but kids are powerful prayer warriors. I think kid will get the ear of God ten times quicker than an adult will. But there's another group of people I want praying for me. Anybody want to guess who I'm talking about? Missionaries. If I've got a need, if I've got a situation, there's something going on, I got about 15 missionaries. I'll fire an email off, or I'll send a text off, and I'll say, hey, brother. Can you and your folks pray about this here very tactfully? I'm telling you, if anybody's learned how to pray, and if anybody's dependent on prayers, it's many of our missionaries out there on the field. And so I like to get them praying for us. So share your burden for the salvation of the loved one with others tactfully, not in their presence. Don't go around like that But uh get godly prayer warriors on board with you. Uh number six, I've got to keep moving. Uh invite them to special services at church. Say, preacher, I can't get them the wild horses can't drag them to church. Oh, but a Christmas program with little kids doing a little thing, that might get them out. Patriotic Day of the American Constitution. We've got to save this country. That may be just the thing. They might say, you know, I'd like to come, I'd like to hear that going on. Um, you know, anything. Evangelistics are we got some guy coming in doing chalk drawings. You ought to see this. They might come in for that. Oh, we got a wild game dinner. You can win a gun. You're kidding. Yeah They they wouldn't walk through the doors of a church, but they'll go out to the pleasant valley and they'll hear the gospel. And so look for these opportunities. Look for situations like this. Um get the kids out to Bible time and then maybe uh you know why don't you come and see your nephew, get the win awards at the Bible Time Friday night. Uh, all right And they come out and you never know. They might get saved. So look uh invite them to uh special services. They might never come out to uh a regular service. And then what number are we on Seven, let me give you these last two real quick. Allow them, I kind of touched on this, allow them the opportunity to express their thoughts and ask questions. Give them the opportunity. If you do get to a point where you engage them, don't tell them, you sit down, shut up, and listen to me. Don't do that in any way, shape, or form. Let them. You know I found out, and I'm learning this more as I'm in this. I found out everybody has thoughts about God. Everybody's got opinions about spiritual realities. Everybody has their idea about eternity. You know what I found out Let them let them tell you what it is. Don't shut them off. Don't mock them. Don't ridicule them. Don't do to them what you they might be doing to you Listen to what they say. Listen to what they think. We got a great thing we teach in our soul winning. If you're witnessing somebody and they come up with some harebrained off-the-wall thing, you know, aliens planted humans on planet Earth and they're coming back to get us and we're gonna live on the planet Zotar and ride hoverboards, you know. They some off the wall thing. Don't go like this. Oh brother, are you serious? Don't do that. This is this is this is how we teach our soul owners to do when somebody has something off the wall go like this Well that's interesting. It works beautifully. My mother-in-law, sh if you're telling her something that she's totally not interested in, you know, oh man, I caught this fish, it's great, and she's totally not interested in, but she's a master at Acting like she's interested, she'll go like this. Well I know immediately, all right, she's not interested whatsoever. Well And so let them say. And if it's some goofy off-the-wall thing and they're saying this stuff, don't m shut them down and chew them out or tell them how dumb they are. Just go, well, isn't that interesting But give them opportunity. Let them let them tell you what they think. In fact, we're finding out this little survey thing has been very effective. You know why? Because we're asking people, what's your opinion? What do you think? Is there a hell or not? Oh, boy, all of a sudden they're willing to talk. Because they think about it. That guy at the Walmart or whatever that's so hard and you're scared to death to witness something. I tell you, he has some thoughts about God I guarantee you he does. He has some ideas about heaven and hell. They might be crazy, but he's got them. And if I can get him to open up and say a little bit, then I've got an open door. If they ask a question and you don't know the answer, don't just make stuff up. Best thing to do if you don't know the answer is what? You know, I don't know. That's a good question. I don't know. But uh let me let me go find out the answer to that. And I'll get back to you there. What does that do? Ah, I can come back a later time. And maybe I can pick it up from there. And you know what? Maybe I'll learn something in the process. And so allow them the opportunity to share their thoughts and ask questions. Don't shut them down. I I you may be right. I mean you are right. You've got the gospel. Your message is true. They may or may not be completely off the wall. But at least let them open up more so even if I'm out knocking on doors and I got some guy that wants to talk to me about every crazy thing in the world and he's going to eat up an hour and a half, two hours of my time, and I got other people that I could be sharing the gospel with I'm generally not going to stay there a long time and engage in that. I just want to get the gospel to them and move that on and I want to move on. But if it's somebody that I'm close to, it's somebody I'm working with I want to listen to them. I want to give them the time they need. You follow what I'm saying? It's two different approaches. And so let them say that. And let me give you the last one. I think it's number eight. And this is great. Look for God ordained opportunities. To share the gospel. Look for God ordained opportunities. Here's something that can facilitate that. Don't be shy. Now don't go overboard with this and be careful with the holier than thou attitude that was mentioned. But don't be afraid to share with them what God's doing in your life. Something like this may simply open the door. Man, God answered a prayer recently. Really? And that may be the open door to talk to them. Oh boy, church was a blessing today. Huh Just go on. Don't say anything about it. But don't be afraid to express what God is doing in your life. And then watch for those opportunities. I call them God-ordained opportunities. Here's the thing. I'll end with this If I am genuinely praying for their salvation, I mean I've repented of my sin, I've adjusted my life to get right with God I want my loved one to be saved. I am praying with all my heart. Tears. John R. Rice talks about the tears of a soul winner, burden, crying that they'd be saved. I'm earnestly praying I am convinced that God will open doors. That God is working in their heart and life. And if I just have to be patient and stay alert. And just watching, waiting for that opportunity, right? Here it is. Here's my chance. Now I can share the gospel with them. Saturate it with prayer, back it all up with prayer, have a lifestyle that they respect, a testimony that they can respect, genuine testimony Doing a lot of these other things and then watching, watching, watching. Here's the opportunity that I can share win them to Christ. And I think we'll be surprised There's no doubt in my mind that God answers prayer. There's no doubt in my mind that God is working in the hearts and lives of the unsaved. And if we'll just watch for that opportunity, watch for that open door that God gives us and jump at that and uh we could see our loved ones saved. Here's the thing. God wants them to be saved worse than you and I do. Think about this. God gave his own son to be crucified so they can be saved. We've not done anything close to that to get them saved. So God's burden for them is far greater than ours. And let's keep that in mind. Let's pray. Father in heaven, pray you'd help these few thoughts here tonight to challenge us in our personal witness with folks at work, neighbors, close friends. Give us boldness, give us humility, Lord. And I pray you'd use us this coming year that we could see many of our dear folks, folks that are dear to us, come to know Christ. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. Again Let me ask this. How many folks tonight you say, preacher, I've got someone very, very burdened for? And I'm going to start praying, like you said, and maybe make some adjustments, whatever needs to be done, but I'm going to start praying, and I'm going to look for an opportunity this coming year. to see that loved one saved. I'm going to trust God to do something and use me in some way to bring them to Christ. Is there any like that? Preacher, I got someone. I tell you, the way to start is that earnest prayer Get that praying on a daily basis. Don't be afraid of this old-fashioned altar, it's a powerful place to come and humble ourselves before the Lord and seek him to work in our heart and lit and bring them to Christ. Father Bless us, Lord. Use us, we ask, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.