Run up here and get my microphone. Acts chapter one. How many people recognize the name Alan Combs? Anybody recognize that name, Alan Combs? What do we know about Alan Combs? He died, that's correct, just uh not too long ago, a few days ago. He was uh a very liberal commentator Um if you me if you ever watched Fox News years ago they had the Hannity and Combs, right, they had the thing and they would go back and forth the two besides the liberal and the conservative and then um later he went off and he had a radio program for a long time, very liberal. I think he was out in New York City. And um I always thought Alan Combs, uh of course he was liberal, uh I thought he was nuts, but um but I always thought he was a nice guy, and I told Kathy several times we'd be watching or listening to him or whatever, and uh Um uh I'd say I don't know that he really believes what he's saying. I mean I think he's just making this up, but uh apparently he was uh pretty darn the wool liberal. But He died here just a few days ago, suddenly, 66 years old, and I came across an article that caught my attention. It said Alan Combs and the Gospel. And the article went on, it's written by a lady here, a believer, and she said in May of 2015, so not quite two years ago. Uh he had on his radio program the daughter of Billy Grant. I don't know anything about her, so I don't know her position on anything other than that, but uh he began interviewing her and asking her about different events in the world and those types of things. And she began to explain to him the second coming of Christ. And she explained that, you know, how things would come down as they would come to the end times, evil men and seducers would get worse. And apparently she went into some detail about the tribulation period and the horrors of that. And he let her go on and he would ask intelligent questions going along with that. And then uh as she kind of wound down and in that she presented the gospel, Alan Combs made this statement. Now think about this, this is about a year and a half, well not quite two years before he passes away. He made this statement. He asked this question So what do people have to do now in order to protect themselves from this coming mayhem and chaos? He says, in other words, what do people have to do now to be saved from this? He said this on the air Without stumbling or trying to f<unk> and this I'm reading now, she said, without stumbling or trying to find a sanitized version of the gospel. She said you simply have to come to Jesus Christ by faith, trusting him to forgive your sins, because his death on the cross. She went into detail explaining the gospel to him. He allowed her to go on for some time. She told him about the sacrifice of Christ and the securities afforded those who've placed their faith in Christ. And she proclaimed to Alan Combs and his listening audience the gospel of Jesus Christ and that because of what he did, She was not afraid of this coming calamity that she would be raptured, and she was saved from that. Doesn't say how he responded to that, but um She made it very, very personal to him. He made this statement. She said this to him. She told him that the end of the world, quote, comes for you and me when we die. He mentioned to her at the time that she mentioned that she was 67 and that her end was fast approaching. He joked that 67 is young, and indeed it is, and so is 66, the age at which he died. And she makes this statement. She says, the Bible, and then the lady writing this article goes on and says, did he make that decision in his heart at some point before he died? to trust Jesus Christ as Savior. Of course we certainly hope so. And we don't know. Find out I guess we get to heaven. And we certainly hope and pray that he made that decision. But I think it's fascinating. that this dear lady was faithful to share the gospel with this uh with him and everyone ahead when the opportunity was given Was he Jewish? No, I didn't know what his religion was. But um and then she makes this statement, she says, the Bible is clear, and this ties into what we're wanting to tonight. The Bible is also clear about the believer boldly sharing a clear, accurate presentation of the gospel. And that is exactly what the Lord has instructed us to do, that we are to share the gospel with anyone and everyone we possibly can. Now this is the first Wednesday of the month. It's the first day of the month. But first Wednesday of the month, we always like to take Wednesday night. I like to take some time and just give some tips on personal soul winning. Just ideas, thoughts, techniques, scriptures, these types of things that will help you and I as believers to present the gospel of Jesus Christ to unsaved people so that they can know for sure that when they die their sins are forgiven on their way to heaven. And uh the tremendous thing is you and I have the opportunity to present some to people a biblical truth that they don't have to hope they're going to heaven. They don't have to think they're going to heaven, but people can know for sure, based on the Word of God, that our sins are forgiven on our way to heaven. And God has given that to us. Now Acts chapter 1, verse 8 is a very familiar passage, no doubt, with uh most, maybe all of us. And a lot of us, I'm sure, have this passage memorized, but I want to use it to begin tonight. And it says this, but ye shall receive power. After that the Holy Ghost has come upon you. Now look at this next statement And ye, I circled the next two words, and ye shall be witnesses unto me Both in Jerusalem and in Judea and in Samaria and unto the uttermost part of the earth. I think the Lord is giving a pattern. For the New Testament church, the Holy Spirit is going to come upon them. They'd be empowered by the Holy Spirit. And then they were witnesses, and that witness was going to expand out into the world. Now, I think we can follow that pattern in our day and age and in our church. Now, we're not in Jerusalem, obviously. We're in Oakland But Oakland would be our Jerusalem, we could say, following this pattern. And then we would be a witnesses. And there's another key word here. Ye shall be witnesses unto me both. In Jerusalem. This is simultaneously taking place. This isn't you're a witness in Jerusalem. Then you stop being a witness in Jerusalem and you go to Judea and then you stop in Judea. No, this is simultaneously going on. And so Oakland would be our Jerusalem. And then Judea, of course, expands out from Jerusalem. There in the Middle East, it would be maybe what we would consider our region of the country. You could say our state. But this region that we have from Judea and then Samaria, and that would go out maybe to our country, our continent. It expands out. And then of course it ends with into the uttermost parts of the earth. And that certainly would involve Central Asia, Kazakhstan, countries like that, down in New Zealand, all around the world. and where we have missionaries all around the world. So he gives us a pattern here. But he the word I want to use tonight, the word I want to touch on is this matter of being a witness. Ye shall be my witnesses. Did I pray? I didn't pray since we read that. Let's just have a brief word of prayer. Father in heaven, I ask now as we look at some of these ideas, these tips, these passages. Lord, I pray that you would teach us and challenge us. Lord, we know that this is your heartbeat, the gospel going to lost people, lost people being saved And so we uh ask that you would uh teach us tonight and help us. Give us boldness as the New Testament believers pray. And I yield my will to you, Lord. I present my body anew, and I ask with all my heart you fill me with your Holy Spirit. God, you speak through me and help us tonight. In Jesus' name, amen. God's given us one primary way one primary purpose while we're here on earth. And that is this, to be a witness. To be a witness of his gospel, of his grace, of his of his uh uh saving power through the gospel of Jesus Christ. Be his witnesses. I think, I believe, that when a person gets saved somewhere down inside their heart and soul, God puts a desire for them to share that message with others. Anybody anybody think that way? Something about it. I don't know what it is. I got saved that Monday night. And uh Christ saved me, forgave me. I mean changed my life, and you know the story. And that very next day Of course, I mean uh twenty-four hours before I would have I would have died to think about talking to somebody about Jesus. But God saved me, and that very next day, something in my heart and soul, I had to tell these guys I had to tell these guys at work about Christ. And something inside God, and I know what is, it's the Holy Spirit of God. He indwells us when we get saved. And his heartbeat is to share the gospel with others, win others to Christ. And so God has put us, he he when he saves us, he doesn't take us immediately to heaven. He leaves us here primarily to be his witness on earth. Now we touched on this before. We've spent We've gone at length explaining it, but just real quickly, briefly, what does it mean to be a witness? If you're a witness, you're doing what? You're simply what? Simply telling what you know. The word itself means to give testimony. It means to bear record. It's simply saying what I know to be true. I just want to tell you what I know to be true about this event or this idea, this experience. And so we're to be witnesses. It's interesting. In the Old Testament, God worked through the nation of Israel. In Isaiah chapter 43, verse 10, then he says it again in verse 12. He says, Israel, ye are my witnesses. And he told Israel that they were to be a witness to the whole world of God's grace, of God's salvation in the coming Messiah. And that was their purpose, to be his witness, to communicate to the world who Jehovah was and how we can come to him and find salvation. Of course, Israel, when Jesus showed up, presented himself as their Messiah, they rejected him. He sets Israel aside. He's not done with them. And he's given us the responsibility of being that witness, carrying out the gospel. And so we have the same responsibility that Israel had as members of the body of Christ, as individuals, as a church. and as individuals. Now, I I I'm captivated by this light and salt in Matthew chapter five. We look We looked at that. You're the salt of the earth. You're the light of the world. In fact, I can announce it now. Our theme for track month in April is going to be salt and light. We're going to have team salt versus team light. And uh that's going to be exciting. And um so we'll uh talk more about that. But salt and light, one of the things we pointed out about salt is for salt to have influence on the food You don't have to have a lot of it. In fact, what I like to say is all you need is just a pinch of salt. It doesn't take a lot, but it has tremendous influence. Same thing with light. If you have a dark room, doesn't you don't need a floodlight, you know, a nine million candlelight spotlight. uh to walk across the room. If you got a little match or something, you can light that little match and whew, it lights up just about the whole place. It's amazing what a little thing do. I got a little thing on my uh chain here. I like to uh carried around and uh look at that and uh it's just a little thing yeah yours is brighter than mine and uh Really. That's what mine says. But it's just a little thing and it has a tremendous influence on a dark room. In fact, you can be back in the field back here behind the church. Get a little light out. Boom. And so my point I'm trying to make is this. We don't have to be the biggest of anything or the best of anything. We just need to be right with God. And just be that witness. And just a few witnesses can have a profound impact. On an entire community. You might be the only saved person in your family, but if you'll be a witness, as God instructs us to be You can have a profound impact. There was a time in my family where my daddy was the only saved person in the family. And believe me, the family was, you know, just as dysfunctional as you can get But Dad was a faithful witness. And today we were just talking to him yesterday, and we were rejoicing in the fact that every one of the family members has made at least a profession of faith. in Jesus Christ. I attribute it to one man that was a faithful witness in that family. So don't minimize who you are. Don't minimize your role in the grand scheme of God's plan of getting the gospel to everybody in the world, because it just takes a little salt, just a little light, and just one person being a faithful witness Can have a profound impact on a family, maybe on the job. You may be the only guy, only gal on the job or in that office complex or whatever that knows the Lord But if you'll be a faithful witness, that witness can have a profound impact throughout that whole place. I got a phone call, oh, it was probably back before we went on vacation. So what, three weeks ago. from a guy, Ron Brooks. Anybody recognize the name Ron Brooks? Anybody remember Ron Brooks? Ron Brooks led Mike Stubler to the Lord Anybody's been here around any length of time, you remember Mike Stubbler, Mike's with the Lord. Ron was a faithful witness in the chemical plant down on the harbor on Baltimore. And faithful witness. And when Mike got under conviction up here at our wild game dinner, he went back to work. He didn't get saved there, but God started working on his heart. He went back to work and he knew he needed Christ Who did he seek out when he realized he needed Christ? Ron Brooks. Because Ron Brooks had a faithful witness. Only guy in the whole place, a couple hundred employees. Only guy knew the Lord But he was a faithful witness. He had a profound impact. Ron called me three weeks ago. He said I got another one on the line. Got another guy he's working with. And one of his supervisors. He said he has a foul mouth, just me, wouldn't talk about He says, but something's going on, and he's been asking me about Christ. He said, Brother Leatherman, I want you to pray that I'll be able to lead him to the Lord. That's something One guy is a faithful witness over how many years has it been? And God's using him in a tremendous way. Might be in a neighborhood. Just one faithful witness in that neighborhood and uh can have a tremendous impact uh with the for the gospel and and for the cause of Christ and see people saved. So I came up with this the other night. This is a little different than what I was originally going to do tonight, but I'm all excited about it because I was up late and I I thought of this and I wrote it down and it is fantastic. So even if it's not, act like it is because I'm excited about it I came up with an acrostic for the word witness, and using each letter as a tip to help us Be an effective, faithful witness. So if you've got your prayer list there and you want to on the back, there's a place for notes, you might want to jot these down, at least for my ego's sake. But I really think it's helpful. So we're going to go down W-I-T-N-E-S-S. I only give you a tip on each one of these letters. I'm going to give you some scripture to go with it. It's always good to have Bible along with what you're teaching, right? And so we're going to do that. So witness, you ready there? You got it? W stands for walk with God. If I'm going to be an effective witness, I have got to have a walk with God. I have got to walk with God. I've got scripture for it, and we're going to look at a bunch of verses tonight. Turn to Matthew chapter 4. First book of the New Testament, the Gospel of Matthew, chapter 4. The Lord is calling some disciples to them. And he makes a statement that points out the important fact that if I am going to be effective witness, I must first Have a genuine walk with God. W. Walk with God. Matthew chapter 4. And look with me, if you would, at verse number 19. Verse 18, Jesus walking by the Sea of Galilee, saw two brethren. Simon called Peter and Andrew his brother casting a net into the sea, for they were fishers. Look what he says here. And by the way, he repeats this in Mark chapter 1. But look what he says. He says unto them, and he said unto them I will make you fishers of men. Doesn't say that way, does he? There's something that precedes that. It's what? Follow me. And I will make you fishers of men. And I think there's a precedent there. I think there's a principle in that statement is if I'm going to be an effective witness for the Lord. I need to first walk with the Lord. I need to have a, I need to be in fellowship with God. I got looking up that phrase, follow me. Seventeen times in the four gospels, seventeen times the Lord Jesus Christ made the statement, follow me, follow me, follow, follow, follow, follow. And when I was done studying that and looking at them, I came to this conclusion. The Lord wants me to follow him. The Lord wants me to walk with him. The Lord wants me to be close to him. And before he ever sent the disciples out to be witnesses, he sent them out. First of all, he got them close to him. He got them close to him. So if I'm going to be an effective witness in my family, on the job, like Ron Brooks is, or in my community, or in our world I've got to learn to follow God. I put it this way, the prerequisite for being effective witness or soul winner or fishermen, whatever term you want to use. is to be a follower of Jesus Christ. I found this to be true, unfortunately, in my own life, and I've observed it in other Christians Is that an inconsistent walk with God produces an ineffective witness for the gospel? If I'm not walking with the Lord, I'm not going to be very effective in my witness. And so I've got to walk with God. Listen, if I'm telling people about how wonderful the gospel is, and I'm living in sin And I'm not reading my Bible, and I'm not praying, and I'm not walking with God. My witness is going to be very, very, not only is it going to be ineffective, it could actually be detrimental It could do a lot of harm to the gospel. And so, now can God use a carnal Christian to bring someone to Christ? Sure. God can use a donkey. Turn a backslidden prophet around. And um uh so yeah God can use a uh a lost person can give out a gospel tract. And somebody gets saved as a result of that is the gospel that saves. But what I'm trying to say is I'll be much more effective in my witness if I have a good, close walk with God. And I'm spending time every day in the Word of God, letting the Word of God speak to my heart and meditate. I'm convinced the first step to messing up in our Christian life is neglecting our walk with God And that prayer time and that devotional time, our church attendance, our church fellowship, we get out of that, we let that slip, we let this slip, and the next thing we know, our witness is shot. So W, uh, walk with God, walk with God. I witness. I put this down, initiate contact. Initiate contact. So I get my walk with God, I'm fellowship with the Lord. Then it comes a point where the Lord says to the disciples, all right, you guys, head on out. You go out into the highways and the hedges. You go out to the cities and the villages and initiate contact. Did you get it? W is walk with the Lord Some people you have to repeat this a few times for. And the other is initiate contact. In other words, go out where the lost people are. We sit around here and there's nothing wrong with this in and of itself. I don't think it's very effective. But if all we do is sit in our church here, our in our four walls, we put a little sign out front, uh, unsaved people welcome, visitors welcome, y'all come. That's nice. But that's not the biblical way. You're not going to be very effective. We have got to go out to where the lost people are Jesus said, go out into the highways and hedges and compel them to come in. We've got to take the initiative How many missionaries would there be out around the world if they waited until people called them up and asked them to come? It wouldn't be none. If they didn't take the initiative, if they didn't go. And um and so as believers we must take the initiative. We must go into the nations of the world. We've got missions conference coming up And I'm getting stirred up. I just love missions conference. We got our globes back there. We got more came in today. We'll have them out. We want to get these into missionaries' hands. And we must take the initiative and get the gospel out into all the world. Pastor Brett was on. I've been showing him around, trying to get him up to speed what we're doing and get them in the flow of things and catch our vision, which he already has. But I was telling about Kazakhstan, a whole nation, with, as far as we know, two independent fundamental Baptist missionaries. How do you excuse that? You know, there's thousands and thousands of churches like ours around the world. Why is there only two missionaries and other things? Somebody has to take the initiative. Somebody has to go, initiate contact, get over there. In our towns and our villages, I appreciate later in this month, towards the end of the month, I'm going to go down to Petersburg with Brother Matt Pride He's got a little his first ever wild game dinner. He asked me to come down preach at. And uh he's excited about it. And uh I appreciate Brother Matt Prime taking the initiative to go out down in that little town and get a church started. And uh go must be uh contact, um initiate contact in cities, towns, and villages, in our neighborhoods How many streets and neighborhoods would there be in Garrett County that if somebody didn't take the initiative to go in that neighborhood and go door to door down through that neighborhood, how many of those doors would ever be presented with the gospel The Mormons will go by, the Jehovah's Witnesses will go by, but how many Bible believers are going to go up from that door and say, we'd like to share with you the gospel of Christ, like to leave some literature with you? Uh my wife and I were traveling. We were down in St. Petersburg. And I tried so hard. I could not there were some churches there. I shouldn't say there were any Bible-preached churches, but I was real comfortable with. We saw these whole neighborhoods and we're coming up through Georgia and got up into uh, I forget where we were, some city we went through, and uh there was just apartment buildings by the thousands. And we both almost said simultaneously, I wonder if anybody's ever left a track on those doors. I wonder if anybody has ever shared the gospel with those people. There must be initiate contact. We must go out to where the people were. And Jesus did that. Crowds are mobbing him, but he says, I have to go to other cities and other villages. I've got to initiate contact with other people. Go into homes and individuals, initiating the contact. We cannot be indifferent. We cannot be laxadaisical. If we're going to be the witness the Bible instructs us to be, we must get out and contact people and and uh and confront is a good word. Confront people, engage, I like that term. Engage people with the gospel. Talk to them. Ask them the questions. Present to them the truth. Share with them what you know to be true. I must initiate contact with people, or uh our witness will be very, very limited, very, very minimal. So letter uh uh um W is what? Walk with God. That's so important. Get that Bible reading time down, get that prayer time down. Get the sin out. Get things right. Get tuned in. Be faithful to church. All these things are part of my walk with God. Get that in place. It'll empower my witness. Then initiate contact Get out and talk to people. Give that gospel track. How many people ever stood in line at Walmart or somewhere and somebody standing there or you were down at Sheets or somewhere and somebody standing there and something down inside your heart said I need to give that person a gospel track trap. Anybody know talking about me? It's just stirring you. You know what that is? That's the Holy Spirit of God prompting us to initiate contact. Go and engage them, at least at this level. Give them the gospel tract. And then W-I uh what's next? T. Witness. T. I put this down. Tell them the gospel. Tell them the gospel. Walk with God Go out and initiate contact. Alright, I'm on their doorstep. I'm sitting beside them. I'm in the hospital room. I'm in their living room. I've invited them over. I've initiated contact. Now what do I do? Tell them the gospel. Tell 'em how to be saved. Um here's the thing, and this isn't uh this isn't as big a deal as it was, but there's for a while about About 20 years ago there was kind of going through our circles this idea of lordship salv, or not lordship salvation, um the idea of lifestyle evangelism. Anybody recognize that term? Now I'm not opposed to that term. If my whole lifestyle is characterized by winning people to Christ, I'm all for that. But what the teaching was was this don't tell people how to be saved. Don't tell them anything. You just live your lifestyle in front of them as a Christian, and that will have a profound impact and they'll get saved. Now I agree with that to some extent, my lifestyle ought to be a witness of the gospel But that it cannot end there. There must be a communication of information to the lost person so they know how to be saved. You follow what I'm saying? Salvation requires information. What information does a person have to have to be saved? Somebody help me. What do they have? They have to have some information. And they gotta know they're lost. Now I think they they could figure that out. You know, I think a lot of people know they're sinners. And the reason I know that is because I ask people and they'll say something, well I'm not perfect. So they know there's a flaw there. But they need to know their law, they know their loss, know their sinner. What's the primary thing they need to, what's the primary information they need to have? Jesus Christ died on the cross for them, was buried, and rose again. Nobody gets saved if they don't know about that. Paul said, I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation. In 1 Corinthians 15, he says, this is the gospel that I preached unto you. How that Christ died for our sins. And according to the scriptures, he was buried and he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. That's the gospel. People have to have that information. The Bible says lost people are blind, spiritually blind. He says they're in darkness. What does that imply? If they're blind, they're in darkness. It means it implies they don't have the information. And I don't mean this in a derogatory way, but they're ignorant of the information that is necessary for them to be saved. So we have to tell that to them. Salvation requires information, and information requires communication of some form. It must be communicated Somebody tell me that the word itself, gospel, I know you know what it means. The word gospel means what? Good news. What is news? News is information. You watch the evening news because you want information, what's going on in the world. Now, if uh if a person uh you might not get the most accurate information on the news But that's the idea behind it. So witnessing includes more than just living a good Christian lifestyle. Now that's very important. It's very necessary. But it doesn't end with that. It's more than just my behavior as a Christian, and that is very, very important. There must be communication I must tell them how to be saved if I'm going to be a witness, according to the Bible. There was a sign north of here, and I like to bring this out every time I get on this subject Uh years ago when we first moved here, we were going up to Uniontown. Remember when there wasn't a Walmart here? You used to have to drive an hour to go shopping We go to Uniontown every Friday night, pack the car out, we're good for a week. It was like living in Pin Buck II or something. But uh there was a sign up there on the church and it said, preach the gospel, and I said, Amen Then under that it said this, use words if you must. And I said, Oh me, I cannot preach the gospel without communicating it. And I used this illustration before, but suppose oh well James Smith. Anybody see James the last few days, James Smith, his arm's all busted up, he's in a sling. Anybody knows that? And uh I mean the guy's in rough shape. Uh he came walking in. Uh well we were born. I didn't know what happened. He came walking in. I saw him His lifestyle, his behavior, he's in a sling. He looked like death warmed over. And obviously in tremendous pain. And so he's he was giving lifestyle Pain. But I didn't know what happened. I assumed Diane beat him up. All I had was what I was seeing, how I was watching him behave. And he says that I came to the wrong conclusion He says he slipped in the mud and fell and twisted his arm, got his rotator cuff muff messed up. And so I'm taking him at his word. But my point I'm trying to make is this By just observing his behavior, I did not necessarily get the correct information. It told me something was wrong, told me something had happened, but it didn't tell me the details. Now the details of the gospel are extremely important because if a person doesn't have them, they die in their sins and they end up in hell And so they can see my behavior, they can see my lifestyle, and Lord willing, they'll say, hey, there's something different about that guy, there's something unique about that gal, there's something they have I don't have But simply living it without telling it does not give them enough information for them to be saved. Am I making sense? Am I beating a dead horse here? I'm overdoing it, but It's important to understand that. We must communicate the gospel to them. They must understand that, as Helen said, that a person is a sinner. We've all broken God's law. Because of our sin, the wages of sin is death. It's condemnation, judgment of God upon me. If I die in that condition, die in my sins. I'm under the judgment of God for all eternity. Christ died and suffered that judgment for me. He suffered God's wrath for my sins in my place and satisfied God's holiness with his sacrifice, was buried and rose again If I call on him, put on my faith and trust in what he has done for me and him as a person, he'll forgive my sin, cleanse me of all my righteousness. I'm accepted by God and go to heaven. They must have that information. And so if I'm going to be a biblical witness, I've got to walk with Christ. I've got to have a genuine relationship walk with Christ. I've got to initiate contact with people. I've got to get to the lost people and engage them. And then I need to tell them The truth of the gospel. This is pretty good, isn't it? Witness. I like it. I'm stirred up. So uh T, what's next? E, I've got to hurry up. Witness. Never quit. Never quit. Stay at it, stay at it, stay at it, stay at it. I doubt there's one person in this auditorium who got saved the first time you heard the gospel. It's possible, I'm sure it's happened, but very, very unusual. You've got a witness, and you've got a witness, and you've got a witness, and you've got a wit And so never quit. Stay at it. Stay at it. Stay at it. Stay at it. Number, I've got to hurry up. I've got to buzz through these last ones. E. Encourage a decision. Now here's where I want to get uh get to on this one. I want to spend uh I wanted to get to this one quickly. Because this is it. Alright, I've I've uh uh I've got a walk with God, I've initiated contact I'm telling them the gospel. I'm not quitting. I'm going to keep on every chance I can tactfully and wisely, but keep on sharing the gospel with them just one time and then quit. No, we've got to keep on going. By the way, let me back up Real quick, when I first came here, you know we're in a small community somewhat, and I got out, I got here Thursday, May 16th, preached Sunday, May 19th, May 20th, I went out and started knocking on doors I was just introducing myself. I'm the new pastor. I'm Pastor Leatherman, new pastor of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Want to introduce myself and invite you. And uh wow, people were nice. Invited me in. I gained 15 pounds first month. They're all giving me donuts and cake. Oh come on in. I got cake and donuts. All right. And um I learned to say, no thanks. That's nice, but no thanks. But Anyway, I get and I knocked on what I thought was all the doors in the media here. I thought, all right, what do I do now? I've knocked on all the doors. And the Lord taught me something. When he said go out in the highways and hedges, he didn't mean go out one time and then quit He meant just keep on going, keep on going, keep on going. You know what I found out? Some of these doors, after knocking a bunch of times, four, five, ten times, or visit them, invite them, lo and behold, they showed up And so don't quit, stay at it. Then uh persuade uh encourage a decision. Paul said in 2 Corinthians 5. 11, he says, knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, I persuade. Men. You didn't say I just tell them the truth and oh it's up to you. Here it is. Take it or leave it. Like it or lump it. This is how to get saved. Alright, I did my job. I delivered the information. No, Paul wasn't that way. You read the book of Acts, he's before uh um not Pilate, he's before um Felix and those guys, and uh man, he's pleading with them. Oh, I wish you I wish you were I wish you had what I had. Oh, you know I need so you know what I'm saying to you is true. And you find Paul, and the Bible says he's reasoning with them in the uh in the synagogues You know what he's doing? He's not just delivering a message. He's poured his heart out. He's trying to persuade them to trust Christ. He is, so to speak, twisting their arms, not literally. But he's putting the squeeze on. If somebody's in their house and the house is on fire, it's about to collapse, and they don't believe you, they're so engrossed in their uh TV show, CSI And the house is burning and collapsing around and say, hey, the house is on fire. How many would say, Well, I told him that's his problem? You wouldn't say that, right? You could go in there, hey, knuckle ahead, listen, your house is you're gonna burn, listen, wake up. I'll drag you out of here if I have to. Now we can't do that spiritually for their soul, but I'm saying this, there ought to be a little passion in what we're doing. There ought to be a little earnestness about this And encourage them to make a decision. And by the way, once they do have that information, a person, a lot of people die and go to hell knowing the gospel. But never making a decision to trust Christ. And so I must encourage them to make that decision. Now that requires some tact. That requires some wisdom and how to encourage them, but uh we ought to do that. I have an alter alternate E. I had two and I couldn't decide which one to use. I think this one was the best one. But let me throw another one in there under E. Enlist others to help you. And list others to help you. It kind of adds credibility to my witness when there's more than one person witnessing to them. If everybody in the church is witnessing to Oakland, Maryland and the surrounding area, and the people are getting it from Dale, and then they're getting it from Cindy and then Ken and then Helen and then Derek and Then Heidi back there, and it's like, whoa. I've had a lot of people, I've had unsaved people say this to me. You know, somebody else was just, I witnessed to them, they said, somebody else just said that to me not long ago. And they'll say this. Huh, I wonder if God's trying to tell me something. I'll say, yeah. Hello? I don't say it that way, but So enlist others, get others involved in it also. Paul and Silas, the two of them going out. I was up in Springfield, Massachusetts. I gotta hurry up. Springfield, Massachusetts. I was doing a preaching up there, a rally, and the church had two guys, big old black guy. His name was Silas. And he had this other little bald guy. His name was Paul And they were soul-winning partners, Paul and Silas. And those guys would go out, and the pastor told me, he says, those two guys are the best soul winners in this whole church. They win people of the Lord left and right. But they work together was two. And so enlist others, engage or enlist others. So E encourage a decision. S, stay focused. Now, N was never quit. S stay focused means this. Don't get off on side tracks. The most important thing isn't what the president said last night. The most important thing is what Jesus says in the Bible. I'm all for I'm glad for what he said. Wonderful. Praise the Lord all that. But what I'm saying is that doesn't save a soul. So when you engage someone and you start witnessing to them, don't let them get you off track on politics or controversial issues or things that are of no eternal consequence. There's a place for discussing some of that. But when I'm witnessing to somebody, I must stay focused on the gospel. Satan will do everything in his power to get you talking about everything else in the world, get you addressed every problem in the world, and neglect the gospel of Jesus Christ. And what when what Joe Brown needs to hear that's lost in his sins on the way to hell, what he needs to hear isn't need to be convinced that he should vote a certain way. What he needs to be is convinced that Jesus will save him if we'll call on him in faith. Amen? And so stay focused. That is what we're about. I can name you churches in the years I've been in the ministry now, I can name you churches that got so caught up on other things that today they're not even preaching the Bible behind the pulpit. They got off focus. And the focus must be the message of Christ. So stay focused. Stay focused. They're going to ask you, where did Cain get his wife? Anybody ever asked you that? You're trying to witness to them? One is, who cares? And uh my begging, but uh there's a biblical answer to it. But uh my what I do is uh they say where'd King get his wife? I just say well from his mother-in-law. Where else would you get a wife from? Then they'll like, huh? And uh you go on. But um I thought that was funnier than what you guys did, but now if somebody says something stupid, this is what we teach in our soul winning. And uh and this is very effective If you're witnessing somebody and they bring up some some off the wall stuff, well w do you think there's aliens Here's what you say so you can stay focused. Say this. You know, that's a lot of people asking that question. Let me get back to that in just a moment, and I'll tell you what I think about that. But let me finish my thought here Because you're going to get off and say, no, there ain't no aliens. Oh yeah, well what about Area 51? Well, that's a bunch of blaming. So you don't believe and next thing you know, you spend an hour arguing about aliens And you leave and the guy's still on his way to hell. So my point is this, stay focused, stay focused. Alright? If they say, well, you know, I was this and uh well I was in my bed, you know, and Jesus showed up one night and he was telling me all this stuff, I'll say stuff like this. Well that's interesting And then go right on. Alright, don't engage it. Don't lose focus. Alright, then last S. This one is so important. W was what? Walk with God. I may share. T, tell them the gospel. Witness. N never quit. E S, stay focused, and the last S is this, and this one's so important, and I'm afraid we neglect it so much in our witnessing, is seek God's power. Seek God's power. We all know this is true. You and I cannot produce a Christian. I cannot make a person a Christian. Only God can do that. And I need the power of God in sharing the gospel. The power of God must be in that in sharing the gospel to him. And I think uh You read in is it Acts chapter 4 where it says they all prayed, and they sort of, Lord, grant unto thy servants that with all boldness We may speak the word as we ought. And the Bible says the place was shaken, and they were filled with the Spirit of God, and they spake the Word of God with boldness. And people here would say, preacher, I'm just a little timid about sharing the gospel. I'm a little anxious. Anybody like that? I'm raising my hand. I get a little nervous about that. I don't know. I tell you what, will cure that The fill yeah that and the filling of the Holy Spirit of God. And getting the power of God upon me. I believe, say, oh I've got to memorize this script. What do I say? First I say this and that. And I think that's good. Have know what you're going to say and have a little plan And we teach that. And that's very, very helpful. It's very important, I think. But if all I'm doing is a script and I don't have the power of God on me, I'm just going through the motions. And I believe we ought to spend as much time and as much effort in getting God's power on us as we do about having that script. That dear woman at the well, she's just newly saved, just as sincere and pure, newly forgiven and saved, and she goes into town and lo and behold she wins almost the whole town to Christ. It wasn't her script, it wasn't her illustrations, it wasn't how smooth she was, her at-the-door presentation. It wasn't any of that. You know it was the presence of God in her life The Holy Spirit powered God upon her and had a profound influence. And so if we're going to be a witness, we need the power of God. I hope you pray For your pastor that God fills him with the Holy Spirit of God when he's preaching. I hope you pray for the Sunday school teachers and all the workers and the bus workers, everyone in this church. We'll pray for the specials when they sing that God fill with the Holy Spirit, that God will work it. And here's what we need. God pray for us that God would fill me with His Holy Spirit so I can engage people and tell them the gospel and persuade them to trust Christ and God working through me. And speaking of heart. Does that make sense? Witness. Isn't that good? I like that. And that helped me. And uh so we are witnesses. We are. He says, You sh uh you see so you shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost come upon you, and ye shall be my witnesses. And so how effective are we is the question. I think if we incorporate these things, we'll be much more effective. So let's pray. Father in heaven. Well, we don't have piano tonight to give a proper quote-unquote invitation. So, Lord, maybe we can just take our pews here this evening and make some important decisions in some of these areas that we're going to be Give our hearts and our efforts to be an effective witness for the Lord Jesus Christ and His gospel. I pray that many people in the coming months will come to know Christ as Savior because of our witness. as a church and as individuals. And so please stir us and help us. And Lord, if there be any with us that don't know for sure about their own personal salvation, whether that's settled or not I pray that tonight we'd be able to show them how to trust Christ and know for sure their sins are given on their way to heaven. So please help us, Lord, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. All right. Very quick