I'm going to read a few verses here. I'm going to read verses 13 through 25. And then we're going to look at some things here tonight. For uh Bible Institute right now uh in my class we're going through the major profits and um while while I was uh studying for that um The Lord put this uh thought on my mind. And about three weeks ago, maybe, something like that, um I shared this with the youth group about a Wednesday night Um and so I'm gonna uh give it uh to the whole church tonight, if that makes sense. Which means you guys can go to sleep I'm just kidding. Don't do that. No. That's bad. Um but it will be a little bit a little bit different. So um Isaiah chapter five I'm going to read verse 13 through 25. Verse 13, excuse me. Therefore my people are gone into captivity because they have no knowledge. And their honorable men are famished, and their multitude dried up with thirst. Therefore hell hath enlarged herself and opened her mouth without measure And their glory and their multitude and their pomp, and he that rejoiceth shall descend into it. And the mean man means like average, the mean man shall be brought down, and the mighty man shall be humbled And the eyes of the lofty shall be humbled, but the Lord of hosts shall be exalted in judgment, and God that is holy shall be sanctified in the righteousness. Then shall the lambs feed after their manner, and the waste places of the fat ones shall strangers eat. Woe unto them that draw iniquity with cords of vanity, and sin as it were with a cartrope That say, Let him make speed and hasten his work that we may see it, and let the counsel of the Holy One of Israel draw nigh and come that we may know it. Woe unto them that call evil good and good evil, that put darkness for light and light for darkness, and put bitter for sweet and sweet for bitter. Woe unto them that are wise in their own eyes and prudent in their own sight. Woe unto them that are mighty to drink wine. And men of strength to mingle strong drink, which justify the wicked for reward, and take away the righteousness of the righteous from him Therefore, as the fire devoureth the stubble, and the flame consumeth the chaff, so the root shall be as rottenness, and their blossoms shall go up as dust. Because they have cast away the law of the Lord of hosts and despised the word of the Holy One of Israel. Therefore is anger Have the Lord kindled against his people, and he that stretched forth his hand against them, and hath smitten them, and the hills did tremble And their carcasses were torn in the midst of the streets, for all this his anger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still. Uh let's pray and then the message tonight and um the title of the message is Whoa. Whoa. You can t you can tell youth pastor, right? Whoa So th that's the the title of the message tonight. Lord, we thank you for the the day you gave us. Lord, it just sure was good to be in the service this morning and uh see those three young ladies uh follow you in baptism and um than to hear the report of the young man that was saved today uh uh while uh Zach and Jamie were out soul winning Lord. And um Lord, I pray that you would now meet with us tonight. Lord, uh the best way I know how, I want to just yield myself to you. I want you to take over the service tonight. Lord, if there's anything that I'm about to say that goes against your word, I ask that you would uh uh keep me from saying that. And likewise, Lord, if there's something that you would have me to say that that I might not have in my notes here that you would bring it to my mind. What I'm asking Lord is that you would just totally take over the service and use your word to bring conviction where needed, encouragement where needed. And Lord, I pray that we would make a conscious decision tonight to follow you a little more closely. And it's in Jesus' name. Amen. I want to go back to verse number twenty-five here in just a moment. Well, first let me read verse twenty. Woe unto them that call evil good and good evil. And then verse 25, therefore is the anger of the Lord kindled against his people. He hath stretched forth his hand against them and hath smitten them. Something we've uh talked about in in Bible Institute. A lot of people that um claim to be uh atheists and they claim to to be against God, one of the excuses they they come up with is they don't like him Which if you don't like someone that doesn't mean they don't exist, right? Um that that I never understood that. I don't believe in God because he's mean. Um I c uh imagine if you did that with people. You know, I don't believe in Evan because he's mean. You know, that that he's there, right? Um that never made sense to me But um what they'll say is you know the God of the Old Testament, he you know, he used Israel to destroy the Canaanites and he did this and did that and it was It was so horrible. But but I want I want everyone to understand, and you know this. God didn't just judge the Canaanites. God judged all the nations that turn away from him. God judged all the nations that are that sin against him And so that's that's something that I think um that the world isn't really paying attention to. They just say, Oh well the Israel the Israelites God destroyed the Canaanites and he blessed this one people and and it is true he blessed Israel, but again, God God holds all nations to certain standards. And when when a nation rejects God and when a nation lives in idolatry, there's going to be judgment. And and so we see that. And if you read the book of Isaiah, um, if you well, if you look at the very, very first uh verse of the book says the vision of Isaiah the son of Amaz with Saul concerning Judah and Jerusalem in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah. But uh uh Isaiah here was prophesying during some of the last uh days of the southern kingdom. Again, just for a little bit of uh to just just to get us all up to speed. There was the the northern kingdom and the southern kingdom, the Israel and Judah. After Solomon they split and there was two different kingdoms. The northern kingdom went into captivity first. And then the southern kingdom followed there some time later. But anyway, so this is when Isaiah is prophesying during that time frame. But there's one thing I kind of want to focus on tonight, and it's that word woe You see it several times in the book of Isaiah. You see it here in verse 20, verse 22, verse 21. You see it in chapter 6 You see it again verse fourteen here, or verse eleven of chapter five, excuse me, verse eight as well, verse eighteen. You see it quite a bit here actually in the book of Isaiah. You see it other times um in the Bible as well, but if if you go to Webster's dictionary, which I like Webster's Dictionary, the 1828 dictionary, um I like I like to use that one. That's a good source there. But The definition of woe means grief, anguish, affliction, I like this word, wretchedness. That's a big word. Calamity or trouble. To pronounce woe on someone means you are telling them that judgment, affliction, or calamity or trouble is coming. And w we might not use that word quite as much, but we still kind of do. You ever heard someone say, woe is me? So that's that's what it is You haven't even said that today. No, I'm just kidding. Um but you know, so I mean when you're pronouncing woe on someone, you're you're you're pronouncing calamity or you're pronouncing j you're saying something bad is gonna happen You know, like for example, woe unto the person that put regular coffee in the decaf pot. That is a trick. That is s am I right, Derek? That is terrible. Woe unto that person that would deceive us thus Um that's besides the point. But anyway, so so you see this uh uh quite a bit in the Bible. The word woe is used 106 times uh from what I could find, uh some of the research I did there, 106 times in the Bible. If you if you if you can write some of these references down, we're not going to go to all of them, but if you went to Matthew 23, 13 through 15, Jesus said, Woe unto you scribes and Pharisees. It's where he was saying you um strain at a gnat but swallow a camel, something like that. Uh you know what I'm talking about. I said, Woe unto you uh for that. He said, Woe unto uh Judas, woe unto him uh that betrayed him in Matthew twenty-six uh verse twenty-four. Jesus said to Korzan and Bethsaida, Woe unto you, Corzin and Beth Seda. Now this is interesting. Go to Job chapter 10. Job chapter 10. Here we see it used in the same context, but slightly different. Job 10 verse 15. Look at verse 14. If I sin, then thou markest me, and thou wilt not equip me for mine iniquity. If I be wicked, woe unto me. And if I be righteous, yet will I not lift up my head. Remember Joe was having some or not Joe. Job's back there. You know, Job was having some some some struggles, right? Um all that stuff was happening to him and his friends were saying it's because of your sin or whatever. He's like, listen, if I've sinned, woe unto me So he's using that word woe referring to himself. Paul said, Woe unto me if I preach not the gospel if in 1 Corinthians 916. Shame on me. That's a terrible thing. If I don't tell people about Jesus, And by the way, that that still should be something we say. You know, if we're not going to share the gospel, well woe unto us. You know, that's that's kind of uh why we're here, if you didn't know that. But anyway. Um In Lamentations 5, 16, Israel said, Woe unto us, for we have sinned. And if you go to Jeremiah 22, 13, it said, well, let's go there. This is a good one. Go to Jeremiah. And chapter twenty-two, if you're in Isaiah, it's just the next book. Verse number thirteen, I believe. This would be a good one for dad's to highlight. Woe unto him that buildeth his house by unrighteousness, and his chambers by wrong. So woe unto some here he's saying woe unto those that build their house without righteousness. And and that that should be the foundation of a Christian home. You know, we ought to build our home on what's right, you know, on righteousness, on God's word. Anyway. Uh Revelation 1212 talked about woe the word woe is used to describe those that are going to be here during the tribulation. Isaiah is where we are tonight. And it's all throughout the book of Isaiah, I said this word, woe, excuse me. Chapter 10, verse 1, woe unto them that decree unrighteous decrees. Amen. Making laws that are unrighteous. Amen to that. So Isaiah about himself again. Chapter 6, verse 5. This is um when when he had that that uh the the vision of the temp of God in the temple in the smoke um or his train filled the the temple You know what I'm talking about. And Isaiah six verse five, then said I, Woe is me for I am undone, because I am a man of unclean lips So you see what's going on here. Now, if we look at verse 20 of chapter 5, we're back in chapter 5, and I'm probably going to stay here for most of the time that's remaining. But Verse 20: Woe unto them that call evil good and good evil. The point is, whenever the word woe is used, it's something serious. Now if you look at the times that Jesus used it, you know, woe unto you scribes and Pharisees, was that pretty serious? Well yeah. Um was Job being serious? If I've sinned, woe is me. But and he even said in that same passage, I'm confused. Um or or something to that effect. You know, when when it's when when we see it serious, now when he said, you know, woe unto him that would betray him by whom it is done uh referring to Judas. Was that a serious thing when Jesus was pronouncing woe unto Judas? Well yeah. Um it's a very, very serious thing. When the Bible pronounces woe on someone, it means that God's judgment is coming to those on whom it is pronounced There will be great affliction or calamity or something of that nature on the recipients of the woe. Now here in Isaiah chapter 5. There's a list of sins here, and there's a list of woes here because of the sins. Now Isaiah is prophesying. um about what's going to happen. Chapter 33 or something like that You get the uh account of of of Hezekiah getting the letter from the king of the Assyrians that were they you know, that they they were trying to take over. They were trying to enslave them and and then Hezekiah went and took that before the Lord and prayed Um and so that's the time frame of this. And I and Isaiah is saying, look, woe unto you guys. This is bad. This is what's going to happen and this is why. So let's go down through the list here. Chap chapters like one through five is kind of like a summary of the whole book. It really is. I'd encourage everyone to read it when you get home tonight. Read the first few chapters of Isaiah. But anyway, verse 8, he says, Woe to them that join house to house. That uh lay field to field. The idea is here that there's no respect of someone else's property. You just lay your stuff on someone else's property. Uh verse 11, woe to them that rise up early in the morning they may follow after uh strong drink, uh drunkenness. Well well unto people that are that are uh in in drunkenness. You know, there's some people that are um drunkards as the Bible will call it, um, and given in given to much wine and things like that, um you're gonna have problems. There's gonna be woes There's gonna be bad things and calamities and things like that because of the alcohol. Anyway, um verse twelve Um excuse me. Verse 13. Therefore my people are are gone into captivity because they have no knowledge. Um there was there wasn't that there there wasn't any knowledge of of what was right, no knowledge of God's word Verse 18, Woe unto them that draw iniquity with cords and vanity and sin as it were with a cartrope. How's the idea of trying really hard to pull pull in as much sin as you can, trying to stretch your sinful limits even, if you will? Verse 20, Woe un them that they call evil good, and good evil, and put darkness for light, light for darkness, and uh put bitter for sweet and sweet for bitter Calling things different than what God calls them. Verse 22, woe unto them that are mighty to drink wine. And verse 23, they justify the wicked for reward. And then he says what the woe is going to be in the next few verses, verses 24 through 26. He says, what the the woe is going to be what the of uh affliction and calamity and trouble is gonna be. He says, Therefore, as the fire devoureth the stubble, verse twenty four, the flame consumeth the chaff, so their root shall be rotten be as rottenness, and their blossoms shall go up as dust. Verse 25, therefore is the anger of the Lord kindled against his people, and he hath stretched forth his hand against them and hath smitten them Hills and the hills did tremble and the carcass were torn in the midst of the streets. Pretty violent. Um the the the the the Babylonian Empire that that took over the southern kingdom was pretty violent. I don't know if you all knew that Like really violent. And the Assyrian army was very, very violent with the Northern Kingdom. I mean it was just bad. And um so so he was pronouncing woes, saying what's gonna happen. And here's the sad part Um it happened. What he said was going to happen, happened. That's the sad part. And he he he was he was prophesying, he was giving an opportunity um to repent and to to get right. Now Hezekiah did. He went before the Lord and humbled himself and he he prayed and and um but and there was a there is a space of grace there. But ultimately the nation Um went back to rebelling against God and uh well they went into captivity. So That's the story of what happened and that and that's if we left it there, I think it'd be kind of depressing, but it's it's a good warning, I think One of my favorite verses in Isaiah, if you go to chapter 10, I believe, yep, verse eleven. So the Assyrians took over the northern kingdom and they went into captivity because of their rebellion against God And then the northern the southern kingdom went into captivity by the hands of the Babylonians because of their rebellion against God. Verse 11 of chapter 10, shall I not As I have done unto Samaria and her idols, so do to Jerusalem and her idols. If Israel didn't get away with it, what makes you think Judah will? The Northern Kingdom didn't get away with it, what makes you think the Southern Kingdom will? Now I'm going to say to us tonight, if the Northern Kingdom didn't get away with it, the Southern Kingdom didn't get away with it, what makes us think we will What makes us think this kingdom will? We won't. We won't. Now, I want to say this. Just like God told Josiah And I'm paraphrasing, I'm still gonna have to bring judgment, but because you humbled yourself and you brought there was a revival there, um he said you won't see it in your lifetime Now I believe that can happen. Does is there gonna be punishment for sin or judgment for for a nation? It's wickedness. Well yeah. But can it be delayed? I believe so. Just like um just like the southern kingdom of Judah, it was delayed. So what are some things and and it it's all it's a quarter till eight, so I'm I'm gonna talk for just a few more minutes here. But there I think there's four things that I can learn from this. From what from what from Isaiah's warning to Judah, I think there and from this passage here in chapter 5, I think there's four things I can learn from this. The first thing is this, we better call things what God calls them. And I get that from verse 20. Woe unto them that call evil good, and good evil. That put darkness for light and light for darkness, and put bitter for sweet, and sweet for bitter. There is a great woe that go to those that call good evil and evil good. Good is good, evil is evil. And that is what we should call it. One of the reasons that the Southern Kingdom was in the spot they were in is because they were calling what God called evil, they were calling it good. They would they would show up at the temple and put it in our our modern uh way of thinking, they'd show up at church. And then after they showed up at the temple, on the side, they were still worshiping their other gods. And it was seen as good. It was seen as a good thing. It was inclusive, you know That's wicked. That's wicked. And and when we show up at church and and play church on Sunday And then when we leave, we're supporting things that God calls evil. Well unto us. There is nothing good about what God calls evil. And we could apply that to so many different things. I got just a couple written down here. But we better call things what God calls them. You know, rather than calling it an alternate lifestyle, we we need to call it sodomy. It's evil, it's sin. Now God died for that sin. Christ died for that sin. You know what I'm saying. But to s to to celebrate that and to say we're okay with that would be evil. And one of the reasons That Judah was in the spot that they were in is because they were celebrating evil. And I mean I just I just picked one out. There's all kinds of things that are evil that we say are good. Uh and but the bottom line is is we better just call things what God calls them. This is this is just kind of a a pet peeve of mine. And I'm just gonna share it with you so now you know. I don't like to use the word abortion It's murder. I I I don't like to I mean we shouldn't say we shouldn't use their terminology. We should we should call evil evil and good good. We should call things what God calls them. It's a person It's a human, it's not a fetus, it's a human, and it's murder. It's not abortion, it's murder Call things what God calls them. Don't don't call murder women's rights. My goodness, that's that's horrible. Don't don't call murder, you know, um w women's health. I mean, since when was murder healthy? Come on now. Um we need to call things what God calls them. Um Someone who's rebellious will get labeled as someone who's independent and a free thinker. No, call it rebellion. If we use the world's definitions and we call or and we call uh not even definitions but vocabulary and we call things what the world calls them woe unto us And if there's a nation that calls evil good, then there's gonna be woe. There's gonna be woe. So what should you and I do about that? We should call things what God calls them. What does God call marriage? You you y you all follow me? What does God call life? What does God call murder? What does God call right? And we'll look at some of the what we call the bigger issues and say, that's right, amen. No, but what is what what what does God call last week pastor preached an awesome message on love and charity Well, that's what God calls it. God saying that we should love each other. God saying that we should love our spouse, regardless. And that we should have fervent charity. I mean, why are we going to say no to that? You follow me? Why are we going to call good evil? I can't love him. I can't love her. You don't know what she did to me. So then why are you calling what God calls right wrong? Woe unto us. Alright, number two. We need to quit justifying the evil. I get that from verse 23, which justify the wicked for reward Reward evil. And take away The righteousness of the righteous from him. You know what that's saying? Were they were rewarding people that did evil, which is bad. But they were taking away the righteousness of the righteous from him. Those that were doing right, they were making them stop Those that were doing what God said was right, they were putting laws against it. Or outcast or making them outcast or you don't understand what I'm saying And when laws are enacted or when things are pressured to keep the righteous from doing right. Woe unto those people. Woe unto those people. And you could apply that however you want. Um however the Lord is applying that to your life. But but the whole the whole point is If I'm going to look at someone that's doing evil and try to justify it, woe unto them. Okay, another pet peeve of mine, and this isn't just a pet peeve, this is wrong. When someone will look at someone that's living in sin and they'll say, well, they can live that way if they want, just as long as they don't bother me with it. Really? Justifying. No, that's fine for them. I just don't want. No, it's not fine for them. It's not fine. It's not okay. But to try to justify the world's evil, someone will do some w some you know movie will promote something sinful or there'll be uh a sinful policy enacted or or there'll be something sinful that goes on and someone will say, Oh well they're not really that bad and we'll try to that was your favorite line wasn't it Arissa it's not that bad Yeah. Um that means it's a little bit bad. Quit trying to justify sin. Qu quit trying to make sin look like it's not a big deal. It is a big deal. And a and we think, well, as long as I don't do it I'm fine. Well, if you're okay with it and trying to justify it, then you're a partner in it. And quit trying to justify evil. And quit trying to punish good. Alright, number three. We better start learning what God says is right. So number one, we better start calling things what God calls them. Number two, better quit justifying evil. Number three, we better start learning what God says is right. And I get that from verse 13. Therefore, my people are gone into captivity because they have no knowledge. If I don't know what God says is right Then how am I going to know what to do or how to do right? You follow me? I need to do what's right. How do I know what's right? By what God says. Um we need to get in our Bibles. We need to read them. We need to study them. If the only Bible you're getting is at church, you're very malnourished. We need to get in our Bible and read it and study it so we can know what God says. And these the these people they showed up at the temple, sure, and then they worshiped their other gods throughout the week. They didn't know what God said, they didn't know what was right. And they were destroyed because of it. We ought to know the Bible. We ought to know what it says. We ought to promote it. We ought to live by it. If we don't have the knowledge of the Bible, then the nation will have a well pronounced audit. If the Bible's not in your home, Then Woe unto your home. I listen, I I don't want calamity in your home. I don't want anguish in your home. I don't want suffering in your home. We look at this and we apply this to the nation, sure, and it fits. And he because he was talking about the nation of Judah and the nation of Israel. Sure. But it's the same principle. And if the Bible's not in your home, there's going to be anguish, there's going to be calamity, there's going to be frustration, there's going to be battles, there's going to be contention. And your family will be destroyed because of lack of Bible. Your homes will be destroyed because of lack of knowledge, lack of God's word. I beg you, especially dads, especially husbands, get your Bible out with your family around. Get God's word into your home. Get God's word into your marriage. Or your home will be destroyed because of lack of knowledge. Family or marriage will be destroyed. Kids will turn against you. Kids will turn against kids. Spouses turn against each other, and the kids will see it. Because of lack of knowledge. We look at this and say, that's right, we need the Bible to read in uh in America. Well start reading it in the home. We don't want our nation judged because of lack of knowledge. Well, start reading it in the home We don't want our nation judged with man there's the the Bible's out of the s they they they don't teach the Bible in the school, which by the way, there's never anything that said the Bible can't be in school. In fact, in ninety nine I think it was there was a law enacted that every school has to have a Bible. That was just a by the way. But they're not teaching the Bible in schools anymore, and you know, the Bible, they're trying to get rid of it, and all this kind of stuff. Complain about that once you get it back in your home. You know what I mean? So anyway, let me keep going. We better learn what God says is right, and the only way we can do that is by reading the Bible for ourselves and knowing what God says is right, knowing what God says is wrong. You know, one reason people call good evil and evil good is because they don't know what good and evil is. Okay. Number four. One, two, three, four. We better not disregard the Bible, and I've kind of already touched on that. And I get that from verse number twenty four. Therefore, as the fire uh devoureth the stubble and the flame consumeth the chaff, so their roots shall be as rottenness and their blossoms shall go up into dust. Because they have cast away the law of the Lord of hosts and despised The word of the Holy One of Israel. God's people casting away God's word. Don't don't cast it away. Now I know no one's gonna go home and take their Bible and and cast it away. You better not I'll find you. But in practice you will. We will. You know what I'm saying? In practice we'll say we'll disregard it And um despise is the word used here. We might not say, oh, I don't hate the Bible. I don't despise it. But when we cast it away, we sure imply we do and disregard it. One thing that is I've said that several times tonight now. One thing that's always upset me and bothered me is someone will be taught the Bible. And then graduate and cast it away. Now not everyone does that, sure. Or someone will, you know, um, once the kids move out, then they'll cast the Bible away. You know what I mean. Don't do that. When the nation does, well unto that nation. When the individual does, well unto that individual. When the community does, When the church does. When a church decides to go away from the Bible as the main point, starts making music the main point or entertainment the main point and and and disregards the Bible, well when to that church So anyway, if we ignore Isaiah's warning, I read this already, uh chapter ten, verse eleven Shall I not, as I have done unto Samaria and her idols, so do unto Jerusalem and hers. And then I'm going to say this if he did it to Jer uh to the north northern kingdom, the southern kingdom, will he not do it to us? Will he not do it to us? What makes us think that we can get away from God's judgment? Now If you read this in the first few chapters, there is a there is an opportunity here to get right with God. And j just like Josiah um turned the nation back and he didn't see the judgment in his time because of it, I believe that can happen. I believe it can happen. Will you not turn your families back to God? Will you not do that? Will you not turn yourself? The only way that the the nation Is i i i is gonna go back to calling good good and evil evil, and the nation is gonna go back to having uh the word of God and having knowledge, is if Christian men Lead their families in that knowledge, in that good, in that evil. And I'm not I'm not trying to ignore the the Christian ladies. It it it's a group effort. It's a group effort. So a couple things just to think about at the end here. You know, maybe you haven't been looking at things how God looked at them. Maybe you haven't been thinking that's a big deal. Can I encourage you to start calling things what God calls them? And a couple examples I use, like call marriage what God calls it, call murder what God calls it, you know. Maybe you've been trying to justify evil. Maybe we should get that right with God tonight. Maybe you haven't been reading God's word and you have a lack of knowledge. Let's get that fixed tonight. With heads bowed, eyes closed, we're going to have an invitation here in just a moment. In just a moment. I have a few questions. Question number one, first off, is this. How many of you, you know what, Pastor Matt, I don't even know if I'm saved. I don't know if I'm a Christian. If I died right now, I don't know if I'd go to heaven. You can't even begin to have peace without knowing Christ as your Savior. You can't bel and there is a greater woe than anything else, and it's a place called hell. And it's not going to be good. And if you don't know Jesus Christ as your Savior, that's where you'll be. But He died for your sins. He suffered that for you, so you don't have to go there. And if you say, Pastor Matt, I don't know for sure if I'm going to heaven when I die, or if I'm going to hell, but I'm very concerned about that, because you raise your hand. I want to pray for you. That's all Not going to call you out, not going to embarrass you and make you give a speech or nothing like that. I just want to pray for you. You raise your hand and say, Pastor Matt, I'm not sure that I'm saved. Could you just slip it up? Alright, next question is this. How many of you would say, you know what, I have not been calling things what God calls them. There's something he's pointed out to me tonight, and I'm he's working on me. Could you raise your hand? Amen. Amen. You may put your hands down. Now I want to ask this question. Now this question is more of a challenge, I guess you could say. And this is for the men, the husbands, the dads. How many of you would say, you know what? I with with God's help, I am going to do my best to get the Bible into my family And I'm gonna I'm gonna do my best to get the prayer time back in my family, to get the Bible reading back in my family. I don't want my family destroyed because of lack of knowledge. I'm gonna get the Bible out with my family. I'm going to do my best to do that. Would you raise your hand? Dads and husbands. Amen. Amen. Good, good, good, good. Now here's the thing. That starts today. Don't say, oh, I'll wait till tomorrow. Start today before you go to bed as a family. Get the Bible out. Get the Bible out. Get a system. Get a schedule. If you could stand to your feet, we're going to have playing here of the music in just a second But I wonder I I wonder this. Uh this is a little bit of a challenge. That's a little bit different. I've never really done anything like this, but I'd like to encourage dads and husbands. And I didn't really plan to go this direction, but I'd like to encourage you right now. This first part of this invitation is for you. And if God's working on your heart about getting the Bible in your family, getting some reading time together, getting some prayer time together, so your family's not destroyed for lack of knowledge, I'd encourage you to To go ahead and get your family and and come up here and pray with them. When when when the music starts playing, the altar's open for that purpose