Writing, sharing with us, of course this is all under the inspiration of God, but he's sharing with us, he's contrasting wisdom and foolishness Now, I think that's fascinating in that here you have a man that was by from the lips of the Lord Jesus the wisest man that ever walked the earth. But yet, on the other hand, he pr he he practic he behaved in the most foolish way you can imagine So we're we're we're we're hearing from the lips, so to speak, of a man that knows exactly what he's talking about on both ends of that spectrum. What wisdom is and what foolishness is. And he knows what it is, not because of what he read or what he heard, but he's experienced it And in this passage here, we're going to read, he is discussing wisdom and foolishness as it affects our lips, our words. Notice what he says there in verse 12 in Ecclesiastes chapter 10. He says the words of a wise man's mouth, a wise man's mouth, are what? Gracious. The words of a wise man's mouth are gracious, but, now here's the contrast, the lips of a fool, and it's Fascinating to me the terms he uses here. The lips of a fool will swallow up himself. The beginning of the words of his mouth is foolishness. It's referring back to this fool whose lips are going to swallow up himself. The beginning of the words of his mouth is foolishness And the end of his talk is mischievous madness. I don't know about you, my occupation is studying words, the word of God in particular words. I think that is Fascinating the words he uses here. Mischievous madness. Then he goes on, he says, this. Look at verse 11. A fool also is full of words. A man cannot tell what shall be or what shall be after him. Who can tell? Who can tell him? The labor of the foolish wearyeth every one of them. Because he knoweth not how to go into the city. Go to the city. So I want to speak and just briefly is my plan. Nobody believes that, but it's my plan is to briefly look at what what he says here about words and wisdom. So let's pray. Father, Lord, it's been such a good day. I just love the Lord's day and my heart is so full The song, the the testimonies, Lord Amy Carmichael always stirs my heart. I pray that maybe you'd use some words stated, some Some verses that are referenced in this message to strengthen our faith. Put a in our in my heart and all of our hearts, I pray, from the youngest to the oldest, put in our heart a desire for genuine wisdom from above. And Lord, we ask that you would stir us and help us. Fill me with your spirit, I ask with all my heart. In Jesus' name, amen. I had my truck in the shop. Now if any of y'all know my truck, it is a miracle it actually runs. I had it in the shop. And um when I take it in the shop, I told the fellow, I said, listen, this thing's a piece of junk. I know it. But I like it And it's the only one I got. I said it needs some shocks and the shocks broke on it. I said it needs some shocks, but I want to spend a lot of money. I don't want to spend more money on shocks than the truck is worth. And so I said, what I want you to do is right up front tell me, can you fix this in a way that it would it's worth it on a vehicle like this? And what I wanted from him and what I want from a mechanic anytime I take my vehicle in is I want him to shoot straight with me I want him to say to me, hey listen, it ain't worth it to put another dollar into this truck. Now I'm right there on the edge of that line. But he says, no, I think I think it'd be alright you'll get some good use out of the truck yet we'll put some shocks on there. I wanna when I go to a mechanic, I want them to shoot straight with me. How many people want to take your vehicle to mechanic And you don't know what he's talking about, you don't even know what he's going to do, and you're not sure what's happening, and you just kind of give it to him, say, I'm not even sure what's wrong with it, he's telling me. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I don't want that. I want somebody to tell me straight up, this is it How about when we go to the doctor? I want a doctor to tell me the truth. Right? How many people would want to go to the doctor? You've got a pain going on inside, and you want to go to the doctor, and the doctor is worried, the doctor is afraid that if he tells you really what's wrong, you're going to be upset, so he just says, oh, it'll be fine, it'll just be fine. I don't want to go to a doctor like that. I want to tell me what that pain is. Tell me, good or bad, whatever. I want to know the truth. When I go to a banker, And I say, hey, here's my stuff. Maybe a CPA or a banker or something say, here's my financial situation. How am I sitting? Where am I at? I want you to tell me. Oh, you'll be fine I don't want to hear that. I want them to tell me, hey, listen, this area here needs attention. This isn't good. You're good here. You're not good here. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I want people to be honest with me, particularly in areas that impact my life. Particularly in areas that affect me. I want people to be honest with me. Um, hey, when I go to hear a preacher preach, I want them to be honest. Amen? Any people know what how many people have ever heard the term sugar coated preaching? Anybody know what do we mean by that? It means they don't really tell the truth, they just what? Tickle your ears. Just kind of say what you want to hear. Listen, there's a heap of them on TV. You find them on any channel on TV. They're all around. But when I go to church, and this has been this way since I've been saved, when I go to church, I want the preacher to tell me the truth from the Word of God. And however it affects me, let it be. But I want to know the truth. Listen, if a person is unsaved on their way to hell, I would imagine they want to know that and know how to escape that. Right? If there's a Christian that's living outside of the will of God and and they're bringing God's chastisement on their life and they're going to ruin their life, ruin their family, I would hope the preacher would get up and say, hey, listen, this is the way it is. You need to deal with this. This is what the Bible says. And I said all that to say this. That is exactly what Solomon does here. Solomon tells it like it is. He's incredibly blunt And especially if you study Proverbs, and we're going to look at Proverbs here in a little bit, but you look at Proverbs and Ecclesiastes, he doesn't pull any punches. He just says, hey, listen, this is what wisdom is, and this is what foolishness is. This is how a wise person behaves and talks and thinks, and this is what a fool does. And he doesn't mix the two, he doesn't sugarcoat any of it. He says, here's how it is. How many people recognize the name Oliver Cromwell? Anybody recognize that great that name? One of the most famous figures in English history, a great military leader, great political leader back in the 1600s And one day he was going to, as most of the leaders and big shots ended, they was going to have a portrait made. They didn't have cameras, of course And so they got an artist in, and he posed, and they were going to do a painting, and the guy did a drawing and started the painting, and he went and looked at it, and Cromwell was furious. And he says, you tear that thing up, we're gonna start over. I want an accurate painting. And what the artist had done, Cromwell apparently had some blemishes and different things that weren't real appealing in his appearance, and the artist covered them up and uh what we would call today photoshopped it and did present a drawing, a painting of Cromwell the way he really was. And he was furious. And he made the statement, he made this statement, paint me as I am. And I respect that. And that is what God does. In the Bible. He paints us as we really are. He doesn't pull any punches, and Solomon does that here. He deals with us As the way we are. He doesn't give us the image we want us to appear to be or what we think we may be. He tells us as we really are. Now, Proverbs chapter 4 and verse 7 says this: Wisdom is the principal thing. Therefore, get wisdom, and with all thy getting, get understanding. And so the highest priority in our lives, one of, if not the highest priority in our lives, is for us to get wisdom is learn to be wise, make wise decisions, behave ourselves wisely, in the eyes of God and according to the Word of God. And so wisdom's the principal thing. And then I got, looking at that as Solomon addresses wisdom here. And some of this is a little redundant because th this passage is a little redundant, but um wisdom does not come naturally. In Proverbs chapter 22 and verse 15. In fact, let me turn back there. I was going to try and quote it. Let me read it to you. Proverbs 22 and verse 15, it says this. He says, foolishness is bound in the heart of a child. Listen to this. This is not popular. But the rod of correction shall drive it far from him. What is that verse telling us? It tells us that a child needs correction. Why would a child need correction? Because wisdom does not come naturally. You know what comes naturally in life? Not wisdom, but what? Foolishness. The foolishness of a child. And so wisdom doesn't come naturally. Nobody is going to be naturally wise because we are naturally foolish because of our sinful nature. And then I put this down: wisdom does not come easily. Now the other time, last time we looked at this passage, we referenced Proverbs 2, verse 1 through 9, where he says, You need to seek after wisdom like silver, you need to pray for it, you need to be committed to it You have got to want it and want it badly. So wisdom doesn't come naturally, and that's where parents' responsibility is to drive the foolishness from the child Teach them wisdom and help them gain that wisdom. Doesn't come easily. It takes time. Nobody gets wise overnight. What's that old is an old um They used to back home, they used to call it a Pennsylvania Dutch saying. It went like this, uh, too soon old, too late wise. Anybody ever hear that? Do I have that correct? Something like that. Too soon old, too late wise. How many people can relate to that? Wow. How many people ever said, man, I wish I could go back and just do it over? Anybody ever say that? I had somebody tell me, this was years ago, shortly after they came, somebody says, if if I could go back, I wouldn't change a thing. And I said, that means you didn't learn a thing. Wisdom takes time, it takes desire, it takes experience. How many people ever learn something the hard way? I found learning something the hard way sometimes ingrains it in my head more than learning it the easy way. So wisdom doesn't come naturally. Wisdom does not come easily And one of the primary indicators as to whether you or I are wise or whether we're foolish, according to this passage here and others. How do I determine if I'm a wise person or a foolish person? One of the ways, primary ways, is what comes out of my mouth Will indicate my level of wisdom or foolishness. How a person uses their tongue is a key indicator as to their level of wisdom or their level of foolishness. Proverbs makes this clear I want to challenge you in the year 2019. That sounds like fiction, science fiction, doesn't it? 2019. It doesn't even seem real. But that's where we are. I want to challenge you in the year 2019. There's 12 months out of the in the year. How many people knew that? Aren't you glad you came to church tonight? And what you can do is take the book of Proverbs. I've said this many, many times, I've practiced it myself for years and years and years, is take the book of Proverbs and each day of the month read that corresponding chapter January 1, 2019, read Proverbs chapter 1, chapter 2, chapter 3 through the months, and you hit February, do it again. Some months you come up a little short, other months you go through 20 or 31 days And you get that whole book. And when you do that, if you'll do that this coming year, I want to challenge you to take note how often our lips, our mouth, our tongue, our words are referenced. Concerning wisdom and foolishness. It's amazing. It's amazing. So Proverbs addresses this, and Ecclesiastes addresses this. Now let me give you my quick little outline. I told you it would be brief. And somebody said, you've already crossed that line. Verse 12 and 13, I put this down: a wise man's mouth is kind. A wise man's mouth is kind. Look at the first part of verse 12. The words of a wise man's mouth are what? Gracious. I tell you, that statement right there is tremendous. The words of a wise man's mouth Are gracious. Are gracious. That word gracious means this. Pleasant. Charming. Favorable. Would you take your Bible and turn with me to Proverbs chapter 10? And we're going to look at several proverbs chapter uh verses in Proverbs here. Proverbs chapter ten and verse number thirty-two. The last verse of Proverbs chapter 10. Keep your place there in Ecclesiastes. We're going to jump back and forth a little bit, and then we're going to quit. Verse 32. The lips Of the righteous know what is acceptable. But the mouth of the wicked speaketh forwardness. That word forwardness means this: inappropriately. We talked about that in Sunday school a little bit this morning. But notice he says, the righteous man's mouth know what is acceptable. The word acceptable there is a neat word. I enjoy studying that and seeing how it's used It has this idea to bring to light to bring delight to people. It promotes the goodwill of others. The lips of the righteous know what is acceptable. It has this idea to make things more pleasant. In other words, a wise man, or in this case he uses the term righteous, a wise man or a righteous man, when he walks into a room, he walks into a group of people The things he says makes the atmosphere much more pleasant than it was before It encourages people, it promotes the goodwill. They are kind. Look at chapter 25, if you would. Turn over there. Proverbs chapter 25 and verse 11. Again, he references the mouth. Proverbs twenty five and verse eleven a word fitly spoken That's the idea of the appropriate way, the appropriate time, the right thing said at the right time. A word fitly spoken or wisely spoken is like apples of gold in pictures of silver. Let me ask you a question. When you're done talking to somebody and you walk away, are they better off than they were before you spoke to them, or are they all mad? And a b man every a and somebody said to me, Every time I talk to folks it ends up in a fight. I said, I don't think I'd go around saying that to a lot of people. I feel like punching you right now for saying that. But a wise man's words are very kind, they're gracious. They promote the goodwill. Do you ever get around somebody and whenever you're around them and you leave, you just feel a whole lot better than when you before. Does anybody know what I'm talking about? They're just pleasant and they're uplifting. And that is a characteristic of a wise man. Now come back to Kleesiestes real quick. Then he contrasts that. And he says, but the lips of a fool, but the lips of the fool, and again I mentioned this reading it, will swallow up himself. What in the world? Has this idea, that phrase swallow up himself, means he is going to devour himself, or I put it this way, this is the way I wrote it down, just in my own paraphrase. They are going to eat him alive. His words are going to eat them up. They're going to be self-destructive. A fool with his own words brings about his own undoing. I wonder how many people end up in a hospital because of the way they spoke to somebody. I wonder how many people end up in jail. You know, we've had this thing the last several years, and uh a policeman approaches somebody And it ends up in a shooting and everybody's all up on arms. Let me give you a little word of wisdom. If a policeman tells you to stop, the best thing to do is what? Just stop. If he tells you to be quiet and follow his instructions, the best thing to do is just be quiet. But a fool is going to start running his mouth, and Tom will testify to this, I'm sure. Has nothing to do with his family, it's his occupation that I'm talking about. That was dead. But how many people get themselves in a heap of trouble because they run their mouth? As they run their mouth. That's what he's saying. It's going to swallow them up. A wise man is very gracious. He's going to speak kindly. It's going to be uh uh uh positive, it's gonna be pleasant, it's gonna promote goodwill But a fool just runs his mouth and it absolutely eats him up. And then verse 13 tells us how this process, how it plays out He says, verse 13, this is how it happens. The beginning of his words of his mouth is foolishness. In other words, he's just saying absurd stuff. The word foolishness there is translated some places absurd Just says ridiculous things, talks about things that have no substance. Titus refers to these folks as unruly and vain talkers. They talk of meaningless things as if they are of great significance. I think that's a lot of stuff that goes on on the talk shows, on TV and on radio. They'll talk about things that are absolutely absurd and they'll talk about it like it's the most important thing in the world I'm telling you, the most important people in the world, I'm telling you, the most important people in the world world are not Hollywood actors. And it is absurd for us to give credibility and the level of importance to people who are by occupation fake. Fake, they're actors. And yet they're treated as if they're these great sages, and they have the wisdom of the world. And my Bible says that that is absolute foolishness. Foolishness. Um it starts with talking About things that are meaningless as if they are so very important. And look how it ends. With mischievous madness. And the one commentary I was reading on that. He said, this is the idea: mental and moral depravity I had a fellow work with when I was in lived in Chattanooga, we worked the Sunny School bus route. It was an afternoon route. I mentioned this before. Uh we were for all the five years I lived down there, we worked the bus route. I just loved it. That was where I learned to preach and ministry as a bus route. And um For a period of time there I had a fella that worked on the route with us, and he married a young girl, a sweet young girl in the college there they got married And this fellow, the whole time, he just kind of grated a little bit. And he was just unkind to her. He couldn't say anything nice to her. And I'm telling you, she was the sweetest thing in the world. She was very quiet, very pretty, petite, just the sweetest little thing. And he could not say a kind word to her. And he would talk about stuff that was just absurd, as if it was some profound thing. And you know, we tried to work with him and he worked in the bus and You know, we'd we'd have little banquets and different things with the bus workers, and I tried to express a reason. But all the time there was just something there that seemed, looking back now, there was just something there that was foolish That was unpleasant. Here about five, six years ago, we lost touch. They went off out Midwest somewhere. I just I lost total touch with them for 25 years. And here on the computer, I come to find out that he had left this little this sweet little wife. They had three or four kids. He left her for another perverted man. And I looked him up on the computer, and you want to talk about the most obscene, perverse. Distorted, morally depraved stuff that this guy is in Is absolutely shocking. And this is the thing that bowled me over. He is quote-unquote pastor of a church down south, a church for sodomites. And I got reading this, and it started out with just talking foolish, ended up with moral depravity. And when I read that, when I started saying that patches, he came to mind. I tell you, we need to be very, very careful. We need to be very, very careful that we be wise. And how we think, and how we talk, because I'm telling you, foolishness never, ever leads to fulfillment And joy and peace. I looked him up. He is angry man. There is anger written all over that guy. So a wise man's words are very gracious, are very kind I was reading about a fellow missionary. He was with the New Tribes Mission. Anybody's familiar with that? Years ago, it was a good solid mission board. And they he was with the New Tribes mission. They came back on furlough one time And they were in Pennsylvania and they were staying on a farm. This boy he was just a boy. He grew up in the mission field. His parents were the missionaries. And um he uh they were on furlough and he was out exploring the farm And uh he found some mulberry bushes. And so he started picking them. He ran, got a bucket, he's picking them, picking them, picking them, and he's filling that bucket up and he's eating more than he's filling up and Next thing he knows, he wandered off of the property of the farmer and he had gotten onto a very grouchy neighbor's property. And he didn't pay any attention, he didn't know and he's picking him and eat him, just having a good time. All of a sudden the neighbor comes out, is absolutely furious. Get off of my property. If I ever see you back there again, I'm gonna run you off. Don't you ever and that guy laid into this little missionary kid. He went running home in tears, daddy, daddy, daddy, and he told his dad what happened. And his dad said, get those mulberries. We're going to go see them. And little Robert Weber said as a child he thought, huh, dad's gonna get him for that. Dad's gonna take care of him. But his dad was very wise. And he said, son, get those mulberries. They went working. Robert said he was strutting up there. This is going to be good. Knocked on the door and the neighbor came out and his dad said this, sir, this is my son. He was on your property and he was taking some of your mulberries. We are very, very sorry. He didn't know, here we want you to have all of these mulberries. And Robert Weber said, this was years later, he said it caught the neighbor completely off guard. And he said he stammered around a little bit and he says, Oh well, uh, uh that's fine. I'm sorry for getting mad at him. Tell you what, you keep those mulberries. He said, I'll tell you what You can just go on, I don't even like them, so you go ahead and pick all that you want, it'll be just fine. You know what that illustrates? That illustrates the difference between wise words and foolish words. Wise words are gracious, they're kind, and accomplish a great effect. Let me give you the last two very quickly. A wise man's words are controlled. Look at verse 14. A full also is full of words. The word full of words has the phrase phrase has this idea: exceedingly abundantly overflowing. I like to eat peas. I like peas. Anybody here like peas? I love peas. I love peas and rice. I love peas and anything. I love peas. I'll eat you a bowl of peas, just I'll eat peas, just a bowl of peas. In fact I did when my Kathy was gone. I eat peas every day It's true. I'm turning green. I love them. And every time I make peace, every stinking time I put it on there, and this is the way I do it. I put it on, I put the water in, I put the peas in. When it's boiling, I know they're done. I don't boil the water and put the peas in. I put the water and the peas in and then when it boils it's done. It's the way I do it. Don't judge me And every stinking time, anybody want to guess what happens every single time I put that on there? It boils over. And every time I thought I'm gonna stand here, I'm gonna watch it, and it's not gonna boil over. I'm watching it, watching it, watching it. I need to go check my phone. And that's the idea of that phrase there where it says it says uh a fool is also full of words. That is boiling over. It's just talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, One guy was complaining to his coworker, he says, my wife talks so much, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk, talk. All she ever does is talk, talk, tal Or torn color And the coworker said, Well what does she talk about? He says, I don't know. She never says. She just talks. A wise man doesn't do that. His words are controlled. And last one is this a wise man's words are credible. Now I like this. I wish I had more time, but I don't. Look at verse 15. Now you've got to look at this a little bit. The labor of the foolish wearyeth every one of them. Now the laborer, he's on the job. And the foolish man on the job, everybody else working with them is weary with them. They're frustrated with them. He's wearing us out. And look at the last part of that verse, what it says about them. This is interesting. I think there's a bit of humor here. Because he knoweth not how to go to the city. I thought, what in the world the a foolish guy's working, and everybody else is frustrated with him because he doesn't know how to get into the city. Now the obvious you look at that and say well going to the city would be the simplest thing in the world. It's always the biggest road, it's the main road, nobody would have a problem going in the city. And I got looking this and it's tied in with the words of the wise and the foolish And this is what I think he's talking about here. He's talking about here a wise man will say that he knows all kinds of stuff what he's doing, but when it comes time to actually do it, he really doesn't know what he's talking about I wonder how many of our guys here that employ folks, some of you guys are employers. Have you ever interviewed somebody? Oh yeah, I know that job. Yeah, I can do that. Sure, that's easy. That's cake. And you hire him and he has no clue what he's talking about. Can I get a witness? Anybody know what I'm talking about? And you hire them all, and man, they'll just talk and they'll they'll convince and they don't and you hire them on and the guy doesn't even know where the exit door is. The guy's dumb as a rock And he talks and talks, and he'll convince you he is the best at whatever it may be. I am the best truck driver that ever existed. I'm telling you, I am something else. Somebody one time always said they were, oh man, I'm the best of this, I'm the best of that. And every job they got they were fired from And the Bible says a wise man, I think what he's teaching us here, a wise man, if he doesn't know how to do something, he admits it. His words are credible. I'd far rather have somebody say, you know, I'm not sure how to do that, than somebody says, oh yes, cake, and then you put them the job and they have no idea what they're doing. Right or wrong. And so a wise man's words, and I'll put with this: a wise man's words are kind. A wise man's words are controlled. They don't just run at the mouth. And a wise man's words are credible. You can trust him when he says something. If he says he can do it, you trust him. He can do it. He doesn't know how to do it. He says it. I don't know how to do that. I can't do that. I was reading about John Wesley. Anybody recognize John Wesley? Great brothers, John and Charles Wesley, great preachers, Methodists. He was traveling down the road one day. He was well known. He's a powerful preacher. He had a lot of enemies for preaching the gospel, preaching the word of God, as people did not like him. One day he was walking down the street on the side of the street and a fella straddled the sidewalk, the pavement right in front of him and stood like this. And Wesley walked up to him And the fellow said, I don't move out of the way of fools. I don't step aside for fools Wesley smiled and he said, But I do. And he stepped around him and walked around him. That is wisdom Let's pray and ask the Lord to help us be wise in our words this week. Amen? Be kind. Let's keep them under control. Let's make sure our words are credible. We won't be foolish Father in heaven, please bless us. And Lord, I kind of buzzed through these a little bit. I pray they were helpful. Or we don't want to be foolish. We live such a foolish world. I pray we'd be wise. I pray I'd be a wise pastor, a wise husband, a wise man. I pray, I believe most of us here feel that way, I'm sure. You said if we asked for wisdom, you'd give it to us. So maybe tonight a lot of us would just want to kneel and say, Lord, help me this week to be wise in my words. We ask this in Jesus' name. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher, I feel like I need more wisdom? I feel so foolish sometimes. I know I do. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. We're going to pray together that God will help us be wise. Any like that? Young and old. How about it? How about it, young people? Wisdom. Wisdom Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads bowed, eyes are closed. As Jennifer plays the invitation, maybe we just want to go into this new work week.