Ecclesiastes chapter number four. Ecclesiastes chapter number four. Betty Gallagher comes in on each Friday and she helps put the bulletins together and helps keep some records and different things like that. And uh she has put together our faith promise giving for this past year from our missions conference last year. up until last Sunday. So the figure I'm going to give you actually will need today's faith promise uh figure will need to be added to that. But uh I thought this was a blessing and this is really what our uh a big part of what our missions conference is about is last year uh there was one hundred and twenty-nine thousand one hundred and $56 given to faith promise missions through the church here. And so with today's offering, that'll be over $130,000 given to missions. So That's a tremendous thing. We praise the Lord for that. And I'm excited that we can just have a fairly significant part in getting the gospel out around the world, you know, and not just uh with our finances, but praying and then the mission trips that we've gone on over the years and we want to continue to do, get out there and work hands-on with the missionaries And so, what a blessing. What a great, great blessing. All right, Ecclesiastes chapter 4. I want to begin reading in verse number 4, and we're going to read down through verse number 8. Verse 4 says, Again, I considered all travail and every right work that for this a man is envied of his neighbor. This also is vanity and vexation of spirit. The fool foldeth his hands together and eateth his own flesh. Better is a handful with quietness than both the hands full with travail and vexation of spirit. Then I return, and I saw vanity under the sun. There is one alone, and there is not a second. Yea, he hath neither child nor brother, yet is there no end of all his labor Neither is his eye satisfied with riches, neither saith he, For whom do I labor and bereave my soul of good? This also is vanity. Yea, it is a sore travail Wow. I've entitled this work, envy, and character Work, Envy, and character. And I hope I can make sense of that title here in the next couple minutes. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask now is We look into your word. I ask that you would speak to our hearts. Father, you are the one that authored this. You've preserved it for us. And now we look into this ancient passage that you've used for thousands of years to teach. And I pray you'd teach us tonight. God, I don't have the spiritual insight or the wisdom needed to really affect people spiritually. So I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. And you would speak through me. You would be our teacher, our preacher. That our hearts and minds would be open to what you have to teach us here. And so I present my body again at this hour. I ask again that you fill me with your Spirit and speak through me. And have your way. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. At this point in Solomon's life, as we've been repeating over and over, he has a distorted view of reality. He is looking at life from underneath the quilt. How many people know what I mean when I say that? From underneath the quilt. I'd use that illustration several times. It doesn't make any sense. The pattern, there's no pattern, it's just threads, chaos. He doesn't see the quilt. He doesn't see life from above the quilt. He doesn't see God's hand He doesn't see God's plan. He does acknowledge God's existence. We've noticed that. But he has completely pushed God from his thinking. Push God from his living. And he is living life and evaluating life and looking at life from where? Under the sun. As if this is all there is. This is all there is to it. So he has a he has distorted and an incorrect perception of life, a view of life. However, Solomon is not stupid. Solomon is not dumb. And though he has pushed God from his life, and that would be a dumb thing to do, granted. He sees, he makes some insightful observations on mankind, on man's behavior. and different issues of life. You know, even unsaved people can make accurate observations of life We were talking today. It wasn't a blessing to have the Moyers here this morning. We really enjoyed it. We were able to have lunch together with them this afternoon. We were talking about different things and different people they had been witnessing too. They're doing very, very well And um uh Sandy, uh Brother Kenton's wife, was saying that she had been she f had to fly down to the uh Dominican and she was flying back and there was a fellow, an atheist next to her, and she was trying to witness to him and she Uh she said, you know, he had some accurate observations. He could see accurately different aspects of humanity But he failed to see the spiritual reasons behind that behavior. He could see the sinful nature, the behavior that comes from a sinful nature, but he could not see the spiritual, uh, the fact that man is a spiritually fallen being. So that's kind of what Solomon is doing. He's making some accurate observations, even though he's failing to see the fact that there's a God behind it, there's a spiritual reality behind these things. And so that's where he's at. So I want to get right into this, and I want us to uh uh notice a few things here that he he makes in these verses we read. Um I want to say, first of all, number one, this is my first point. I'm going to just jump right into it. He examines three characters. I'll explain what I mean by that Now I look at this passage and he examines three characters. Now before I get into this point, I'm gonna allow for the fact that I may be stretching my interpretation of what he's saying here. I studied this and looked at it and looked at it, trying to see what exactly is he saying and I think I'm on target. I think I've got what he's saying here, but uh I'll allow for the fact that I may be stretching it a little bit, but I do not believe I'm doing it injustice And so as I look at this passage, I see three different characters here that Solomon, under the inspiration of God, highlights and examines and uh he looks at them. Different types of workers. If you notice when we read down through there, he uses that word labor several times. So he's kind of looking at these people from a businessman's perspective as laborers And the first one I notice is in verse number four, and I'm calling him the hard worker. The hard worker. Look with me again at verse number four. He says, uh again I considered all travail and every right work. That for this a man is envied of his neighbor. The word travail has the idea behind it of um We think of travail as going through a hard time and difficult times, but I think in the context here, he's using that term to refer to somebody that works very hard. It's a hard-working man. And then that phrase the right work is again the idea of doing work, but doing it in the proper way, in a correct way. And so as I look at this, I come to the conclusion he's looking here at a fellow that works hard. He's referencing or describing a fellow that is working by the sweat of his brow. In other words, he gets up early, he's on the job, he's there when it's time to start, he's very, very conscientious. He puts in a full day. He gives eight hours work for an eight-hour day. You know what I mean. This guy is a man that works honestly. This is the fellow that has some integrity and some honor behind his work ethic. He is consistently in his place. He is consistently doing his job. And I come to the conclusion he's Solomon is looking out at the workforce out there and he sees certain fellows that are what I'm calling hard workers. They have integrity. They have character, they're honest on the job, they work hard on the job, they want to do a good job. We had years ago, we had a fellow uh that was attending our church and they attended for a little while, he and his wife, and uh not real faithful, but off and on for about a year. He lived just down the road here a couple blocks over and he he would had a building business. He was a builder And he was self-employed. He'd hire guys. And I kind of hit it off with him. We kind of became friends. I liked him. And uh we talked different things. He was talking about business one day. I was over at his house and he was talking about business one day, and he said He said, Pastor Letham, you know what one of the hardest things about being self-employed is and having employees? He says, is getting some decent workers. He said I enjoy the work. He said the work is good. But just getting employees that I can rely on, that are going to be in their place, show up, work hard Give me their best, do a good job and be honest about he is at the hardest part of uh of uh employing these people. He says, uh get a guy, I think he's pretty decent And he won't show up a day, and then he'll just kind of give me uh excuses, and I don't know if he's going to be there. And uh this, that, and he says uh he says that's the hardest part. That is not what this guy is. This guy is a producer He can trust in him. We can depend on him. And I think there, that good work and a couple things said here, I think the implication is here he's very generous with his earnings. This guy isn't he's working hard and he's earning his keep and he's earning his income and he earns every dollar of it, but he's not selfish with it, and if somebody has a need or he can invest it there, he can use what God is providing for him through his work ethic. He's using it to help others, concerned for the well-being of others. This guy is what we might consider the salt of the earth. Now let me make a little application. I believe as a Christian we ought to be hard workers. I think what I described here, what I tried to describe here, of what this fellow that I'm reading uh in this verse uh ought to be true of every Christian. Christians ought to work hard. Now let me be real practical with you. Christians ought to be on the job on time. They ought to put an eight hour day in for eight hour uh eight hours of work for an eight hour day. You ought to be able to the boss ought to be able to trust them. With supplies and resources and records. Uh they ought to have integrity and honor. I believe the Christians ought to be the best, hardest working people on the job. And it's a shame when unbelievers and unsaved have a better work ethic than some Christians do So you have this guy here, this hard worker. He's a producer. He is the salt of the earth. Then verse number five, I'm looking at verse number five. And he makes this statement. The fool, nice kind of contrasting this here, the fool foldeth his hands together. and eateth his own flesh. I thought, what in the world? I got looking at that, thinking at that, and I came to this conclusion. This is, and I'm using this term for my alliteration, but I'm calling this guy the hollow worker. The first fellow, verse 4, is a hard worker. Good work. Travail. He's working hard. He's putting effort into it. He's giving it his all. Then this guy here foldeth his hands together and he eateth his own flesh, a hollow worker. This is what I mean by that. This guy is utterly worthless. Now what do you think of when it that phrase, foldeth his hands together? Why would you fold your hands together? What would you be doing that for? Ah relaxing or uh sitting back. Uh I put these things down lounging. Hey Bill, you got the day off and you sit on the sofa and you go like this. Sunday afternoon. Foldeth his hands together. This guy's just lounging. This guy is sleeping. His hands folded. He's sleeping. Uh he's doing if your hands are folded together, what are you doing with your hands? Nothing. This guy is hollow. This guy's worthless. He does nothing on the job. In fact, he probably doesn't even have a job or he wouldn't be lounging around. And then it says he eateth his own flesh. I thought, what in the world is a guy's a cannibal? I got thinking about it and looking around what some other uh uh Bible scholars observed and suggestions. I came to this conclusion. This guy is lazy. He sits around, he folds his own hands. He's just lounging and sleeping. That's his life. And when it says he's eating his own flesh, I want to suggest to you, this might be what he's implying, this guy's destroying himself. Is a laziness is destroying himself. Um the idea of he is consuming up all his resources He's doing nothing to produce, he's doing nothing to bring anything in, and what he does have, he's consumed it all. He is a lazy, worthless consumer. The first guy's a producer This guy's working, he's investing his time and effort into producing things and benefiting not just himself for others. He's a hard worker This guy is absolutely worthless. He destroys himself with his laziness. He consumes everything up. I put it this way. If I was trying to picture this fellow in my mind, I put it this way. If this guy dead is made, somebody else made it. If this guy's clothes are clean, somebody else cleaned them. If this guy's food is cooked, somebody else cooked it. If his bills are paid, somebody else paid them. He is worthless. He produces nothing. He brings in nothing. He is so lazy. He's destroying his own life. His own self. He's consuming his own flesh. And whatever he has, he's just burning it up, burning it up, burning it up, and not replacing, not bringing anything in. If he does have anything, somebody else has given it. If anything is produced, somebody else has produced it He is a consumer, period. Now, sometimes people have needs and they are not necessarily necessarily the result of laziness, right? We understand that And I ought to be very, very careful here. Sometimes people do need help or whatever, and it's not necessarily the uh laziness, but in this guy's case, it's laziness. He has completely destroyed his life, he has produced nothing. Now, I want to take a little rabbit trail that I think applies to this We're looking at this hollow worker, this worthless worker, this lazy man that produces nothing. He just consumes everything. God has created man to work. It's part of our fiber. God has created us that way. God has created man to produce To be fruitful. It is part of our creation. It is part of the purpose of our creation. Now I'd like for you, if you would, take your Bible, turn with me to Genesis, first book of the Bible. And go to chapter 2 and verse number 15. I want to point something out. Now I've touched on this uh several times throughout the years in various messages. But here's a guy, he is lazy, his hands are folded together, he's consuming his own flesh, he's producing nothing, he's a worthless worker He is absolutely no good to anybody. He's destroying himself with any lazy. Genesis chapter 2. If you would look with me at verse number 15. And here we have the account of creation. And verse number 15, the Bible says this: And the Lord took man and put him into the Garden of Eden to fold his hands together. No. He didn't put he didn't create man and put him in the Garden of Eden to build a hammock and swing back and forth on the hammock and drink iced tea, to lounge and relax and rest all the time He put man put him in the Garden of Eden to what? To dress it. That word dress it, I looked this up a long time ago. It has this idea to work it. To labor in it. God created Adam, put him in the garden in order to dress it, to work at that thing, to develop it, to make it productive. To be fruitful, to produce. Then he goes on, he says he put it in there, the Garden of Eden, to dress it and to keep it. That is the idea of observing it, watching over it, being responsible. Having some responsibility, being productive, being fruitful, being involved, working, and uh um offering Everybody alright? All right. Mark is not a lazy worker. Alright. Neither is Jenny, so. So anyway, God created this. Now here's the point I'm trying to get to. I got a little ahead of myself there. Is this before or after the fall? This record just that I just read here in verse 15. It's before the fall. Some of you say, oh, work is the curse of on man for sin. No, work is not the curse on man for sin. God created us to work. God, we're designed to be productive, to be fruitful. Uh sin brought a curse on and said by the sweat of his brow, now you're going to do that. It's going to be more difficult. It's not going to be as pleasant, perhaps. But uh God designed us to work. And in fact, all through scripture, if you notice carefully, when God is touching on this subject, he's always expecting man to bear fruit. The parables that Jesus used, that a husbandman had a vineyard and he lent it out. And when he would come back, he would look for what? The fruit. What they had gained. He gives a one man ten ten pennies, another one five, another one three. He comes back, he wants to see what they gained. God has designed us to be fruitful, to be productive. And here you have this fellow in Ecclesiastes, Solomon's looking out over mankind. He sees, oh, there's some fellas. No, they're hard workers. They're conscientious. They're in their place. They're working hard. They're producing. They're productive. They're a benefit to society. They have a positive, beneficial influence on their family and their lives and their society. As a hard worker, he looks over here and he says, here's some hollow workers. They're just worthless. They're sitting around, their hands are folded, they're consuming their own flesh, they're just eating up, they have nothing. Somebody else has to do everything for them, everybody else has to do all that stuff for them And uh but God created us to work. And what happens? If we are designed to work, if we are created to be productive and fruitful, if that's part of our makeup, what happens when we are not? What happens if we get lazy and sit around and do nothing? What sets in? I think frustration Lazy people are generally frustrated people. Lazy people are generally very unhappy people. Because they're not doing what we're designed to do. I mentioned this before and I assume it's true for others, but if I have a day off, and I don't I don't have uh there's never you don't have anything to do, but let's just say I'm gonna take a day off and I'm not gonna do nothing. I'm going to fold my hands together and eat my own flesh for a day. I'm just going to be lazy all day. About a third of into the day, you know what my wife is saying to me? You need to find something to do. You need to get out and do something. You gotta go, you know why? Because I get frustrated and I get grouchy. If I'm just sitting around doing nothing, I get irritable. I know that's hard for you to believe But it's true. Can I get a witness? Anybody know what I'm talking about? I feel worse at the end of the day when I did nothing than I do at the end of the day when I worked hard all day. Why? Because we're created to work. We're designed to work. We're designed to be productive. And there's fulfillment In producing. There's fulfillment in putting forth effort to work and produce and accomplish something. It's fulfillment there. So this guy's hollow. He's worthless. No doubt frustrated and no self-respect. Because he's worthless worker. Then so number one we got the hard worker. Number two, we got the hollow worker. Number three, I notice Again, I might be stretching this a little, but I think I'm not doing it injustice. I notice what I'm calling the hoggish worker. Look with me, if you would, at verse number eight. It's referencing another fellow. There is one alone. There is not a second. Yea, he hath neither child nor brother. I mean he's pushed them out. He's not worried about them. Yet is there no end of all his labor. So what's it what's it sound like? He's working non-stop, right? I mean he's no end to his labor. He's just gone at it morning all the way night Families, not a part of it. Neither is his eye satisfied with riches. Neither saith he, For whom do I labor and bereave my soul of good? Now, this is what I've come to. This guy's hoggish. What I mean by that, this is a selfish worker. I mean, he is going at it. There is one alone. He's looking out for himself. He says, neither is he satisfied with riches. He always wants more. There has to be more. There has to be more. Uh for whom do I labor? He's working for himself. This is for me, for me, for me, for me. He is the exact other extreme of the hollow worker, the lazy guy. This guy is working like crazy, but who's it for? All for himself. I need a bigger house. I need a bigger budget. I need more of this and I need more of that. And he's just gone and he's laboring non-stop working, working, working, but it was all selfish. It is all for himself. He is only seeking to advance himself. And his mentality is this. This is a dog eat dog world, and I'm going to be top dog. And he's just gone at it. So Solomon notices these three characters. The hard worker, the hollow worker, and the hoggish worker. Then he comes here in verse number four, the last part, and I see he expresses a conflict. Look with me at the last part of verse four. He says, For this a man is envied of his neighbor. Now he's referencing here that first, that hard worker, the guy that has integrity, conscientious uh just a salt of the earth kind of guy. This guy's uh doing right and doing it the right way. And it says that he envieth this guy. He sees people that envy this guy. You know, that's always been the case. Since the fall of man, there has always been in the heart of sinful man an envy on the part of the one who is successful. Think with me a little bit. Cain envied Abel. Abel worked hard. He did what God said. He brought the right sacrifice, the blood sacrifice, and he was accepted of the Lord. Cain brought the fruit of the land, no blood sacrifice, didn't do it the way God had clearly instructed them, and God didn't receive his reward. And Cain became envious of Abel Abel did it right, worked hard, did it the way it's supposed to be, right motives. Cain did it, and he became envious. I thought about, remember Korah became envious of Moses. Moses simply doing what God called him to do. God, the burning bush, Moses responded. He says, I want you to go down there. Moses did, for the most part, did what God told him to do, followed the Lord's leadership. Torah sees that. And he became envious. Who put you in charge? Who said you could do all that? He paid a heavy price for it. And Korah saw the success and the blessings of God on Moses, obedience to God You became envious. Let me throw this out. You know, Korah could have been just as obedient to God as Moses was. Just had a different role. But he became envious. He became envious. When you think of envy in the Bible, you can't help but think of Saul becoming envious of who? David. Saul is slain in thousands. But David his what? Tens of thousands. And Saul eyed David. He became envious Why wasn't Saul just rejoicing in the fact that a lot of their enemies are being destroyed? Why didn't Saul rejoice in the fact that they're winning their wars and God is meeting their needs and taking care of He didn't see that, he became envious of a man who was trusting God, living for God, being productive. Became envious, and it destroyed him. It destroyed him. The Pharisees and the Sanhedrin were envious of Jesus. The Jewish teachers envied Paul. I hate to say this, I wish this wasn't true, but it is. We even see envy within ministries. I've been pastor here now almost 24 years. I've been in ministry for over 35 years, going on uh since 85, so whatever that is, 32 years. I hate to say this, but I've seen churches where one church got his blessing, souls are being saved, they're busting the doors out, they're grown, another church isn't seeing that. And they get envious of that and they start criticizing that church and say they must be compromising, they must be doing something wrong, or they wouldn't be so successful. You know, maybe God's just blessing them Here's my question. Why can't we rejoice in the salvation of souls, whether it's through us or through someone else? I've seen it between pastors. I've seen it between Christians. Where God is blessing for whatever reason. God is blessing or doing something. Another Christian starts eyeing them. Become envious of that and jealous of that. And it is destructive. Envy is rebellion against God's plan for my life. If God is choosing to do something through another preacher, another Christian, another person, and God is for whatever reason, for his own glory, choosing to do something that is not happening in my life, maybe I ought to examine, maybe I need to deal with some issues in my life. But for crying out loud, I ought never get envious of the cause of Christ being advanced. Or God's blessings on another person. It's rebellion against God's plan. God's plan for me may not uh I've told this before and God really convicted me about this. I'm ashamed to admit this is true, but about five years into it here. You know, we were trying to reach people, and I was thinking, and I had envisioned in my mind these great things. And I saw preacher friends of mine that were in big cities and they had these massive works And I got thinking in my head, and this is just, you know, ignorance on my part, but I got thinking in my head, you know, these people have all these big cities to reach, they got these huge numbers And all of that, and they're going to get the judgment seat of Christ, and they're going to get all these rewards for the great numbers, and they're going to get all these rewards for all the people they've influenced. And I'm going to come up and I'm doing the best I can. I'm working hard. About the maturity level of my thinking. And man, God convicted me. I got reading in scripture, and you know what I found out? I can be just as obedient and County to God as a preacher down in Baltimore is obedient to God. And a reward and our blessing is not based on what God chooses to do through us. Our reward and blessing is based upon our faith and obedience to God. There's no room for envy in the Christian's life. There's no room for envy and jealousy on the part of a believer. Envy is rebellion against God's plan for my life. Envy is rooted in pride. And envy ruins and destroys testimonies and ministries. And then last of all, I'm going to end real quick, but I notice, again, maybe I'm stretching this a little bit. I'll allow for that. But I think I got the gist of what he's saying I see he arrives at a twofold conclusion. He looks at these three types of workers. He looks at the envy on the part of mankind. And he comes to two conclusions. Number one, in verse number six. He comes to the conclusion it's just best to be content. Did you see that in verse 6? Better is a handful with quietness than both the hands full with travail and vexation of spirit. I tell you what, I'd rather have a bowl of beans with peace than a steak dinner and be at war constantly. I'd rather have peace in my heart and have green beans have green have peas every day for lunch than have Asparagus? Or yeah, I'd rather have peas than asparagus, I think. But um than have a big dish, a big big meal and constantly have turmoil in the home. You know what I'm trying to say, and that's what Solomon's saying. Just be content. Now he's looking at this from man's perspective under the sun, but he's seeing a biblical truth here. In fact, he wrote this under the inspiration of God throughout Proverbs. Better his quietness therewith. And so he comes to this conclusion, you know, it's a good thing to be content. And that's a biblical conclusion, because Timothy, we're told, content godliness with Contentment is what? Great gain. Great gain. Great gain. Content. And then his other conclusion is this. And not surprised. Oh, it's all vanity. Look there at verse number four, the last part of verse four. This also is vanity and vexation of spirit. Verse 7. Then I returned and I saw vanity under the sun. Verse number eight uh verse eight, the last part. This also is vanity, yea, it's a sword prevail. You know, he's pushed God out of his thinking so much that no matter what he observes, it's all being all vain. And when you and I try to live without God, Everything is vain. That's the theme going through here. Vanity without God. Under the sun, it is vanity. Vanity, vanity. How many people recognize the name Yusuf the terrible Turk? Anybody ever heard of Yusuf the Terrible Turk? He's a very popular wrestler back in the late 1800s. He was from uh Europe. He was the he was a let me just tell you about the guy. I was reading about him. He's a 350 pound wrestling champion out of Europe. Back in the late 1800s. He won the European Championship and he was coming over to America to wrestle the American champ. The American champ's name was Strangler Lewis. Youssef was 350 pounds. Strangler Lewis was just a shade over 200 pounds. But Strangler had a secret weapon He would defeat his opponents, and they say this never failed to work. He would have these massive arms and he'd put them around the neck of his opponents and he would Strangle them, really. Cut off their air till they gave up or fainted and he would win. He was Strangler Lewis So Youssef, the terrible Turk, comes to America and they have this big wrestling match, big name, all this, big money. And he's going to wrestle, and this is apparently legitimate wrestling, not what you have today. And uh he's going to wrestle Strangler Lewis So Strangler Lewis got his secret. He's going to choke him. Strangle him. He's going to win. He'll be famous. He'll be very, very wealthy. When Yusuf the Turk showed up, he found out something about Yusuf he wasn't aware of. Yusuf the Turk, 350-pound Turk, terrible Turk, didn't have a neck. And I saw a picture of him and he did. He was just there was no neck there. It was all muscle, just head to shoulders, no neck So they started the match and old Strangler Lewis got up on the back and got him and there was nothing to choke. There was nothing to strangle. There was nowhere. And they said the one account I read of them, old Yusap, the terrible Turk, took Strangler Lewis and wham, slammed it down, fell on top of him, and won the match. And one, I believe at the time, was something like $50,000, which was huge at that point. Here's the interesting thing. Yusuf the Turk was a very vain man. He wanted all that money in gold coins. Demanded it. So he got all that money on gold coins. Cell, it was all him. He took it and he had the championship belt that they give out and he stuffed all those coins into that championship belt. Imagine how much that would weigh. Gold coins stuffed in that championship belt. It's time for him to go back to America. He got on a ship. The name of the ship was I've got it here, S. S. Burgon. And he sailed him back to Europe. $50,000 in gold coins in his big belt. He wore it all the time everywhere. Yusuf, the terrible Turk. About halfway over to Europe, a storm hit, and the ship began to sink. One story I read said that Yusuf the terrible Turk was such a terrible person that he was throwing women and children out of the lifeboat so he could get in. Now that's no that's just rumor, they don't know that that's true. But whatever happened, Yusuf ended up falling out of the ship into the ocean. And they said he sank like an anvil. Because he had all that gold around him, strapped to him, took him straight to the bottom. He was never found. Gone forever. I think that's what Solomon might be talking about. We ought to work, we ought to work hard. We ought to give our best. We ought to have a work ethlete Well we ought to never do things just for ourselves. If all we see light is under the sun, then we're going to become consumed with ourselves. And consumed with material things. And he says, that is vain. That is empty. It's going to destroy your life. So as we go in, and I thought, how does this apply? Well, how do I apply this to my life? And I thought this was interesting. As we go into a missions conference, We're working and investing in something that is definitely above the sun. We're talking about eternal souls. Eternal life, getting people into Christ so they live forever and live beyond the sun. Now what are we working for? What are we trying to invest for? What are we investing our lives in? Are we like Youssef? Just hoarding everything for here and now and we'll sink. Are we investing in eternity? Am I making sense? You follow what I'm trying to say here, and I believe that's the gist of what Solomon's saying here And so let's tonight as we finish out the Lord's Day and we go into this week, let's really pray that the Lord will help us to give our best to the Lord and on our jobs and our responsibilities, give our very best, be conscientious, be have integrity. Praise God for the blessings on others. Let's live with our eyes above the sun on Christ and realize I need to invest my life, my efforts into eternal things The things of God. Amen. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to use these thoughts tonight, and I I pray they made sense. I pray you'd challenge each of us as we begin a very important week in the life of our church. That you'd lead us and direct us, clear our minds, help us not to get caught up in what Solomon looked at things from under the sun's perspective, but help us to see things from your perspective. And we'll give you the glory and we ask you to use us. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, preacher, God spoke to my heart? And I want God to use me. I work hard and best, my life, and things of the Lord. And I want God to use me and direct me this coming week as we go into missions conference and God to make clear in my heart and mind what my role is in this matter of world missions. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Sure, of course we would pray that. That would be what we want. I'm going to ask our church to do this tonight. Let's make a special matter of prayer as we go the invitation for God's blessings on our missions conference. And that that need would be met to get these missionaries out and God's will would be done. I'm praying every day that God will call folks out, maybe young people. Go off to the mission field and serve the Lord out of our church. Now it's his plan, but we're just looking to him. So Father, bless our invitation now. Stir our hearts and help us, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads about eyes are closed. Met Janny's playing the piano and As she prays, how about let's just finish out the night, the day here, the Lord's house, and especially as we go into this big week for us, this missions conversation, let's really pray. God lead us and direct us, show us Use our church for your glory. Give our best. Maybe God dealt with some hearts tonight about our work ethic on the job. Say, you know, I've kind of been slacking there a little bit. I need to be more conscientious in the effort I put into the responsibilities God has given to me. Maybe as a Sunday school teacher, a worker, whatever. And I want to give God my best wherever it may be