Thank you, Mark. Ecclesiastes chapter 2. I tell you, I've got to read other passages of scripture when I'm studying Ecclesiastes because I get discouraged. We're eating it, you know, we're not at the end yet. So God's teaching us stuff, but uh it's like, wow, this is poor guy. Ecclesiastes chapter 2. I want to begin reading in verse number 11. Make sure I'm turned on here. One. Okay. And I'm actually going to read a fairly lengthy portion of scripture. I'd like to read down through verse 23, starting in verse 11, chapter 2, and down through verse 23. It says this: Then I looked Then I looked on all the works that my hands had wrought and on the labor that I had labored to do. And behold, all was what? Vanity and vexation of spirit. We've been hearing that a lot, haven't we? And there is no prophet under the sun. And I turn myself to behold wisdom and madness and folly. For what can the man do that cometh after the king? And even that which hath been, even that which hath been already done. When I saw that wisdom excelleth folly. Then, let me start over here, verse 13, then I saw that wisdom excelleth folly. And as far as light, it excelleth darkness. The wise man's eyes are in his head. Now, I don't think I'm going to get to that statement in the message. I just want to stop there. That's an interesting statement A wise man's eyes are in his head. You say, duh, where else would they be? But he's he's making a statement here, and I believe this is what he's saying. A wise man thinks through the things that he sees. What he sees, he thinks that through. His his eyes are connected to his brain. He's thinking. Some people just believe whatever they say. Just whatever comes along, oh yeah, that's it. But a wise man looks at it and thinks it through a little bit. And I thought that was an interesting statement. The wise man's eyes are in his head, but the fool walketh in darkness. He doesn't even think about what he sees. He's just staggering through light. And I myself perceived also that one event happeneth to them all. Then said I in my heart, As it happeneth to the fool, so it happeneth even to me. And why was I then more wise? Then I said in my heart, This also is vanity, for there's no remembrance of the wise more than of the fool forever, seeing that which now is in the days seeing that which now is in the days to come shall be forgotten. And how dieth the wise man as the fool. Therefore I hated life, because the work that was wrought under the sun is grievous unto me, for all is vanity and vexation of spirit. Yea, I hated all my labor which I had taken under the sun, because I should leave it unto the man that shall be after me. Who knoweth whether he shall be wise man or a fool? Yet shall he have rule over all my labor wherein I have labored And wherein I have showed myself wise under the sun. This also is vanity. He says, I w I worked hard, I was wise, I was smart, I'm going to leave it behind. Who knows what this guy's going to do with everything I invested in? What's he going to squander it? What's he going to do? Therefore, verse 20, therefore, I went about to cause my heart to despair of all the labor which I took under the sun. For there is a man whose labor is in wisdom and in knowledge and in equity, yet to a man that hath not labor, therein shall he leave it for his portion. This also is vanity and a great evil For what hath man of all his labor and of the vexation of his heart wherein he labored under the sun? For all his days are sorrows, and his travail grief Yea, his heart taketh not rest in the night. This also is what? Vanity. Phew! That's a dark picture. I want to talk about work, work, work. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father, I thank you for this portion of Scripture. The Lord was it's kind of sorry, there's a little sorry that Solomon went through this. We wished he'd have stayed wise and um could have ended his life. A little better testimony than what he did, but Lord, we're grateful that it's recorded for us so we can learn. And we can avoid this amen. And so please bless now and speak to us, teach us, we ask. I ask, Lord, that you would please, with all my heart, I pray you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit. And I yield my body anew to you, yield my will to yours, and just ask God that you would be our preacher tonight and speak to us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well, we're up to almost the end of chapter two, and there's one thing has become abundantly clear in the life of Solomon, at least this point in his life, this guy is frustrated. Anybody pick that up It's all vanity. It's vexation spirit. I hated life. He says that twice there. He's disillusioned with everything he's living for. Now, he's getting later on in his life. He's been around for a little while. And he is at a point now where he's questioning his, almost questioning his very existence. He is so disillusioned, he is so frustrated, he is so disappointed That he makes these blanket statements. Everything is vanity. Everything in life under the sun vexes my spirit. It's grievous. I get the distinct impression, studying this, that Solomon was convinced that he was able to find fulfillment and satisfaction in life to the exclusion of God. I think he actually thought that he had God had gifted him with such wisdom and uh in so many areas so gifted of God he had gotten to the point, I think, that he felt like he could live his life without God and yet still find fulfillment and satisfaction. And he's coming to the conclusion here, he was wrong. Anything lived under the sun, all this investment he's making under the sun, God's out of the picture. God's not in a factor. I'm independent of God. He's above, he's beyond. I'm just living for what's under the sun And now he's completely frustrated. He's completely disillusioned. He looked to education. We noticed already. He looked to education. He was going to learn everything that this world could teach him. This world. could teach him. He was going to be uh gain worldly wisdom. He was going to learn how to play the ropes. He was going to how to how to game the system. He was he was going to figure this whole thing out. He was going to get a hold of this. And he found out when it was all said and done left him empty in his heart and soul. Like a statement I used the other week kind of stuck in my mind. He had a hole in his soul And he's looking for wisdom, worldly wisdom, he's looking for education, produces nothing. That hole is still there. That emptiness down his heart and soul is still there. Then we notice he went to parties in pleasure. He's going to live it up, the wildlife. And he is going to indulge and engage in every carnal pleasure this world has to offer him. The implication throughout here is some of it was absolutely horrendous. What he involved himself in. And he said, I'm going to drink this cup dry. And when it was all said and done, his heart and soul's empty. There's nothing there. He said he's going to enjoy wine, women, and song. Empty. Then he goes for riches. And if anybody had the opportunity to indulge. And uh enjoy what wealth had to offer. It was Solomon. He was the richest man uh at the time uh that there was. Anything he wanted, he could have it. You talk about a couple of the ladies in the church went shopping on Friday, Black Market Friday or whatever it's called. And uh I mean they left at like ridiculous hours in the morning, come out ridiculous hours at night, shopping all day long. That it to me that's ridiculous. Why would you do that Now I was out in the woods from uh four o'clock in the morning and sitting in a tree, but No, not really. So he's going on a he's just going to buy whatever he wants. Riches is the answer to fulfillment. Riches satisfy the soul. Riches will meet my spiritual needs. This is his thinking. Riches will do for me. What really only God can do for him. And you know what he found out? Riches can't do for him What only God could do for him. And he's up making the same statement over and over. I mean, this guy's got the money is no object And when it's all said and done, he says, you know, my life is empty. There's no purpose, there's no meaning there. So now we come to another area. Alright? Riches didn't work, education didn't work, party life didn't work, none of that met the needs. I'm going to apply myself to labor. I am going to work and work and work And I'm going to find fulfillment, and I'm going to find purpose, and I'm going to find meaning in working hard. I'm going to build buildings, and I'm going to apply Self And look at the conclusion he came to in verse number 11. Let's read that verse again. Notice he says, I looked on all the works that my hands had wrought. And on the labor that I had labored to do. And what's his conclusion? And behold, all is vanity and vexation of spirit And he says, there is no prophet, but he injects that little word there, that little phrase that's important to understand. There is no prophet, what? Under the sun. The exclusion of God Now let me just stop here and make us point something out here. Work, hard work, in its proper place is a good thing. It's a very good thing. I would like for you to uh take your Bibles and look at a verse here relating to that all the way back in Genesis chapter two. Man has just showed up on planet Earth and he didn't come crawling out of a mud puddle. He was created from the dust of the earth by Almighty God. A direct creation by God. And God puts him in the Garden of Eden. And I'm wondering how many folks here picture the Garden Eden as this just amazing place where you just skip and hop and um you know it's just fun and it's wonderful and you can sleep in as long as you want in the morning and you can stay up and you can just sip iced tea all the time. And it's anybody ever picture that um I did, but um It's not how it was. Now, was the was it perfect? Absolutely. I mean this is God looks at his creation. And he has man and he has them in the garden, puts him in the garden, and God looked upon all that he made, and he said that it was what? Good. You say, man, that would have been great to be back then. You won't have to work. You won't have to do all this stuff. Look with me, if you would, at chapter 2 and verse number 15. We're talking about work in its proper place, is a good thing. And the Lord God took the man. And put him in the Garden of Eden to drink iced tea and eat ice cream. No. To do what Dress it and keep it. What does that sound like? Work In fact, the word dress there, to dress the garden, the word itself means, and it's translated other places this, to work or to labor in something. To keep means to watch over, protect it. I mean he's applying himself. He's applying energy to this. This is requiring effort. God created man to work. That was part of his responsibility before the the curse came. Now the curse was man working and now you're sweating and sweat of the brow and it's it's on it's unpleasant But we, mankind, was created to work. God designed us, our bodies, our psyche, our everything about us, part of our Creation was to work in this garden and serve God. You could go back to Revelation and an eternity, a new heaven, new earth. You know what we're going to do? We're going to be serving God Working for God. So work in its proper place is a good thing. God created us. He designed us. One of the purposes of our design, the way we're made, the way we're designed, is to work. If man does not work, we're dysfunctional. For somebody not to work, we're not functioning as we're designed to work. God has created us to work. So, again, what work in and of itself, if we put it in its proper place, its proper role in life, it is a very, very good thing. However, when we look to our work, our job, what we're laboring, if we look to that to do for us what only God can do for us. Then it becomes vain. Then it becomes a vexation of our spirit. And so sometimes you you hear people talk about workaholics. Anybody ever hear that phrase? She's a workaholic. She's a workaholic. I think we ought to work hard. Um how many folks I don't know how you are, but I know if I have a day off or something, I'm just kinda I just think, oh I'm gonna do you ever do this, do you ever say I'm just gonna take a day, I'm not gonna do nothing I'm just I'm not gonna war I'm not gonna do nothing. At the end of a day like that, I don't know about you, I'm miserable. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Kathy will say, you need to find something to do. You are a grouch. Good. Greek. Go do something. You know why that is? Because we're designed to work. Part of our we're dysfunctional if we don't work. But When we start looking to work to bring fulfillment and purpose to our heart, so if we look to work to fill the hole that's in our soul, We're going to be frustrated. And then sometimes you'll work more and more and more. I gotta do work. I gotta work more and more. By the way, That same danger of looking to work and labor to do for me what only God can do for me, that same danger is in the ministry. I brother Chip could probably testify to this, but I've seen it with other pastors or whatever, you get so caught up, we've got to do this and do and do and do. And the walk your walk with God gets neglected And I start my ministry becomes God to me. And my service to the Lord, good in and of itself, is right in its place, it's right. But that becomes I'm looking to that to bring fulfillment and purpose. And that's not what it's designed for. Now I believe we should work, and I believe we should work hard. I believe in light of this morning's message, we'll do everything we possibly can to get people saved. But we don't look to that like Solomon did to bring purpose and meaning and fulfillment, or we're going to throw our hands up and say this is all vain, this is all vexation of spirit. It's grievous to me. I hate it. And so Solomon's looking to work to do for him what only God can do. Now let me give you a couple thoughts. Got our fancy new clock back there staring me right in the face. So if you would come back to Ecclesiastes And by the way, I I can preach. I don't care what that clock says, I can preach Verse eleven, chapter two, let's look at this. I want to give you three thoughts that I see here. And uh verse eleven down and through twelve. I just read eleven, it says I looked on all the labor that I that my hands had wrought on all the labor that I had labored to do, behold it's all vanity, vexation of spirit, there was no profit under the sun. I turned to my I turned myself to behold wisdom and madness and folly And what for what can uh what can the man do that cometh after the king, even that which he hath already been done? So he's looking at his work and he's looking around, he says that I turned myself to behold. He said, I tried I thought I tried to think of it from a little different perspective. Everything I've been doing and it's all being and and all I come up with is nothing. And my first thought is this. This is my first observation Work under the sun, God excluded. Work is my life. This is everything I'm I'm investing in. This is what I'm looking to for meaning and fulfillment. This is what I'm looking to to for my identity. I'm looking to work under the sun. It's unfulfilling. Work under the sun is unfulfilling. There are very few people in history that have accomplished what a Solomon accomplished. And even less people that have accomplished more. This guy accomplished great, great things, yet he ended up with an empty soul. Um working hard can build buildings. We have folks in our church, some men in our church are tremendous builders. Work hard and and uh man you can build amazing things, do amazing things. Um however working hard can build buildings, but if all my life consists of is working hard, though it may build buildings, it will never build me spiritually. Going to come up short spiritually Person can work hard. Maybe you're good with numbers and and figures and and uh finances and stuff like that. Man, you can apply yourself and you can work hard at that and you put a good day in. And you know working hard can fill your wallet. But if all I'm doing is working hard and God's not a part of my life, that working hard will never fill my soul. It's unfulfilling in and of itself. You uh you read about, you see, remember back in the day, uh well, don't remember, remember reading about it. But back in the day when the stock market crashed, everybody anybody remember reading that in history? Um stock market crashed, the whole economy collapsed like it had never before And people had lost everything they had worked for. Their whole life was invested in their work. And in just a few days' time, everything they had worked for Everything that they had uh labored for was gone. And the history books tell us people were jumping off bridges, putting guns to their head. Because their work was unfulfilling. And then it was taken away. They had nothing. They had nothing. So one thing I notice here that work under the sun Is unfulfilling. It does not meet the spiritual needs of mankind. I think what we learn from this is this. Don't work your life away. Take some time and walk with God. Feed your soul Think about your spiritual condition and your standing with God. Don't let your work consume you to the point that God is no longer a factor in your life because you will end up unfulfilled. Every single time. Should we work hard? Yes. Should we, when necessary, put in long days? Sure. Nobody say we should not do that. But we are saying this, that should not be what consumes our life. What consumes our life ought to be our walk with God. Because that is what we need. We are spiritual beings with spiritual needs that only God can meet. And when we look to labor, when we look to work, to fulfill what only God can do for us, we find it's unfulfilling. So take some time. Get alone with God this week. I tell you, there's few things that stir this pastor's heart as much as a Sunday night when so many people hold their Bibles up and say, yes, I spent a little bit of time each day this week reading my Bible. That is so important. So I want to challenge you. Don't let work consume it all. Don't let it take over. Spend some time with God. Read your Bible. Get alone with God. Uh be faithful to church. Refresh your soul. Uh I don't know how you are, but coming to church for me is so refreshing. I mean I just anybody here ever now just we won't tell anyone. We'll just keep it here. But anybody here ever you really didn't feel like going to church. You just really didn't Y'all are looking pies up. I don't feel like going. And you do anyway? You would not call it character. You do anyway, and afterward you leave. I saw a little picture I put on the computer. It was a dog it said before church. It was like Then it had empty churches. Isn't that how it is? I tell you, what I'm trying to say is this. Don't let your work consume you. Let the Lord consume. Walk with God, take time. Spend a little bit of time on your knees, pray. Put your heart up to God. Look to the Lord. It's fulfilling Let the Lord lead and direct you. Be faithful to church. Find some time to serve God. I'll tell you what is so fulfilling is take a little bit of time and give myself To invest in lives out to show somebody else how to be saved. Whoo! That'll do more for you than 80 hours of overtime pay I'm telling you, it's good stuff. So Solomon, the first thing I notice here, Solomon is frustrated. He is just, this is miserable. I hate my life. My soul is vexed. My spirit is vexed. It's all meaningless. There's no profit. Why? Because all he was doing was working and working and working and no God. God wasn't even a part of it, and his life is empty Second thing I notice here is work under the sun, excluding God, all it is is work. Work under the sun is, I made a word up, Sandy, unlasting. The first one's unfulfilling. This is unlasting. If something is this is my I can define it however I want, because I made it up. If something is unlasting, it means it doesn't last. That's a good word. Some people think it ought to be in the dictionary. I'll write my own. Look at verse 13. Then I saw that wisdom excelleth folly, and as far as as far as light excelleth darkness. The wise man's eyes are in his head, so he's making these statements here that in and of themselves are true. But the fool walketh in darkness. I myself perceive also that one event happeneth to them all Alright, here's a wise fellow, and here's a foolish fellow. And they both ended up the same. Then said I in my heart, as it happeneth to the fool, so it happeneth even to me. Why was I then more wise? Then I said in my heart that this also is vanity. There is no for there is no remembrance of the wise more than of the full forever, seeing that which now is in the days to come shall be forgotten. And how dieth the wise man? Same as the fool. Therefore I hated life because the work. Look at this For the work that is wrought under the sun is grievous to me, unto me, for all is vanity and vexation of spirit. Now he's kind of taken all his things he's learning here, and he's kind of lumping them together, all his different endeavors, he's kind of lumping them together in one conclusion. It's basically this Anything and everything that I've invested in under the sun is temporary. It's just Same thing, whether I work hard, somebody works really, really hard, another guy doesn't work at all, they both end up in the ground. Same end to both of them. Um I've done a lot of funerals and not one funeral have I done yet. Did that fellow take into the ground with him anything he spent his life working for? He uh uh the you bury I found basically you bury the lady bum basically the same way as the hard worker. Now he might have a little fancier garment that's gonna rut rot away on him. As far as where they end up under the sun, same thing. That's what Solomon's saying. He says, man, I've best my whole life in working, working, working under the sun. No factor of God, no not thinking about eternity, not thinking about spiritual needs, all that. I just work and work and work and work and work, and I end up the exact same way as the guy that didn't work a day. Same way as the guy on welfare Why should I bother? Well, uh says I tried to be wise. I did all my wisdom, and what did it get me? And how dieth the wise man? Same way as the fool. Under the sun, if there if there's God's not a factor, you end up in the same condition and the same place. The lazy man and the hard worker without God end up in the same place. The wise man and the fool without God all end up in the same place. I've done probably, I don't know, I want to say a hundred or more funerals in 23 years I've been here. And uh know what I found out? Basically all get buried the same way. Just ignore it or go away. Every every every per every person I've done a funeral for ended up buried. Right? So if there's no God, there's no ex no eternity if uh uh under the sun, if all it is is what's under the sun, Solomon's conclusion makes sense. Why bother? You invest your whole life in this and it's nothing. It's unlasting. So he says, why bother? Look what Job said. We're not far from Job here in Ecclesiastes. Come back. Give Psalms Go back, go towards the front of your Bible. You'll hit Ecclesiastes, you hit Proverbs and then Psalms, and then you'll hit Job. Go to the first chapter of Job. And Job is a completely different situation because Job is not living merely under the sun. He's living for God. God gives him A tremendous testimony, uh, God's saying about him. He's perfect, he's just in all his ways. He loved the Lord very much. But when stuff starts falling apart around him here, look what he says in verse 20. Let's start in verse 20. I tell you, I have such tremendous respect for Job. Verse 20, chapter 1, he says, then Job arose. Now he's lost his kids. He's lost his home. He's lost everything. Except his help. Look what he says. Then Job arose and rent his mantle and shaved his head and fell down upon the ground and what Worship. Worship. You know what that tells me about Job? He's not living under the sun. He sees there's something more to life than just what's under the sun. There's a God in heaven that is a good God and is powerful and is working in his life. And the amazing, how many of us, if we just lost everything we had, would get alone and get our knees and worship God? What he's saying is this, God, you have supreme authority over my life, and I submit myself to your authority and trust you, and I'll do whatever you say, because you are God. That's what worship is. And then look what he made look at the statement he makes in verse 21. And said Naked came I out of my mother's womb, and naked shall I return thither. The Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. Job's at the end. I mean everything's taken from him. In a little bit, he's going to lose his health. But he's not living under the sun like Solomon was. And he doesn't say, you know, this is all vain. This is vexation of spirit. I hate my life. I hate everything about this. It's grievous to me. Solomon's saying that Because Solomon has pushed God out of the picture. He's just living for here and now and what he sees and work and work and work. And he says, I hate it. Job says, I worked hard and lost everything. But you know I'm not living for this world. I've got a life beyond this. There's a God in heaven that loves me, and he meets my needs, and he takes care of me, and he has a plan and purpose for my life. And he worships God What a contrast. You're just living for what you can do. If you're just living for your job, if that's all your life consists of, of getting and working hard and getting more and and getting ahead and doing that, running this rat race. I bet you say sooner or later that thing's going to come crashing down and you're going to say that was vain. That was empty. So, under the sun, work is unlasting, unlasting. Oh, by the way, verse 13 and 14, I'd come back here. He does point out that wisdom and hard work is better than laziness, even under the sun. That's all you're living for. It's Hard work and wisdom is better than laziness and foolishness. But in the end there's no difference. I do want you to go to another passage, though. I don't want to skip this. Back in Matthew chapter 6. Now hold on to Ecclesiastes. I got one more there And I see the stupid clock there, but um uh verse number Matthew chapter six and verse number nineteen, Jesus touched on the same thing. The same idea of just laboring and working here, God's out of the picture, my spiritual realities are out of the picture, I'm not paying attention to that, I'm gonna neglect that. Look what he says, verse 19 of Matthew 6 We preached on this on Wednesday night some time ago. Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon under the sun. Where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures in above the sun. There's more than just this physical world. Where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, where thieves do not break through nor steal. For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. What's the Lord saying? He's saying, listen, if all you're living for, all you're working for is what's here, now, just the physical, the material stuff under the sun, if that's all you're living for, it's vain, it's empty, you're going to end up with nothing Make sure you invest your life in things that are above the sun, the things of God. That's what we're created to do. So number one, work under the sun. Is unfulfilling. Left them empty. It's unlasting. When it's all said and done, it rusts away. It's gone. And last of all, quickly, uh work under the sun, work is unstable. Look at verse 17. Let's come back here to Ecclesiastes. And verse number 17. Therefore I hated life, because the work that is wrought under the sun is grievous unto me. It's all vanity and vexation of spirit. Yea, I hated all my labor which I had taken under the sun Why? Because I should leave it unto the man that shall be after me. Who knoweth whether he shall be a wise man or a fool? He is I don't know what that guy's gonna be like that's gonna get the house I built. He might be some fool. Yet shall he have rule over all my labor, wherein I have labored, and wherein I have showed myself wise under the sun. This is this is also vanity. Therefore I went about to cause my heart to despair of all the labor which I took under the sun. There is for there is a man whose labor is in wisdom and in knowledge and in equity yet To a man that hath not labored therein shall he leave it for his portion? This also is vanity and a great evil. For what Hath man of all his labor of the vexation of his heart wherein heath labored under the sun, for all his days are sorrows, is travail, grief. Yea, his heart taketh not rest in the night. This also is vanity. You see what he's saying there He said, I don't even know what's going to happen. I put all my vested all this in here, and it's just, I don't even know what's going to happen to it. Without God Think about this. If God is out of the picture, what he's saying is, who cares what you produce? Who cares? If God's not a factor, you know what? That's why evolution and atheism is such an empty faith. And it is faith. It leaves people destroyed because it takes away any purpose, any meaning, any fulfillment in life. If there is no God, if all there is to life is what's under the sun, if that's all there is to life, then why in the world bother? That's what he's saying. They hate it, it's meaningless. I wonder How many people have worked so hard to accomplish things and build things and put things together and they left it to their offspring and the offspring just squandered it. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And you think, why in the world, why did I bother? All that effort, all that time, all that sweat and blood. And I left it as they just squandered it. As I was studying this, and I don't know it's directly related, I think maybe to some extent, I thought about the church where I was trained at, Highland Park Baptist Church, down Tennessee Temple University. Tremendous amount of work when it now that's a spiritual endeavor and souls are being saved, just an amazing thing. But when Dr. Robertson stepped off the pitcher, resigned, stepped aside, some other people came in and it began a series of events And do you know that church does not even exist today? When I left there, that 6,000-seat auditorium was filled every service. Just about. Wednesday nights was almost filled. There was over 10,000 people attending Highland Park Baptist Church on Sundays when I left there. Today, it doesn't exist. The little group that finally sold the building, they run about, last I heard was about 150 maybe. Just squandered away Now the difference with that is, and I hesitate to use that, but the difference with that is back in the day when it was booming, they were investing in souls. There's people going to heaven now because of the work they did There's missionaries around the world, pastors, myself, and many, many others around preaching the Word of God as a result of that. But another generation comes along and they squander in. And if all I'm working for is what's under the sun, let's set that aside, that illustration, all I'm working for is my job and all of that, just and God's not a factor, another generation comes along and they just squander it. Why bother? Why bother? It is vain to build our lives on anything that is under the sun. If that is what you find purpose in, is that where your meaning in life is? Is that where you're finding fulfillment? I'm telling you, it is an unstable Foundation to build your life on. Work hard. Do your best. Give God the glory. But walk with God. Don't neglect him. I have two verses and we end. New Testament, Colossians chapter 3. I love this passage, and I keep thinking of it the whole time I'm studying Ecclesiastes. Colossians chapter 3, all the way back New Testament, probably about midway through your New Testament. Couple verses here, then I want to look at a couple others and we end. And I don't probably don't even need to say anything. I think these verses, you'll see how they apply to what we're talking about. 3, verse 1, chapter 3, Colossians, verse 1. If ye then be risen with Christ above the Son If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above. Where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God. See, that's where some folks are messing up. All they're seeking is what's down here, what's under the sun. They're not seeking what's above, what's real, what's lasting. Set your affection on the things above, not on the things of the earth. Not on things on the earth. For ye are dead. Your life is hid with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory. Live for God. Understand you're a spiritual being, you're an eternal being. Invest everything in here and now you end up empty. But live for God. One more. 1 Timothy chapter 6. And then we're going to pray, and we're going to ask God to help us keep our eyes focused on Christ. We're going to work as hard as we can this week. We're going to do our best. But we're going to do it for God's glory, and we're going to spend time with God. And we're going to let the Lord have his place in our lives that he should have. Look at 1 Timothy 6, verse 17. Charge them that are rich in this world, sounds like Solomon, that they be not high-minded, nor, look at this, trust in what? Uncertain riches. But in the living God, who giveth us richly all things to enjoy, that they do good, that they be rich in what? Good works. Ready to distribute, willing to communicate, laying up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come. In other words, it's kind of what Jesus is talking about. Put your treasures in heaven. That they may lay hold on eternal life. Now he's not saying do this to be saved. We understand other passages. That's not what he's saying. But what he's saying is don't live your life and don't invest everything you have into just the temporary world Walk no Christ as your Lord and Savior. Walk with Him. Spend time with Him. Live for things beyond What is just under this sun. And there is where fulfillment and purpose and meaning comes in. Amen? Let's pray and ask the Lord to help us do that, okay? Father in heaven. Lord, we ask that you would challenge us and on a daily basis remind us and keep our eyes on Christ. Set our affection on things above. Pray you'd renew our mind that we would not value the things of this world above the spiritual realities. Use us, Lord, to point others to Christ and meaningful things that outlast this world and help us. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say this, preacher, I know I'm saved, there's no doubt about it. I know Christ is my personal Savior. You'd say, preacher, it's so easy to just get caught up under the sun and not give the Lord his rightful place and not meet the spiritual needs of my heart and life. And you'd say, by God's grace, this week I want to l walk with the Lord. I want to spend a little time with him each day. I'm going to be faithful to church. I'm going to nurture my spiritual part of my being and not neglect that. Is there anything like that, preacher? That's what I'm I'm I'm determined to do that. Spending time in prayer. Do that. How many folks you know someone that's getting caught up? You're concerned for them, their spiritual well-being. Maybe they're not saved. Or maybe they're away from the Lord and the things under the sun have absolutely taken over their life. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. I'm going to pray for them that God will help me see their need. The spiritual need there. Any like that. Probably all of us know somebody like that. Maybe some of us are in that condition ourselves. We need the Lord to help us. One last question. Is there anyone here tonight say, Preacher, I'm not sure that my sins are forgiven, that God has saved me? I'm really not sure in my heart and soul that when I die I go to heaven and not to hell, and say I'm concerned about that. I'd like for you to pray for me also. That God would help me settle that and that I could know that. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I'd like for you to pray for me. I'm concerned. about my spiritual well-being, about where I spend eternity and my standing with God. Anybody at all? Preacher, pray for me. I'm concerned about that. How about it? Looking around. Any at all? Any at all? Now Father, bless our invitation time. And uh have your way in our lives in Jesus' name, amen.