Go ahead and turn with me. First Thessalonians chapter two. First Thessalonians chapter two Now, I have been preaching hard. I don't know if you've noticed it, but I'm going to teach preach tonight, alright? And uh we'll see what the Lord has for us Here's the title of the message: Working Backward from Joy. Working backward from Joy. 1 Thessalonians 2, verse 19. For what is our hope or joy or crown of rejoicing? Are not even ye in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ at his coming? For ye are our glory and joy. Let's pray. Father, we're so grateful for this day Lord, I pray for Brother Ed's family. I pray for the preacher and for others tomorrow as they honor that life. And Lord, it is my deepest hope that somebody gets saved at Ed's service. It would I don't think anything would please him more than that. And I know the church's heart is involved in that. And and Lord, I pray, though, that Your timing and you've gathered us here and I pray that you'd use this time and speak to us about how fragile life is and how brief it is. Well, we've got a great responsibility in it Would you speak into our lives tonight? And Holy Spirit, would you take your word? Teach us where we need to be convicted. Would you do that? And encourage us, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. I've learned something about myself over the years, and one of the things that I've learned about myself is that I enjoy the destination more than the journey. I love being at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church But I'm going to be honest with you, I'm not in love with 77 out of Charlotte, all right? I love the being there more than I love the getting there. And I could go on and name a dozen ways that that's true in my life, and I think that's perhaps generally true in a lot of people's lives. When I read here in our text passage tonight, that Paul says his joy, his crown of rejoicing, his hope, his glory, his joy. is the fact that these people in Thessalonica who were once pagans but heard the gospel and got saved, his joy is that someday They will stand by him or in that great congregation in heaven before the Lord Jesus Christ. And I want you to know that I want to experience that joy. I love that thought. There's lots of people that I care about. And I love people in general. I'm a people person. And I'd love for everybody that I come in contact with, I'd love for them to be in heaven. Somebody said of Ed that he was a type of person who was trying to make heaven crowded That's a pretty good saying, isn't it? And uh but what I've learned about myself is as much as I want the joy Sometimes the journey of getting to the joy is a little bit fearsome. And sometimes I'm not as willing, I'm very willing to say I want the joy. of having people near me in heaven that I've talked to and witnessed to. But sometimes the trip to there, the journey to there, is not so easy. And I want to just talk about that tonight and try to show you that even when that journey is difficult, that journey is worth it That's the message that Paul wants to give us tonight. I want to expose that to you through four phrases in this chapter. I want to start back in verse 1, and I want you to notice what the apostle says. For yourselves, brethren, know our entrance in unto you, that it was not in vain. But even after that we had suffered before and were shamefully entreated, as ye know at Philippi. We were bold in our God to speak unto you the gospel of God with much contention. Here's the one thing I want us to under or here's the first thing I want us to understand about arriving at that place where we have great joy Because people through our witness have gotten saved and are going to be standing in that great congregation with us. Here's the truth that it may mean that at some point we'll be shamefully entreated as we try to tell others about the Lord Jesus You'd say, well, preacher, if you're trying to encourage us to tell people about Jesus, don't you think you ought to leave that part out? No, I think we better know the truth, don't you? If you're waiting for the world to applaud you for sharing the gospel with them, I'm afraid you're going to be pretty disappointed. The world has never been real excited about believers living out the will of God in front of them. As a matter of fact, they kind of think what we do is crazy. If they knew you were back at church on Tuesday night after you'd been here twice on Sunday and once on Sunday night, they would think you're a little wacko. If they knew you gave 10% in a tithe, they would have you committed. Because they don't understand the will of God. And as a matter of fact, sometimes they're offended by the will of God. When Paul says him and Silas and Timothy were shamefully entreated. I can't make those words pretty. That word shamefully means very literally that they were insulted They were insulted almost every place they went. It also means that at some places they were physically abused. Now, I've been trying to win souls for 50 years or more, and I've never been physically abused, but I'm telling you, I have been insulted, and you might get ready for that. You see, the letter of 1 Thessalonians that we were reading was the first letter inspired that the Apostle Paul wrote. He wrote this letter in about 50 A. D. If you think about it, that's only about 20 or 25 years after Jesus was crucified and ascended into heaven. And he's writing to the believers from the city of Corinth just a few months after being run out of Thessalonica by some jealous Jews. The missionary team had showed up in Thessalonica after God had used them in a great way in the city of Philippi. Man, we think of Philippi as the church of joy, and by the way, if we don't, if we had time, I'm not going to do it, but if you went back to Philippians chapter 4 and verse 1, Just like Paul had told the Thessalonicans, hey, you are my hope and my joy, he said the exact same thing to the Philippians. Because he was excited for anybody that he got to lead to the Lord. He was excited for people who got saved through the preaching of the gospel and were going to be in that heavenly congregation. But I want you to think about that experience in Philippi. When Paul and Silas and Timothy show up in Philippi, we're told that they go first to the river. Why did they go to the river? Well, they went to the river because Philippi was a very, very Roman colony. And there weren't enough Jewish men. You had to have ten Jewish men before you could have a synagogue. So there was no synagogue to go to. People who were pious people who weren't pagan were were instructed that if there was no synagogue or no place to worship other than a pagan temple, you would find a quiet place by a river or a quiet place uh in the woods in nature, and you would commune with God there And so it made all the sense. Just like Paul would go to a synagogue when he got the Philippi. There's no synagogue, so where do you go? You go to the river because there might be some people there that have some interest in the Lord or some spiritual thought. And he went there. We know what happened there. He ran into Lydia. You remember that? And boy, that woman of means heard the gospel and the Holy Spirit got on her and she got saved. Man, that's a good start, isn't it? But it went downhill from there because there was a young lady there, a little girl, that was being trafficked by some corrupt and evil men. I want you to know that our generation isn't the first generation where little girls have been exploited. This little girl could tell fortunes. And these men made good money off of her telling fortunes. And the Apostle Paul saw how she was being exploited and saw how she was being trafficked and used, and he cast the demon that allowed her to tell fortunes out of her, and she got saved. And by the way, the men, when they saw that they couldn't make money off that little child anymore, they got mad, reported Paul and Silas to the magistrate They got arrested, and you remember how they were treated, don't you? Oh, they were treated so kindly. No, they were beaten. They were beaten without trial. They were cast into not the first jail, but in the deepest of the dungeons, and with their backs bleeding, their hands and their feet were placed in stocks. Well, you remember, don't you? The Lord delivered them. Remember how he delivered them? By an earthquake. I don't know about you, but I'm not that brave. If I am in the deepest dungeon, Lord, figure some out some other way than an earthquake when I'm underground. But those chains and those stocks fell off. And when that jailer thought that all of his prisoners had escaped, He cried down and and Paul said, Don't do harm to yourself. And you know how it ended up. That jailer asked that question, what must I do to be saved? And the jailer got saved. And all of his household got saved. And by the time Paul and Silas and Timothy left that city, you know what they left behind? A church. They held at Lydia's house, and no doubt Lydia's house got saved, and the jailer and his family got saved, and that precious little girl got saved, and who knows how many others got saved. But I want to tell you, it only happened because Paul and Silas were willing to be insulted They were willing to be shamefully entreated because they knew there was something greater than that moment beyond there. They kept their eyes on the prize, if you will. When they got out of jail, I know this is a history lesson, but I love it. When they got out of jail, their backs still sore, oozing blood, they walked 33 miles to a little town called Amphipolis. The Bible doesn't tell us how long they stayed there, but I suspect not long. And after they left Amphipolis, they walked 30 more miles to a town called Apollonia. When they left Apollonia, they walked 37 more miles to a town called Thessalonica And when they got the Thessalonica, they were trying to get the Thessalonica because it had the biggest synagogue in all of that part of the world. And brother, you know the Apostle Paul, don't you? When Paul got someplace, he was all about telling people about Jesus Christ. And when he got to Thessalonica, he headed straight for that synagogue. And for three Sabbath days, man, they read the scripture and they preached And they talk to people one-on-one and talk to them as a group. And the Bible tells us some of those people got saved. But you know what happened pretty quick after three weeks, don't you? The Jews got mad again. And they hired some men and they ran Paul out of town. And when Paul ran out of town or got ran out of town, He didn't stop preaching. He just kept moving, kept preaching. From there he went to Berea. From Berea he went to Athens. You remember what he saw in Athens? You know, that idol to the unknown God They were so pagan, they were trying to cover what they didn't even know, or what they knew they didn't know for sure, and then to Corinth. And when he arrives at Corinth, somewhere along the line he had sent Timothy back to Thessalonica Because he's concerned. Paul knew that he had to leave that place quick, and Paul knew that there were some who had believed And he wanted desperately to know, were they walking with the Lord? Were they doing okay? And now Timothy joins him in Corinth and he says, Paul They are doing great. They're growing as a church. They're growing as individuals. And that's what makes Paul write this letter back to them. And he rejoices. You are my hope and my joy. You are my crown of rejoicing. Because when you heard the gospel, you trusted Christ, and now you're growing. Man, he had joy, didn't he? I want that joy. I just don't know if I'm willing to go in that dungeon. I want that joy. I just don't know if I'm willing to walk 90 miles with a bleeding back. I want that joy. I just don't know if I'm willing to get tarred and feathered and ran out of town for preaching the gospel in a synagogue after three weeks. I want that joy, but I don't know if I want to go downtown Athens and be surrounded by those pagans who worship gods that are no gods But I'm telling you, and I'm not pulling any punches, it's not easy to win people to Christ. And sometimes it requires that we might get a little bit insulted. I don't know if I have the medal that Paul had. I don't know that I would be strong enough to go through what he went through. But sometimes I get embarrassed for myself because I even quell a little bit in preaching the gospel if somebody's going to say something mean back to me. I'll never forget one time my wife and I were so winning and we were just going door to door. And we it was in a hot DC afternoon, about 105 degrees. The humidity was 783% You ever had one of those days? And we walked up to a door and I knocked on the door and uh a Vietnamese lady, an Asian lady came to the door, and all the windows were open. It was just blazing hot I'm perspiring. I'm trying to be as sweet as I know how to be. And I said, ma'am, we're here. I'm Pastor Edwards. This is my wife, Nancy. We're here just inviting people to church and seeing if you know the Lord. And I got about that far and she said, no English. No English. So I did what you're supposed to do. I slowed down and said, hello. Because then they can understand if you say it's she couldn't understand it, or so she said. I tried my best to just get the track in the door. She wouldn't open the door. No English, no English, no English. But finally I said, hey, if we could ever serve you, if if you could ever need anything, you you please come to our church, holler. We turn around, we're walking down the sidewalk, and another voice from in the house hollers out, who was that? And this lady says, Ah, just some church people. No English. I wanted to turn around, walk back up to that door, and let her have it. My wife stopped me and reminded me that we were nothing. We weren't important. You know that's enough to stop most people from ever approaching somebody And I'm just telling you the truth. God is not surprised by this. And God knew when he saved us and told us to be witnesses to others, God knew that there would be some very difficult moments. And by the way, I'm for every soul-winning program, I'm for every every teaching opportunity But I'm telling you, no matter how many questions you can answer, and no matter how good you are at your presentation, no matter how smiley and sweet you are, the world doesn't want you on their doorstep. And sometimes somebody's going to say something mean to you It's just part of sharing the world, the gospel with the lost world. I want you to see a second phrase. It's down in verse 4. Notice it. But as we were allowed of God to be put in trust with the gospel, even so we speak Not as pleasing men, but God which trieth our hearts. Here's the phrase: put in trust with the gospel. Would you let that hit you just a moment? Did you know that God has trusted us with the greatest message the world has ever heard? Well, just think about it for a minute. That's Paul speaking. And Paul says, we were allowed of God. You remember where Paul got saved, don't you? He was out on the Damascus Road. He had a party of soldiers and Jews with him. And they were on their way to cities in Judea where they were going to find and arrest Those who had claimed Christ as their Savior and were public about it. And please understand this. We already know what they did to Stephen. Make no mistake about it. Paul was on his way to arrest, to beat, and perhaps even kill those who had trusted Christ and were being public about it. And God stops that wretched man, a murderer, a man whose heart was so filled with hatred Towards Christ and towards Christians, that he wanted to kill them. God stops that wretched man on that road to Damascus and He saves his soul. You know what Paul never got over? What a wretch he was Paul didn't talk about how great he was. Paul always referred to himself as the chief of sinners, the least of the apostles. You know what sometimes we need a good dose of? Getting over ourselves. And remembering just what we were before Christ saved us. You didn't have to be a wicked drug addict. You didn't have to be a wicked drunk. You didn't have to be a wicked wife beater or child beater to be wretched, my friend. God saved you and I from sin. When God got me, he did not get a bargain. I did. And to think that people like you and I and the Apostle Paul have been put in trust of the gospel. That God said, listen, this is the message that the entire world needs. And listen, I've saved your wretched soul because I love you. Now I'm going to put in trust. I'm going to allow you to be the steward of getting this message that has saved your wretched soul. I'm going to put you in trust of telling the world that they too can be saved. Does that amaze you? I'm not over that yet. That God would trust me with his gospel. Hey, I want you to notice this. That verse says, but as we were allowed of God to be put in trust with the gospel, even so we speak not as pleasing men, but God which trieth our hearts. Hey, God allowed me to be a steward of the gospel, but there's coming a day when he's going to examine me for how good a steward I've been with the gospel. Can I ask you a question? I've asked myself, how good of a steward of the gospel have you been? Have you been that man in the parable that went and hid it in a napkin and buried it in the ground? because it was too hard to deal with, too awkward to deal with, you didn't want to have to deal with it? Or have you been those who took what God gave us, what God made us stewards of, and shared it And told other people about it. I was reading one great author, one great commentator named F. B. Meyer. Dr. Meyer says this. The apostle viewed the gospel as a sacred deposit left with him by God on man's behalf. Do we sufficiently realize that as Christ is our trustee, entrusted with God's gift for us, so we are executors of his bequest? to our fellow men who will have serious charges to bring against us if we hoard for ourselves what was meant for them. The questions which should sustain and quicken us are: what does God think of my service? Is He pleased? Why don't you ask yourself a serious question tonight? Will God say to you, Good job? Done a great job with that gospel stewardship. Or will a lot of people That you have not spoken to have charges they could bring against you. Can I tell you that the man that stands before you Cannot say perfectly that he has given the gospel to every man that he's had the opportunity to give the gospel to. We are stewards of the message of truth. Would you notice a third phrase with me? It's found in verse 9. For ye remember, brethren, our labor and travail, for laboring night and day Because we would not be chargeable unto any of you, we preached unto you the gospel of God. The third phrase, laboring night and day. I'm not sure, but I don't think Paul worked a 40-hour week. I'm not positive, but I don't think he had a first-class benefits package. That included dungeon insurance or vacation or sabbaticals I'm not trying to be controversial. I'm not trying to be silly. I'm just saying to you that when Paul got saved, he was overwhelmed by the grace of God. And his one desire, his sole desire in his life was to share the gospel and help new converts grow. He longed for it. It was his passion. He never shaved the gospel and made it an easy-believism. It says in verse 5, oh, neither at any time use we flattering words, as ye know, nor a cloak of covetousness, God is witness. Paul didn't make the message palatable to man. Paul shared the truth of the grace of God to sinful men. Not only that, but I want you to know, even though it was a hard message, I love this. Look at verse 7. But we were gentle among you, even as a nurse cherisheth her children. It's a hard message to tell somebody they're a sinner, but Paul had a compassionate heart, and I want to tell you that's essential in trying to lead somebody to Christ. I'll never forget when I got saved. The man who was talking to me, brother, I mean, he introduced the subject as Mike, you're going to hell I thought, what an interesting way to open a conversation. He must really like me. He knew me. I'd been friends with his nephew, and he knew the trouble that we had as teenagers. He said, Mike, you're a sinner. And boy, what an offensive message that is to our generation, especially. Hey dude, you're a sinner and you're on your way to hell. He didn't say it like that because behind what he was saying to me was I knew a heart that genuinely cared about me. He followed it up by saying, Mike, your mom and dad got saved And they talk to me all the time about you needing to be saved and their desire for you to be saved And Mike, if you ever want to be with your mom and dad, and if you think about your wife and you think about your kids, man, you don't want them in hell. And you want to be where your mom and dad are going to be and where your brother's going to be. Mike, by the time he was done, he was telling me I was a low-down, dirty sinner that he loved You say, did it have an impact? Change my life. I'm just saying we don't have to change the message We have to tell people there's sinners. We have to tell people there's a sinner's hell. We have to tell people that Jesus is the only way. The Pope is not the way, and neither is any other world religion. I am so weary of where we have to treat all the religions the same. I'm not saying I disrespect people that are in other religions, but they ain't all the same. There's one way to get to heaven. That's the name of Jesus Christ. And we can't change that. And we can't leave that part out We've got to do it. But my goodness, we've got to remember how much we were loved when somebody told us about Jesus. We've got to remember how much he loved us. And then in that same spirit of love, that love of Christ that constrains us to tell people the truth, I'm telling you, that love touches some of their hearts Hey, not only did he not change the message, and he labored, brother. Not only did he not change the message, not only did he have a genuine heart of compassion, he was all about it all the time. I love verse 11. As you know, how we exhorted and comforted and charged every one of you as a father doth his children. Dad's always busy, always working, always caring for his family, isn't he? I remember times in our life where I had three jobs. We had two kids, Bible college, and expenses and you know none of that was an excuse. The kids did not want to say, the babies didn't say, Dad, I know you've been super busy, I don't need to eat tonight. Dads are all about it. And that's what Paul is saying. He's not saying I'm the greatest father. I don't think that he was a father. But what he was saying is, like a father, I care about this and I'm charged with a responsibility to do this And I'm going to be laboring day and night, whatever it takes to get the job done, I'm going to get this job done because it's important to get this job done So day and night preaching, praying, pleading, Paul was sharing the gospel. And some said yes. Here's a fourth phrase. Look in verse eighteen. Wherefore we would have come unto you, even I, Paul, once and again. But notice this Satan hindered us. Now, I study my Bible in context, and I know that what is being said is Satan hindered Paul from getting back to Thessalonica. But I don't think I do the Bible injustice to say that Satan is a master at hindering people from telling other people about Jesus Christ. Satan is always trying to knock us off track. He's always trying to distract us. There's always something else that comes up. There's always something else that we need to do. There's always something else that demands our time. He's a master at discouraging us. We pray, we go, we plead, we talk, and then they don't get saved, or they shamefully entreat us, they they actually insult us. It's just so hard and and sometimes we just say, man, what's the use of even trying to do that? Sharing the gospel ought to be our main business. And I know it is our desire and our plan, but there are so many things that can hinder us. Do you have any issue with pride? I do. I used to tell my staff, and I mean this I don't think door knocking is the only way to win people to Christ. As a matter of fact, I'm not sure I I think there might be equally good ways to win people to Christ. But one of the things that I had to do in my life is door knocking was a balancing thing to me When I was pastoring and and especially in the latter half of my pastorate, we had a we had a good-sized church And we had a big school and we had a big staff and we had big buildings and beautiful buildings and lots of property and all that. And and And people would come to my office and almost every time somebody came to my office they had an appointment and they had an appointment because They needed something from me. They needed counsel or they needed permission or they needed some other thing. And I want to tell you something. You know what can happen to a man? That can be a pretty heady thing. You can start to think I'm pretty important. And I got a full book of appointments, and everybody that comes through that door is going to ask me for something. You know what I decided I needed to do? I needed to be out two or three times a week on a doorstep where not only was I not needed, I wasn't wanted. Where the people that were answering that door didn't want anything I was selling. It was one of the most balancing things I ever found in my life. You know what it did for me? It crushed my pride. And here's the truth. There are people in this room who love the Lord. Please don't hear me saying. I'm not scolding tonight. I'm just saying if we're not careful, that old stink and pride gets a hold of us and keeps us. Lest we ever be embarrassed or lest anybody ever think something that we don't want them to think about us, think we're one of them, it stops us from telling somebody who's on the way to hell that they don't have to go there. I wanna tell you, pride's a wicked thing. Busyness. Oh man. I'd love to go, preacher. I'd love to tell somebody about the Lord, but you just got to understand my schedule. My schedule. Oh, my schedule. Did you know that God can take your schedule away? Keep using it for an excuse. Well, I do what God wanted me to do, but my schedule, and God can say, whoop, there's that job's gone. What's your schedule now? I'm not saying he's going to do that. I'm just saying stop using the blessings the Lord has given you as a reason not to do what the Lord wants you to do. Our problems. If we're not careful, ministry can be reduced to just work at church. Just stuff at church. And as much as I love the local church, and I love this local church, and I love the family atmosphere that is at this local church. I want to tell you, God never commanded those people out there to come in here. He commanded us to leave here and go get them. Bring them back. Paul says, Satan's tried to hinder me. But he said, I fight through that. And he says, I'll tell you why. Because as difficult things as things can be, you know As difficult as things can be, I'm not going to be distracted or defeated By the circumstances that surround me, because there's something beyond that I'm really looking forward to. And what I'm looking forward to is that time where we stand at the throne of God. And I look around, and there are Man, that little girl. Now I think everybody will be 33 years old in heaven. You say prove that from the Bible. Don't have to. I'm preaching, so I'm saying it, alright? I just think that that's when Jesus was his his full manhood, and that's when he offered himself as sacrifice. It's just a silly opinion of mine. I think everybody would be 33 years in heaven. That sounds pretty good, doesn't it? Yeah. And he'll look over and there's that little trafficked girl. That little precious one that was being exploited. Being used. And by the way, when she wasn't cute anymore, they'd throw her off and let her starve to death somewhere and find another little one. Now she's 33 years old. She's standing there. She's got a crown that she's going to throw to Jesus in a minute. Paul says man. There's my joy. He looks over and there's Lydia I don't think she's dressed in fine purple anymore. I think she's dressed in a white robe of righteousness. He looks over and says, look at Lydia And then he looks over down there, and there was that was that grizzled old guy that held the whip and beat me till I was nearly dead, and then mercilessly put me in those stalks But Jesus saved his soul. Hey, Mr. Jaylor! Hey, Paul! How do you beat that? How do you beat that? I'm telling you, sometimes we get so earthbound in our thinking and we get so wrapped up in our problem of today, we forget the beauty of tomorrow. And the joy of tomorrow and the joy of heaven. Heaven is real. We're going there someday. Man named Daniel. He worked beside a guy named Mark for ten years. Man, they talked every day. They were actually pretty good friends. They talked about sports, good teams like the Redskins. Not the commanders. They talked about their children. They told each other what they were going to do with their families on the weekend. I mean, everything. They talked about everything. They talked politics. They talked work. They talked about everything except The gospel. Daniel always meant to bring it up, but the time never felt right. Just He wanted to talk to Mark about Jesus, but it just never seemed to be right. Next week he'd tell himself. After this project is done, when work slows down, I'm going to talk to him then. One Friday afternoon, Mark came to him and said, Hey long weekend. I'm going to take Monday and we're going up to see other family. We're going to go away for a long weekend. Daniel felt a nudge. You ever feel that in your spirit sometime? And he knew what he was feeling and sensing was the Holy Spirit saying, talk to me now. Say something to him now. But he hesitated. He didn't want to make it awkward when the guy's going away to visit his family. He didn't want to seem pushy and you know he just he just decided I I'm going to, but he's all excited about the weekend. I'm not going to say anything now. On Tuesday morning, came back to work, and Mark's space was empty. Daniel said it seemed like there was a real cloud hanging over things. And he said, couldn't have been ten minutes later, his supervisor walked up to him and said, uh I know you're probably wondering where Mark was and we got news from the family that he died this weekend in an accident. That night, Daniel replayed every conversation he'd ever had with Martin. Every time they had talked sports, every time they had talked about politics and Every time they talked about hunting or fishing or whatever it was they talked about, he went over every conversation, hoping that somewhere he would remember sometime when he said something about Jesus, but nowhere. Nowhere in there. Did he ever even mention the Lord? And he knew that a moment that the Lord had given him had slipped away and would never come again. Began to weep at his house that night. His wife didn't know why he tried to explain it to her. Here's the essence of what took place. He will live with the regret of never telling that man who he saw nearly every day of the week for ten years the truth about Jesus Christ. What he will never experience is the joy of standing next to Mark and his family. In heaven, as they worship the Lord Jesus. Now tell you how he ended that night. He said, Lord, I cannot undo what I failed to do. But God, I ask you to give me the courage To never let the moment go again Dear help to tell people about the Lord Jesus Christ. I end with this. Who's waiting for you to tell them? What's so awkward, preacher? We've been neighbors for years. Now, if all of a sudden I just show up and talk and who's waiting? Oh preacher, I've worked with this guy. Oh preacher, this this kid's been in my class ever since sixth grade. Oh preacher. Hey, I don't want to be that kind of person that's pushy and I don't they everybody has to make their mind up themselves and and hey they don't have the info man Who's waiting for you? There's some regret in my life. There's some people that I never followed through with. I can't undo it. But I'm not gonna live groveling in that regret. I'm going to say, Lord, will you give me the courage to begin to talk to people, even if they insult me? Because God, you have done something in my life that I was so undeserving of, and you've put me in trust of the gospel. I'm a steward of this. And so God, I'm going to labor at this. When you give me the opportunity, I'm going to tell somebody, hey, and it's not just going to be on Tuesday night or Saturday morning when we all go out. Lord, I'm going to purposely in my life Become a friend to people, and whether it's awkward or whether it's pushy or whatever it is, I'm going to tell them about Jesus. He is their only hope. And God, I know right now that Satan's going to try to hinder me. He's going to be all about distracting, all about discouraging, all about trying to stop me. But I'm not doing that one again. God, I'm asking you. Will you help me to speak to that one that maybe is already on your heart tonight? God, wouldn't you make me conscious of opportunities to tell people who I love? Who I speak to almost on a daily, a weekly basis, will you help me to change and not only talk about sports And not only talk about whatever ladies talk about, I don't know anything but sports, laundry You help me to tell them about Jesus. Would you pray with me? Father, would you speak to us tonight? What a tremendous need in our community, our world, on our street. What a tremendous need in our classroom Our workplace. God, they may think less of us. They they may think we're kind of silly. They may think we're one of them fanatics. They may even look down on us. They may even say they don't want to hear it. But God from a heart of love that cares about where they go for eternity And for hating the thought of regretting not telling them and loving the thought of standing next to them in heaven. Oh God, move us. Help us to get over ourselves. Oh God, plant in our heart that vision. Of joy and hope, a crown of rejoicing. Because someone we tell about Jesus gets saved. Lord, would you put on the heart of these people tonight a name? Maybe it's a neighbor, a workmate? Maybe it's someone in their family. And help them to find a way and the courage to tell that person about Jesus. Would you quietly stand to your feet