Started as our text verse. And um so we're going to uh If you would just look at several verses, keep your Bibles handy. Mark, I would like to end the service tonight um eventually. And um But uh I'd like to end it with that song you taught us on uh at Friday night at the banquet about the Bible. And uh maybe we can learn that. We'll s we'll close with that song. And I think it'd be a blessing. Uh Romans chapter twelve. We're going to go there, and then we're going to go to Titus, then we're going to go to James, then we're going to go to 1 John. You say, what in the world? Why are we using so many verses to get us started tonight I'll tell you why, while you're getting your position there, getting positioned, tonight's subject is a difficult concept to express. Uh it means so many different things to so many different people. What I'm going to ask us to do tonight, when we're talking about worldliness, and particularly in the lives of a Christian I want you to put aside what our preconceived ideas of what worldliness is, and I want us to zero in on what the Bible says it is, and I'll tell you what I found that the Bible's teaching on what worldliness is very different than a lot of the preaching I've heard on worldliness over the years. And so uh having said that uh it's a it's a concept That is sometimes difficult to communicate. I trust the Holy Spirit will open our hearts and open our minds as we look at what the Bible teaches on this. Why am I talking about worldliness? Why would we discuss this subject? I tell you why, because we began a series several months ago on confronting the sins we become very comfortable with. And if you'll remember, we pointed out that we, particularly as independent Baptists have uh perfected the practice of preaching on the sins of society, particularly uh um abortion Um uh rock and roll, those types of things, um sodomy. Uh by the way, it was twelve months ago tonight I preached the most famous sermon I've ever preached in my life It's been read around the world and had repercussions for many, many months. And so I don't anticipate the same response to this message, but But anyway, we've gotten very good at preaching at these wor uh at these sins, but we've become very comfortable with some sins in our own lives. And based on John chapter 8, where Jesus told the Pharisees, he that are without sin cast the first stone. He confronted them about their own issues and they walked away. I I've been asking the Lord to confront me and us as a church with the sins in our lives that we become very comfortable with and that um we have a tendency to justify uh and uh and overlook so and one of those is worldliness and you say preacher i'm not worldly I don't I don't listen to rock and roll music. I'm not worldly. You cannot know, you can maybe not know one rock and roll song in the world and still be an extremely worldly Christian So look at Romans chapter twelve with me. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God. That you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. Now look at this. And be not conformed to this world What's he saying there? He's saying, don't be what? Don't be worldly. Don't be conform to this world. Don't be worldly Keep your place here. We're going to come back to this passage. Come over, if you would, to Titus chapter 2. And verse, I'm going to begin reading in verse 11. We're going to look at 11 and 12. Now I'm using a lot of verses because I want God's word. to clarify in our minds this subject. Titus chapter 2 verse 11. For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared unto all men. Now watch this. teaching us that denying ungodliness and what? Worldly lust. There is that term, worldly. Now, come over if you would to James chapter 4. Now I know, I believe we're going to end up in James again before this is over with. And verse number four. Now, this is a good verse to underscore in your Bibles. These all are. But uh this one, particularly with the subject we're talking about tonight. Notice the terminology he uses here. Ye adulterers and adulteresses. Would you agree with me? That's strong language. That's a strong accusation. Ye adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that the friendship of the world Is enmity with God. Wow. Whosoever therefore will be a friend of the world is the enemy of God. What does it mean to be a friend of the world? Whatever it is, I want to understand that because I'm telling you, I do not want to be an enemy of God. And if being a friend of the world makes me an enemy of God, then I do not want to be a friend of the world. I do not want to be worldly. All right, one more. First John chapter two And verses fifteen, sixteen, and seventeen. First John two, verses fifteen, sixteen, and seventeen. The Bible says, love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. Now let's stop right there and just take a moment. What does it mean if you love the world? Peter or James told us, if we're a friend of the world, I'm the enemy of God. Here he says, if I love the world, the love of God is not in me. Does that mean that God if I love the world, that God doesn't love me? Is that what that's saying? No, it can't be that, because God's word teaches that his love for us is unconditional. So it doesn't mean that I don't love God. I think what he's implying here is if I love the world, it doesn't mean that God doesn't love me. It's implying that I don't love God. The love of the Father is not in me. Love for God the Father is not in me. That's a strong statement. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, the pride of life, is not of the Father, but is of the world And the world passeth away. Now that's an important statement there in understanding what worldliness is. The world passeth away But the l and the lust thereof, but he that doeth the will of God abideth forever. Pray with me, and then we'll ask the Lord to search our hearts and challenge us. These are strong statements God makes. We don't want this in our lives. And if it's there, if we misunderstand or don't have a clear understanding of what worldliness is, and it's true in my life, then good night, I need to deal with that And take care of it. Father, bless now our study. Fill me with your spirit, is my prayer. And help us not to be worldly, dear God. And uh to be spiritual in every way. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Tough concept, as I said, means so many different things to so many different people, worldliness. First of all, I'm going to begin, I want to begin by trying to define what worldliness is. What does the Bible mean when it talks about being worldly? Well, if we would go out to our Amish neighbors and ask our Amish folk what does it mean to be worldly, they would answer, well, if you have electricity in your house, maybe. If you drive a vehicle, if you use motorized um uh equipment, and you get all different kinds of answers on to what worldliness is. I grew up in a uh in a Mennonite home very conservative in my young years, very conservative Mennonite home, and uh many of the folks that attended the church we went, they they didn't have shiny uh um uh they didn't have chrome on their cars. or anything like that, because that was considered to be what? Worldly. And so is that the definition of worldly driving cr having chrome on your vehicles or wearing a collared uh uh uh a non white shirt uh with a suit. Is that worldly? I've heard that on some cases. Other folks, you ask them what does it mean to be worldly, they would give you a list of sinful activities. This is worldly and this is worldly and this is worldly, and the list would fluctuate from church to church as to what it is to be worldly. I've come to this conclusion in studying this message. I hope you'll bear with me here. I've come to the conclusion that what we call worldliness Is often the symptoms of worldliness and not what worldliness really is. You follow what I'm saying? We'll make a statement like this. Someone will make a statement like this. Well, talk about another Christian. Well, they're pretty worldly What do you mean? Well, they listen to rock and roll music. Um uh they're worldly because they listen to rock and roll music Actually, if I understand what the Bible teaches on worldliness, it's not they're worldly because they listen to rock and roll music. They listen to rock and roll music because they're worldly. We get the symptom and the cause mixed up Listening to rock and roll music doesn't make me worldly. Me being worldly enables me in my mind to listen and enjoy and indulge in rock and roll music. See what I'm saying? You can take that anywhere. Worldliness is more than just the way a person dresses. Boy, sister so-and-so sure dressed worldly today Now it's a whole lot more than the way a person dresses. It's a whole it's a whole lot more than the type of entertainment or a uh or uh a place that a person goes. That's not what worldliness is. Worldliness is a frame of mind. Worldliness is an attitude and affection that I have developed in my heart and mind. I put it this way: worldliness is an unscriptural worldview. Seeing the world, and we'll define what we mean by the world here in a moment, but seeing it from an unscriptural perspective. Not seeing the world the way God does, and because I have an unscriptural view of what the world is, then I behave in activities that are considered worldly. Follow what I'm saying? Again, this is this is difficult to communicate. No, come back to Romans chapter 12. This might help a little bit. You all look like you're thinking more about picnics tomorrow than worldliness tonight. Uh Look at verse chapter 12, verse 1. Familiar passage with all of us. And we've spent an extensive period of time in this in Sunday school over the last several years. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, you present your bodies a living sacrifice, wholly acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service. Here we go. And be not conformed to this world. Don't be changed the classic definition of that explanation of that is don't be changed into the world's image. Don't become worldly. Now, look at verse two very carefully. What is the solution to being worldly? Be transformed. How am I transformed by the what? Renewing of my mind. It doesn't say, be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your wardrobe. That's not what it says. I'm saying be not conformed to this world, but do ye transform by the renewing of your CDs. You all know what I'm talking about? CDs? By the renewing of your iPod. What else is there today? What else is what? Uh by the renewing of your MP3 player. What did he say? I don't know what it was, but if Xander said it's gotta be good. No, no. It says, by the renewing of your what? Mind. That tells me this: that worldliness has to do with how I what. Think, uh has to do with how I see things, how I perceive things. You can dress very conservatively, listen to nothing but hymns, you can carry your King James Bible, you can uh do all these things outwardly right, yet be very worldly. in your thinking. So we've got to understand that worldliness is a whole lot more than how I dress and how what my entertainment categories are. It's how I think. Now this this came to me in studying this. Everybody alright? Okay. Is that you, Catherine? Oh. That's okay, Catherine. We understand. Um This came to me and and I'm I'm practice I'm throwing this out to you because in case I'm wrong. Uh but this is the way I got thinking about the world. This is very philosophical. On a Memorial Day weekend, you really have to be real think philosophically here, okay? Well no how many people know what I'm talking about when I talk about the flesh? And people know, you know, a physical body, but biblically, the flesh is what? Our flesh is Our sinful nature. We talk about the flesh, we're talking about our sinful nature, our tendency to do wrong, that which is in us that prompts us to do wrong. How many folks here have found that your flesh is sinful? Anybody here? If you didn't, you're either lying or you're really a knucklehead. And um uh but our sin our flesh is sinful. You know what the world is when we talk about the world and being worldly? This see what you think of this, brother Chip. The world is a sinful flesh corporately. Does that make sense? All of the sinful flesh of man together. We would call it society. That which rules. You want to know what a society is like? You want to know the moral temperature of a society? Look at their advertising. What does that society use to appeal to people, and that'll tell you their moral temperament? I can assure you, our society is very sinful. Am I right or wrong? I mean they're using foul language on the commercials now. I read an article this week where the FCC, part of the world Is deregulating indecency and language restrictions on television. They feel like it's too strict That's the world. That is flesh corporately carried out. And so a worldly Christian, someone who is worldly, is someone who they think. Along the same lines as the world does, the corporate flesh of man. things. You say, well brother, now I'm not saying the Bible doesn't imply that it's 100% across the board. You say, well, Brother Lethman, I don't think there ought to be bad language on the on the media and the media and that type of thing. And I'm glad to hear that. But that doesn't mean you're not worldly in other categories, in other areas. The Pharisees, when they brought that woman taking an adultery, they didn't commit adultery. But they sure had their own set of sins. And so, what do we mean by being worldly? We're trying to define worldly. Worldliness, this is here's Dennis Leatherman's definition. Worldliness is being love, being in love with Being attached to, being engrossed by or enamored with the things of the physical world. Now, once you turn to a passage, this might help you understand. 2 Corinthians chapter 4. It's not far away here from Romans Talking a lot today about my salvation before I got saved, January of 1979, I decided something had to change in my life. I could not keep going on the way I am. Something had to change. And I was very worldly, I was unsaved, of course, but I was worldly in my approach to changing my life. And as I was reading my Bible and I was praying before I got saved, I was reading my Bible a lot before I got saved. And I was praying, God help me, God help me. And I came across 2 Corinthians 4, verse 18. Now, think about this in the context of our subject. While we look not at the things which are seen But the things which are not seen. For the things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal. And I read that, and for some reason, that passage stuck in my mind for several months. We look not at the things which are seen, but the things which are not seen. For the things which are seen, the world, all that is temporal, but the things which are not seen, the things of God, that's eternal, the spirit world. And I was living for the things that were seen. It was worldly. My fulfillment, my purpose, my My success, my everything in life was coming from that which I could see and touch, the world. And my life was messed up. I said, something's got to change. So I got this ingenious idea. I was going to keep doing everything else, but I was going to change the style of music I listened to. And I thought if I listen to a different style of music, then my life will change. What was I doing? I was being worldly. I was looking to something there that would change me rather than God change me. Follow what I'm saying. I was driving down the road in my Mustang mock no no this was uh later on. Um I had so many cool cars I can't remember. But uh I was driving down no, it was my little Chevette. Um Really it was. No joke. I would pull into the gas station and say, uh fill the oil, check the gas. And um had those old aluminum heads, you remember that? Great GM vehicles and that thing was fantastic. Uh we the kids that when I went to India uh No, I didn't have that. Yes, I did. It was the Chevet. Who cares about my car? Anyway, I was driving down the road And uh I thought, I'm gonna listen to this other music, I've got to change my life. And so I stuck this like, it was like folk music or something, and I stuck it in the eight-track player, and I hit track number one And it played about one verse of a song and that thing just ate that eight track. How many people remember those days when they would just consume it and you'd pull it out and all the tape would be in there and you're pulling it out of the thing I pulled over, I pulled, and I tell you, I threw that thing down, and that verse came to mind. For we look not at the things which are seen, but the things which are not seen. And I thought this music, this stuff, the drugs, all of that, it's so temporal. I need to look to God And I was worldly in my thinking. I was looking to the things of the world to make me a better person. I was looking to what the world produced. To bring fulfillment and happiness and direction to my life. And it couldn't do it. The things of the world are temporal. They don't meet the spiritual needs of man. And so when God says don't be worldly, he's saying stop looking to the world, stop loving and admiring the world, it can do nothing for you. That's not where your need is. That's not where you get direction. That's not where you get fulfillment. That's not where you get real heart joy. And so the definition of worldliness is looking to the world For that which only God can do for us. Second of all, real quick, the danger of worldliness. The danger of worldliness What's the big deal if there's something of the world that I like? What's the big deal if there's something that and getting enamored? What's the big deal about being a friend of the world? What's the big deal about loving the world? Well there's a real danger to it. And if we don't have the Bible, we don't see that. Number one, the world is against God. In John chapter 7 and verse 7, the Lord said that the world hates God. The world hates God. The world crucified the Son of God, Jesus Christ. The world did. The world's way of thinking, the world's values, the world's principles are what Put Jesus Christ on the cross. They rejected him. The world is against God. You say, brother, if Jesus came today, the world wouldn't crucify him. Ha! The world hasn't changed a bit in what it is. Look at James chapter 4 with me again, real quick. James chapter 4 and verse 4. We read it a few moments ago. This is a strong, strong verse. Ye adulterers and adulteresses. Good night. Know ye not that the friendship with the world Is enmity with God. What is he saying? He's saying this world If we can see the world, the values and principles of this world, corporate flesh of man, world, society, if we can see it from God's perspective, this world is the enemy of God. It's against God. And he's saying here: it is impossible for me to be a friend of the world and at the same time be a friend of God. Either it's one or the other. A person that commits adultery against their spouse does not love their spouse. Now they can repent, confess that sin, and repent from it, and reestablish the love for the spouse, but the act of adultery is not an act of love for the spouse. And when I love the world, I do not love God. When I'm a friend of this world, and it's all that's in it produces, I'm not a friend of God, I'm an enemy of God. And that is a strong, strong statement. God looks at society and all that it produces and how it functions. God says they are against me. Their values, the world's values, are not God's values The world's principles are not God's principles. The world's priorities are not God's priorities. And he says, if you are friends with the values and principles and priorities of this world that is against me, you are not my friend. So says God. So it's a dangerous thing to be worldly It's not just a preference of style, it's not just a preference of this, of that, or the other. It is a whole mentality. The whole way of viewing this world system and what it produces. My view of God. The world is against why is it so dangerous to be worldly? One, the world is against God, two, the world is against God's word. The world's values are in direct opposition to the Bible's values. The world's principles are in direct opposition to God's principles The world's priorities are in direct opposition to God's priorities. It is impossible To simultaneously live by the world's values and live by God's values. One of the two is being sacrificed. And when I say I'm gonna live by the values of Scripture and the principles of Scripture, I'm gonna live by what the Bible says is right and wrong, I'm gonna live by what the Bible says it is impure, is pure, and that which is impure, I'm going to live by Bible principles, I will be in conflict with the world's principles. We say this so often. The world has gotten, has has uh perfected the ability to take that which is good and of God and make it look bad. And that which is bad and not of God, and make it look so great. And we're seeing it in extreme measures in our day and age. The world is against God's word. The world is against God. I put this down. The world is a tool of Satan When we fail to see the world as it really is, as sinful, as anti-God as it really is, when we fail to see that. Boy, Satan can take us and just whip us around and beat us up. How many churches today Are not preaching that book there because they became enamored with something of the world. I've been doing this for a little while. Working with people and young people and young preachers. I've said it over and over to them, and I've seen it happen over and over and over. You bring a little bit of the world into your life, into your ministry, and you will change your standards, you will change your Bible, you will change your preaching, it will change everything about your life. Because the world is a tremendous tool that the devil uses to bring down ministries, to bring down testimonies. The world It's against God, it's against God's word, it's a tool of Satan. Now, how do I defeat worldliness? Say, preacher, I don't know how the Holy Spirit may deal in your heart and life. Hey, by the way, preachers are not immune from worldliness. Follow what I'm saying? Sunday school teachers, deacons, are not immune. My flesh and the world are tremendous allies. They cooperate together tremendously. In fact, my flesh is part of the corporate world system. So how do I defeat it? Number one, I put this down. Secure my relationship with the Lord. Number one, make sure I'm saved I've got to be saved and have spiritual ties with this world cut off and have established a relationship with my Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Now I can be saved and still be worldly. That's where a lot of the problem comes in. So how once I'm saved, how do I have victory over worldliness? I put this down. Submit my thinking to Scripture Be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind. Start thinking the way the Bible thinks Start viewing things from the Bible's perspective. I tell you, this is where worldliness is killing us. We're seeing life in the world from the world's perspective, not from God's perspective. This world is temporal. This world is sinful to its very nature. But we don't see it that way. And we think, well, I can handle that, and I'll just block this out, and I'll just eliminate this. And you know, I can enjoy the world. I was trying to think of the song. I think my wife found it this afternoon for me. Am I a soldier of the cross, a follower of the lamb? And in that song. I should have got it out of our handbook, but in that song, it makes this statement: Is this vile world a friend of grace to lead me on to God? Really? Well? This world is gonna help me be a better Christian? Really? I was reading a sermon by Dr. Lee Robertson this week on worldliness. I wanted to see what he had to say. And this was back, I think, in the 60s or 70s, and he mentioned a church in Michigan. And the church had a reputation in the community there that every year they would show a movie from their church, and they're move, they'd show a movie, a regular Hollywood movie in their church, and get great crowds in and use that to make contacts. Really? To bring people to Christ? And he said, this year I just got their advertisement and they're introducing soft, this is the 1970s, they're introducing soft core porn to track people in and share the gospel with them. Are you serious? Listen, we need to think scripturally. Now that's an extreme case But how many times do we look at things and we just don't see the world as that bad? We think, well, you know Secure my relationship with the Lord, submit my thinking to Scripture, be strong in my fellowship with the Lord. And by that I mean in prayer and Bible reading I'll tell you what would solve a lot of the worldliness in our lives. If we would just consistently and sincerely get alone with God and say, God, search my heart and try me, teach me from your scriptures. Help me to be renewed. My mind be renewed. Lord, give me victory in my life. Lead me and direct me in my decisions. Now, I'm not taking a shot at anybody, and God bless you. Please bear with me. You guys are very patiently. I certainly don't want to start another deal like we did last year. But I really have a hard time believing that somebody has their Bible open on their knees before God, seeking God with all their heart, and they get up and go out to a tattoo shop and get tattoos on their body. Can I get a witness? But if you're seriously thinking about getting a tattoo, I'd suggest you get your Bible open, get before God, get alone with God, and really seek guidance and ask him, is this really would be the best thing for me to do? She was dressed fairly modestly, just a nice, attractive, sweet girl next door type thing. As I came up, she had the most horrendous tattoo, upper fingers, all around some dragon or something, all the way up. It was just beat red. You couldn't see it from this side, she did not hear him when she reached out. I almost gasp. I thought, what in the world? I said to her, I said, man, that must have hurt to get that. She goes, you don't know the half of it. Then she made this statement. Say, I wished I'd have never got it. Just got a few weeks before. I wished I'd never done that. I'm not saying how many Christians, how many of us, oh, we don't do something that ridiculous? How many of us make some stupid decision because we don't see things from Scripture? We don't get alone with God. We don't let the Lord lead us and direct us. We become worldly. In our thinking. Secure my relationship with the Lord. Submit my thinking to Scripture. Be strong in my fellowship with the Lord. I put this down. Be steadfast in your faithful church attendance. You say, what does that have to do with worldliness? The world tries to substitute for the Christian, tries to substitute the body of Christ. I read an article several years ago about a fellow, an unsaved guy, and this was his statement: the local bar is the world's substitution for the local church. And he was saying that folks get from the bar a synthetic result that Christians are supposed to get from church. There's kindred spirit, there's fellowship, they pour their hearts out to each other. They meet that social need of getting together. You know what that tells me? The importance of the church in the life of the believer. Help us stay close to God, help us stay scriptural in our thinking, and keep that world from influencing us. And God pity preachers who, when folks get together and they don't preach the word of God, God have mercy on that sorry guy. It's the whole purpose of the body assembling together so we can get a biblical perspective on things. Get some leadership and direction in our lives. And I put this down. Be filled with the Holy Spirit. Be filled with the Holy Spirit. You say, preacher, all right, you gave all that, I see it. So how does that tell me whether I dress as worldly or not? You know, that's something you seek God. There's biblical principles here. I don't have to me. You know, I think you can be in style and yet still be biblical. You follow what I'm saying? It's my mentality towards it. Do I conform to scripture or whatnot? Yes, some folks. Well, worldliness is women putting on lip stipping stip lip lipstip. And um makeup. Lick stip. I like what Brother Lee Roberts said. He said if an old bar needs some paint, put it on, you know. This is the illustration I want to end with, and hopefully this will help us grasp what I'm trying, what I think the Bible teaches on this. Suppose you have a family, a loving father. They have children. One of the children Is taken by a nasty pervert. And he takes that little girl or that little boy, whatever, and he treats them horrendously. And abuses them. And then tortures them and then kills them. Throws the body back to the family. Can you imagine? And the guy gets away with it. Courts say, he's not guilty. And he lives in your neighborhood. And your other child Who saw this happen to their brother? Saw what this guy did to their brother. Starts hanging out with them And starts dressing like he does. And says, you know, the guy's pretty funny. I like he's very entertaining. And he dresses pretty cool, you know, and uh uh you know I'm not gonna commit myself to him, but I kinda liked what he had to offer. What would the parent say to that other child? Are you crazy? Do you know what that guy did to your brother? And he's okay with doing that? And he would do it again if he had the opportunity. And you want to dress like him, and you want to hang out with him, and you want to see his entertainment, and you want him to make you laugh. And you want him to entertain you? He tortured and murdered your brother. You want to be friends with him. And God says, that's exactly what the world did to my brother Jesus Christ. They molested and murdered and tortured him. Hung him up like a criminal. Naked and beaten. And I want to go and be friends with that mentality, that society, that world that did that to my Savior, my brother and the Lord? What are you crazy? I want to look like the world. I want to act like them. And God looks down and says, You're a friend with the world. You're not a friend of mine. You adulter an adulteress? Are you crazy? The world hates me. The world tortured my son, killed him. And you want to have the same hairstyle that he has. You want to wear the same baggy pants he wears. Are you nuts? It's a way of thinking. It's a whole perspective on what this world is. Is this vile world a friend of grace? To lead me on to God? I don't think so. Father in heaven, where we live in such a sinful world, it's all around us and we fail to see it. We get worldly in our thinking. God preachers aren't immune to this. We get enamored by this world's values and this world's principles. Help us, dear God, to stay close to you. Help us, dear God, to have our minds renewed by your scriptures, by brothers and sisters in Christ who help us. There is a hard message for me to preach. I don't know if I communicate it. I pray that we would not be worldly, we would be spiritual. That we'd not be friends in this world. We love the world as far as bringing them to Christ, being kind, but not to be enamored by them. Not to be friends and love this world. Help us, I pray. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many say, preacher? I want to be a good child of God. I want to love the Lord. I want to please him. I want to be friends with God. And so doing, I need to cut the ties with the world and not be silly named. With this world. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Any at all? God bless you. Hands all around. My hands raised. It's so easy. That's not to say everything that's physical is wrong. Well, that's not what we're saying. It's our affection. Father, help us in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. I don't know how God might speak their heart in something like this. Jennifer's gonna play a few verse of invitation.