If you would notice with me, I want to read verse number fifteen and sixteen. Now I know we quoted sixteen together at the beginning of the service. Pastor Matt Reddit here a few moments ago But um uh I want to read through it again. That's what we're going to be looking at this morning. Verse 15 says, and that from a child This is the Apostle Paul writing under the inspiration of God. He's writing to this young man, Timothy, a young preacher boy, that he's taken under wing and he's mentoring Timothy. He says that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith, which is in Christ Jesus. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof. for correction, for instruction in righteousness. Then he adds verse number 17, that the man of God may be perfect. Now the word perfect there, we're not going to preach on that passage this morning, but that word perfect there has the idea of complete, mature, grown up, what he should be. The man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. I enjoy listening to our radio station. I have it on at home 24-7. I have it in the car. I have it in my office. I'll play it. I'm studying and working. And every weekday at 10. 30, there's a fellow comes on our radio station that I especially enjoy, Lester Roloff. And Lester Roll's been with the Lord for many, many years now. He pastored down a great church, People's Baptist Church down in Corpus Christi, Texas. He had a tremendous children's home and a home for um uh drunks, uh addiction and just did a tremendous work, helped thousands and thousands of people. I had a roommate in Bible college that was a heroin addict in Texas and uh got arrested and he had a choice go to Brother Roloff's homes for uh troubled teens or go to jail. He said, Well I'll go to home And he got saved, God called and preached Johnny Downs. And so Brother Roloff had a tremendous influence in in the world. And so I enjoyed listening to him. About a week or so ago, he was speaking, he made a statement, caught my attention. I was working away, and he made this statement, I wrote it down. He said the Bible is the world's greatest brain food. The Bible is the world's greatest brain food. That caught my attention. That's the title of my message this morning, The World's Greatest Brain Food. Let's pray together. Ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father, thank you for the Word of God, this brain food that you've given to us. And I pray that you would take the next few moments as we look into the scriptures, and that you would strengthen our faith in your word, your will for our lives. I pray, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I don't know what all the needs are represented here this morning. I know there's many, many needs represented all of our hearts and lives But I pray maybe, Lord, you could use your word to address some of those, particularly our spiritual needs. That we would leave here a little more confident, Lord challenged. Encouraged by your word. So I yield my will to you, Lord, and I present my body anew. And I ask with all my heart, dear Lord, that you would fill me with your spirit. That you would speak through me and uh touch our hearts and help us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. The world's greatest brain food, I believe that the Bible Will do more to help us think right than any other book that's ever been published. I think the Bible will help us, will do more to help us live right than any other book. I love books. If you come in my office, I have probably a thousand or more books at home and here. I love books. I read and read several at a time. But there's no book like the Bible. There's no book that has done for me in my life like what the Bible has done for me in my life The Bible is God's gift to us. And we can never, we must never, ever underestimate the value and the importance of the Word of God. Um God has designed mankind to function in a very specific way. Mankind, a human being, is a very complex organism. If you'll just bear with me a little bit, a very complex machine. This computer up in our brain is beyond comprehension. The ability of our brain, the function of our body. I was pointing out to my wife of a couple of days ago or week or so ago, I saw this little article and they found this over in Saudi Arabia somewhere, they found this carving on the side of a mountain. They determined it's very, very ancient, one of the oldest they found, and it's uh it's like uh carved into the stu side of the mountain, a camel. And they're making a big deal of the fact that this there's no way in the world this just happened by weather and wind and storms. That an intelligent being has carved this camel into the side of this mountain. And the whole article was all about how significant this find is. And I got thinking about that. They said, they said specifically, there's no way this just happened. Something, an intelligent man carved this in there. But then they have a real camel standing over, which is one hundred billion times more complex than a carving, and they say, oh well that camel just evolved and came from nothing by chance. They're nuts. Listen to me. Let me give you a little bit. This isn't my message. I'm already off the radar But can I give you s seriously, can I give you some advice? Don't buy into the lie of evolution. I'm telling you it is an absolute lie of the devil. And it is so prevalent It is worldwide, it has saturated our our in our our educational institutions from kindergarten all the way through the highest degrees you can get. These young people down here, every one of these young people down front, these fellas down here. Fellas right down here. And these these girls over here. Hey, every one of them are being taught in school the lie of evolution. Now some of them are homeschooled, so I appreciate that. You follow what I'm getting at? And the fact of the matter is, God has created our bodies. God has created you and I in a very specific way, to function in a very specific way. God has created us to function in a very specific way mentally. We're to think a certain way. That's how we're designed to think a certain way. If we start thinking outside of the way we're designed to think, we run into trouble. That's why he tells us that we should trust in the Lord with all our heart and lean not unto thine own understanding. We're not designed We don't have the capabilities. We're not made that way. God has designed us in a very specific way to function very specifically emotionally. We are emotional beings. God made us that way. There's nothing wrong with emotion. It's proper and appropriate as long as it functions As long as it is within the way that God designed us to function emotionally. We get proud. We're not designed to be proud. God didn't make us that way. When we get proud, we do not function properly. Our emotions get out of way. Get offended by every little thing. We get angry at all of that. When we get proud The root of anger is pride. Period. Only by pride cometh contention, Proverbs says We're not designed emotionally to operate in a proud way. We're designed to operate in humility. We're designed to operate in faith. When we step outside of the way we're designed, we have trouble. It's the same thing with any other machinery, if you want to use that imagery. Any other machinery, you use it in a way it's not designed to be used, it breaks down, right or wrong. Doesn't function properly. God has created us and designed us to function in a very specific way spiritually. We're spiritual beings. We are a spirit. You can deny it all you want. The fact of the matter is you and I are more than just flesh and blood. We are a spiritual being. And we're designed to function spiritually in a very specific way. We are designed by God to function in a very specific way physically. We abuse our body, we're going to have trouble. We don't function physically the way God designed us to, then we run into trouble. So God is, I repeat my statement, God has designed us to function in a very specific way. And all these areas of our that we're made up with Emotion, mentally, emotionally, mentally, spiritually, physically, we're designed to function a certain way. I've used this illustration many times over the year. But if you put gasoline in a diesel engine, you have problems. Right or wrong? Because it's not designed to function with gasoline. And you and I are designed to function a certain way, and we inject these other things in that we're not designed to function, and we have problems When we fail to live the way God designed us to live, we have trouble. And that's where the Bible comes in. The Bible is our manual for life. The Bible teaches us how we are to live, how we are to function emotionally, mentally, spiritually, and even touches on the physical aspect. God designed us, the Bible tells us we're designed to live by faith. And so we come to the Bible in faith. It's the way we're designed to function. We come to the Bible in humility. We come to the Bible in obedience. God designed us that way, and He gives us this book to show us how to function that way, how to live our life the way we're designed to live. The Bible is filled with instructions on how to live life. Man says no. And says no, I reject the Bible. I reject what God says how to live life And that's the world we live in, a world that has rejected, for the most part, what the Bible says, how the Bible instructs us to live. Let me ask you a question. How's the world making out? Pretty pretty big mess in my assessment. So the Bible instructs us how to live life. I can disregard that if I want, but be prepared. There's going to be consequences. There's going to be effects of that. There's going to be results. The Bible designs instructs us. The Bible is filled with examples. On how to live by faith, how to be humble, how to obey, how to trust the Lord. There's all examples all through Scripture So he tells us what we should do, how we should function. Then he gives us all kinds of examples all through Scripture. The Bible gives us warnings. He says all through Scripture. He gives warnings, don't be careful, don't get involved in this. Stay away from that. Don't allow this into your life. In fact, there's some places that say, don't allow this into your home. And he warns us and he tells us we need to safeguard our minds. We need to safeguard our hearts. He says, keep thy heart with all diligence. Proud of it are the issues of life. He warns us to safeguard our homes, our hearts, our minds, our lives. And the Bible warns us of what to watch out for, what to stay away from. So the Bible gives us instructions on how to live life, the way we're designed to live. The Bible gives us warnings of things to stay away from, things to avoid. The Bible gives us examples of people that did not. Avoid certain things that did not follow God's examples. And what how that played out. And the Bible gives us promises. The Bible gives us tremendous promises. And he tells us, if you will trust me Live by my instructions. Follow my instructions. Trust me. And God says, I will do what I promise you I will do. And I'm here to tell you this morning, God keeps his promises. If we'll trust him Do what he says, follow his instructions, God will come through every single time. Maybe not on our timing. We talked about that in a previous message. He has his timing, his plans, his purposes, but I'm telling you, God will come through every single time. I trust God. We need to. We need to. So the Bible is our manual for life. Theodore Roosevelt said back at the turn of the 19th century, he made this statement. He said, a thorough knowledge of the Bible is worth more than any college education. Now I'm all for education. We're certainly not against education. In fact, Proverbs over and over and over tells us Get knowledge, get understanding, get wisdom. That's all about education. Uh there's uh s uh uh there's no somebody says ignorance is bliss. Yeah, it can be deadly too What's in this box what's in this little jar? I don't know. Just drink it. Uh no thanks. But he said there's something More important, more beneficial than the best education you get. He said, a knowledge of the Bible. You know why? Because the Bible is a manual for life. It teaches me how to live. Emotionally, mentally, spiritually, physically And it structs me. I would add having a thorough knowledge of the Bible will do more to enhance and bless and benefit you in life than living in a million-dollar house on a beach in Southern California. A thorough knowledge of the Bible will bring more peace and purpose and fulfillment in your life than living in some mansion and having a uh uh uh fancy cars and fancy houses and most popular kid in school, the most po popular person in the country. I tell you, knowing what the Bible says and living by the Bible will do more for your life than anything that this world can offer you or me. Standing on the promises of God's Word. The Bible. The Bible. Job understood this. And all the horrendous trials he went through and the difficulties he faced, he made this statement in Job chapter 23, verse 12. This is what Job said. He says, neither, in spite of all his trials, he says, neither have I gone back from the commandments of his ways. Of his lips, I'm sorry. Neither have I gone back from the commandment of his lips. Job speaking about the word of God. He says, I'm not going back on it. I'm holding to the word of God. I'm keeping what God has said. I'm going to follow his instructions. I'm going to heed his warnings. I'm going to claim his promises. And then he made this statement. The commandment, he says, I have esteemed the words of thy mouth More than my necessary food. Now Job said that. This is a man that has nothing. He's going through as bad a hard uh as m as severe trials as you can possibly imagine. And in the midst of it, he says I'm not giving up on God's word, and in fact, I value it more than my necessary food. Now, what's your necessary food? He didn't say I value God's word. I esteem the words of his mouth more than my dessert And I highly value dessert. He didn't say, I have seen the words of thy mouth more than my snacks. He said the Bible is more important to me, more valuable to me, than the food that I absolutely need to stay alive. Wow. The value of the Word of God. The benefit of the Word of God. If you would look at our passage here, I want us to notice three things. We're talking about the world's greatest brain food. Talking about the value of the Bible, the importance of the Bible. I put this down. The Bible is the greatest book ever written, number one, because of its teaching on salvation. Look with me at verse number 15, chapter 3, verse 15. And that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith. Which is in Christ Jesus. The scriptures are able to make thee wise unto salvation. Now again, Paul's writing to this young man, Timothy. Paul knew Timothy dearly. In fact, he referred to him earlier as my own son in the faith. That implies that Paul probably led Timothy to the Lord. Probably wasn't his physical son. He was his son in the faith. He probably led him to the Lord. But we know very, very little about Timothy's salvation. We don't know what the circumstances were around it. We don't know what events led up to the point, to where he came to the point in his life where he saw himself as a sinner without hope. And uh realized Jesus Christ was the Savior from sin and put his faith and trust in Jesus Christ, was born again into the family of God, has eternal life, has a new life, eventually called to the ministry. We don't know what led to that. We don't know what the circumstances were behind it. We're not given much information about Timothy's salvation. We're told about Paul's salvation. In fact, Acts chapter 9, we're given a pretty detailed description of how Paul met Christ on the road to Damascus and what all transpired. The Philippian jailer, we're told the background and what events led up to the point that he trusted Christ and others through Scripture, we're told quite a bit, but Timothy were not But what we are told about it is vitally important. If you would come back to chapter 1 of 2 Timothy. And notice with me verse number five. We're told a little bit here about his home life, which was a huge factor in his salvation, I believe. Second Timothy chapter 1, verse 5. He says, When I call to remembrance, verse 4, he says, I'm really looking forward to seeing Timothy man Uh-uh uh he says, verse 4, greatly desiring to see thee, mindful of thy tears. Then he says, When I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith, I underline that in my Bible The word unfeigned means sincere, genuine. It's not phony. When I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee, now look at this. Which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and in thy mother Eunice. And I am persuaded That in thee also. So we're given a little insight here into Timothy's upbringing. According to this, his grandmother Lois was a woman of tremendous faith. She had genuine, sincere faith in God. She believed the Bible. She believed God. She believed the promises of God. Sincerely, genuinely, wholeheartedly, unfeigned. And her faith, grandma's faith, was transferred to his mother's faith, Eunice's. And Eunice believed the Bible. When she believed in God and she claimed the promises of God, she was unshaken in her faith in God. And a godly mother, listen, a godly mother with genuine faith will have a profound impact on children. Amen or not? Young people, look at me. Young people, look at me. Look up here. If you've got a Christian mama that believes the Bible, you better listen to every single word she tells you You better pay attention to what she says because that is a gift from God that a lot of people don't have I know some of you maybe you don't have a Christian mother. And I'm telling you, Pastor Matt and I, and many in this church, we pray daily for your family's salvation. But you trust God, you stay faithful to God. But I'm telling you, if you got a Christian mother, you ought to thank God every day. Am I right or wrong, church? Amen. Amen. So part of Timothy coming to Christ was the influence of a godly mother and a godly grandmother. By the way, mothers, you ought to be have unfeigned faith like Timothy's mother. Amen. You better get a hold of this word of God. You better ground your faith in the Word of God just like them, because your kids need to see a mother and a father with faith in God. And so that was a factor in Timothy's salvation was his godly grandmother, this godly mother, and the influence they had on Timothy Now notice, come back if you would to our text, chapter 3. Look at verse 15. We give a little more information here. He kind of elaborates on that maybe a little bit In verse 15 he says, and that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures. So he was taught as a young child the word of God. He was taught as a young child what the Bible says. He was taught the instructions of Scripture, he was taught the warnings of Scripture, he was shown the examples from Scripture, and he was taught the promises from Scripture. from a young child. In fact, I thought this was interesting. I got looking up that word young child. It means newborn infant. Baby. In fact, that same word is used in Luke with Jesus and John the Baptist when they were still in their mother's womb. Same word. In other words, from birth, he was injected, the word of God was instilled in his heart and mind. I think nursery is important. Oh, I I think some bring the bring hey bring those babies to church Fill it up. We're gonna we're remodeling the the nursery back there. And by the way, nursery workers say, you better keep giving to nursery. We need a new nursery band And um and uh we want to build, expand that, make it bigger. And you know what I want? I want to fill it up again. Maybe someday we'll have a nursery the size of the activity center. Wouldn't that be something? But teach those babies the Word of God. Read it to them. Say, well, they don't understand. That's okay. Read it to them. From a newborn, a little baby, he was taught the word of God. That's why we try and bring as many kids in here as we can. We want to teach them the word of God. It's necessary. It's vital for salvation. Right now, as I'm preaching here, Pastor Matt's downstairs got a room full of kids. He's teaching and preaching the word of God. There's memorizing scripture. They're playing some games, but um we never play games up here, but they have a good time. So we're not told a lot about Timothy's salvation other than the fact that he had a good godly Grandpa uh grandmother, good godly mother, his daddy was most likely unsaved. He was a Greek. We have no reference to his daddy's faith in God We have no reference to his daddy's obedience to the word of God, his love for the Lord, his involvement in church. No reference whatsoever. But he had a godly mother and a godly father, and he was taught the word of God from a child. And notice it says, Thou hast known the holy scriptures. Here's what I'm getting at The Word of God is the basis of our salvation. Circumstances may change from person to person. I'm talking to some folks who didn't have a godly mother. Talking to some folks, you weren't grow you didn't grow up in a uh in a good godly Christian home. Maybe you come from a drunkard's home. Maybe you come from a broken home. Circumstances may change. We have some people here got saved out of good, godly Christian homes, some people here that came out of broken non-Christian homes. Circumstances may change But one thing that never changes in this matter of salvation is the Word of God. Everybody gets saved, gets saved according to Scripture. Are you following what I'm saying? If a person does not have Bible salvation, they do not have salvation. That from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures which are able to make thee wise to salvation. The Bible is the most important book in existence. Because it's the only book with the message of salvation. It's the only authority that we rest our faith upon for the hope of our soul's salvation and our escape from hell and home in heaven. The Bible. I've got books in my office, as I said. I I'm book I'm a book a holic And I read them. Some people just collect them. I read them. But not one of those books has authority. To give me assurance of my salvation like the Word of God. I do not base the assurance of my salvation on any other writing of man. I base it only on the Word of God. Are you with me? Because of its teaching on salvation, the Bible is important. There's no salvation apart from Bible salvation If you would, keep your place here. It's not far. Come over to 1 Timothy. Go towards the back of your Bible there. You'll run into Hebrews, James, 1 Peter, I'm sorry, 1 Peter. And notice with me chapter 1, 1 Peter chapter 1, notice with me verse 23. Again, I have this underscored in my Bible, this verse. This is a a key verse Now they're all inspired, they're all important. But 1 Peter chapter 1, notice with me verse 23. All the way towards the end, just about the end of the chapter. Peter writing to believers, he makes this statement, verse 23, being born again at salvation, being born again, not of corruptible seed, But of incorruptible, look at this, by the word of God, which liveth and abideth forever. Salvation is based and comes through the Word of God. Through the Word of God. When we have folks come to church sometimes, they need to get saved. God deals with the heart, say, I need to be saved. We invite them to come, let us show you. And we always say this, and this is what we always do. Let me show you from the Bible how to be saved. If you'll pay attention, sometimes a few will usually slip out, but we'll take. And there's always an open Bible when we're explaining to somebody how to be saved. We go out Thursdays, we go out Saturdays. I was out this week. Talked to people. I had a chance on Friday. I was making hospital visits. I got talking to a lady I said, uh, do you know for sure you die now, you go to heaven? Well, I don't know. I hope so. I think so. I said this, let me show you from the Bible. I showed her from the Bible. Now I think she already was saved. She needed assurance. But it was based on Scripture. The Bible's teaching on salvation makes the Bible the most important and the greatest book There is an existence. If someone, now get this, if someone is unwilling To take God at His Word, they will not believe no matter what. Now let me give you scripture for that. Now we're going to get up back in Timothy, so keep your place here in Timothy, but I'd like you to come me to the book of Luke, the Gospel of Luke, the New Testament, Matthew, Mark, Luke. And come with me, if you would, to chapter number sixteen. Luke chapter sixteen. Jesus is giving this an account. And it's one of the most detailed accounts of a person in hell. He gives us an account of this rich man. Who would not believe the Bible rejected the Bible. Now, I think he came from a Bible-believing home, but that's another subject. But he said, no, he rejected it. He's very wealthy. He failed miserably in his spiritual well-being, but he succeeded financially. And he dies. And Jesus said, in hell, he lifted up his eyes, being in torments. He had a fellow that lived outside the gate of his mansion in his very wealthy home. That ate the crumbs that he would throw out. His name was Lazarus. Lazarus had no mansion. He had no money. He had no health. His health was shot, but he had the Lord He was a saved man. And he died. And he ended up in what Jesus refers to as Abraham's bosom. He's in heaven today. Let me just stop a little aside here. Which of those two is better off in the long run? Lazarus, the poor man that had Christ. I'm here to tell you, there may be a lot of things you don't have that you think you would like to have, but I'm telling you, if you've got Jesus, you've got the greatest thing in the world. You may have everything this world has to offer. But if you don't have Christ, if you don't have salvation, in the end, you are a loser. I'm just being honest. Now notice this man in hell, as we get later on in the chapter, this man in hell is interacting with Abraham. He's asking for some drop of water. He doesn't ask to get out. He knows he deserves it. He knows he's guilty. He doesn't ask for escape. He just asks for a little reprieve. He says, well we can't go back and forth. And then he says, send somebody To my brother's house, my father's house, where my brothers are. And warn them of this place. Tell them: Daddy and Mama were right. Tell them this is real. It's not just something the preacher hollered about. Tell them. Warn them. And then Abraham made an interesting statement. Look there at verse number, well he says in verse 5, he says Let's go back to verse 27. Then he said, I pray thee, therefore, Father, that thou wouldest send them to my father's house. Send Lazarus to my father's house. I have five brethren. Then he may testify unto them, lest they also come to this place of torment. Now look what Abraham said unto him, They have Moses and the prophets What's he referring to? The Word of God. They have the Word of God. They have the scriptures. Let them hear them. Rich man answers back. He said, Nay, Father, verse thirty. Abraham, nay, Father Abraham. But if one went unto them from the dead, they'll repent. If somebody comes back from the dead and says, hey, listen, it's real. That they'll pay attention and they'll come to Christ and they'll get saved. Notice what Abraham says If they, verse 31, he said unto them, if they hear not Moses and the prophets, if they won't take God at his word, neither will they be persuaded though one rose from the dead I'm here to tell you the scriptures are vital in salvation. And if someone does not accept the scriptures. And they don't come to God for salvation according to scriptures. They will never, ever find salvation. It's all kinds of ideas out there. It's all kinds of theories and cults and religions, you name it, the devil, and mankind can come up with a myriad of ideas. But there's only one truth, and that is truth according to Scripture. Is the Bible important? Yeah. Because of its teaching on scripture. The most important issue facing mankind is not war in the Middle East, is not climate change. Is not economic depression. The most important issue facing mankind is the salvation of the soul of man. We can have world peace, we can have world prosperity, but if we don't have the message of salvation, if we don't have Christ, we're all lost. The Bible has that message. The Bible is absolutely essential to know salvation. The Bible is absolutely essential to understand the gospel. Person never heard God's word, they've never been saved. And if they don't hear God's word, they won't be saved. Most important book in existence is this book right here. I told the Sunday school class, by God's grace, With his help, as long as I have my mind, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is going to stand on this book, and we're going to preach this book, and we're going to declare the Word of God. It's the only message of salvation. Number two, the Bible is the most important book, the greatest brain food, however you want to word it, because it's given to us by inspiration. Look with me, come back to Timothy here. 2 Timothy 3, our memory verse. He says, from a child you've known the holy scriptures, they're able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith in Jesus Christ, Christ Jesus Then he says this in verse 16. He elaborates on his statement about scripture. He says, all scripture is given by inspiration of God. All scripture, every bit of it, every word, Genesis to Revelation, and all points in between, have given to us by inspiration of God Now, one of the criticisms we get by the world about the Bible, one of the world's criticisms of the Bible, is that it was written by man. Well, it was written by man. It's no different than any other book Young believers say it's written by man. There's no difference. Had a young man a number of years ago. It's been a number of years ago. He's probably about eighteen, nineteen years old, somewhere around there. He didn't come to church. He did when he was little. But I came across him We got to talk a little bit because I don't believe the Bible. I said, why not? He says, it's just written by man. I said, how do you know it's just written by man? He says, I saw a show on TV that said that. I said, oh, so you're basing your eternal destiny on a show you saw in t on TV. Hey listen, if you base anything on a show you see on TV, you're a knucklehead I've gotten to the point I don't believe a thing they say. Anybody anybody with me? I don't trust them as far as I can throw that stupid thing. He says, oh, I don't believe the Bible is full of mistakes. It's just written by man. A TV show told me that. By the way, a little aside, one of the saddest funerals I ever did It's for that young man who died in rejection of the Word of God. It's given by inspiration. Is the Bible just written by man? The Bible is penned by man Somebody says, oh, the Bible's written by man. I say, yeah, it's written by man. But it's not like any other book that's ever been written by man. It's not like any other book that's ever been penned by man. It may be penned by man, but it's inspired by God. All scripture is given by inspiration. Now here's the question: You say, all right, preacher, you're using those big words again. What does inspiration mean? The word itself, if you give a literal definition, and many of you heard, if you've heard any preacher any length of time, you've heard this. But it means God breathed. Inspiration. God breathed. What it's teaching is this. God breathed, and the word inspiration means breathe into. What it means is this, is that God, quote unquote, breathed into the hearts and minds of the biblical penmen exactly what they should write down. And by the way, God didn't just put the ideas in their head what they should write down, the very words. Of God are in the word of the Bible are inspired of God. The very words. That's why we don't play with the words of the Bible. Take your Bible if you would. Now keep your place here. I've got to start winding down here, but come over if you would to 2 Peter. Back after Hebrews, you're at first Peter, then Second Peter of course. Appreciate Pastor Matt's helpful tid tidbit there when he was reading that second Timothy is right after First Timothy. That was that helped me. Notice if you would, 2 Peter 1 and verse number 20, again, at the end of the chapter. Knowing this, knowing this first, that no prophecy of the scripture, no teaching, preaching Instruct anything the scripture gives us. No prophecy of the scripture is of any private interpretation. In other words, the writers of it didn't come up with it themselves Another application of that is there's not just one person that's the only person that can interpret scripture. We can all interpret scripture for ourselves. You don't need to go to the priest to tell you to interpret scripture for you. You can read it and interpret it for yourself. Now, God gives the church pastors and teachers to help us But they don't do it in our place. Are you with me? You follow what I'm saying? Getting a little off track here, but come back. So knowing this, that no prophecy of the scriptures of any private imitation. These guys didn't come up with it themselves For the prophecy came of old time by the will of uh the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man, but holy men of God spake. Now here's how this takes place. Holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. That word move there is used in the book of Acts and other places. It has the idea of being moved along by a wind. Sailboat puts the sail up, the breeze comes and moves that boat in whatever direction. As these men of God. Paul, Timothy, Peter, Isaiah, Moses, as they're penning down the scriptures The Spirit of God is inspiring is breathing into their hearts and minds what God would have them write down. Every word of Scripture is given to us by God Almighty. It's inspired of God. God breathed into the hearts and minds. The penmen of Scripture, the very words that make up Scripture. From Genesis to Revelation, we have the very words of God. That's been the point of Satan's attack from day one. He showed up to Adam and Eve, and particularly Eve, and he says, Yea, hath God Said? Put a question mark. Is that really God's word? Is that really what God says? Uh yeah, it is. Man does not reject the Bible because it contradicts itself or it has mistakes. Man rejects the Bible because it contradicts him. And he's filled with mistakes. All of history, there's never been a book like the Bible. There never will be. It's God's word without air. The very Jesus said heaven and earth shall pass away, but my words Will not pass away. The very words of that book are given to us by God and have no error And will last for all eternity. That's what Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church believes. That's what we teach. That's what we preach. The inspiration of Scripture. And then last of all, I got a couple minutes. Bible is the greatest book. Ever. Greatest brain food, greatest book, however you want to say it, because of its teaching on scripture. Number two, because it's given by inspiration, like no other book that's ever been or will be written. And number three, because of its intention. Now I get that from verse the last part of verse 16 in Timothy. Come back there and we'll end with this. And we don't have the time to expand on this All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable, beneficial. It will help us. And is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. Why? That the man of God may be perfect, mature, complete. What he should be. Thoroughly furnished unto all good works. There's a whole lot more to the Christian life than just being saved. Salvation is the beginning of a new life. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. It's a new life. It's a whole lot more to salvation. Salvation is a beginning of a new life. It's a beginning of having new purpose and meaning in life. It's a beginning of spiritual growth into Christ-likeness. It's a beginning of Christian service, serving our Lord with all our heart. Salvation. I said this last week. I'll say it again. When I trusted Christ the Savior, something changed down inside here. It's a new life lived, a new purpose I never had before. And the Bible teaches us how to develop that, how to grow. Bible's a gift from God, not just to know about salvation, but how to become a mature, godly, effective servant of the Lord. And that's what we want to be. We know Christ. We want to be Christ-like. We want to grow. We want to please the Lord. Am I right or wrong? He says for doctrine. Doctrine teaches us what's right. If you're looking to the world, young people, if you're looking to the world to tell you what's right and wrong, you're going to get messed up. The Bible teaches us what is right and what is wrong. It says, for reproof. Reproof convicts me when I go wrong. Anybody here ever go to church and you something was out of whack in your Christian life, you knew it wasn't what it ought to be, or maybe you didn't even think about it. Preacher gets up and preaches the Bible, all of a sudden something convicts down inside your heart. Anybody know what I'm talking about? It's like, oh, God starts dealing. Hey, you need to deal with that. You need to address this. I stand in the back, shake hands, people come by and they say, Preacher, you stepped on my toes. I said, number one, it wasn't me stepping on your toes, it was the Holy Ghost. And number two, if he got your toes, he missed your heart, so we got to do this again. Reproof. So doctrine teaches what is right. Reproof convicts me what I'm wrong. Then he says, for correction. Correction teaches me how to get back and get right. It corrects me. Do you ever have your GPS on, you make a wrong turn, it says turn around, turn around, turn around. Huh? And uh uh I I think that happened to Ed last night. But um careful It says, I'll go to this and make a safe U-turn, make a legal U-turn. That's correction. I'm going the wrong way. It's correcting me. It's what the Bible does. We get out of whack. We get off course spiritually in the Bible through teaching and preaching and through our personal devotions. It speaks to my heart and it corrects me, gets me back on the right way. And then it says instruction. That Bible teaches me how not just to get right, but to stay right. And if I follow God's instructions, I can be the man that God intends for me to be. You can be the young person God intends for you to be If you will follow his instructions, you can be the mother and the father that God intends you to be if you'll follow his instructions. For instruction in righteousness. The Bible is our highest authority The Bible is our sole authority. I'm here to tell you this morning again, this book will do more to help you in life than anything else you will ever find in this world. The Word of God. Love it. Memorize it. Read it. Cherish it. Share it. Live it. The Word of God. The greatest brain food. Ever given. Father in heaven, bless now our invitation. Help us to cherish this book, to love it, to live it. And Lord, if we're out of whack or off course, we need some help, help us, Lord, to come to you and trust you in faith. Wonder heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many this morning would say, preacher, I need to make the Bible a bigger part of my life than what it is. Maybe it's just kind of gets pushed to the side a little bit and it's not the governor of my life. And you would say, Preacher, pray with me. I need that Bible back. And make it a bigger part of my life than what it is. Any like that? Uplifted hand. God bless you. Hands all around. It's lifelong. Lifelong. We got to stay at it. Stay at it. Stay at it. I wonder if some, and I didn't really preach on this, but it came to mind, I wonder if some say, preacher, I need to work on memorizing Scripture and getting it in my heart and mind. So God has something to use throughout the day. Is there anything like that? Preacher, I need to work on that. God bless you. My hands raised. And then living it. And then sharing it. If you're here this morning and you don't have salvation, you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven on your way to heaven. I'm here to tell you the Bible is the only source. Of what salvation is. Now, others have written it, expanded on it in other writings, but the Bible is the authority. You say, preacher, pray for me. I need to be saved. I don't want to go to hell. I don't want to wait and find out like that rich man that it was real after all. I wanna I wanna settle it now. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I don't wanna I don't wanna play r Russian roulette with my soul. I want to get this settled now. Any at all? Father, I pray you bless our imitation. Help us. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand again.