Today is May 3rd. Normally under normal circumstances and for the last 24 years I believe, somewhere around there, the first Sunday of May would be our mission's emphasis Sunday. And under normal circumstances, we would have our missions flags up everywhere. We'd have missionaries here in the Sunday School Children's Church A lot of times Dr. Creed, Dr. Mike Edwards, Dan DeLong. This year we had uh brother um Clayton Schumpert was to be with us. And so we would normally be uh in our missions um conference. We are not, obviously, but I do want to keep a mission's emphasis today. And I want to re-emphasize again. Now we emphasize this Uh over and over and over all these many years, from day one when I showed up here at Mountain Lake back in uh September of nineteen ninety three I have sought to emphasize the fact that God has given to our church, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, He has given to us a tremendous responsibility. And that responsibility is to take the gospel of Jesus Christ to every single individual person on this whole planet. We call it the Great Commission, is what we refer to it. Now that includes taking the gospel to every person on the planet, every country, every city, every town, every village. uh every home, every person, uh to hear the gospel of Jesus Christ. But that also includes those who believe the gospel, we are to baptize them. and uh and then teach them the principles of Scripture and what the Christian life is and what it means to live for God, planning churches all around the world. And so this is that great commission that God has given to us. Now, what is a commission? We call it a Great Commission. What does that word commission mean? It simply means this, an authoritative order. In other words, we are given an order, an order has been given to us by God, the highest authority in existence. And he has ordered us, he has instructed us, he has commanded us to take the gospel into all the world. God himself has commissioned us with this responsibility. And uh if you study your Bible, particularly New Testament, the Great Commission is reiterated over and over and over all through the Gospels and into the uh the rest of the New Testament. God has instructed us. God requires of us to go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. That's our Great Commission. That's our responsibility. That is the primary purpose for our existence as a church. Now here's the question that comes up. And uh this is what I've been uh w in my mind the last several weeks is uh what happens when a pandemic hits our entire world. And you have a worldwide shutdown. You have a uh uh the entire planet is on lockdown And I've been getting letters and communications from our missionaries around the world, and some of them are locked down even tighter than what we are here in just di very, very difficult circumstances And so uh uh we uh what do we do with the Great Commission? What do we do about our responsibility uh with the Great Commission in times like these Now we can argue about whether the lockdown is effective or not. We can argue about, Pastor Matt and I have been struggling with the constitutionality of You know, a lot of things that are going on. You know, that's that's another matter. My question this morning is this Is our responsibility to carry out the Great Commission suspended during a pandemic? Is the is our responsibility with the Great Commission suspended when we are under lockdown. The whole world is under lockdown. And that's a question I want to try and address this morning. And to do that, we want to go to the Word of God. And that's where Acts chapter 16 comes in. If you have your Bibles there and you have that passage, I'm going to read a fairly lengthy portion of Scripture because I want the entire event here, the entire context Look at that so we can maybe glean some uh thoughts from that and help us in our situation. Look at verse number nineteen of Acts chapter sixteen. Now follow along if you've got your Bible there And when her masters saw that the hope of their gains was gone, they caught Paul and Silas and drew them into the marketplace unto the rulers. And brought them to the magistrates, saying, These men, being Jews, do exceedingly trouble our city, and teach customs which are not lawful for us to receive, neither to observe, being Romans And the multitude rose up together against them, and the magistrates rent off their clothes and commanded to beat them. And when they had laid many stripes upon them, they cast them into prison, charging the jailer to keep them safely, who, having received such a charge, thrust them into the inner prison and made their feet fast in the stocks. And at m and at midnight Paul and Silas prayed and sang praises unto God, and the prisoners heard them And suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken, and immediately all the doors were open, and everyone's bands were loose. And the keeper of the prison, awakening out of his sleep, and seeing the prison doors open, he drew out his sword and would have killed himself, supposing that the prisoners had been fled. But Paul cried with a loud voice, saying, Do thyself no harm, for we are all here. Then he called for a light and sprang in and came trembling and fell down before Paul and Silas. And brought them out and said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? And they said, Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved, and my house. And they spake unto him the word of the Lord and and to all that were in his house. And he took them the same hour of the night and washed their stripes and was baptized, he and all his all his straightway And when he had brought them into his house, he set meat before them and rejoiced, believing in God with all his house. He rejoiced, believing in God with all his house. Now here we have, let's have a word of prayer, then we'll look at it. Father in heaven, I we bow now, Lord, as we look into this portion of Scripture And we asked, I asked, dear Lord, that you would speak to our hearts. Lord, I pray that you would give us perspective, a little bit at least, Lord, on what's happening. And what our responsibility is, particularly concerning the Great Commission, in this hour. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. With all my heart, I ask that you fill me with your Holy Spirit, dear Lord, and you speak through me. You challenge us and help us. And we ask this now in Jesus' name. Amen. It's no doubt in my mind that the Apostle Paul was the greatest missionary that ever lived. I don't know of anybody in all of history that was more committed. to our Lord and to the Great Commission than the Apostle Paul. The book of Acts, particularly from chapter 9 on, is a phenomenal record of Paul's commitment to the Great Commission. In fact, he literally gave his life for the Lord Jesus Christ. He literally gave his life for the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, carrying out this responsibility we've all been given the Great Commission. Now here we find Paul and Silas, they are in lockdown. They are being quarantined unjustly. We begin reading in verse number 19, it picks up this young lady. What had happened was this young girl was uh possessed of devils and was following them around and uh Uh verse 17, she says the same. This girl followed Paul and s uh and us, cried, saying, These men are servants of the Most High which show unto us the way of salvation. And uh she went on doing that, and Paul cast the devils out of her. And um it says there verse 18, uh many days, but Paul being grieved turned and said in the spirit, I command thee in the name of the Jesus Christ to come out of her. And he came out that same hour And then her masters or owners really, uh, they were upset because now she couldn't do their fortune telling and everything and they lost their game The interesting thing there in verse 18 is these fellows loved their money more than they were concerned for the well-being of a young girl. They didn't rejoice that the devil was cast out of her. They were mad because they weren't making money And so that's the context there, and then uh they come and they come on Paul, and notice there, verse number 19, and when her master saw that the hope of their gains were gone, they caught Paul and Silas. That word caught, I got looking that up, and it has this idea to come suddenly and quickly and to take them away. Paul's situation, Silas's situation, changed suddenly. I mean, like that, before they could hardly see it coming, boom, they're in prison, they're in quarantine, they're in lockdown Uh they they it w it went from freedom preaching out in the streets and in the community and in the synagogues, winning Lydia to Christ and others To boom! All of a sudden, they're on lockdown. They're on lockdown. Um, Paul didn't have to wear a mask, but he did have to wear shackles. Uh his feet were in the stocks. He was restricted, his movements were restricted, he was limited in his freedoms. Everything was taken from him, all his freedoms, all his liberty was taken from him. My question is this how did he respond in the midst of his quarantine, quote unquote? How did he respond in the midst of a lockdown? Uh what did he do? What did he and Silas do? Well, I noticed four things. And uh this is my thoughts this morning. If you would, if you want to write this down. Number one I put this down. He did not allow his lockdown to suppress his prayers. He did not allow his quarantine to suppress his prayers Look with me at verse 25. What a tremendous verse this is. What a challenging verse this is. Verse 25. And at midnight, Paul and Silas, what? What's it say? They pray at midnight in the inner prison, their feet in stalks, shackles, bound And at midnight, the darkest of the night, that they prayed. They prayed. They could bind his feet and they could lash his back. And they could confine Paul's movements, but they could not stop his prayers. They could not stop his prayers. Listen, this pandemic is affecting all of us in a lot of painful ways. It has been difficult for most, if not everybody, but we cannot allow Our restrictive movements, we cannot allow our circumstances we find ourselves in, we cannot allow that to suppress our prayers. We must be faithful in our prayers. We must be consistent in our prayers. And if nothing, and if anything else, we ought to increase our prayers You say, preacher, what do I pray for? So I'm praying that we get out of this. I'm praying God will change this. Can I suggest this? I suggest we pray for the lost to be saved. Can you imagine being in the circumstances, the situation that we find ourselves without Christ, without any hope in the world, without God There's a huge portion of our world is scared. And the answer to the fears, the answer to the concerns of the world is the Lord Jesus Christ. And we ought to be praying for the lost. We ought to be seeking God, pray, that our lost loved ones be saved, that our neighbors, our communities That the gospel would get to them and they would believe and be saved. We're not told what Paul and Silas were praying for. I looked throughout scripture at other prayer requests in the epistles that Paul gave, and he would say, pray for this, pray for that. You know what most of his prayers were? Very few, if any Did he pray that he would be removed from the confinement, removed from his restrictions? A few times he did But the overwhelming majority of his prayers was this: pray that God would give me boldness and I can speak the word of God and that people will be saved. And even in confinement, even in prison, even in his feet and stocks, Paul's prayer was for souls to be saved. And we must not lose that. We must not get so consumed With our own burdens and our own uh issues and our own situation, that we forget that all around us are people without Christ dying on their way to hell We gotta pray. We gotta pray. We ought to pray for our missionaries. We ought pray that God will help them, meet their needs, give them boldness and wisdom. As I said earlier, I'm getting letters in the mail from our missionaries, and some are corresponding through text in different ways. And I'll tell you, some of them are in dire straits Uh we got a letter this week from a missionary uh down in South America and uh are is allowed out of the house one day a week according to a government ID number that's given to them One day a week they can walk, they can't drive, no cars, they have to walk. They walk a mile to the grocery store, get one week's worth of groceries. And walk a mile back, carry it all back. And that's they're restricted. Others over in Europe are under tremendous restrictions. And so our missionaries need our prayers. Our missionaries need wisdom from God on know how to deal with this and how to effectively carry out the Great Commission where they're at. They need protection. We need to pray for the safety of our missionaries. Uh uh just praise the Lord. The one in particular down in in uh in South America, he was uh he's able to uh reach his neighbors. They had supplies and and things are coming in And uh he is able to get to uh the the police department, be able to share the gospel with the entire police department. And I don't know how all he's pulling it off, but I I uh the thing that thrilled my heart is he hasn't lost vision of the commission That God has given to him in the midst of this pandemic. And uh very positive, really, in his letter. And uh it stirred my heart. It challenged me, broke my heart, but stirred my heart. And so we need to pray. We need to pray for the lost. We need to pray for missionaries. We need to pray for one another. That God upholds us. We stay focused, stay close to the Lord. Pray. And so this confinement that Paul found himself in, it did not suppress his prayers. There's only there's only one person, there's only one situation then cat that can keep my prayers from being heard. I got thinking about this. The government can't can't suppress my prayers. A virus can't suppress my prayers. The only thing that will hinder, the only person, the only thing that can hinder my prayers is me By allowing sin in my heart and life. And if I regard iniquity in my heart, the Bible is very clear. The Lord will not hear me. So listen, uh, they can lock us down, they can put us in the inner prison, they can put our feet in bonds. But they cannot stifle our prayers. And in the midst of a pandemic, you and I can pray. You and I can pray. Second thing I noticed here from the Apostle Paul in his confinement. He did not allow it to extinguish his praise. He didn't let it suppress his prayers, and he didn't allow it to extinguish his praise. Look with me again at verse 25. And at midnight, Paul and Silas prayed, and what's the next two words? Say it. Sang praises. I can't hear you. Say it again. Sang praises. You say, what in the world? Now I would imagine in uh in prison it would be very common to hear people complaining. I would imagine in a prison where Paul found himself, and there's other prisoners there, we know, I would imagine it would have been very common to hear people mad and complaining and and uh griping about this and declaring their innocence and all these things. You might hear, I would imagine in a prison, you might hear people praying. I would guess that might not be too uncommon But for somebody in Paul and Silas's situation, in their confinement, in their condition, for them to sing praises Wow! What a testimony to the grace of God! What a testimony to the presence of the Holy Spirit in their life. That word sang praises. I looked up that praise. It comes from one word. It's translated two in our English in our English, but it comes from one word. It simply means this: to lift up your voice in praise. And notice it says there, they sang praises unto God. Now look at the last statement. And the prisoners heard that I mean, they're not just, it's not just Paul and Silas, well, let's sing. Hallelujah, hallelujah, hallelujah, hallelujah. They're not just doing that. They're singing out. They're singing praises to God. They're singing it out loud. Oh Lord my God. I mean, they are belting out praises to God. The prisoners heard them. They're singing, they're praising God loudly, and they're praising God publicly. I wonder, I just got to ask of myself this as I was working on this. The Lord was dealing with my heart. I wonder how much my community has heard me praising God. I wonder how much the public around me has heard me singing praising to God. You say, oh preacher, we're in a pandemic. We're in confinement. We're in lockdown, quarantine. You can't pray. Yeah, we can praise God even in the midst of a pandemic. Paul could praise God in the inner prison. Notice there, verse 24. He thrust them into the Inner prison. I mean that was the lowest place in the prison. That was the worst part of as bad as the prisons were back in those days. This was the worst of the worst. And not only did they lock them in the prison behind the bars, but it says they made their feet fast in the stocks. Not only were they not free to roam about, they couldn't even in their prison cell move about And yet they sang praises to God loudly, publicly. The prisoners heard them. Doesn't take much character to gripe and complain. Doesn't take much spirituality to gripe and complain. Doesn't take much character and spirituality to sing praises when everything is going right. Anybody can sing praises when the bills are paid. Anybody can sing praises when we're free to go about. Anybody can rejoice and sing praises to God when we're healthy and everything's going our way. But I tell you what, it does take some character, it does take some spirituality to sing praises in the inner prison with our feet in bonds. Praise in the midst of trials is a powerful, powerful thing That God uses in tremendous ways. Notice verse 26. Let me read verse 25 and then tack verse 26 on it. I want to connect the two together. Look at this. And at midnight Paul and Silas pray. Now remember, they're in the inner prison, the lowest, darkest part of the prison. It's at midnight, the darkest part of the night. Paul and Silas prayed and sang praises unto God. And the prisoners heard them. Look at verse 26. And suddenly. There was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken, and immediately all the doors were opened, and everyone's bands were loose. My, how quickly God can change a situation. How quickly God can take something and just turn it around. And what prompted it, I believe, what prompted God to send that earthquake And uh and uh change the situation. I believe what prompted God to do that was the prayers and the praises of God's people in that prison. I believe victory in the Christian life is found in prayer and in praise. I believe success in carrying out the Great Commission is found in prayer and in praise. Job said in chapter thirty five and verse ten, he says, God giveth songs in the night God gives songs in the midst of pandemics. God gives songs in the darkness of a prison. Prayer and praise are powerful things. I got thinking about that. Now, I don't know. God knows. God's in charge. God's the King of Kings. He's Lord of Lords. The king's heart is in the hand of the Lord. But I got wondering. I wonder if changing our situation. I wonder if seeing our circumstances that we're in now, seeing those change, I wonder if it might require us to change our attitudes. Maybe a change from frustration and anger to prayer and praise. Maybe that's what God is waiting for. To change our situation. Changing our situation may require us to change our attitude from complaining to praising. I don't know. God has a plan, God has a purpose. We trust them. I read this morning in my devotions. This morning in my daily devotions, every Christian reads their Bible every day has devotions. This morning I read Proverbs chapter 3 And just that powerful verse just stirred my heart again this morning. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart And lean not into thine own understanding, and all thy ways acknowledge him. He'll direct your paths. Oh, we have something to praise God for. God loves us, God's in control. He'll lead us. He'll direct us And uh we just give him the glory and uh trust him. So, number one, in the midst of their confinement, Paul did not allow uh his prayers to be suppressed. He did not allow his confinement to extinguish his praise. Number three, I put this down, I noticed this. He did not allow it to exhaust his passion. Look with me if you would at verse number thirty. Uh the the um uh the the earthquake hits the the the foundation is shaken, the uh verse uh um uh the bar the doors were open verse number uh twenty-six their bands were loose The the prison warden comes in, he's gonna kill himself. He thought everybody got away, he's dead meat. He's gonna take his life and pick up in verse 30 And uh Paul says, Do yourself no harm, verse twenty eight, I called for lightning. Now look at verse thirty and he brought them out The prisoner, the warden, the gay uh the game warden, the uh prison warden, and uh he brought them out and said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? Paul could have said, that's your problem, buddy. You put us in here. That's your uh uh uh uh that's your that's all your problem. You know we're we got our own issues to deal with now Paul Paul's burden for that dear man's soul. Look what Paul said. And they said, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved, and thy house. You know what that is? He's carrying out the great commission. He's preaching the gospel to this dear man. He's doing exactly what God has commissioned us to do. You say, oh, but he's in prison. He's like that. No, he couldn't preach to thousands of people out on the street. But he could preach to a prison warden. He could preach to the jailer. Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. And thy house. And they spake unto him the word of the Lord, and to all that were in his house, and he took them the same hour of the night and washed their stripes and was baptized. That sounds like going to all the world, teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, Holy Ghost, teaching them to deserve all things whatsoever I've commanded you. You know what Paul's doing? He hasn't lost his passion one bit for the Great Commission. He hasn't lost sight of what God is doing to us, what God has given to us. In prison, he won prison guards to Christ. You read through the book of Acts, he won soldiers to Christ Philemon, a fellow prisoner, he won him to Christ. His audience was limited, but his passion was unbated. And he stayed focused on what God had given him to do. He stayed focused on the commission that he had received from the Lord Jesus Christ. And regardless of his situation, regardless of his circumstances, he stayed on march. And he stayed after souls. We need to do all we can to reach everybody we can with the gospel. No, we can't maybe we can't get out and do things we did. But there are things we can do. Now you can use your imagination. Ask God. We prayed last night. I ask Lord help us be creative In ways that we can reach people with the gospel. And I'm telling you, the most creative being in existence is God. He's creator. I'm telling you, God can use us if we'll just stay focused, if we'll just not lose our passion for souls and stay after that. He did all he could in whatever circumstance he found himself, and God used them in tremendous ways. You say, preacher, uh, how's this all turn out? I don't know how it turns out, but I I have a sneaking suspicion That if we stay faithful in our faith promise giving in our prayers and praising God, if we stay focused on the Great Commission When this is all said and done, maybe we get to glory, we'll find out that God did things, amazing things, that we had no idea at the moment. God's in control. God's word does not return void. The gates of hell shall not prevail against the church. And the Great Commission is not set aside during pandemics. We stay at it So he did not allow his confinement to exhaust his passion. Let me give you one more thought here, real quickly. He did not allow his confinement to redirect his purpose. He did not allow his confinement to redirect his purpose. Look with me, if you would, at verse 40. He finally gets out, but he gets out of prison. After time he gets out, verse 40. And they went out of the prison And entered into the house of Lydia. And when they had seen the brethren, they comforted them and what? Departed. He said, I he didn't say, I quit, fool you on this. Uh nope. He uh he he didn't get sidetracked. He didn't get redirected. Look at verse one of chapter seventeen. Now when they had passed through Amph Amphipolis and uh Apollyana, they came to Thessalonica. There was a synagogue of the Jews. Look at this. And Paul, as his manner was, Went in unto them and three Sabbath days, reasoned with them out of the scriptures. What is he doing? He's right back out on the mission trail. He's right back out preaching the gospel. He's right back out carrying out the Great Commission. uh and didn't miss a beat through the whole thing. He didn't set it he didn't get sidetracked in fighting the prison guards and fighting the authorities. He didn't get sidetracked in uh fighting injustice He did what he needed to do, and then he pressed on. He pressed on. There is no exception to the Great Commission. There is no expiration date On the Great Commission. One of these days we'll come out of this, and we will, I'm confident. We'll be patient. One of these days we come out of this You know what we need to do? And I'll tell you, as pastor, I'm committed to this. When we come out of this, we are going to stay on track with getting missionaries everywhere everywhere around the world. We are going to stay on track and get in the gospel to every person in our community. We're going to just pick up where we left off. We are not going to allow this to distract us and redirect us. We're going to stay focused on our purpose, and that is to take the gospel into all the world. Pray for our missionaries. Pray. Let's praise God in the midst of all of this. In the midst of this crisis, we need to do everything we can to keep the gospel going out into our community. and around the world, and when we get out of this, and we will, we pick right back up, and uh we're already working on getting that missions conference rescheduled. One of the first things we'll do Let's get missionaries back in here, get that missions conference and refocus and re and uh re-engage ourselves uh in the worldwide uh reaching the world with the gospel. I hope you're on board with me. I hope you understand my heart in this And I just thank God for our missionaries. I'm telling you, the reports coming back from so many on how they are determined to do everything they can in their communities reach the gospel. I've never been prouder to send out our missions support checks than I am right now as our missionaries under unbelievable circumstances. We've got it made. compared to them. And yet they are faithful and uh they're holding true to what God has commissioned us to do. And I want to challenge each of us. I want to challenge our church. Let's just pray. Let's take this time and make it a time of earnest, earnest prayer. Maybe some would want to fast and pray. It's a powerful thing. Jesus said to a father of a son that was possessed with the devil, the disciples couldn't change his circumstance. The disciples couldn't change the situation. Jesus came in, changed it like that, cast the devils out. They said, why couldn't we do that? He says, this time cometh forth but by prayer and fasting. And maybe it's time for God's people. Maybe we need to humble ourselves and pray and fast. Paul did in prison. Maybe it's time for set aside the attitudes and just say, Lord, you've been so good to me. God, you've blessed us so much. You've given me a purpose in life. And just praise God, praise God. Get these hymns. Get a hymn book. Call us. We'll get you a hymn book somehow. And just every, I started about a month ago. I started every morning my devotions. I just sing through a little hymn to myself Each day a different one. And the one I sang this morning, I never heard of it before. It's on my little list, so I just read the words. I have no idea how to sing it. But uh just sing a hymn each day. Put some praise in there And then let's do all we can to reach those around us. Maybe you say, well, we're so limited. I know, but there's still there's still opportunities, there's still doors there And then let's remain focused when we get out of this, pick right up and go on. Amen? Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. Lord, to be honest, my heart's heavy there on this mission Sunday But we rejoice in you and we trust you, God. And I pray that this week, I pray this week you would help every one of us to seek and watch for that opportunity. To share the message of Christ for somebody. Lord, help us to praise the Lord loudly, publicly, and the people hear us, and they see Christ in us. Sincerely, not a show, but for real And Lord help us to pick back up when we get out of this. We ask you to change our situation. We ask you to send that quote-unquote earthquake. And turn this thing around, but we trust you, Lord, and we're waiting on you. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Amen. Now thank you for