I do not have a patriotic message this morning, but I do want to say we do love America. And uh we thank God for our country, for our liberties. I appreciate Mark and his prayer referenced how gracious God has been to allow you and I to be born in this great free land. I've had the privilege through the grace of God and through the uh church here, the ministry of church, had the opportunity to travel around the world in various places and different countries on mission trips. and preaching in a lot of uh a number of different areas. And I'll tell you there's nowhere like the United States of America. There's something so unique about us and our liberties, our freedoms, our blessings. And um, you know, we were talking the other day, some of us But uh, you know, there's over seven billion people in the world. They tell us, I'll take their word for that, and uh there's 300 million plus people in America. What are the chances? of you and I being born in this country, you know, I think statistically that is so slim and just the mercy and grace of God. We ought to be very, very grateful. for the privilege of being in the United States of America. I guess I'm trying to say this. We are unapologetically patriotic and we love our land and love our country. Matthew chapter 14, there was a Scottish preacher. Old Scottish preacher, the church sent them to uh Israel, to the Holy Land, to tour the Holy Land and see the Bethlehem and all these different things. And they came down to the Sea of Galilee And uh he wanted a boat ride out on the Sea of Galilee. So he went up to the dock there. They said tourism, boat rides, two hundred dollars to go on a two-hour boat ride out on the Sea of Galilee, the Scottishman Said, good, grief, that's ridiculous. He says got back home. I can uh go on a boat ride out on a lake for twenty dollars For a whole day, and you're charging me $200 to go out for two hours. They said, oh, but this is the lake that Jesus walked on And he says, Well I don't blame him for walking on at two hundred bucks for two hours. So let's read about this Sea of Galilee walking on the water. What I'd like to do for our text is begin reading in verse 28. And we get down to the end of verse number 30. I'd like for us to read Peter's prayer together. We get to the end of verse number 30. Verse number 28, let me begin reading. And Peter answered him and said, Lord, if it be thou, bid me come unto thee on the water. And he, the Lord, said, Come. And when Peter was come down out of the ship, he walked on the water to go to Jesus. Now, I try to be creative in my title this morning. I entitled it The World's Water Walking Champion. And this record right there, Peter walking water, that is uh the world record for a mere human being walking on water. Right there. So he is the world water walking champion. I was trying to be a little creative in my title, but in verse 30. But when he saw the wind boisterous, he was what? Afraid. And he began to sink. And he cried saying, all of us read that last little prayer together. Ready? Lord, save me. That's the shortest prayer in all the Bible. Lord, save me. So let's pray. Father, I ask now you bless our study in your word here. Lord, with all my heart, this morning I ask that you please fill me with your Holy Spirit. Present my body anew. I yield my will to you, and as I pray every time, Lord, I'm asking you to speak through me that it would not be me just speaking. Father, I acknowledge publicly before you and this congregation I have nothing in and of myself of any eternal or spiritual value. It has to come from you and from your word. So I'm asking you, Lord, again, to fill me with your spirit and speak your word through me And help us to be receptive and open to what you speak to our hearts about. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I think it's important to understand that this passage Mark read a little earlier, and now what we just highlighted a little bit of it. This passage here is not a parable. This is not some story made up to teach some kind of truth. It is not a fairy tale. But this is an actual historical event that happened exactly as the Bible records for us here today. And God records throughout history in the Word of God, God has recorded events like this, not just for our curiosity, not just so preachers can try and come up with creative titles. But God has recorded these passages so that you and I can learn some things about God. We can learn some things about ourselves. And we can learn about faith. So it's important as we look at this. We think of this as a little story we teach in Sunday school. Jesus walking on the water and Peter walking on the water. We think of this some story, but we've got to look at beyond just the story, but an actual event that was created for our uh for our benefit and for our good. In fact This passage here, these verses that we come down through here, they are filled with truths about the Lord Jesus Christ. I see the power of God recorded here. I see the purpose that God has for us, and I'll elaborate on these thoughts here in a little bit. We look at this event recorded about the Lord Jesus Christ. I see his tremendous compassion in reaching out and rescuing a man who I believe acted kind of audaciously. And calling on the Lord to call him out of the boat. And God very compassionately heard his prayer, Lord, save me. And God, in his love, Jesus in love and compassion rescued him from drowning. So we learn a good bit in this passage about the Lord Jesus Christ. We look in this passage and we learn a good bit about what faith is. What it means to trust God, what faith can accomplish in our lives, what faith, how it is exercised, how do I exercise faith in Christ I think we find it illustrated down through here. And then something else I think we can learn from this passage is we learn a lot about ourselves. We learn about ourselves. We see here the weakness that we possess. Now I'm getting way ahead of myself on this, but I doubt seriously Peter would have ever dreamed That anybody, the Lord Jesus Christ of all people, would ever refer to him as someone of little faith. Peter had a tendency to think of himself as being very strong in faith. Oh, everyone else will deny you, but not me. I'll die before I deny you. And Peter finds out that his faith isn't nearly as strong as what he thought it was. We learn a lot about ourselves in here. We learn about decisions, how decisions we make have consequences. And we learn here the limitations that we possess. There's only so much that we can do The older I get, the more I'm finding out I need the Lord more than I ever dreamed I would need Him. And I'm very limited in what my abilities. When I was young, well I could do it all, I could conquer the world. The older I get, the more I realize, God, without you, I can do nothing. Without you, I can do nothing. So it's a tremendous passage on lessons about the Lord Jesus, about faith, about ourselves. In fact, this whole chapter, chapter 14, it seems like the disciples are going through a series of trials and a series of tests. That God is putting them in, the Lord is putting them in. Earlier in the chapter, we have John the Baptist. Of course, he preaches very boldly, very courageously against the king and says, You ought not to have your brother's wife. Of course he's executed. Then we have the feeding of the 5,000, the Lord testing. How can we feed all these people? And now we find him out in the sea in the storm, and Peter ends up walking on the water. In fact, all through the Gospels, you find the disciples are continually going through these tests, continually facing these crises, continually facing these decisions. As to whether they're going to trust Christ or handle it themselves. And so this is very rich. This passage is very rich in spiritual truths and lessons and illustrations for us. My intention was to pull one passage out, one statement, I was going to zero in. I may do that in the future. As I got studying it, I decided uh I kind of came together that I just want to kind of give an overview of this event here and try and glean some uh truths that might be helpful for us. So if you're gonna if you take that notes and you like to follow outline, I think it's gonna be very simple, very clear outline this morning. Number one, I notice this. I notice in verse 22 the providence of Christ. The providence of Christ. Look at verse number 22 with me, and it says, straightway Jesus, and now I underline that next word. Straightway Jesus what? constrained his disciples to get into a ship and to go before him to the other side while he sent the multitudes away Now, I see here the providence of God. What do we mean by the providence of Christ? The providence of God. Well, that term's a theological term. It refers to God's power over his creation. It has this idea that God in his omniscience, he knows all things And in his power, he exercises control over our lives. He guides us. He allows certain things into our lives. He keeps some things out of our lives. God, in his providence, Leads us and directs us. Someone has suggested there are no accidents for the Christian. There are no coincidences for the Christian. And I have a tendency to believe that, that God is in control, and in his providence, he allows things in our lives and he removes things from our lives. Job learned that The Lord giveth, and the Lord what? Taketh away. Job's saying, listen, God's in control. God is provident. He is supreme. He is in control. And so I see Christ here taking his disciples and he is constraining them To get into this ship and go across the other side while he sends the multitude away. You say, well, what's that have to do with the providence of God? Well, let's back up a little bit. Let's look at that word constraint What does it mean to constrain somebody to do something? I'm doing what? Alright, the idea that comes to mind is the word forcing them. Now, personally, I don't picture Christ grabbing the disciples forcefully throwing them into the ship and dragging them there. I don't think that was the case So I'm thinking forcing them is a little bit of a strong word here in this context, but it has this idea to compel them. He put the squeeze on. He pressured them. And in fact, I put in the margin of my Bible, he gave them no other choice They were getting into this boat where they wanted to or not. In fact, my the by using that word compel, I kind of get the impression they might have resisted a little bit. They might have suggested, Lord, you know, you got this big crowd, we just fed this 5,000 men, all this. We'll stay and help you. We'll come in. And the Lord said, No, no, no. He insists. He compels them to get in that ship and go to the other side. Were the disciples hesitant? Possibly. Were the resisting? Could be. But the Lord was making sure they were in that ship. Now let me ask you a question. Is Jesus God? Yes or no? Yes, God in the flesh. He's the creator of all these things. He and God are equal, one. As God, did he know all things? Sure, he is, what's the term we use? Omniscient. He is all-knowing. I got news for you. God knows what's going to come into your life this week. God knows what you and I are going to face. We don't, you and I don't. We anticipate some things, we can guess at some things, we can you know be fairly confident certain things are going to happen But Christ is the only one that knows for sure what's going to happen. And uh, oh, by the way, the little um palm readers and fortune tellers, they don't know that either. They don't know. They don't know anybody. You're wasting your money. You're being foolish by going to them and trying to find out what the future holds. They don't know. I saw a little video clip just in the last couple, three weeks. It was a security camera on a restaurant and uh a car that people had lost control and the car came careening across the sidewalk into the front window of this restaurant, smashing thing, come crashing in. I don't know if anybody else saw that. There was two fellows sitting there by the window at a restaurant. The car came in, knocked the one guy over, the other guy went there, the car came to a stop, steam and smoke everywhere is all in there. And then the news report said this. The two guys sitting there were fortune tellers And the announcer said, Looks to me like they'd have seen that coming. And you know why we laugh at that? Because it's silly. They don't know But there is someone that does know. We have a Savior who is God Almighty and that knows everything And he knows what the future holds. Now let me ask you a question. If Christ knows what tomorrow holds, would you agree with me? If that being the case, and it is, if that's the case. It'd be a good idea to listen to what he tells us to do if he knows what's going to happen tomorrow. Yes or no? So Christ, being God in the flesh, knowing all things, knowing that out in that sea at night there is going to be a storm. He compels them to get into this ship. You say, preacher, it looks to me, if he knew there was a storm coming, he would have kept them from getting in the ship. Looks to me. If he knows their lives are going to be at risk and there's going to be the ship's going to be tossed and it's going to endanger them, it looks to me. Like Jesus would say, no, don't get in that ship. There's going to be a terrible storm. Wait this thing out. But the exact opposite is true. Jesus Christ is not protecting them from the storm. He's compelling them to go out into the storm. Say why would he do that? Why would God He's all powerful, all knowing, why would God compel them or compel me and put me in a situation where I have no choice? And I have to go into a storm. Why would God do that to me? God has his reasons. Jesus knew the storm would hit the sea that night. He was making sure that his disciples would be in that store. And sometimes the Lord pushes us Sometimes the Lord constrains us. Sometimes the Lord gives us no choice and he puts us into a storm. How many people would agree with me? The disciples probably would have preferred not to be in a storm in a boat in the middle of the ocean, in the in the middle of the sea, in the middle of the night. How many people agree with me? Probably prefer not to be there. How many people would agree with me? It's probably somewhat unpleasant in that ship. In the middle of the storm, in the middle of the night, the middle of the sea. It's not something that would appeal to them. It was not something that would be very pleasant to them. It was an unwanted situation. It was an unpleasant situation. But nevertheless, God compelled them to go into it. Here's the answer, I think. They needed to learn some things about themselves, and they needed to learn some things about Christ. These men, after Jesus Christ was crucified, buried, and risen again, ascended to heaven, these men were to be his representatives here on earth. They were to stand before great crowds and go into cities. And they were, as his ambassadors, as his representatives, they were to declare to a sinful world Who Jesus Christ was, what his gospel was, and what he was capable of doing. And they needed to know firsthand Exactly who Christ was and what Christ could do, the power he possessed, and the wisdom he had available. And so Christ compels them, constrains them to get into a ship, go out on the sea at night, into the midst of a storm, because he had a tremendous lesson to learn. Let me ask you a question How many of us as believers, since we've been saved, we found ourselves in some unpleasant situations. We found ourselves in circumstances that we would have not have chosen. If we'd have had any choice, I said, no, I do not want to face this, I do not want to go through this, I do not want to deal with this, but God, in his wisdom, he pushes us into it because he wants us to learn. A little bit about ourselves. He wants to reveal to us his power and his wisdom and what he can do. So you and I as believers can go out to this world and say, hey, let me tell you about Christ. Not just what I was told about him, but what I know to be true about him in my own life. Am I making sense? So I see the providence of God here, in him compelling and constraining the disciples to get into this ship and go out in the middle of the night, in the middle of the sea, to face a fearful storm. They had no choice. Christ knew that, and he's putting them into that situation. Now it's important to understand, it's very obvious, but these guys were not, the disciples did not bring this storm upon themselves. As far as I can tell, reading the previous passages, they were trusting Christ, they were doing everything they should do. They're not living in rebellion. They're not trying to get out of the will of God. They're not disobeying Christ. And nevertheless, they faced a storm. You say, preacher, I can understand some people, you know, they're living in sin, they claim to be saved, and they're rebelling against God and they're they're refusing to to trust the Lord and follow his instructions. And man, they've got all kinds of storms in their life. You say, I can understand that, but here's a person that's doing right. Here's a person that's trusting the Lord and trying to live for them. They've forsaken all and following Christ and they're in a storm. Can you think of anybody in the Bible that faced a storm out in the sea and they brought it upon themselves? Who? Jonah. Jonah didn't have to face that storm. He wouldn't have. How many people agree with me? It was probably unpleasant being swallowed by a whale. My thinking is being swallowed by anything would be unpleasant. Right? I don't think you agree with me. If he had his brothers, he would rather have not been swallowed by a whale. But he brought it on himself. Sometimes we do bring storms on ourselves. How many people recognize the name John Wayne? I'm not setting him as we John Wayne made this statement. It's true. He said life is tough. And it's even tougher if you're stupid. There's a lot of truth in that, right? I've used this before, but I modified that statement a little bit. Life is difficult. Life is tough. And it's even tougher if you're sinful. Huh? We bring a lot of storms on ourselves. We bring a lot, but that wasn't the case here And so sometimes, even when we're trying to do right and we're trying to live for God and we're trusting Him and we're trying to follow His instructions, sometimes Christ constrains us. And pushes us and gives us no choice and pushes us into a very unpleasant, very difficult, not something we would choose, an unwanted situation. And he pushes us into that in his providence. Because he knows we need some things to learn. We need some lessons. He is preparing them for a future service. I like in the first chapter of Second Corinthians, and I'm just paraphrasing, I'm putting in my own words for sake of time, but He's re he's re Paul under the inspiration of God is writing to the church at Corinth and he's saying that they're going through troubles, and he said that God that comforteth us And all our troubles will comfort you. And again, this is in my own words. But he says, so that you may in turn comfort others. When they have troubles. And I've often referenced this to other people, and I've often shared this others, they come to me and say, preacher, this, that. And I'll say, listen, God in his providence is allowing you to face this. God in his providence allowing you to deal with this. And I believe because down the road you're going to come across someone that's going to need to know what God can and will do for somebody who will trust them in this situation. And God is preparing you to use you to help someone else that goes through that same store. Now I'll be the first to admit it's easy for me to sit beside my desk and tell that to someone else, and then I find myself in the store. And I need to remember that God has allowed this. And God is doing something and God is preparing something for down the road. He is revealing himself to me. He is showing things about myself. that I may not be aware of. He's showing me things about him and his power and his wisdom and what he can and cannot do if I will trust him. And I can't learn that any other way than being constrained, compelled to go into this storm. So, would you agree with me? That's a tremendous truth in this event recorded here, just the fact that God is in control. God in His providence leads and directs in our lives and allows things in our lives and sometimes pushes us into situations we would not choose to be there. So the first thing I notice, and I can see right now I'm not going to get through this, but first thing I notice here is the providence of Christ in putting them into this situation. The second thing I notice in verse number 23 are the prayers of Christ. Look with me at verse 23. And when they had s when he had sent the multitudes away, so the disciples are in the boat, they're heading out, the sun's setting, it's evening time, they're heading out to the other side of the sea He's got the disciples away. He went up into a mountain apart to pray. And when evening was come, he was there alone. So the prayers of Christ, we see the providence of Christ in his planning and putting them out there. We see the prayers of Christ. As I study the Gospels, I see that a major part of our Lord's ministry on earth was prayer. Over and over, we find the Lord Jesus Christ praying. Praying. Getting up early in the morning aside to pray. Staying up late at night. Some cases praying all night long. Prayer. Prayer. In fact, if I'm not mistaken, I find recorded in the Gospels Jesus spending more time in prayer than I find him preaching. Now he preached a bunch. But man, the references to his prayer time and the length of time he prayed, uh it looks to me almost exceeds the time he spent preaching. So a major part of our Lord's ministry on earth was prayer. Now we're not told what he was praying for here. I my guess, and it's nothing more than that, so perhaps he's praying for the disciples. He knows what they're about to go through. He knows the lesson they're about to learn. He knows some important truths they're going to have to get a hold of, what is going to take place in the next few hours. And perhaps he is praying for them. Major part of our Lord's earthly ministry was prayer. He's crucified, buried, rose again, ascended to heaven. Right now, as you and I sit here, God's Son, Jesus Christ In his resurrected body, physically is at the right hand of God. And a major part of the Lord's ministry now Is prayer for you and I. Would you take your Bible? Now keep your place here. Turn with me if you would to the book of Hebrews. Farther back in the New Testament, the book of Hebrews Hebrews is a fascinating book to me. Parts of it are somewhat difficult. But if you would turn to Hebrews and chapter number seven. And verse number twenty five, Hebrews chapter seven And verse number 25. Now, this is the Lord right now in heaven. This is what he's doing. Wherefore He is able to also to save them to the uttermost that come unto God by him. Now look at this next statement. Seeing he ever liveth Why? Why is he ever living? What's the purpose he ever liveth? He ever liveth to make what? Intercession for them. For such a high priest became us who is holy and blameless and undefiled, separate from sinners, and made higher Then the heavens. And he goes on and describes Christ. But I come back to verse 25 in that simple little statement. He says, He ever liveth to make intercession for us. Anybody here since you how many folks here you're saved and you know it? Say amen. Amen. Trust that's true. How many folks since you've trusted Christ? You've gotten discouraged. And at some point, you've situation where anybody don't? Can I get a witness? Somebody? How many people ever since you've been saved, you ever gotten a situation, circumstances, frame of mind, and it was just overwhelmed. You say, I don't I don't think I can do this. I can't handle this. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Hey, I got some good news for you. Let me say this. How many people believe God answers Jesus' prayers? I got some good news for you and I. Jesus Christ is at the right hand of God praying for you and I. In the situations we face, in the circumstances he puts us in, none other than the Son of God Himself stands and intercedes for us, prays for us. How many people say, praise the Lord for that? Man alive. Did you ever pray and just felt like nothing was happening? Anybody at all? Come on, be honest. It's like, man. And sometimes I feel like my prayers are so anemic. I feel like my prayers are just, Lord, it's just empty words coming out of my mouth. And I can always refer back and find comfort and encouragement in the fact That I have a Savior at the right hand of God praying for me as a huge part of his ministry To pray for you and I, ever live it, to make intercession for us. Sometimes the devil comes and beats us up. Anybody know what I'm talking about when I say that? Man, we'll fail somewhere. We'll come up short somehow in our Christian life, and we're so discouraged. Lord, how could I ever think that? Lord, how could I ever done that? How could I ever have said that And the devil jumps all over that, that's right, you're a failure, you're no good, you're miserable, God can't ever use you, you're not I'm glad beside that I've got a Savior at the right hand of God, stands there before my, on my behalf, in my place, and says, Lord, I paid for his sins. I paid the judgment for his sins, God. I paid all of that. He's accepted in the beloved. He's accepted in Christ, and Christ stands before us, and Satan has no argument. So Jesus Christ, I see the providence of Jesus Christ. I see the prayers of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now let's move on quickly. I notice in verse 24 through 26, I notice the panic that's going on in the ship. These guys, this is sometimes I like to use some terms to show you how cool I am. These guys are freaking out. You weren't impressed. There is panic in this ship. Look at verse number 24. Come back here to Matthew. Verse 24, but the ship was now in the midst of the sea, tossed with the waves, for the wind was contrary. And in the fourth, now if that wasn't bad enough. These winds are blown around. And in the fourth watch of the night, Jesus went unto them. How many people say, that's good? They're in a storm. Jesus is coming out to them. That's good. How many people agree with me? That's a good thing. They would be happy. Look what happens. Jesus wanted them. Walking on the sea, that's even more amazing. However, verse 26, when the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were troubled, saying, It is a what? Spirit! And they cried out in fear. What do they think is happening? They see Jesus walking out to them and they lean on their own understanding and their own reasoning kicks in, and what do they think they're seeing? They think they're seeing a ghost. They see the spirit. Ah, it's a spirit coming out after us. And they panic. They absolutely panic. Now, let's look at the situation going on here in the ship. They're a long way from shore, and two things happen. First one is they're tossed with waves. Now I think when it says here, it says verse 24, when the ship was now in the midst of the sea, tossed with waves, that phrase there I got looking up how it's used, different things, and I got this impression. When it says they were tossed with waves, it means they were being driven off course. They had set a course to go to the other side. The Lord constrained them to get in the ship, go to the other side. Now they're out there in the middle of the night and these winds kick up and these waves are just crashing. And they're being driven off course. They are tossed with the waves. They're being driven off course. Maybe they're at a point, I don't even know where they're at. Clouds overcast. They again see the stars. The clouds are overcast. Sky is overcast. They can't see the stars. They don't know where they're at. They're being blown around. Chaos ensues. The wind is contrary. That word contrary means going in the opposite direction. The wind is blowing them a different way than they think that they ought to be going. In other words, things are not going the way they're supposed to be going. This trip is not playing out the way they planned on it playing out. And how many times in our lives the waves toss us and the winds contrary and we find out my life isn't playing out the way I thought it would This whole thing isn't coming. This isn't the way it's supposed to be. This is not the way my life was supposed to play out. This is not the way this circumstance was supposed to be This is not the way this marriage was supposed to be. This is not the way the kids were supposed to turn out. This is not the way I planned my finances to be. This is not the way my testimony was supposed to be And it becomes overwhelming. And so often we think we have things in control, we've got it all planned out, and then life hits us. It's not what we thought it would be. It's not the way we planned it to be. And we panic. We say, oh no, I'm doomed. I'll never accomplish anything. I'll never be what I thought I would be. I'll never be what God wants to be. This is this is failure. This will never work. And that's where they're at. Then not only are they tossed with the waves. Oh, by the way, we have examples of that all through scripture where people had an idea, they imagined their head the way things were going to be. And then life, the reality of life sets in, and it's not the way they imagined it. Abraham What a tremendous act of faith. When Abraham hears God, God says, leave your family, leave your homeland, and go to a place, I'll tell you where you're going to go. Sarah, Lot gets in on the thing, he causes problems later. And they head out, not knowing where they're going. And I can hear Abraham saying to Sarah and Lot, this is going to be awesome. Oh, this is going to be so great. We're going to get to this land, God's promise, and it's going to be wonderful, and everything's going to be great, and all our needs are going to be met, and there's not going to be any problems, and it's going to be so amazing. Because this is where God's leading us. And lo and behold, they show up in Canaan, where God had promised them. And what do they find? A famine. There's nothing to eat. And it's not beautiful landscapes. And there's it's not anything. This isn't the way it's supposed to be, God. This is not what I picture. This isn't what I plan. So Abraham takes things into his own hands and flees down to Egypt. And we know how that worked out. He ends up lying, he blows his testimony terribly. He almost loses his wife, and he comes back with a little innocent Egyptian maid. That ends up being all kinds of problems. Here's what I'm trying to say, and this is what I see in this lesson. Things don't always play out the way we think they will. Life has a way of smacking us in the face with reality. And we imagine things before we get married. Oh, this is gonna be awesome This is going to be 75 years of pure marital bliss, honeymoon every day for 75 years We'll just leave that at that. Now if that's been your case, God bless you. Praise the Lord. Mine, that's been my case. It's been incredible. You follow what's happening? They didn't expect this. The Lord told us the Lord's get in a boat. Lord we'll help you. No, no, but Lord, but yeah, I'll catch it. Wait a minute. And they panic. Not only that, not only are they tossed with these ways, but then they're troubled by what they saw. It's now get this, it's dark, it is blowing. They don't know where they're at. They're so far off course, at least in their mind These waves are crashing this. They're scared of that. And then in the midst and in the through the waves, they see something. I mean the Lord would have had to been fairly close to them. There's no moonlight, they don't have flashlights, they certainly don't have any lamps burden. And so there they see just coming right up on them. What in the world? And their mind starts working. They start trying to figure out, what is that? What is that? And they come to these ridiculous conclusions. And before we're too hard on them, I want to suggest to you, you and I do that same thing often. We get in a circumstance and we start thinking, all this monstrous stuff. Anybody here ever wake up in the middle of the night and you're thinking about all the problems going on and they become monstrous and the whole world's going to end tomorrow morning. I know it will. That's where they're at. And the problem is they're leaning on their own understanding. They're reasoning. And notice it says there in verse number 26, and when the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were troubled. That word trouble means they are worked up into a commotion. I mean their mouths are running. And they are just going on and they're trying to figure out what to do and bumping into each other in the ship. What do we do? I mean, it is commotion. They falsely concluded that they saw a ghost, and they falsely concluded that they were doomed. Listen, when you and I Do what Christ tells us to do. There is no guarantee that we will not face storms. In fact, we most likely will. But I'm here to tell you, in the midst of the storms, Christ will come and be with us, and we must not confuse What God is doing in our lives with this idea that somehow He is destroying us. Here's the thing that I'm trying to get to. This is what stuck out in my mind. The very one they needed the most was what scared them the most. They needed Jesus there with them. They needed Jesus there in the boat, and he's coming, and they lean on their own understanding, they come to the wrong conclusions. and they're scared out of their mind. I was trying to illustrate what I think I was seeing here. When I was first saved, I worked at a meatpacking plant. I was a butcher, it was a big thing, we did several head hundred head of cattle a day. I worked in uh in the in the plant where we after they were after they were dead and hung for a while, we cut the meat down, we broke it down Very pleasant job. I uh before that I worked on the kill floor, I worked in the in the blood pit. Anybody want to hear stories about that? But anyway, I'm working up there. By the way, this is interesting. I worked there for about two and a half years on the on the the boning plant is what it was called. We broke the meat down. And then from there I went off to Bible college. I got a job in the surgery department of the hospital. So the Lord was preparing me. Just a little history. Some of the same Some of the same equipment we used on the meat plant we they used in the surgery department. True story. But anyway, what was I talking about? I got saved. I was working there and you as you would imagine a meat pack implant on the floor like that, some pretty rough characters. Just about everyone was drug addicts. There's a couple witness a couple Christians sprinkled throughout it, but for the most part they were drug addicts, drunkards, ex-cons. It was a rough crowd. I was just a shining angel in the midst of all of that. And God saved me. And God did for me what we've been studying in Sunday school. He transformed my life just like that. And it doesn't happen everybody that way, I don't know why, but God just took all that stuff away. I mean, overnight, transformed me. And I began witnessing. I began telling others of Christ. And I saw from the Word of God and from my own experience, I realized what these guys needed the most was Jesus Christ. More than anything else, they needed Christ in their life. And there was one fellow, Mark. He was what you would refer to, some of you old folks will know this. He was a deadhead. Anybody know what I'm talking about? He loved this group Grateful Dead and just all the whole thing that went with that. So he was the deadhead. He was just like, hey man, everything's groovy. So I'm witnessing to him. And he was a real nice guy. I really liked him. So I'm telling Mark, you know, what Christ did for me, and I'm showing these verses. And one day he came to me, he said, Leatherman. He's Leatherman. He is man, this scares me. This scares me And I immediately thought of Psalms 40. He set my feet upon a rock, and many shall see it and fear. And Mark saw what God was doing in my life. Mark saw how God had completely transformed my life. And rather than realizing that what Christ did for me, he needed Christ to do for him. rather than realizing that what God was offering, Christ coming to him through my witness, what he needed to accept, instead he was afraid of it. You follow what I'm saying? And he was scared. And I'd say, Mark, man, this is what you need. You need to be saved. You need to find eternal life God can deliver you from the stuff that's destroying you. You can know for sure you're going to heaven, not to hell. Mark, what you need is Christ. Man, you're scaring me. You're scaring me. And actually, that's exactly the way the disciples were. They're in a storm, they're being blown off track, their lives perhaps are endangered, humanly speaking. And here comes Christ, the thing they need, the one they need more than anyone else. And they misconstrue it and they get scared. And there is panic in this boat. And I'm here to tell you, when God puts us in, let me address uh, if you're happening to be here, you're in the sound of my voice, and you've never accepted Jesus Christ as your Savior And you do not have genuine assurance that your sins are forgiven, that when you die, you go to heaven, not to hell. God is working in your life. God is in this very message, in me saying this to you, is Christ working, trying to come to you. And give you salvation and give you a new eternal life and give you the thing you need more than anything else in this world is Christ. And I'm saying to you, don't be scared of that. Open your heart and mind to Christ and the gospel. And let Him come in your heart and life and save you and give you eternal life. Amen or not? And these disciples are panicking. They were so overwhelmed by their troubles they failed to realize that Christ, who can heal the sick, could walk on the water. They should have Known perfectly well. Now it's easy for us to look back and make judgment on them. But they saw Christ make blind people see. They saw Christ raise the dead. They saw Christ do amazing miracles. Why would they think that he could not come out to them in the middle of the sea and help them? Before we're too hard on them, you and I are not much different than that sometimes. We saw Christ save our soul, we saw Christ change our life, we've seen Christ do a lot of things. Then we get in a storm and we think, oh no, Christ could never help me on this Oh, he did it before, but he would never help me. Now he can't handle this. Now we don't say that. Nobody's saying Christ can't walk on water. They just didn't register. That maybe Christ is doing something here. They panicked. They panicked. They were afraid of the very thing they needed the most. Now I've got to quit. Let me just give you my last 17 points. But I notice the pronouncement of Christ. He says he spake, verse 27, be of good cheer, it is I, be not afraid. Now would you agree with me? In theory, that should have solved everything. Christ says, listen, it's me, don't be afraid. It's me, it's your savior, it's your glory, it's your master, it's God Don't be afraid. Now, the ideal response would have been, oh, praise the Lord, thank you. We were scared to death So he makes this tremendous announcement. It was the word of Christ that gave them assurance. What it looked like to them was a ghost. But God said, hey, things are not the way they look like. Now I don't have time to elaborate on this, but I've found out a lot of times in life I will miss I will misinterpret what I think is happening. And when I go to the Word of God, I find out that something else is happening than what it appears to be. You follow what I'm saying? I've had times in my life where things came in, I thought this is bad, this is terrible, this is very, very bad. This is horrible. There's nothing good can come out of this. And that was my perception of it. But then I went to the Word of God and I read Romans 8. 28. It says all things work together for Good to them that love God, to them who are called purpose. So the way I perceived it to be and what Christ said it was were two different things. And what I need to do is go by what Christ says, not by what it looks like Now that's good stuff right there. My greatest source of encouragement in the darkest times of my life has come from the Word of God My greatest source of strength, when I have been the weakest in my life, has come from what Christ says, not the way things appear. And Christ is giving them his word. This is me. There's no reason to be afraid. I am here. It is okay. It's under control. And the pronouncement of Christ. I'm here to tell you, God's word is where we find assurance, is where we find peace, is where we find confidence. That everything's okay, not by looking at circumstances. Am I making sense? So the pronouncement of Christ, pronouncement of Christ. And then the presumption of Peter, and maybe I might preach a message just on this. I really that was what it initially started out with. But verse 28 and 30, it's kind of interesting. This whole endeavor of Peter saying, Lord, if it's you Bid me come to thee. I'm not sure I quote exactly right. The Lord says, in so many words, come on. You don't believe it's me? Come on out, walk on the water. I got looking at that. You know what I think is happening? Peter is acting on doubt. Not necessarily faith. Do you catch that little word if? If it's you. He's not saying this, hey that's Christ, we can of that I could walk in the water. He could It's not what he's saying He's saying, Lord, is it really what you say? Is the situation really? Now, I'll give him credit. He still holds the world water walking record But it's not uh I don't see it as a great act of faith on his part. It is faith and I I I see him I don't know, if it was me it'd be like Did you ever step on ice? Knowing Peter, he probably went Right? So I have Peter's presumption. He steps out. I think his way his faith was weak, but I learned this. Even weak faith can do some amazing things. Said preacher, I don't know if I have very much faith. My what my faith, listen, you take the little bit of faith you have, you put it in Christ, you might be able to welcome water Right? Now for some of y'all I'm not I don't mean that literally, all right. But I mean in in life So Peter is pretty weak faith, I think. He's acting on doubt almost, but he does it. So his faith is weak, but then he gets focused on the waves. It wasn't the waves and the wind that threatened Peter's life with drowning. That wasn't what threatened him. It was getting his eyes off Christ that endangered him. And it's not the circumstances in life that you and I find ourselves in the overwhelming debt or the overwhelming trials, the overwhelming heartache and the contrary winds of persecution and opposition and heartache That's not what destroys us. It's getting our eyes off of Christ that destroys us. And he's no longer looking at Christ. He's no longer focused on Christ. He gets looking at his circumstances. He gets looking at his situation. So we have Peter's, I put it this way, Peter's presumption. Lord, if what you said is true, then I'll I'll walk on the water. Bid me come out walking the water. Lord says, all right, go ahead Then we have the prayer of Peter, which the shortest prayer in all the Bible. And then we have the performance of Christ. Peter said, Lord, save me. Now I'd have probably said, save yourself. You're the one that got yourself in this situation. Lord, save me. And it's interesting the order, the Lord doesn't, I got it quit, it's interesting the order of the events here. First thing the Lord does, he saves them from drowning. He gets him up. Now the implication is he doesn't throw him in the boat. Gets a hold of him. I think him and the Lord walk back to the boat together on the water. So the first thing the Lord does is he rescues them, then he rebukes them. Oh ye of little faith. It's kind of interesting that phrase, ye of little faith. It comes from one word. It's translated all from one word, little faith. Now I don't think the Lord was being unkind, but it's almost like a title he's giving him. Oh, this is little faith Of all the people, the disciples, the last one I think would have ever dreamed they'd be referred to as little faith, it would have been Peter. But he learned a profound truth about himself. It's this. He wasn't as great as he thought he was. He wasn't as strong as he thought he was. And the Lord rebuked him. There's a whole lot more here, but I want to this is what I want to end with. And don't shut me off yet, please. My biggest failures in life Have come at the times when I thought I was the strongest. I've learned how weak I am At the times when I thought I was so strong. Paul put it this way, ye who think you stand. Take heed lest ye what fall. Paul said, when I'm weak, then am I strong And my challenge to us as Christians is this. Let's never think too highly of ourselves. Let's never think, oh, I've arrived. Oh, I've got this. I can handle this. Oh, I can do that. Oh yeah. No. About that time is when we start blue blue blue blue blue My greatest failures in life have been the times I thought I was so strong and I was so wise and I wasn't anything what I thought I was. We have a tendency to think more highly of ourselves than what we really are. We think we're a lot better Christians than what we really are. We think our faith is a whole lot stronger than what it really is. And sometimes the Lord is to come to us and say, little faith. Little faith. So it's important we stay in the Word of God. It's important we stay humble. It's important we stay in the church of God. This is where we find our exhortation. Exhort one another daily. It's where we get strengthened. We get lifted up. It's important we seek Christ and keep our eyes on the Lord Jesus Christ. I may be speaking to somebody that you say, I am Peter going down. Life has overwhelmed me. The waves have absolutely driven me off course. The winds of life have been so contrary to the way I thought things would be. And you're in danger of getting your eyes off of Christ, get back and refocus on Christ. Is this making sense? Let's make a patriotic application. This country needs to get its eyes back on Christ. For too long, we've thought too highly of ourselves. For too long, we as a nation have been unscripturally proud. And I think we're seeing around us a nation sinking A nation being driven with winds and waves. We need a nation that turns back to Christ. And that begins in Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church and churches like ours. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you take some of these thoughts. And I pray you'd stir our hearts. Help us to humble ourselves before you. Help us to keep our eyes on you. Help us not to lose hope or lose or to be troubled in panic. Lord, help us to calmly trust you and look to you and follow your leadership. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say this morning, preacher, God spoke to my heart in this passage, in this experience here, this record of Peter's experience. And you'd say, preacher, life isn't turned out the way I exactly dreamed it would be, and things aren't exactly the way I anticipated. And the winds are driving and the waves are contrary, and you'd say, preacher, I just need to refocus on Christ this morning I don't know the level of burden or level of how big the waves are in your life. They might be large, they might not be much, but I know this. We need to keep our eyes on Christ. How is More and say, preacher, I know I'm saved. I need to focus on Christ, get closer to Him, walk close to Him. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand, preacher? I need that. I need that just like Peter needed the Lord to rescue him. God bless you, hands all around. It's interesting the disciples couldn't help Peter. The boat couldn't help him, only Christ could. I wonder if some here this morning say, Preacher, I'm not everything I ought to be, the Lord knows that I'm trying, but Say, preacher, I know someone that's really going through it And they're out in the sea and they're being tossed. Say, preacher, pray with me that I could be a friend to them and I could show them and help them, encourage them to look to Christ. Trust in him and not let them go under. Is there any like that, preacher? I know someone that really needs, really needs the Lord, really needs God's help. And I'd like to at least have a roll. And then looking to Christ. God bless you, a lot of hands around. One last question. Does someone here this morning say, preacher, I'm not sure when I die, I'm going to heaven? And God's working in your life, whether you see it or not, Christ is working in your life trying to draw you to himself. And this morning you say, Preacher, I'm not going to push Christ away. I'm not going to be afraid of Christ. I'm going to accept him and trust him And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. I need that settled in my heart and life that when I die, I go to heaven, not to hell. You'd say, preacher, pray for me, that God would help me. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Any at all? Preacher, pray for me Father in heaven, a lot of hands raised. You know our situations. You know our storms, our circumstances. Help us to trust you. Help us to have faith in you.