For our text this evening, Matthew seven is one of them. Matthew chapter six. And when you find that, uh mark it, and then go to Philippians chapter four. Matthew six and Philippians chapter four. I'm going to read from Philippians four to start us off. But we're going to use both of them right here at the beginning. If you remember we're continuing our series. On confronting comfortable sins. By the way, wasn't uh Family Conference Sunday a blessing last week? I really enjoyed that. You know, and this time of year you just know it's going to be difficult, gonna have to fight weather and whatnot, but the Lord gave us a pretty decent day And uh I think God really used Brother Magnile in a great way. And so I appreciated that. But we're doing our series on confronting comfortable sins. If you'll remember we were Pointing out from John chapter seven that the Pharisees, who we know were self-righteous and uh uh you know, they lived great moral outward lives But uh inwardly they weren't really that great. And they brought to Jesus a woman that the Bible says that they took in adultery. I mean they caught her right in the act of adultery And they brought her right over to Jesus Christ and they confronted Jesus trying to catch him in some uh just trying to catch him in his words or whatever. and make him look bad. And they said, the law says we should stone her. What do you say? And what did the Lord how did the Lord respond when they approached him with this woman? Yeah, he just ignored them, basically, bent down and wrote in the sand. And they pressed the issue and pressed the issue. And finally, his response is that classic statement, you who are without sin, cast the first stone. You know what he was doing? He was forcing those Pharisees to confront their own sins. They were all worked up about this horrendous sin. And by the way, adultery is a very bad sin. I mean, that's awful. And they were right in condemning the act of sin. I submit to you, those guys could care less about this woman committing adultery. They were out after Jesus But Jesus took that circumstance and that situation and he confronted them and forced them to confront their own sins. Now I'm not suggesting, God forbid, that any of us would fall into the description of a Pharisee. I hope we're not in that state. But we can, if we're not careful, fall into the same frame of mind they got into, and that is this. We can get all worked up about these sins out there that are going on in the world and are creeping into the church. You know, we we we get all worked up. Uh boy, uh, you know, we'll preach against uh abortion and sodomy and all these sins and uh you know adultery and drunkenness and all of that but yet we become very comfortable with some other sins that are just as equally condemned by God. Yet we're comfortable with them in our hearts and minds. Notice, if you would, I'm talking away here. I didn't turn to the passage, but notice in Philippians chapter 4. And I want to read verse six and seven. I'm going to talk a little bit and then we're going to have our prayer. I don't think this mic is on, Brother Dave, back here. Don't think I have that there. There we go, thank you. Look at uh verse number six. Bible says, be careful for nothing But in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known unto God. And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. Notice that first ver that first phrase there in verse 6. Be careful for nothing. Now keep that in mind. Keep your place here. Come over to Matthew chapter 6 with me if you would And I'm going to begin reading in verse 25. Matthew 6, verse 25. Now keep your place here in Philippians. And come over to Matthew chapter 6, verse 25. Jesus speaking here. He says, Therefore I say unto you, take no thought. For your life what ye shall eat or what ye shall drink, nor yet for your body what ye shall put on? Is not life more than meat, and the body more than raiment? And the answer to that question is what Yes, life is more than just what we eat and wear. Behold the fowls of the air, for they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns, yet your heavenly father feedeth them Are ye not much better than they? Which of you, what's that next phrase, next two words? By taking thought, three words, which of you, by taking thought, Can add one cubit unto your s his stature? And the answer to that question is what? None of us can And why, look at this, take ye thought for ramen. Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They toil not, neither do they spin. And yet I say unto you that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. Wherefore, if God so clothed the grass of the field, which today is and tomorrow is cast into the oven, shall he not much more clothe you, O ye of little faith? Wherefore, look at this next phrase, take no thought, saying, What shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or wherewith shall we be clothed? For after all these things do the Gentiles seek For your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of these things. Now here is this classic verse. But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be done unto you. Now look at verse 34. Take therefore what? No thought for the morrow, for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. Now this is what I want to say before we pray. That phrase in Philippians chapter 4, be careful for nothing, and the six times that phrase in Matthew chapter 6 is used, take thought, comes from the exact same word. He's talking about the same thing. God is talking, addressing the same subject on both of these passages of Scriptures. Now, we have the phrase here, be careful for nothing. In Matthew, he says, take no thought. Now I want you to tell me, what is he talking about? Same word, same subject. What is it? Worrying. Be anxious. Be careful for nothing. We can put it in our vernacular today. Don't worry about anything. He says here in Matthew 6, six times he uses the phrase, take no thought. Don't be anxious about that. Don't be worrying about that. And so tonight I want to talk about the sin of worrying. The sin of worrying. Now, before I pray, I wish I could tell you I've got this completely taken care of in my life, that it's not an issue for me. But I'll be very frank with you, I was as convicted preparing this message as about any message I've ever prepared for. Worrying It's something that sin that we get very comfortable with. In fact, we justify it sometimes. So let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now, as uh we look at this I believe a sin that in my own life and in many Christian lives hinders your blessing, maybe hinders revival, and uh keeps us from seeing you do the mighty things your word promises that you would do. So God help us to confront this. I ask in my own life and in us as individuals, as a body of believers, Holy Spirit, deal with this in our hearts. I give myself to you. I yield my will. I present my body anew this hour. I ask with all my heart again that you would fill me with your spirit, that you would speak through me in Jesus' name. Amen. Would you agree with me that worry is a common sin? Come on now. I mentioned this morning, uh, and I know you've never done this, but I've gone into situations where normally I would be worried about it, and I prayed and committed to the Lord and I wasn't worried. Then I got thinking about it. And I got worried by the fact that I wasn't worried about it. You know, I ought to be worried about this. And uh it's a common sin. I got thinking about worry. Worry is actually a mental sin It's not a physical sin. Fornication would be physical, it would involve the physical. Worry is mental. It has to do with the way we think, our thinking process. I was reading various reports and studies on the subject of worrying, and there's a ton out there, believe it or not. One report I read where doctors reported that 25% of their patients, 25% of the patients that come in to see the doctor, have no physical ailments. It's simply the results of worry. There's nothing biological causing their pain, their problems. It's simply a mental thing where they're worrying about things and it affects them physically. 25%, that's one out of four patients. I read another statistics I came across, said that anxiety disorders, that's the world's explanation for worry. Anxiety disorders affect forty million people in the United States of America. That's 18% of our population. are what psychiatrists diagnose as anxiety disorders. It costs in in seeing doctors and and time out of work and and uh other things. It costs our economy forty-two billion dollars a year can be uh money that is spent can be associated with worrying uh type issues Seeing doctors for it, missing work over it, those types of things. Come across another study that says this. 40%, they studied people, this is I thought this one was interesting. They studied people that worried Now that worries me that they study people that worried, but uh they studied people that worried and they came to these conclusions. And to be honest with you, they make sense to me The study of people that worried, 40% of all the things they worried about never happened. 40 things that people were worried about, they followed that up, and the thing they were worried about, 40% of them never happened. 30% of the worries, things people worried about, were past decisions they had made that they could not change. Something, a decision they made in the past, can't change it, but they worried about that. 12% worried about what other people would think about decisions they made Wow, that hits home a little bit. They worry about criticism from others. 10% of those worried about undiagnosed physical problems. Now what what does that mean? It means this. Boy, I wonder what that pain was. Boy, I wonder that might have been a heart attack. And uh, you know, I've started lately, uh, since I turned fifty, if someone has a heart attack that I know, I talk to them, find out everything I can what it felt like So that I know if I'm having one because I'm always thinking I'm having a heart attack, you know. And uh you lay there and worry about this. Oh I want boy, there's a little knot on my head. I wonder what that is And they worry about undiagnosed physical problems. Eight percent of the things that people worried about in this study actually ended up being legitimate concerns for worry That's less than one out of ten things that we worry about are actually something that would justify being concerned about. The Bible teaches, the New Testament teaches for the Christians that Christians are to have certain characteristics, certain traits are to be true of Christians. One guy suggested there's twenty-seven different character traits that the New Testament says should be true for a believer. How many folks here tonight you're saved to know it? Say amen. Amen That means the Bible tells us, the New Testament teaches us, there's seven, twenty-seven different character traits that ought to be true about us. Anyone want to guess? What the number one character trait the New Testament teaches should be true of Christians. The number one. Anyone want to guess? It's nothing tricky about it. Alright, and don't worry, be happy. Uh I think that's a song. Uh the number one is what you would guess is to be uh a loving. Is the love. We're taught in Scripture, New Testament, particularly, Christians are to love. Love God, love one another. That's the number one character trait. The number two character trait, anybody want to guess? Just take a guess Patience, okay, that kind of goes along with it. Humility. The number one character trait for a Christian ought to be that of a loving person: loving God, loving one another, loving our enemies, loving everybody. The number two is that of humility. We ought to be a humble people before God and before one another. The number three character trait of a Christian, according to New Testament, is that we should be people who have faith in God. And that's where our subject comes in. One of the things that ought to characterize the number three, according to this one Bible study. The number three character trait uh in of a believer should be that person trusts God. That person has faith in God. Now, how many of us would have family members or coworkers? That will point us and say, what do you find true about that person as a Christian? I wonder how many would say, you know, that gal has faith in God. It's obvious. You can see it clearly. That fella, he is a man who has faith, great faith in God. That's the number three character trait: love, humility, and faith in God. In our passages that we read, Philippians and Matthew, we're clearly taught that we are to be careful for nothing. We're to not take thought. In other words, as we said, we are not to worry. Now if somebody comes up to you at work tomorrow or this week or your spouse says something to you, you're talking about something you're concerned And they say this to you, they say, Oh, don't worry. It's going to be alright. If they say that, what are they trying to do? Hmm? They're trying to if they say, you know, if your spouse is concerned about something, you come up and put your arm around sweetheart, don't worry about it. It'll be okay. What are you trying to do? Trying to comfort them, try and encourage them. That's just gonna be alright. Uh uh, you know, it's gonna be fine, don't worry about that. A guy's at work, oh man, I don't know what's gonna happen, my taxes. And you come out and say, man, don't worry about it. It'll work out. It'll be all right. Just don't worry about it. What we're trying to do is encourage them. But what about when God says, Don't worry? When God says, be careful for nothing, is God just saying that just to encourage us? Can I suggest to you when God tells us in these passages of scriptures, take no thought, be careful, don't worry, when God says that, he's not simply trying to encourage us. That is a moral command by our Creator. He is commanding us not to give thought to this. Don't be careful about this. Don't be anxious It's not simply a meaningless gesture tr gesture trying to encourage someone with no solution, no answer, uh, no uh way to solve the situation But when God says don't worry, it is a moral command of the one that created us. Don't you take thought about that. Don't you worry about that. To worry is to sin against God. And until we accept that Until we break down and say, you know, me worrying about this, I am sinning against the God that made me, until we accept that fact, until we see it in that person in that light, we're not going to have victory over it. And I believe, and I never, I'll be honest with you, I never really gave this a whole lot of thought before I started studying for this series and this m and this subject in particular. It may be that maybe one of the reasons we're not seeing God pour out the spirit of revival on our lives. It may be what's hindering our prayers from being answered, it may be the one sin that is keeping God from blessing us as we know the Bible says He wants to bless us. Worry. Say, preacher, I was worried you were gonna say that. That was uh ha ha ha Number one, what are the causes of worry? What causes us to worry? Job in chapter 5, verse 7, says this: Man is born unto trouble. As the sparks fly upward. How many folks here like to have a little campfire? Anybody like to do that? I love campfires. I build them in the living room everywhere. I just love them. And uh we have a nice deck out back, campfire. And um Jim ever notice when you have a campfire, what's constantly coming up out of the fire? Sparks are flying upward, just constantly And the Bible says that's the way life is. Life is constant, life is full of troubles, just and the word troubles there you could define as this: things that cause us concern. Things that trouble us. The context of our message, let me put it this way: things that make us worry In other words, life is constantly throwing at us stuff that we could, that we can worry about if we so choose to do so. Anyone ever find that to be true? Just constantly, every day, there's something to worry about. There's something that I could worry about if I want to. As I said, the word troubles in that verse, man is born in the trouble, the word trouble there means trials, difficulties. Troubles, things that produce worry. So what is it that causes us to worry? Could be almost anything. Could be anything real or imagined. I I mention this occasionally, and I don't know if anybody else does this. I hope so, because I really feel weird if nobody else does. But I wake up sometimes two, three o'clock in the morning, and lay there, and my mind gets working And I get worried about stuff in the morning, I finally wake up and I think that was the stupidest thing in the world to worry about. Please, somebody say you do that also. Just humor me. Yeah, it's imaginary. Um, I got going through the Bible. Did you know that Adam worried When he sinned against God, when he ate of that forbidden fruit, what's the first thing he did? He hid himself. He made gar he made those uh aprons out of fig leaves and Uh he hid himself. You know what? He was worried that God wouldn't accept him. He didn't immediately go to God and say, God, you won't believe what I did. I'm so sorry. He could have confessed it immediately and dealt with it, approached God, but he didn't. He worried that God wouldn't accept him, and he hid himself. Um I got thinking about Abraham and Sarah. Do you know Abraham, he wa the famine hit the he got to the promise, he got to uh Canaan. Uh he left uh uh Arab Caldiz, got to Canaan. First thing that happened when he got to Canaan, there was a famine. It's not what he expected God said, you know, I'm going to get this great land. He gets there and there's a famine. So what's he do? He packs up and he goes down where? To Egypt. On the way to Egypt, he gets thinking, he gets worrying. His wife is a very attractive woman. Get down to Egypt, they don't fear God. And he gets worried that they're going to kill him and take his wife. So, what's his solution? You tell them you're my sister. And she was his half-sister. And so you tell them you're sister so that I don't get killed. What a great guy. But it was worry, wasn't it? God told Adam uh Abraham and Sarah, you're gonna have a kid. What? We're nine, I'm 90 years old. And uh they get worried about it, and uh what does Sarah come up with uh she gets worried, how's this gonna happen? I can't have a kid, and what was her solution? Have a sleep with Hagar. And so they got worried. God had promised something. God was going to do this. They worried about it. Took things into their own hands. And boy, what a disaster that produced. Worry can be anything. Moses worry. God called him to lead the nation uh uh Israel out of Egypt and uh over here oh God I can't I I I I I I I I stutter a lot Uh oh I couldn't they won't listen to me. Um Elijah Good night. He prayed down fire. He slaughtered 400 of the prophets of Baal. And Jezebel says, I'm going to do to you exactly what you did to those guys. And what did Elijah do? Oh no And he fled out into the wilderness. Oh, I wish I was dead. Worried. Jeremiah. God called Jeremiah in the first chapter of Jeremiah. And Jeremiah says, I can't, I'm just a little kid. And God says to them, say not thou art, I am a child. Say not that I am a child. That phrase, say not there, it means close your mouth up. You know what God was telling them to do? Shut up. I don't think God meant it in that way, but God said, Shame on I'm a child. Close your mouth. What was Jeremiah doing? God called Jeremiah to preach, and Jeremiah worried about that. Oh, I don't have experience. I don't have the training. I don't have this. Oh, I can't do that. And God says, hush. I put that in the margin of my Bible. Hush. So what causes us to worry? It can be anything. Real or imagined. We got great men of God through Scripture that worried about stuff. That they really didn't have to worry about. What are the complications of worry? In other words, what is worry? What's the problems with it? What's so bad about worry? Well, number one, worrying is distrusting God. Would you take your Bibles with me real quick? Go to 1 Peter chapter 5. Say, I'm not distrusting God, I'm just worried about this. 1 Peter chapter 5, look with me if you would at verse number 7. In fact, this is a Great verse to underline in your Bible. If you don't have this underscored somehow, this would be great. 1 Peter 5. 7. Simple little verse. I think we memorized it here some time ago. 1 Peter 5, 7. Casting all your what? Care upon him. Let's put it in the context of our message. Casting all our what? Worries on him. Why? Look at the next phrase. For he careth for you. What does it mean if God says, listen, you take your worries, quit worrying about them, commit it to me, I'll take care of it. I care about you. And then I go ahead and worry. What am I saying? I'm saying I can't trust God with this. Um, can you imagine If your spouse came to you and said this, I don't trust you I don't believe that you care about me. I don't think I can trust you to take care of me. Fellows, can you imagine if your wife said that to you? What would that do? What would that do? How many guys agree with me? That would hurt. Come on, man. That would, man, you don't trust me. When we worry, it's exactly what we're saying to God. I don't trust you. I don't think you're going to come through on this. I don't think you're going to take care of this. The basis of our casting our cares on the Lord is the fact that He cares for us. He loves us dearly. He doesn't want us, he doesn't want our lives a mess. He doesn't want us to be destroyed. He cares about us. And he says, you take that which you're worried about, take that which you're so concerned isn't going to work out, and you dump it on me. That's what that word cast actually means, just dump it on me. I'll take care of you because I care a lot about you. So one of the complications with worrying is it's a distrust of God. It's to doubt his care for me. Another complication for the sin of worry is that it's a lack of acceptance of God's will for my life. One truth that is taught throughout Scripture is this: God is in control of the events of my life. God is in control of the events of my life. Now I can make decisions and uh I make decisions. I gotta live with the consequences of my s of my decisions. But how many folks have found a lot of things come at us in life that we have no choice in? How about it? Can you give me an example? Weather. Right And I tell you what some preachers do, I don't know any in particular, but I'm sure there are some do that Saturday nights when the weather is calling for storm Sunday, they worry about that. I I don't know any personally that ever do that, but I've heard that some do that sometimes. I don't have any choice in the weather. I don't have any say I can't control that. And so if I worry about something I have no control over, What am I saying? I'm not accepting the fact that God is in control and if he lets that happen, that's his will for my life. If something comes into my life that I have no control over, I must accept that as God's will for me. Right? I have to, because I have no choice in the matter. Um so if I worry, I'm not accepting God's will for my life. When we worry, we fail to consider the fact that God is in control and God is a will for my life and He is allowing this situation into my life. What does Romans 8. 28 say? And we know that all things, what Work together for good to them that love God who are the called according to his purpose. God loves us. He cares about us. He has a plan for my life. He has a plan for your life. And he allows things into our lives that we had no control over. But rather than worrying about them and being all upset about that, we say, you know, God cares about me. He's in control. I submit to his will. I'll let him take this and make out of me whatever he sees fit. We have a classic example of that in the Old Testament. Joseph. I studied through the life of Joseph. Now, maybe you can point something out that I'm missing, but I can't find anywhere where Joseph was worried. Not like the other guys I mentioned. Everything that came into his life, he just kind of took it. And uh, you know the two, the uh who's the guy with the birds on the head and In prison. The baker, the baker and the butler, one of the girls comes through. Praise the Lord. Congratulations. You get a star. See me afterward, I'll give you a star. Uh the butcher and the b um the baker And what those guys do? Butler, not the baker, the butler. What those guys do? They forgot all about Joseph. Am I messing up? Shut up. In Christian love Those guys forgot all about Joseph. What did Joseph do down in prison? Oh, what's going to happen to me? Oh. No, you know what the Bible says? He just worked hard, worked hard, and the prison guards, they kept elevating him. They said, man, this guy can be trusted. I can't find anywhere where Joseph recorded that. I'm not saying he didn't, but I don't see any record of it. And I think we have an answer why that is true. At the end of the book of Genesis, when Joseph's brothers come to them, after his daddy dies. And they said, hey, uh dad before he died said, don't hurt us for lying about you and doing what we did. Cowards You know what Joseph said? He said, You meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. You know what? He saw that God was in control of his life. He couldn't control being sold as a prisoner. He couldn't control the false accusations of Potiphar's wife. He had no control over all that. But I don't see any record where he worried, and through it all, apparently, in his mind it was, you know, God's in control here. God, I don't know what's working out, but God's has something good in store here. I don't know where it'll be or how it'll come out. Man means it for evil. Potiphar's wife meant it for evil. You brothers meant it for evil. But God was in control. And when we worry, what we're doing is we're refusing to accept God's sovereignty in our lives. We're trying to solve it ourselves. John Newton wrote what? Amazing grace. We sang it this morning. Listen to what John Newton said about not worrying and accepting God's providence in our lives. He said If all things are in his hand, if the very hairs of our head are numbered, if every event, great and small, is under the direction of his providence and purpose If he has a wise, holy, and gracious view end in view, to which everything that happens is subordinate and subservient then we have nothing to do but with patience and humility to follow as he leads and cheerfully to expect a happy issue. How happy are they, who can resign all to him, see his hand in every dispensation, and believe that he chooses better for them than they possibly could for themselves. That's a powerful statement. No need to worry. God has a plan. He's in control. There's something he's working out. We don't see it And according to John Newton, when it's all said and done, if we look back, we would not have chosen something different if we could have. What's the cure for worry? Let me give it to you real quickly and we're done. And I'm just going to go through these. Jot these down if you would. Number one, memorize and pray over scripture promises. You say, preacher, I just keep catching myself worrying, worrying, worrying. Memorize and pray over scripture promises. Let me give you a couple just to get you started. Matthew 6, 33 How about the passage we read earlier, Philippians 4, 6 and 7? What about 1 Peter 5:7? Casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you. Memorize them, pray over them. Number two, ask God to strengthen your faith. Say, God, I'm worried about this. I shouldn't be worried about this. I should just trust you, God, strengthen my faith. Strengthen my faith. There is nothing because I made this statement this morning, just because a person uh is struggling in their faith in some way does not mean they're a bad Christian It simply means we need to grow in that area. I like what the one father that had a son came to Jesus, another one from the incident this morning. He said, Lord, I believe, but help thou mine unbelief. God help me to be stronger in my faith. God help me not to worry about this, but to put this in your hands and let this let you take care of it. And number three, number one, we said memorize and pray over stripture promises. Number two, ask God to strengthen your faith. Number three, ask God to give you a submissive heart. Lord help me, Lord, enable me to accept your will for my life. Not worry about this. I thought about Max over in Kazakhstan. Imprisoned. He had no control over that whatsoever. And boy, what a testimony he had Uh from what we have, you know, thousand thousands of miles away, but from what I can tell from Jua, his testimony was he's he struggled, he was scared no doubt, but God brought that thing out. God was in control. Now, if he can trust God in something like that, surely you and I can trust God with the things that come into our lives. Let's ask God to give us a submissive heart. Lord, how many folks here ever now let's be honest, how many folks here ever God stirred your heart or challenged you or spoke your heart about doing something you didn't think you could do it Anybody here? Like come to church tonight. And we say, God, I'm just going to trust you on that. That's what every one of these, Abraham, Moses, every one of those guys struggled with that exact same thing. Lord, I don't think I can do this. God, I can't do that. But they ended up getting a submissive heart. Lord, I submit to you. Let's ask God to do that for us. God, give me a submissive heart. To what you're trying to do in my life. I want, I wrote this statement down when I was done studying this, and the Lord was working my heart over This is a statement that I put down for myself. If I was at the altar, if I was where you are, And somebody was preaching this to me as I was studying it, and they were preaching it to me. I came to the altar. This would be my prayer and my desire at the altar. I want my life to manifest the truth that God can be trusted. God, I want my life to be a testimony of the fact that you can be trusted. I don't have to worry. I don't have to struggle. And people can see in my life that God can be trusted. That's what I want. So what am I I want my life to communicate that. That God can be trusted. Said the Robin to the sparrow, I should really like to know why these anxious human beings rush about and worry so. Said the sparrow to the Robin, friend, I think that it must be that they have no heavenly father such as cares for you and me That's what our lives, when we worry, that's what we're saying. I have no God that cares for me. Thus I worry. Maybe That may be the one sin that needs confronted in our lives. That's keeping God's blessing. That's withholding revival. Let's confront it. Let's confess it. Let's ask God to do a great work. Father in heaven, bless us, I pray, Lord. Lord, as we go into Lord's Supper here in a few moments, I ask God that you would search our hearts. So many times we have these sins like worry that we overlook. We really don't view them as sins Nevertheless, they grieve your heart deeply. And so help us to confess this, forsake us, give us victory. Lord, strengthen our faith. And help us we pray. Their heads bowed in eyes closed and this is the early thing.