Your word to guide us and direct us in our life, decisions we make, the actions we take. And Lord, we pray that this hour now, as we look at this matter of worshiping you I pray your Holy Spirit would help us to understand what your word teaches. Father, I yield my heart and mind to you. I pray That your Holy Spirit would guide my thinking as I preach and the words I use and the things I say. Lord, I pray with all my heart that I'd not say anything you'd not have me to say And Lord, if there's something you would have me to say that's not in my notes, I wasn't planning, I pray you bring it to mind. So guide my heart and mind as I yield it to you. I present my body anew, Lord In this moment, for this hour that you would fill me and empower your word as it goes off of my lips And challenge us, change us, God, convict us, encourage, comfort, direct us by your word is my prayer in Jesus' name. Amen. So I studied this chapter, Psalm ninety-five, uh I found that some people suggest that Psalm ninety-five through one hundred, these five chapters here, five, six chapters, were what they referred to as coronation songs. And the idea behind that is on um Uh let me get turned on. The idea behind that is is when the Jews rebuilt the temple Now many of us are familiar that God sent the Jews into captivity for 70 years into Babylon. How many people are familiar with with that event in scripture? Sure. And um uh and it was because of their idolatry and their disobedience, and he had sent prophets to them and warned them. He had sent uh uh preachers and did all he could to turn them back to the Lord and revive them, and they refused. And so God, in his love for Israel and His compassion for Israel, He chastened them, or in other words, He disciplined and corrected them with this period of captivity into Babylon. When the 70 years were up, God stirred the heart of Darius and they sent the let them come back. When they came back to Jerusalem, they rebuilt the temple that had been destroyed. When Israel was overrun, the invading nations just absolutely destroyed the temple, tore the wall down around the city. And so they're coming back and they're rebuilding this temple And on the day of dedication of the temple was quite a ceremony. And there were prayers made and speeches and sermons preached. And we are told, we don't have this information in Scripture, but Jewish history suggests that on that day they sang this Psalm, chapter 95, along with the following up through 100. And at the dedication of this temple. Now, if you look at Psalm 95, and I always try to point this out, if you notice above verse number one, there is no title for the Psalm given Most of the Psalms, there's a title there, and it'll say something about the context of what the psalm was penned, who the penman was that wrote it down, of course, God being the author, we understand that And then sometimes there'll be some musical instructions there for it. But Psalm 95 has none of that. There's no context given. There's no uh penman names. We assume the the idea of singing it at the dedication of the temple is true, but we're not told in scripture And we're not given a name of a penman for this song. So we know little background about it, a little bit uh little very little about the context Someone has said this is an anonymous psalm. We don't know who penned it. But the fact of the matter is we are told who penned this psalm When you get into Hebrews, and we'll not turn there, but in Hebrews chapter 4 and verse number 7, the author of the penman of Hebrews, who I believe is Paul, Quotes verse 7 and 8. Look at verse 7 and 8 of Psalm 95. It says, For he is our God, we are the people of his pasture, and the sheep of his hand. Then This is quoted in Hebrews chapter 4. Today, if you will hear his voice, harden not your heart As in the day of provocation, as in the day of temptation in the wilderness. These two verses are quoted, verbatim, quoted in Hebrews chapter 4. And then Paul, again, I believe being the penman of Hebrews, attributes this psalm to David. And so we are told in the New Testament that David is the penman of this Psalm. Now, there's a good lesson to be learned there. That is this. Often the New Testament will be a tremendous commentary on Old Testament events. We're often given information in songs in the New Testament about events in the Old Testament. And that's one of the reasons every Christian ought to read their Bible all the way through. You ought to read Old Testament, New Testament. I've had people say to me, preacher, I like the New Testament, I don't like the Old Testament. Well, it is all God's word. Those little books at the end of the Old Testament there, Hosea and Malachi and Habakkuk, and all those old books. They are just as inspired as John chapter 3 and verse 16. And so we go to the New Testament, we find out, oh, we're given some information here. This was David Pendus. Now, I don't know what the great significance there is, other than If you study the life of David very carefully, you will find that when he was king, he brought the ark into Jerusalem. And established it there at the center of the nation, the center of the capital city, the ark of God, where they met with God. Sacrifices were made And we're told back in the Old Testament in 1 Samuel that uh 2 Samuel, I believe, that David was sitting in his palace and his heart was stirred. And he says, I've got a beautiful palace, I have a beautiful house to live in, but God's house is this ark, this tent, basically, out there. We need to build him a temple. We need to build a house for God, for the Ark of the Covenant to be in, and uh and for we can go and do sacrifice and serve the Lord. And so you know the story, he approached Nathan, the prophet, and Nathan said, Oh yeah, do all that's in your heart, David. That's a great idea. And the preacher said, go for it, God serve. And as Nathan was leaving, God uh approached them, spoke to Nathan, and said, Oh no, no, David's not building that or that that temple. Uh his he's got bloody hands. He's got wars to fight. He can't build that temple. I'm gonna have his son Solomon build the temple. So my point is this. If this Psalm, chapter 95, was sung at the dedication of the new temple That makes perfect sense being penned by David. He is the one that initiated the building of the temple in the first place. And if they did sing it, as is suggested, I think the Jews were doing great homage to the greatest king they ever had, as far as I'm concerned, King David. And uh by singing this psalm penned by him. And so it was very, very appropriate that this would be used at the dedication of the Second Temple. Now, Psalm 95, if you would look at this. I notice, by way of introduction, I noticed three uh observations, three subjects that are touched on on Psalm 95. The first one is we're given a threefold invitation. We're invited to do three different things If you would, look at verse number one. He says, O come, let us what? Sing unto the Lord. Let us make a joyful noise unto the rock of our salvation. Let us come before his presence with thanksgiving. So let us sing. Oh come, let us sing unto the Lord. I like to sing. Nobody else likes when I sing, but I like to sing. And uh make a, I love, I am so glad, verse number one says, let us make a joyful noise. You might not be able to make a very pleasant noise, but you can make a joyful noise unto the Lord. And uh can I get an amen right there? Amen. My best singing, I think I sound the greatest in the shower. I mean it is opera quality. It is incredible. If I could get CDs of me singing in the shower, they would be bestsellers, I'm telling you right now. But something changes God wants us to sing. God wants his people to sing to his name for his glory. God wants you to sing. If you skip out on the congregational singing, if you just stand there or sit there and just stare at your thing, you're missing out on an invitation God has extended to all of us to sing to his name. You find a church that's alive for God and filled with the Spirit and the presence of God, you're going to find a church that sings to the Lord. In fact, we don't have time. We could go to Ephesians, and we're told there that when we're filled with the Lord, that there'll be singing and melody in our heart and songs unto the Lord. God wants his people to sing. You say, I'm not a very good singer. God didn't say I'm looking for good singers. He said, I'm looking for sincere singers. And so the invitation to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, the invitation to you and I that know the Lord as Savior in 2025 It says let's sing to the Lord. Let's just sing. Let's just not worry what anybody else thinks about. Let's just die to self and sing out unto the Lord. Second invitation I notice here in verse number two, he says, verse one, O come, let us sing unto the Lord. Look at verse 2. Let us come before his presence with what Thanksgiving. Thanksgiving. God wants his people to be grateful. God wants Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church to be grateful for what He has done for us and to us. I don't know about you, but I think God's been awfully good to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. And we have reason to thank Him and give thanks and be grateful to Him, not just in Thanksgiving, not just At Thanksgiving in November, but all year round. God has been good to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, not because we're wonderful, but because He is wonderful And we thank God for it. He wants us to be grateful. He wants us to be thankful. And uh don't let your feelings, can I give you a little advice? Don't let your feelings dictate As to whether you have an attitude of gratitude or not. Don't let your circumstances dictate to you whether you're thankful to God or not. Just decide I am going to be grateful regardless of how I feel. I'm going to be grateful regardless of what my circumstances are. I'm going to be grateful. I had a little boy was at a picnic and um uh he went out to get a piece of cake and the church lady, there was a church picnic, and the lady served him the piece of cake, and he said, Thank you, ma'am And she said, well, aren't you the sweetest little thing? She said, you come up here and say thank you. He said, if you give me another piece, I'll do it again. I tell you, there's something about a person that has a grateful heart. There's something about a person that has an attitude of gratitude. And God wants us to be thankful. Imitation. Come on, sing. Hey, my people, I want you to sing. Lift your voices up. Joyful noise. He said, I want you to be grateful. Come on. Be thankful. Be grateful. Wouldn't it be wonderful for have a whole year? Just thank the Lord no matter what happens. God thank you. In everything, give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus. And then I see a third invitation here in verse number six. Oh, come, let us worship and bow down. God wants his people to worship. And as I said, this is what we're going to focus on. This is what we're going to emphasize this year, worshiping God. So the first thing I notice here is a threefold invitation to sing, give thanks, and worship. The second thing I notice in Psalm 95 is the Creator's exaltation. We have this invitation. Then we have the Creator's exaltation. Look at verse number 3 with me, if you would. For the Lord is a great God. And I would say right there, Amen. Our Lord is a great God. And a great king above all gods. Listen, it doesn't matter who's the king of England, it doesn't matter who's the President of the United States, it doesn't matter who's the prime minister of Russia. It doesn't matter who rules what. Jesus Christ is King above all kings. And he's the Lord over it all. And that's where our loyalty is. And look what it says. And in his hand are the deep places of the earth. The strength of the hills is his also. The sea is his. He made it. And his hands form the dry land. Come, let us worship and bow down. Let us kneel before the Lord our what? Maker. He is the creator. God made us. We did not make ourselves God is creator, and I feel like maybe I'm uh over hammering this here lately, but I'm telling you, evolution is a flat out lie. I don't believe that for one minute. And by the way, you cannot reconcile evolution with the Word of God. Either evolution is right and the Bible's wrong, or the Bible's right and evolution is wrong. They cannot both be right. And our God is a creator. And we're exhorted to worship Him as our creator. Don't ever forget we were created for God, not God for us. He's the creator. He made us. We are not just advanced animals. We are unique people created in the very image of God. And God has a plan and purpose for every single one of us. Our lives have meaning. We are created by God And he is our creator. Our God is a great God. I love verse 3. For the Lord is a great God. Too many people, too many Christians today have a small God A little God that can't solve their problems and can't meet their needs and can't direct them and help them and forgive them. Listen, if you've got a small God, that tells me you've got small faith But our God is a big God. And our God is capable of taking care of you and meeting our needs. I don't know what situation you may be in. I don't know what overwhelming needs you may have, but I'm here to tell you our God is bigger than any situation, any heartache, any need, any problem we may have. Our God is a great God. And we can come to him and pray. God says, open thy mouth wide and I will fill it. He's saying, I'm a big God, I can meet your needs. How many people here this morning, first Sunday of 2025, you say, preacher, I got some needs in my life. Any like that? Sure. We all do I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I got some pretty big needs in my life. Pretty big situations. Is there anybody here that say, preacher? I got some miracles I need in my life. I need God to do some miracles. Can I get anybody like that? Sure. Both my hands are raised. I've got two things I am asking God, and it absolutely has to be a miracle And I'm here to tell you our God is able. And we're exhorted in Psalm 95. Your God is a great God. Don't ever forget that. Your God is a big God. Your God made all this. And don't ever, ever forget that. If we ever get a small God, then our faith is going to get small. So, one, there's an imitation, threefold invitation. Number two, there's an exaltation of God as our Creator. And then thirdly, again, this is introduction, I see a stern admonition. Come, if you would, to the last part of verse 7. Today, if you will hear his voice, harden not your hearts as in the day of provocation, as in the day of temptation in the wilderness. He is going back to Israel, as we mentioned earlier, and how they hardened their hearts against God Even when they first came out of Egypt, as they're going through the wilderness, they would complain and murmur and their hearts got hard, and God would address it, and he would convict them and he would chasten them And then they would get hard hearts again, and hard hearts, and hard hearts. I tell you, the worst thing that can happen to a Christian is for us to allow our heart to get hard. I've seen some Christians been in the ministry now 45 years almost. 40 years, coming up on 40 years this summer. And I tell you, I've seen some Christians get hard hearts I've I hate to say this. I've felt my own heart get hard on occasion. Can I get a witness? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Sure. I tell you, that hardening of the heart. And I don't want to hear what God says, and I don't want to do what he's instructed me to do. And uh man, that old self just settles in. That hard gets hard, I tell you, we have got to fight that with every ounce of our being. We cannot let our hearts get hard. And maybe I'm talking to someone this morning, and if you were perfectly honest with yourself, you'd have to say, my heart's getting hard against God. I've been disappointed and things didn't go the way I wanted. It's not what uh this and somebody hurt me and somebody did that and we allow our heart to get hard I'd plead with you on this first Sunday of 2025. Why don't you kneel at an old altar and say, God, break this old hard heart? I don't want to live this way. I don't want a hard heart. God's telling them here in Psalm 95, he says to us, today if he hears us, harden not your heart. Oh come. I'm glad that when we get out of sorts with God, we can always come back and God takes us back. We'll humble ourselves and confess our sin and forsake our ways. God will forgive our sin and heal us And restore our relationship. So a threefold invitation is given to us, a creator's exaltation, and then a stern admonition Now what I want to do in the little bit of time we have left is focus on verse number six. This is our memory verse for January And this fits in with our theme for the year, worship the Lord. Oh come, let us worship and bow down Let us kneel before the Lord our Maker. Two thoughts this morning. Number one, I notice the mandate to worship. Come, let us worship and bow down. That word mandate is kind of along the ideas of a command. It's more than a suggestion. It's not just a good idea. Worship is something God expects from his people. He has instructed us to worship him. All through the Bible, all through Scripture. We are repeatedly told to worship God. In 1 Corinthians 16, 29, the Bible says, Worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness. Psalm 29, verse 2 says, Worship the Lord in the beauty in the beauty of holiness. Psalms 96. 9, the next uh chapter over from where we're at. Worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness. Isaiah 27 verse 13, God's people are instructed to worship the Lord. Jeremiah 17, 2. God instructs his people to worship the Lord. In Matthew chapter 4, the beginning section of Matthew chapter 4 Jesus returns from the wilderness, uh is baptized, and he goes out into the wilderness and fasts for 40 days and forty nights, and as he's returning from the wilderness, he's confronted by Satan himself. Now I want to remind you, there is an actual real being called Satan. Lucifer, the devil. He is as real as God the Father. He is as real and active as the Holy Spirit and as God is in this world. He is a very real being. And he confronts the Lord Jesus Christ with a series of temptations. And he tempts the Lord to make bread and stones into bread. He goes through. And in responding to his temptation, Jesus makes this statement. Thou shalt worship the Lord and him alone. He says, it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve. That statement is repeated in Luke chapter 4 and verse 18. It is written: Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve. What I'm trying to say is this. We are told all through Scripture that God's people are to worship God. Worship God. In fact, when the Lord made that statement, thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, Him only shalt thou serve It's a clear reference all the way back to Exodus chapter 20, where we're given the Ten Commandments. And we're told at the beginning of the Ten Commandments, Thou shalt have no other gods before me. Implied in the very first statements, the very first commandments that were given in the Ten Commandments, implied in that is that we are to worship God and God alone Worship God. It's mandated. I wonder how many of us have ever stopped and thought, do I worship God? Do I worship God in the biblical sense? I want to suggest to you, most people really don't know what the Bible teaches. Worshiping God is. It gives little thought to it. Well, I go to church. We worship God. What does that mean? What are we doing here that is actually worship? So we're told all through New Testament, if you would, keep your place here, come with me to the last book of the Bible. Revelation. And all the way towards the end of the book of Revelation, chapter 19 John is being given this vision and he's being escorted and he's seeing these future events and God's revealing to him. some profound future events that will literally be fulfilled as given here in Scripture. And notice with me in chapter 19, verse number 9. It says, He saith unto me, though this is John, this angel, this being, is revealing this stuff to him. And he, this being, saith unto me, right. Blessed are they which are called unto the married supper of the Lamb. And he saith unto me, these are the true sayings of God. Now he's given this profound revelation about a future event. Now notice how John responds in verse number 10. I fell at his feet to what? Worship him. I fell at his feet. I've been given this Amazing revelation. And here's this being referred to as an angel. And uh he showed us to me, and I fell at his feet. It's a it's an instinctive reaction on John's part to fall down and worship. This one that's revealing this to him. Notice what happens. And he said unto me, see, thou do it not. And the idea here is very stern rebuke. See, thou do it not. I am thy fellow servant, and of thy brethren that have the testimony of Jesus Here's somebody as a man was saved just like everybody else through faith in Christ. Now he's in heaven, glorified. He has this responsibility by God to reveal these things to John And he says, Don't worship me. Don't you do that. I am thy fellow servant and of thy brethren that have the testimony of Jesus Christ. Now look at his next statement: Worship who? God. He says, don't you worship me. You worship God. You worship God. For the testimony of Jesus Christ is the spirit of prophecy. Worship God! Come over, if you would, to chapter 22 of Revelation. We have a very similar incident in verse number 8. John is overwhelmed by what he's seeing. He's overwhelmed by this revelation that's being given to him, and he's writing it down. And he instinctively reacts in verse number eight: And I, John, saw these things and heard them. And when I had heard and seen, look at this, I fell down to what? Worship before the feet of the angel which showed me these things. Then saith he unto me, see thou do it not, for I am thy fellow servant. And of thy brethren the prophets, and of them which keep the sayings of this book. Now he's referred to as an angel. There are occasions in the Bible back in chapter two and three of Revelation, where there are people referred to as angels. The word angel means messenger. Now I just want to stop and put a word of caution here. This is not suggesting that we become angels when we go to heaven. That is not scriptural. These are individuals who were saved, have now been in heaven, they're glorified bodies, and they're referred to as an angel in the sense that they are delivering this message. In Revelation, in chapter 2 and 3, you have these seven churches, and it talks about the angels of the churches, the messengers. It's an obvious reference to the pastors of the churches. Did you know your pastor is an angel? In that sense of the word, a messenger. And so uh you say, yeah, he's always up in the air harping about something we knew. Uh So this is a person just like John. And John, and he's being used of God to reveal this overwhelming prophetic revelation and these events. And John instinctively falls at his feet and worships him. And he says, Don't you do it Don't you do it. Look there at the last statement of verse 9. Worship God. Worship God. We are instructed in Scripture, as God's people, we are to worship God. And God alone. No one else, no thing else. God, and God alone is to be worshipped. In fact, he instructs all of mankind. We were created to worship our Creator Worship is the ultimate purpose for our creation. We're to worship God and God alone. Someone said that many today worship their work. Work at their play and play at their worship. I would modify that a little bit, and we have many today who worship their play. They worship sports and games and fun and recreation. They worship pleasure and things. And then when it comes to actual worship, it's just playing a game. Just going through the motions, putting on a show, in my place and doing my thing. God tells us to worship Him and Him alone. I was at a meeting years ago. This is twenty-five years ago maybe, and there was a preacher preaching who I think the world uh God used him in phenomenal ways in my life, a great well-known preacher, preached all around the world, powerful preacher Powerful preacher. If I said his name, many of you would recognize his name. And there's a great crowd. So over in West Virginia, a huge crowd of people. And uh he's up there and he's being introduced And the fellow introducing this preacher, who again, powerful man of God, I am not being critical of him But the guy introducing them made this statement. He said, I don't worship brother so-and-so Then he said this. But it's so close you can't tell the difference. And I sat there and I said to myself, that is wrong. Our worship is to be for God and God alone. And there ought not to be any confusion in anybody's mind who we worship. And our worship of God ought never to cut let me put it this way. Our respect towards ever towards others should never be construed as worshiping anything or anybody other than our God, our Savior, our Creator. And that man was wrong. Absolutely wrong. I don't want anybody to be confused or wonder who I worship. It is the Lord God Almighty. The Bible teaches us that we as God's people are to worship God and God alone. You say, alright, preacher, I get the point for Pete's sake, you behind this. Worship God, worship God. Alright. Alright, my second thought is this. What's the meaning of worship? Alright, what does it mean? Worship God. God tells us, worship the Lord, worship the Lord, worship the Lord, worship the Lord, worship God. Don't worship anybody else Worship God. Alright, what how how do you do that? What is that What does that mean? If we ask ten people what does it mean to worship God, you'd get ten different answers. I'm not concerned about what Dr. Big Shot says worship is. I'm concerned about what the Bible says worship is. There's a lot of confusion about worship. Like I said, you go to ten different churches, you'll get ten different definitions. What is worship? A lot of confusion. Sometimes you'll see an advertisement. Again, I'm not trying to be critical of other churches. Good heavens, I got my hands full with this crowd. I don't need to work others But sometimes the church will advertise they're having a night of worship. Having a night of worship. And inevitably you go and look and see what's going on there, and it's basically a rock and roll concert. It's usually what they mean by worship. We have a worship leader. That means he leads in the usually in the songs and all of that. We go to church to worship. We're going to worship. What does that mean? I will say this. Worshiping the Lord is not a rock concert And we're not going to do that. And you know, churches can do what they want. That's between them and God. But I'm here to tell you that is not Bible. What is worship? What does it mean to have a worship service? Some people equate worship with going to church. Go to church, sit in a pew, get that temperature up, 98. 6, listen to a sermon, sing a few songs, then go home. We went and worshiped God. Is that what worship is? Join the church, listen to a sermon Some people view worship as performing a religious ceremony. Well, we did our rites. We performed our Christian rites. Went through our Christian obligations. We did this and we gave our offering and we did here and we did that. And uh uh worshiping God Some people see worship as singing to the Lord, as I mentioned. Well, we're going to have a worship service, and generally people think that's something singing to the Lord Now let me say this. Worshiping God would certainly include being faithful to church and taking part in the church service. But you can go to church and sing all the songs and listen to the preacher and memorize the monthly memory verse and still not worship God. Now I think if we're going to worship God, then I'm going to be faithful. If I'm sincerely worshiping God, I'm going to be faithful to church. I'm going to be let God use the service to help me. But that in and of itself is not worshiping God If you'll notice for thirty-one plus years around here, I'm never referred to our church service as worship services Oh, and this is my thinking. Well, you come into church, we're going to go and worship. So what do you do when you leave church? You stop worshiping? So what is worship? You can certainly do ru give your offerings and maybe teach Sunday school, work a bus route, sing in a choir, work the nursery, all kinds of ways to serve and And do things for God, and uh and worshiping certainly would include that. You can you can serve God without worshiping him. But I don't know how you can worship God without serving Him. So these things include singing, these all include, would be included in worship. But they're not worship themselves. So what is worship? Well, it's like the word love. How do you define the word love? It's kind of like the word grace. How do you put into words what grace means, what love is, what is worship? Well, let's try. The word worship itself, the literal, strict definition of just the word, simply means this: to fall prostrate. How many people know what it means to fall prostrate? It means to fall on your face. Many times stretch out with your face to the ground. It means to fall prostrate. The word itself, just the definition of the word Has the idea to kneel or bow before something. The concept behind the definition is to bow in submission to a superior. You see, you read uh the history books about old k years gone by, kings and powerful rulers, and people would bow down to them as an act of worship. That's what the word itself means. It has included in the definition the idea of adoration. I adore something, and it's so magnified I fall before it in submission. Worship. The word itself means to bow down, to fall prostrate before someone or something. Though worship can be expressed outwardly, it is much more of a heart attitude. It is a worship begins in the heart. Now it affects my actions. Somebody Paul uh um John's this this angel was revealing this to him and he instinctively falls down. He's such a great being and such an overwhelming experience, he falls down to worship. And he says, No, no, no, you worship you worship God. It began in his heart. It was the heart It's a frame of mind. Worship, as I've studied it through Scripture, is an attitude of intense, loving submission to God. Worship God. I love God and I love Him and I adore Him and I just submit to Him, myself, to Him, my will. I submit over to the Lord. My self-exaltation I put aside and I exalt you and you alone, God. It's an attitude of intense loving submission. In Proverbs, we're told, God says, give me thine heart. Give me your heart, your love and your affection. Give me, make me your priority in your life That's worship. Giving my heart to the Lord, my love to the Lord. I love you supremely. It's a heart attitude I came up years ago with my own definition, studying the scriptures. I come up with my own definition of what I understand worship to be. Worship is recognizing God's supreme authority over my life. God, you have supreme authority over my life. And then humbly submitting to that authority by trusting him and obeying him. Do you get that? God, you have supreme authority over my life. And I submit to your authority in adoration and love and submission. And God, I'm going to trust you. I'm going to do what you say. That's biblical worship. Biblical worship. And that's what God wants from Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. For us to recognize his authority over us. He has the right to say yes. He has the authority to say no. He has the authority to direct me where he wants me to be, what he wants me to do, what he'd have me be. He has that authority. I submit to that authority. I say, God, I'll trust you. And I'll follow your instructions. I'll do what you say. I'll do what you say. Worship. Worship. It begins in the heart. It's a surrender of my will to God's will. Worship. Worship. In Genesis chapter 22, and throughout the year, Lord will, and I want to preach on these various passages, we'll not turn to all of them, but in Genesis chapter 22. God appears to Abraham. And he says, Abraham, I want you to take your son, your only son, whom you love. I want you to go on the mountain, I want you to offer him up as a sacrifice. Without hesitation, Abraham responds. Next morning he gets up, he takes Isaac, he's got the knife, he's got the wood. He's going to offer Isaac up as a sacrifice in obedience to God's direction, God's instruction. As they get to the mount, the sermons come and they say, what are you going to do? He says, we're going up on the mount to worship God. You know what Abraham was saying? God has the ultimate authority. He has supreme authority. He's told me to offer my son up as a sacrifice. I'm going to trust him, that God knows what he's doing, that he's going to work this out. In fact, we're told in Hebrews that Abraham was convinced that if he went through with this, God would raise Isaac up because he had promised his seed through Isaac. He says, I'm going to go worship. I'm going to go trust God. Do what he says, even though it makes no sense to me. I do not understand this. But I worship God. I submit to him and I'll trust him and I'll do what he says. And of course you know the story. Before he kills him, God stops him and says, no, no, no. You pass the test. But that was an act of worship, submitting to the Lord. In Genesis chapter 24, Abraham sends his servant to go get a wife for Isaac, sends him back to the homeland. And the servant goes, and I've just read this morning in my devotions, the servant goes and he prays a very specific prayer. He said, God, I got to get a wife for Isaac. And if you'll send a lady and she'll come out and get water at this well for me, and he makes a very specific prayer, and lo and behold, while he's praying Rachel shows up and uh gets the water, feeds all the uh waters all the camels. There was ten camels. Now I don't know how much a camel drinks, but it's a lot And she waters all those camels. What a woman. And um, and uh, I mean, that's no easy task. And the servants there in amazement. And his prayer is answered to the T. And the Bible says he worshipped God. In fact, it says it three times. Worship God. You worship God. You know what? He recognized that God is able to direct affairs. God is sovereign. And God can maneuver all of that and do exactly what needed to be done. He said, I recognize your power, your authority, God, and I submit to it. I'll trust you and obey you. I'll do what you say. In uh Exodus chapter 4, Moses and Aaron present themselves to Israel. As the deliverance, God called them. They come down to Egypt. And here's the Israelites slaves. And they say, God's called us, and we're going to lead you out of this land. The Bible says that the Israelites worshiped God They recognize that God is all powerful, and He's heard their cry, and He's going to lead them directly and say, Lord, we'll trust you, we'll obey you, we worship you. In Judges chapter 7, verse 15, Gideon is instructed by God to go fight the Midianites, outnumbered, unbelievably outnumbered. And the Bible says that Gideon worshiped God. He recognized that God has the authority, direct him to do this. He submitted to that authority and he said, God, I'll trust you. I'll do what you say. And God gave a great victory. Worship. Um in 2 Samuel 12, verse 10, uh David committed adultery. And God, part of the consequence of that is David and Bathsheba's son would die, their first son, conceived in adultery, and that son would die. And when David gets word that the baby's died, gets up. He washes himself, he eats a meal, and the Bible says he worshipped God. He recognized God has the authority, and he's going to trust God. And God, I'll do what you say, I'll follow your instruction. He worshipped God. God wants us to recognize his authority over our lives. He wants us to, in love and admiration, to submit to his authority and then trust him. And do what he instructs us to do. David. Um we could go on. 2 Chronicles 7. 3, they're dedicating the temple, Solomon's temple, to the Lord The fire fell, and it says they worshiped God. Ultimately, all mankind's going to worship the Lord at some point. Philippians chapter 2, verse 10-11. Every knee shall bow, every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God Almighty. Someday every man, woman, and child that has ever lived or ever will live will bow before the King of all the universe, the King of Kings, the Lord of lords, the God of gods. And he will be worshiped. He will be worshipped. I think revival. We're praying for revival. I'm grateful for the change in our leadership of our country. I'm grateful for that, but I'm telling you, that is not revival. I still believe we are under the judgment of God as a nation for our wickedness And revival comes, I believe, when we start worshiping God. You say, what do you mean? 2 Chronicles 7. 14, the classic passage on revival. If my people Which are called by my name shall what? Humble themselves. My people called by name shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face. And turn from their wicked ways, then will I forgive their sin, heal their land. You know what I think that is? That's worship. It's coming and humbling myself before the Lord. And Lord, I want your will be done. Your ultimate authority. I submit to your earth your will. I turn from my sin and confess and forsake my sin And God, I'll trust you and do what you say. That's revival. And it comes from worship. The call, I believe, for Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church in 2025 is that we worship God. We worship God. Humble ourselves before Him. Say, not my will, Lord, your will be done. Paul put it this way, I'm crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live, yet not I. Christ liveth in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. You know what he's saying? It's a worship God. Put myself aside, I submit to the Lord. What is God dealing with your heart about? What is it in your life that needs to be yielded to the Lord? You need to say, yes, Lord, you're right, I'm wrong. Yes, Lord, your will, not my will. And I submit to that. I'll trust you. I'll do what you say. That's worship. That's worship. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to worship you. Pray your Holy Spirit would stir our hearts. That we would put aside our own will and our hard hearts and our selfishness and die to self and humble ourselves before you. Seek your face. Trust you. Follow your instructions. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder some this morning say, Preacher, I'm saved. I'm one of God's people. There's no doubt about it. I've got that settled. But you say, preacher, there's areas in my life that are not submitted to the Lord as they ought to be. I know what they are. Maybe the Holy Spirit right now is touching on very specific areas And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I can worship God in sincerity and in truth. And that God's will. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand, preacher, pray with me. I know there's areas in my life that I need to put on the altar. And let the Lord have his way. Let him be the authority and worship him. God bless you. Hands all around, hands all around I wonder if there's some say, preacher, God's directing me to serve him in some way. I know he's stirring my heart. Maybe get involved in soul winning or serving in some way or or uh but God's leading me in some specific way and I want his will to be done. I yield to him. Is there any like that? I don't know how God may be right. But I feel that God is leading me and directing me. You'd say, preacher, I want to trust the Lord. God bless you Maybe there's folks that are unsaved we need to be a witness to, and God's calling us. Whatever the case may be, I implore us this morning, let's worship the Lord. There are any here this morning, one last question. Say I don't know for sure when I die I'm going to heaven. You say I don't want to go to hell and God doesn't want you to go to hell You'd say, Preacher, pray for me. I need to know my sins are forgiven. That I have a home in heaven. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I'm concerned about that I need that settled in my heart and life. Now, Father, bless her invitation I ask. Have your way. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed.