Like the Bible turned to Isaiah eight and five eleven. Tanner, can I ask you to pass out about fifteen of those Bibles? Yeah, just random. I'm a firm believer that the eye affect the heart. So I'm going to ask you that if you're able to, ever in the Nashville, Tennessee area, which uh most of you seen this in the news, but just had a nice tornado come through there and decided to clean up a few things uh which devastated, left a lot of people homeless without power. Uh no we've got a lot of people working around the clock to fix all that. We are an hour south of where that went down in Shelbyville. If you're ever in the Nashville area, please feel free to come by and see us Love to give you a tour, tell you about it. What uh Tanner's doing, I'm fixing to do an illustration because I really think that you will appreciate it How much do we really love our Bible? If I ask you that again, how much do we really love our Bible? I want to ask you. If the government, if the police, if everybody that you know came into your house today and confiscated your Bible, would you miss it? Man, I think about that all the time because I know people that have lived in areas I had the privilege of sending a Chinese Bible to a lady that was in New York and she wrote back a letter and says, Dear Pastor, I want to let you know that I got in uh took my Bible into China Which I didn't think nothing about it because if you know anything about China, it's the number one Bible producer nation in the world. They just don't know which ones to produce. So I didn't think nothing about it, but she tells me that, and I start thinking about that she probably lives in a providence that you're not supposed to have a Bible But she concluded this letter by saying, I just wanted to let you know every member of my family is handwriting them their own copy. And I just I broke down and I started thinking about that question. How much do I love that book? And it's a pretty good question because I I see as I travel, I've been traveling for this ministry about twelve years, and uh I see, you know, when I'm at people's houses, you know, the the dust On the pages, the Bible cover. And you often wonder, how often do they pick it up? Is it really important to us? Because I want to make this statement, this statement, and I will die going to the grave, making this statement that this is the greatest book you will ever own. But it's not only the greatest book that you will ever own, it's the greatest book that you will ever hear someone Because when you give this book, you give so much more than just a book. You're giving them the Word of God. Real quickly, uh if Tanner, not if you have a Bible, but if Tanner handed you a Bible, would you please send up Please don't sandbag or you're gonna ruin my wurn my illustration Because what this is very important because I know I've already talked to some of y'all that are are are are involved in beacon of truth and I mean great ministry. But I just want you to understand the importance. When Pastor said we don't have enough, this is right here while we don't have enough. What you're looking at, if I could play with your mind right now, if this represented eight billion people The ratio of what you see standing right here is the amount of people that would have a copy of the Word of God. That's it. Thank you, and you may be seated. If you did not get a Bible, always do this just to make it fair. If you did not get a Bible, would you please stand up? If this represented eight billion people, what you're looking at is the ratio of people that do not have a copy of the Word of God. And if you're sitting down, you're blessed enough to have a copy of the Word of God, and it is your job to get the people standing up a copy before it's too late. Because this truly is the greatest gift you will ever give someone. Thank you, you may be seated Isaiah 55, 11, it says, So shall my word be that goeth forth out of my mouth, it shall not return unto me void, but it shall accomplish that which I please, and it shall prosper in the thing whereunto I sin it Just for the sake of time, I'm going to cut into the detail. How many of you love guarantees from the Word of God? Now I don't know about you, but I love them. When I'm reading my Bible and I come to a promise or a guarantee or something that you can just take to the bank that Jesus Christ says he'll take care of, I mean I love it and I mark it down I love when he said, forsake not yourself, assembly of yourselves together. Why? Because there's unity, there's power, there is love, there's friendship, there's energy. And the house of God, when we come to the house of God for the right reasons. I love that part. It says, hey, I'm blessed you with 100% of your check. But just give me 10. He says, if you give me 10% of your tithe, I'll bless you He says, if you don't, I'll curse you. Don't know about you, but I don't know anybody that'd be crazy enough to say, hey, go ahead and curse me, see if I care. Man, when you're talking about an Almighty God, an all-knowing and all-powerful, you can't run from him. So it ain't like you're gonna you're gonna keep your ten percent and get by with it Many promises in the Word of God, you want a blessing? Just give me your 10%. I love this passage of Scripture, and he says, hey. My word shall not return unto me void, but it shall accomplish that whereinto I sin it. You know, we do some of the craziest things sometimes. We give the word of God to lost people. Y'all ever read Psalms 119? It says, the entrance of thy word giveth light, giveth understanding to the simple. We just give the word of God to somebody, they can get saved. I started studying this message. A missionary was telling me about a lady that he was counseling that was depressed and discouraged and He was counseling her and that just got saved. And if her she tells him the story that I kissed my teenage daughter goodbye. I went into uh the uh my husband's closet, grabbed his revolver and started loading it. My daughter had one mile to walk to school, and as she was walking to school, she looked inside a trash can And saw that there was a Bible, picked it up and ran all the way home just moments before I took my own life. Ended up getting saved as a result of that And I got to thinking about that verse right there. And I said, if there's never a promise in the Bible that came true in that woman's life, I can only imagine what the devil thought when they said, we got rid of that one. The power of God's not going to do any good. We got it in the trash can. All of a sudden, this teenage girl picks it up, runs all the way home, shares it with mom I want you to see two things tonight. The first thing I want you to see is the amazing ministry of the Word of God. You see the amazing ministry of the Word of God and salvation. My Bible says in Romans, it says, faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. You cannot get saved outside of this book. I remember my pastor stepped up to the pulpit at the age of 11, I think it was October 7th, 1990, and now somebody in the congregation said, Pastor, I need to testify for two hours. I listened to people testify about how they got saved. I remember going home and telling my mom, I said, Mom, I don't have anything like that. Mom opened up her Bible and showed me I was lost. And she showed me how I could be found. As a result of that, I got saved. See, so then faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. Second thing I want you to see about the amazing ministry of the Word of God, you see it in salvation. What about in growth? How sad would it have been that I would have never opened my Bible, I'd have never read my Bible, I'd have never studied my Bible, I'd have never memorized my Bible As I was growing up from the age of eleven to where I am now at the age of forty, that I said I'd have never grown. My Bible says this newborn babes desired the sincere milk Of the word that they may grow thereby. You know, there's a lost and dying world out there that have no opportunity to ever grow. On the foreign field, they never have an opportunity to grow. But what's sadder to me is in America. Where they're readily available, where most people that come to church have somewhere between five to seven Bibles in their own hands. But yet they never grow. Third thing I want you to see about the wonderful, amazing ministry of the Word of God is not only salvation, growth, but what about edification? You know the Bible tells us over and over that we're to build up, not tear down. I love that because it's a child of God and as a member of the body of church we are to build each other up. We are to edify them. And I lo I know I've been to a lot of churches and I don't think they've got it figured out yet But I mean it's just in a hole I'm like David when you get in your prayer closet and you start reading your Bible and the Holy Spirit Spirit of God starts speaking to you. I'm like David, it says, What a man that they were mindful of, that he would take time to speak to old Shannon. Man, that just that does something to me That's edifying. You see the amazing ministry of the Word of God. I want you to see the amazing multiplication of the Word of God. I get to talk to a lot of missionaries all around the world. Want you to see the expansion Missionaries that tell me that every copy of the Word of God reaches somewhere between seven to twenty people's lives on the foreign field. I mean, I don't know about you, but I mean that's better than the stock market. You invest just a little bit in a track or Johnny Roman or New Testament or or Bible. I mean you've already got the guarantee of God on it. He said, my word shall not return unto me void, but it shall accomplish it wherein through his sin it. He said, what about this? You know what that tells me? That tells me the world's not unreachable. It's just unreached Tells me that God's given us every tool that we need to get the job done. It's just we've not taken him at his word yet. You see the amazing multiplication of the Word of God. What about, and then you see it in expansion, but what about expectancy? Man, when I was studying this and God showed me that, man, it it broke me down. Y'all been in church long enough that y'all supported missionaries that have come off the field. Every year for the last four or five years, I've had missionaries that I've given Bibles to that have come off the field. I had a missionary to Belize. Go to the doctor, and the doctor told him, he said, you're going to die if you stay here. He came home. I had a missionary to India that I sent Bibles to that he went to the doctor and the doctor said, you're gonna die if you stay here. He came home. A missionary friend of mine on that DVD, the Sri Lanka, got a knock on the door, and it was the police, and they said, What are you here for? He says, I'm here to tell your people about Jesus Christ. And he said, we know. We've been following you. They said, but because you were honest with me and you have two kids, I came here with a warrant for your arrest. confiscated his passport and said, I'll get in touch with you. What he was really saying, I need to go talk to my superior officer. Soon as he got back to his office, he called him and he says, you got 30 hours to leave the country. You report to the police station and they'll escort you to the airport. They escorted him in handcuffs, deported him, put him on a plane, and said, get out and never come back. But the Bibles that we sent him are still over there. Doing the job that he's been called to do. See the amazing multiplication and expansion, you see it in expectancy And the very last thing I want you to see tonight is the amazing multiplication of the Word of God is what about evangelistic cycle? I mean, this is the most amazing thing I've ever seen, and the math is so simple. I remember teaching our junior church kids, five to eight year olds, and my wife singing songs to them like each one reach one and I go, you know I mean that's a cool song and I'd sing it with them But as I was studying this, God showed me that the math works. You see, if everybody in this room Would make it a point in 2020 to reach somebody and bring them to the house of God, guess what we just did? We just doubled in size So I get to brilliant idea I called a missionary friend of mine to Kenya that was in the States I knew he was in the States because I was working on a container fixing to load it for him. I said, would you answer me a question? He said, what's that? I said, would this work? If you preach, present the gospel, you lead people to Christ, you challenge them to take a Bible, memorize it, study it, and then when they're able to win somebody to Christ, you turn around and give them your Bible They said it would work, but they want to know why if they get another Bible. I told them, I said, you tell them, I promise you, we'll have another 30,000 on the way And he did that. He said, man, I didn't have all of them take me up on it because they wanted to keep the Bible. But he says he had a few. They got saved on that opening night of opening that container. And he challenged them to do that. He said, you see him for a couple days studying, memorizing You know, even writing down some of the verses. He's saying they were praying that God would lead somebody to him, that they can win to him He says you'd turn around and you'd see him leading somebody to Christ and they'd give that Bible away. And he said, I walked up to one that I saw personally and said, Why would you give your Bible away? after he challenged He said 30,000 more Bibles on my country will do more for my country than me keeping my one Man, I was on the phone with this missionaries. He was telling me, and it was almost like a light went off and says, finally somebody gets it The gospel is not to be hid. That's why it says don't put your light under a bushel. You put it in the window so everybody can see it. That's why we're supposed to go and tell everybody about Jesus Christ. Because when we give the Word of God, we give more than just black and white pages. We give more than just a book We give them comfort, we give them guidance, we give them hope, we give them bread, we give them life, we give them Jesus Christ. John 1. 1, in the beginning was the word, and the word was with God. And the word was God. I'm going to conclude with this one last illustration. I was in Washington State and I got done preaching and a lady came up to me crying. I said, Ma'am, are you all right? And she looked at me with tears and said, Brother Lamont, you don't understand. I said, would you please explain to me? I figured she was going to tell me I preached something wrong. And she tells me, she says, Shannon, I was born in communistic Ukraine, and I was the oldest of four. It was my job to take our Bible outside of that notched-out brick inside that fireplace, bring it out, and to put it on the table. We would read one verse, we would read one chapter. Then we would take that Bible, wrap it back up, put it back into the knocks-out brick in the fireplace. We'd come back to the dinner table and we would talk about what we just read. For years we did that in this particular one day. I got that Bible out. Well, I was almost to the dinner table. Got that knock on the door in haste. I wrapped it up put it into that notched out fire uh brick in the fireplace, lit that fire, only to turn around. They were ransacking our house, trashing everything that we that we had, and all of a sudden I'd turn around and that fabric had fallen off that Bible into that fire. It says I watched that fire go up into that fabric, and when they left, I went and grabbed that Bible out, and it was mostly nothing but ashes That for ten years my family had no copy of the Word of God because I messed up I said, ma'am, I said, man, that's that's terrible. And I was crying like a baby. It's almost one of them things that says, she wasn't done with me yet. I mean I wish she would have stopped there. She said, Shannon, I remember the day that my dad said we're moving to America. We landed in Washington, and the very first thing we did is we went and got us a Bible We got it, we r sat down at the dinner table and we read it, we learned it, we loved it, we memorized it. It's like nothing in ten years has ever passed. I was like, praise God. Had a happy ending. Then she said, Shannon, I was the oldest of four. Dad said I needed to get a job to help him live in America. So I started working in a factory there just outside of Seattle. Said for years I would You know, I uh never really had a job. I always helped in the house. Uh I never worked in Ukraine. It was not something we did. He says so when I went to With the employment there at that factory says I didn't know the work ac at work ethic and I didn't know that I wasn't supposed to. But I would share with my co-workers about what I'd learned in the Bible I'd tell them what we learned in devotions and what we learned that night. Says Shannon, they'd always give me one or two answers. That's in the Bible, or you talk about that too much. She says, I told you all that to tell you that I learned that Americans do not love their Bible. Like we loved our Bible. And I was bawling like a baby, and I said, ma'am, I wish I could argue with you. I said, myself included. I cannot argue with you. Man, up into this moment I've looked at that as just something that I I love something that I hold dear, but I did not look at it as something that I could lose tomorrow, and would I miss it? I said effective immediately, you're not gonna love your Bible more than I love my Bible You see, if we don't love our Bible like she loves our Bible, we'll never do anything to help somebody else get a copy of the Word of God. You see, we gotta look at it as just there's more to this book than just being a book. Last time I checked it was the living, breathing inherit holy, preserved Word of God. You see, you gotta understand that it's just more than a book. You can read this Bible through a million times, and it reads different every time you read it. Why? Because it is inspired by the Holy Ghost. See, how much do you really love your book? Or do you just think of it as just some other book? I had a uh young lady tell me the other day about all the books that she had written read in her lifetime She says, I read somewhere around 10 to 12 books a year. And I looked at her and I said, Can I ask you one question? And she said, What's that? And I said, How many times have you read the Bible? And she said, well, I'll read it on occasion. And I looked at her and I said, ma'am, you just described most of our Christians in today's time. Well, I've been busy today. I'll read it tomorrow. Tomorrow comes. I've been busy today. I'll read it to tomorrow. For too long, we've gone a week and we've never picked up the pages of the Word of God. Why? Because we don't love our Bible. Like that lady from Ukraine loved her Bible. Why? Because we've never been threatened with our life, and we've always had it readily available. But what would you do if somebody knocked on your door tomorrow and said, give us your Bibles, or we're taking you to jail? I know a lot of people that I think would really just say, here you go. And they would never miss it. But this is the greatest book you will ever give. And it's the greatest book that you will ever have. Because without the Word of God, you cannot do the work of God. But would you please stand with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? Our precious Heavenly Father, thank you for everything you've done. Thank you for this wonderful church, wonderful time that we've had in this wonderful church that you've allowed me to be in. Lord, I'm asking you that you would do something tonight, that you would speak to our hearts. Lord, I'm going to ask you to do something that if we've not been in love with our book, if we've just been complacent about it, if we've neglected it, or if there's something that it's just not a priority to us to get into and to read and to grow and to study and to memorize. And we would come to this old-fashioned altar tonight. We would confess our sins and we would get it right. As I don't know about everybody else, but if they took my Bible, I'd be lost. I wouldn't know what to do So please move in a mighty way and we give you all the praise and all the glory. We love you in Jesus' name. Amen. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.