You did good, brother. Well, we have a good crowd tonight. I thank the Lord for you. And uh for those of you who have been here every service, a special thanks. And I want to thank this church for uh the way that uh you allow me to stay in your mission home over there. And uh I really appreciate that. It's uh it's a blessing. And finally, Grant finally got the message to get out of I would come in and I'd say, Grant, I hate you. Get out of my house. And he didn't mess it up too bad. I mean it's it's it's you know, he didn't mess it up too bad. Anyway. No, of course I'm just just kidding. I d I do thank the Lord though that uh that you make that available for not just me but other preachers that happen to come through, missionaries and so forth. It's a blessing. And uh I appreciate it. My wife and I. Uh this is just uh it's just like home. We move in over there and it's you know, everything is It's home. It's what it is. And uh uh we'll be heading back down to Kentucky and that's our second home. This is our first one I think. Anyway, oh did I mention I got a six point this year? All right. We uh We have uh six chalk drawings. Let me let me start that way. And I'm I'm not sure that you can see everything in that one. Uh uh there's a house there in the middle. Can you see the house? Is it obvious? Okay. Uh it's supposed to be sort of uh far off, so it's not quite as bright, you know. And And uh I think you'll I think you'll like uh the picture when we show it under the lights. And uh we have six of them now. And so I I I need to find out which one is your favorite for the week. Uh sometimes I put the favorites in in print and so if I can find that out, so if you'll just vote for one instead of raising your hand on every one of them Why, it'll help me better. Okay. So let's just uh start over here at the very first one over there. And uh the young man walking down the the lonely road there, you know, and And uh how many like that one? The best for the week. Let me see your hands. Okay. We got three. I see okay, four. Four on that one. And we did the second one there with the deer. Uh making a leap. How many like anyone the best? A few deer hunters here and there. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen. About thirteen fourteen. Okay. And then we did the the uh the next one there with the lake scene. How many like that one the best? Okay, we got about a half a dozen there. And then we did the one with the the uh lighthouse. Did that on Wednesday night, Thursday night, Wednesday night. How many like that one the best? Helen, check your eyes. You're the only one. Oh I'm sorry, I was overlooking All right, uh so we had about three or four there. And then we did the bear picture in the back there. Let me like that one the best. Ooh, I think that's the favorite for the week. All right. How about this one right up here? Let me like that one the best. Okay, hey that yeah that's that that's very pleasing to me because uh it tells me that uh I've done good pictures that somebody likes and and uh that's always a help. Have you noticed the uh through the the pictures it was uh it seemed like there was a a a theme that went through all of 'em and it came down to the to one thing and that is to follow the Lord. You know, you f you followed him when you were yoked up with him and You know, each it just seemed like somehow or another the in the the through the message why following the Lord was a an important part of it. And tonight we're going to change directions a little bit and we're going to look at uh at something a little bit different. And I trust that uh God will speak to our hearts and Make us appreciate more of what he's done for us. Take your Bible, if you will, now and and turn with me to the book of Romans, chapter one. Romans chapter one. We're going to start reading uh we'll just read a verse or so. And be in verse sixteen. Let's start there. The Apostle Paul says in Romans chapter one, verse sixteen For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God and to salvation to everyone that believeth, to the Jew first. For therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith, as it is written, the just shall live by faith. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven unto all un uh against all unr ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who hold the truth in unrighteousness. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we we thank you for a good week this week. You've helped us uh physically to uh to accomplish what needed to be accomplished. blessed in the the chalk drawings, you've blessed in the preaching. The crowds have been good and thank you, Lord, for the good spirit that we've experienced all week long. And I thank you, Lord, for this church and this pastor that uh uh serves you so faithfully, for the good people that uh are doing the work here. winning souls and witnessing and and uh I pray now that we come to this this uh particular message Lord that uh you would uh do a work in our heart Help us to see the other side of God. And I pray, Lord, for that one who's here tonight who has never trusted you as their Savior. The one that's sitting out there and they've come perhaps as a visitor and they're just not uh not too comfortable sitting there right now. And uh wish they could get up and go when they've committed themselves. I pray, Lord, that while they sit there and listen, that the Word of God do the work of God in their heart and show them their need and I pray they might do j just what I did back in nineteen sixty two and I walked the aisle and knelt down an old fashioned alder like this one up here and And ask you to save me. Help us realize their condition and trust you in Jesus' name. Amen and amen. In verse 18 it says, For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. Who hold the truth in unrighteousness. The wrath of God, you know, it's a whole lot nicer, you know, to preach about the gospel. The love of God. And God is love, and there's no question about that. That's part of, I mean, that's God. But you have to you have to realize that that if all God was was love, Then what about all the sin? What about all these who uh who commit atrocities against mankind and those who blaspheme God but their very presence? What about all those then? If you preach the love of God, then that's all there is and God loves them and God loves them and God loves them and God loves it and God loves that that and I mean There's got to be something. There's something something missing. And what's missing is the wrath of God. We don't like to think about his wrath. We like to think about the good stuff. But there is a God up the up there in heaven that that believes that that sin is against him Sin, the Bible says, is a transgression of God's law. And if you transgress God's law, there must be a punishment, or God is not a righteous judge. Because he demands justice. And he demands, his demand of justice is that sin must be punished. So there is this thing of the wrath of God. There is a place called hell. We don't, you know, don't like to talk about it. I sure don't like to draw pictures of it. I have. I did it one time and and the lady worked, I mean she worked all week long, got visitors and she got that that picture of hell. And it was just Zugbee guy, ah, you know, fire and flames and all that stuff. And I said, what in the world Do you want that? And she got first choice and that was the one she picked. Beautiful pictures. And she picked that one on hell. I couldn't believe it. And I said, what in the world are you going to do with that thing? She said, I'm hanging it in my living room. I've got about uh five or six of my my loved ones that are unsaved, and I'm gonna tell them what that picture is all about. So she's gonna use the you know to preach to loved ones. Wrath of God I think when I think of the wrath of God, I think about back in the in the book of uh Numbers there where, I believe it's in Numbers where uh where uh Korah and uh his group, you know, decided that they they could run things as well as Moses and they so they they were r rebelling against God's leadership, the man that God had placed in place of leadership. And they were fussing saying, Hey, you know, we're the same tribe, we you know, we ought to be able to to run this thing too. You take too much on yourself, Moses. And so, you know, God says, not gonna handle it, I'm not gonna do that stuff. And he sent a fire down. Another group, he just opened the pit, and pfft, like that, they all went in alive. Went right straight into hell. You see, God does bring judgment. Sometimes it's sometimes it's a long-suffering type judgment. I'm saying this because because some of you may may have uh sin in your life that you have not confessed. You know, you're a Christian, you understand that that uh that there's still judgment. For that for that saved person. It's not hell, but there's still judgment. But for that person who's lost, understand that that whenever you die, God's wrath is going to be heavy upon you. I think of uh uh how how God's long suffering works. He he speaks to people and he speaks to people's hearts through the Word of God, through the Spirit of God. Through his children, he speaks to people who are lost, and they can reject and reject. And I'll be honest with you, there was a lot of times I sat in church services and and turned down the gospel invitation. Walked out just as lost as I came in. There's some of you sitting out there right now and you're going to do the same thing. I want you to understand you're making a mistake when you do it. You're testing the grace of God. You're taking a chance. Because I I believe there is a line that you can cross where uh you know whenever you cross that line of life and uh go into that uh that realm of death You've crossed the line. There's not no second chance on the other side. There's no purgatory where you you go for a little while in hell and then come out of it and you're okay. There's no such thing as that. Bible doesn't teach that So understand that that if you're going to live in sin, that somewhere down the road is going to be a judgment. The wrath of God. There's a verse of scripture over in uh over in the book of uh uh let's see, where was that? Naab. It says God is jealous. You don't think of God being jealous, do you? God is jealous and the Lord revengeth. The Lord revengeth and is furious. Doesn't sound like God, does it? The Lord will take vengeance on his adversaries. And he reserves wrath for his enemies. The Lord is slow to anger and great in power. I want you to understand God is a long-suffering God He's long suffering, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. He doesn't want anybody to go to hell. He wants everybody to be saved. He wants everybody to enjoy the the the golden streets of heaven. and uh walk down the the lane there and and fish in the river of life. He he he wants you to enjoy heaven. I mean that's that was the reason he sent his son to die for you His wrath has got to be expressed on something. It has to be against sin. Lord's slow to anger. He's great in power and will not acquit, not at all acquit the wicked. He's not gonna acquit you, he's not gonna say, hey, uh, I decided to let you go with you know, we can make it. You know what I and I had in my mind, I really did Well before I got saved, I had in my mind that somehow I was gonna squeak through the door. I I just in my mind that's why I I somehow when that when that that pearly gate's open I'm gonna be able to sneak in there and and get it get to heaven in spite of myself I d uh I don't have any Bible for that, okay. There's nothing in here. But when I came to the place where I realized that I had sinned against God, I knew I wasn't going to get by with anything any more than I could get by stealing cookies out of the cookie jar and uh and mom knowing it. I knew I wasn't going to get by at that either. But God even more so. He knows everything You think you can get by with it? Do you think you're just somehow or another you're going to slip through and ignore what God has done for mankind in order to make a way for him to get to heaven? I I get news for you, it's not going to happen Not gonna happen. We'll not acquit at all, acquit the wicked. The Lord hath his way in the whirlwind, in the storm, and the clouds are the dust of his feet God deals with his wrath in different ways. Back in the Old Testament, man A lot of it was pretty abrupt. When you sinned against God, you know, the lightning bolt came down, so to speak. But, you know, today it's not quite like that. You see, there's a principle involved in in uh in uh in his wrath. And one place that he allows his wrath to take uh take place is is in this thing of uh sowing and reaping. Whatever you sow, you're going to reap. If you sow to the wind, you're going to reap a whirlwind. You know, that's that's one way he allows it to play out, and you just reap what you sow. And when you and I, probably everyone in here has experienced that principle working out in our life somehow. We've we've experienced that. We've we've peeled around with some some little thing that we thought was gonna sneak by okay on and and find out that it didn't slip slip by and uh we had to pay a deeper price because of it. That's that's one way that God does it. And the other way is like He did in the Old Testament, you know Old Pharaoh. He told Moses, he said, go up here and tell that Pharaoh to let my people go. And so Moses went up and says, God said to let his people go. And Pharaoh said, I'm not going to do it. God says, okay. Here comes the poker, the the uh the locusts, here comes the light, here comes you know one after the other every time I mean he but do you see that even in his judgment on Pharaoh and Egypt at that time There was still the long-suffering of God. He didn't send him to hell. He gave him the opportunity. Ten different times, he gave him opportunity, opportunity, opportunity to get it right. All he had to do was let him go. How many opportunities have you passed up? How many times has God dealt with you and and you've you know Jesus kept on doing it anyway. You said, no, I'm going to go ahead and do it. How many times do you expect him to say, it's all right, you know? And chasten you a little bit. How many times do you expect him to do that before finally the hammer falls? The whirlwind comes, the judgment of God falls. You know the thing that thing that that that touches my heart Is I deserve the wrath of God. I deserve it. Well, you do too. I mean, we're all in this boat together because all of sin comes short of the glory of God. There's none righteous, no, not one. None of us can claim anything special. But God has to has to judge. And here I am a Christian, and I called on the Lord and I've asked him to save me, but God still has to judge sin in my life. How does he do that? Well, he did that 2,000 years ago. 2,000 years ago it was carried out, but even before the foundation of the world. God had in his mind that Don Williams was going to trust Christ as Savior and his blood was going to cleanse me from my sin. His judgment fell at Calvary for you. So that you wouldn't have to spend an eternity in hell. Someone has to pay for sin. And if you haven't trusted Christ as your Savior, you pay for that sin. You're the one that is going to experience the wrath of God in the lake of fire. It's not a pretty picture. But it's a true one. It's it's fact. That's the way the Bible lays it out for us Wages of sin is death. Spiritual death, physical death, physical death that separates our soul and our life. But the spiritual death. That separates us from God. The wrath of God appeared to all men. Let me read that verse again. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness. Of men who hold the truth in unrighteousness. But listen to this next verse. Because that which may be known of God is manifest in them, for God has showed it unto them. There isn't anyone that's going to have an excuse to say I didn't know. I didn't know. Heavens declare the glory of God and the firmness showeth his handy work. It's all around us, his power, his majesty. His creative abilities. It's all around us. Just look and see, and it's God. God has done this. We have no excuse and when when we come to the place where we have an opportunity to receive the gospel Where Christ is lifted up and and we see that he paid for our sin, and all we have to do is come to him. As many as received him, to them gave you power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. We can be saved. That's what happened to me. I trusted Christ. That's I d I didn't even know what I was doing. I just knew what I needed. Thank God he knew what I needed too. I I didn't have to, you know, it wasn't anything great that I did. I just came up and said, God, I need to get saved. And he He did it. It's a wonderful thing. For with a heart man believeth unto righteousness. He's looking at my heart. He's looking at your heart right now. And he knows why your heart's beating a little bit faster than usual right now. Because you know that you need to make a decision and you need to make it tonight because you don't know about tomorrow. Boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou know it's not what a day may bring forth. You don't know what's gonna happen tomorrow. Too often people walk into a church like this, lost, they hear the gospel, and they they feel that that prick of the heart. The Holy Spirit speaking to them that that that uh uh that conviction. Don't hear much about that, but where where God reveals sin in their life and they see themselves lost and on their way to hell And and they and they fight off that conviction. They grieve the spirit. Fight off that that conviction. Walk out the door. There's been too many times Where people never never got back to hear another gospel message. It happens that way sometimes. Brother Williams, you're trying to scare me And some saved with fear, plucking them even out of the fire, hating even the garments spotted by the flesh. God wants you to be saved so much, so much that He gave His only begotten Son. That whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life. That's how much he loved you. He loved you so much that he doesn't want you to experience the wrath of God. He wants you to experience what his love has in store for you. We we we can't even comprehend what it's going to be like to walk down the streets of gold. We can't even begin to realize The beauty of heaven, that heavenly city that He's spent a couple thousand years preparing for us We can't even begin to think how it's going to be when we uh walk through the pearly gates there and there's our loved ones. There's mom and dad and and friends and loved ones and aunts and uncles and and Brother Le Leatherman. Or you. Yeah. You see what I'm talking about? We don't even know. And and but you can't experience that. And if you choose not to trust Christ, then you must pay the penalty. The wrath of God, because it's appeared to all men, and you're without excuse. Are you saved tonight? Good night. I can I can't I can't tell you how important it is for you to trust him. I can stand up here and and and tell you over and over and And wiping tear uh weep being tears and all that. But you have to make the personal decision That's going to come here in just a second. You're going to have that opportunity where you can walk this aisle, just like I did, and like most of the people in this auditorium here at one time or another walk this aisle. Made a decision right at that altar there, or this one right over here, and escaped the wrath of God. If we can have the lights out, I'll show this chalk drawing.