If you would turn your Bibles there. We're preaching our way through the book of James. I hope that you're getting half as much out of this as I am in preparing and preaching these messages. I've always liked the book of James and um I I I kind of view the book of James as the Proverbs of the New Testament. It's very similar in just being very practical, very to the point statements made that are just packed full of truth and challenge. And um so we're working our way through. We're going to look at verse 19 and 20. By the way, my wife told me that there is somebody that has memorized through the book of James. Diane, is that you? You've got the entire book of James memorized. How about that? And so stand up and say it to us later. And so that's tremendous. James chapter 1, verse number 19. Notice what the Bible says. Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath. Now notice there's not a period there. That's not the end of the sentence. For the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. Verse number 20 I want to look at tonight. The wrath of man. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now our study in your word. Lord, it's been a blessing to be in your house. My heart is stirred anew for the great need over in Kazakhstan. God, if you can use our church out here in the hills here in Western Maryland, if you could use us in some way to reach that gos that country with the gospel in some house, some way we can be a part of uh people in Kazakhstan coming to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ, Lord, we would be ecstatic. And so we give ourselves as a church to you and as individuals and ask you to use us, direct us And stir us. If nothing else, help us to pray fervently. And Lord, we look to you for that. Now, as we look into your word, I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit God, again, we want you to speak through me, and we want this word, this passage here, this truth, to bear fruit in our lives, to have a grip on our hearts and change us, Lord. Make us more like Christ, I pray. In Jesus' name, amen. We live in a very angry world. Somebody said there's an epidemic of anger in the United States of America in our homes. In our workplaces, on our streets, in our marketplaces, and in our government. An epidemic of anger. Somebody else put it this way, rage is all the rage. And our music is amazing to me how some of the most successful quote unquote musicians and music out there, some of the best selling and I use the term music very loosely Some of the best selling music is absolutely saturated with anger and rage. And the world has convinced a significant portion of uh the folks that live on this planet That you're not cool unless you're angry. The angrier you are, then the cooler you are, and the more you're to be admired. Rage is all the rage. In our music, in our movies, people have made millions and millions and millions of dollars celebrating anger And displaying anger. Anger has crept into our churches and our Christian homes I traveled a little bit before I came here as a youth evangelist. I was in a number of churches and over the years. And some of this I've seen firsthand. But we have churches where pastors are angry at their congregations. I've met some of these guys. There are congregations that are angry at their pastors. There are churches where church members are angry at church members. Where Christian husband homes, where Christian husbands are angry at the Christian wives. And the Christian wives are angry at their Christian husbands. And the Christian parent is angry at their Christian child, and the Christian child is angry at their Christian parent. None of this is a result of the filling of the Holy Spirit. Nobody is angry at their brother or sister in Christ because they're filled with the Holy Spirit of God. It is not a fruit of the Spirit. It is not, if there's anger in the home, it is not because of the presence of God in that home. I want to suggest to you it's evidence that there is a lack of the presence of God in that home. It is not, anger is not the result of the anointing of the Holy Spirit of God. In fact, it is the very opposite. James chapter 1, verse 19 and 20 really is one passage, as I pointed out when we read that. Let every man uh wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, and slow to wrath. For the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. That is all one truth. That is all one statement, one passage. And verse number 20 begins with that word for. And that has the idea of because of, or for this reason. In other words, he's saying this, with that word for, he's saying this, verse number 19 should be true in your life because verse number 20 is absolutely true. Did you get that? Let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, and slow to wrath. That should be true in your life because The wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. That is absolutely true, verse 20. Therefore, verse 19 should be true in our lives. That is how we respond. Verse number 19 is how we respond to the truth of verse number 20. You follow what's being laid out here Now, before we get into an outline, and I tried to break verse number 20 down into an outline here so we can kind of study it a little bit, I want to take a moment and just talk about the meaning of the word wrath. What do we mean what do we mean by the word wrath? And we could take suggestions and I think most of us have an idea in our head as what wrath is. Let me give you my definition, and this is just from looking at what others have said. I kind of mixed it all together and came up with my own statement. In my mind, wrath is anger in action. Person gets angry, and then when that anger takes action, it becomes wrath. Anger when anger gets to the boiling point, when it is more than anger is an emotion, when it becomes more than just an emotion, it becomes an action. Then it becomes wrath. That's the way I view it in my mind. Wrath. The wrath of man worketh not The righteousness of God. Now let me give you a few thoughts. I've got a little outline here that might help us. Number one, I want us to consider the types of wrath. That are we're given in the Bible. Two types of wrath. There's two types of wrath. First of all, the Bible references the wrath of God. And we read this over and over throughout Scripture. In both the Old and New Testaments, the Bible references the wrath of God. The wrath of God, without going too much on a rabbit trail on that, but the wrath of God is really rooted in the holiness of God. We don't hear a lot of teaching and preaching in a lot of our ministries today on the holiness of God, and the little bit we do hear sometimes is very, very distorted. But our God is a holy God He is absolutely pure. He is absolutely righteous. And the holiness of God is intolerant of unholiness. If holiness would tolerate unholiness, it would cease to be holy. If righteousness would tolerate unrighteousness, it would cease to be righteous. So there must be holiness to be holy Must have a reaction to unholiness. And the wrath of God is God's reaction To unholiness. Are you with me? You follow what I'm saying? The wrath of God, I put it this way, is rooted in the holiness, but it is a reaction to the violation of God's holiness. God is we live at we have versions of Christianity today that just tear down the holiness of God and try to take the unholiness of the world and the holiness of God and join hands together And somehow we're going to appeal to the world, somehow we're going to help the world. All we're doing is blaspheming the holiness of God. And so the wrath of God is God's reaction, holy, righteous, pure reaction against the unholiness of man. So let me give you some scriptures, and we're going to use our Bibles a good bit. So I hope you get them out, put them in your lap there, have them handy, and uh look at some of these verses with me. Let's go to Romans chapter 1 And someone might say, well, he's talking about the wrath of God. We obviously got to go to the Old Testament. You know what I found out? The New Testament talks a heap about the wrath of God. Romans chapter 1, and notice with me if you would verse number 18. Now we're talking about one type of wrath, the wrath of God. It's rooted in His holiness. It's a reaction to a violation of his holiness. Romans chapter one and verse eighteen. Look at this. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all what Ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who hold the truth in unrighteousness So here we see that the wrath of God is a reaction. It is a response to man being unrighteous. It is the holiness and righteousness of God responding to the unrighteousness and unholiness of man And in fact, it's an interesting statement there, who hold the truth in unrighteousness. In other words, they're trying to take the truth of God and take the unrighteousness of the world and hold the two in their hands. And God's wrath responds to that. So we have God's wrath. Come over to Ephesians chapter 5. And say, oh, Ephesians, for by grace are you saved, there's no wrath of God in Ephesians. Look with me at chapter 5. And verse number, we're going to start reading in verse number three. Ephesians 5, look with me beginning in verse number 3. But fornication And all uncleanness or covetousness, let it not once be named among you as become as saints Neither filthiness, nor foolish talking, nor jesting, which are not convenient, but rather giving of thanks. Now look at this. For this ye know, that no whormonger, nor unclean person, nor covetous man who is an idolater, hath any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God Let no man deceive you, look at this, let no man deceive you with vain words, for because of these things that were just listed, these ungodly things For because of these things cometh the what? Wrath of God upon the children of disobedience. Why does the wrath of God come upon the children of disobedience? Because of the ungodliness and the unholiness. God's wrath is rooted in his holiness, his pure righteousness. And when there is a violation of that, the response of His holiness and righteousness is the wrath of God. Come with me to Colossians chapter 3. And begin reading in verse number five, Colossians three and verse five. He says, mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth. Now he lists what he's talking about here. Fornication, uncleanness, inordinate affection, evil concupience, uh covetousness, which is idolatry. Now look at this. For which things sake Because of these ungodly things, these unholy things, the wrath of God cometh on the children of disobedience He had a very similar statement, what's given to us in Ephesians, and he's reiterating the fact that God, God has wrath. And that wrath is a result of the unholiness, ungodliness, sinfulness of man violating the holy, pure righteousness of God. And it responds in wrath. The wrath of God. The wrath of God. I'm telling you, you think about, you just stop with me for a moment and think about. The omnipotence of God, the immensity of God, the wisdom of God And then to think that that God would express wrath I'm telling you, it is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of a living God. We fail to realize the gravity of our sin. We fail to realize the sinfulness of our sin and the wrath of God that is response to the sinfulness of man. Now I'm going to make a statement you might might confuse you at there I probably make a lot of statements that confuse you, but uh I'm gonna make a statement might be confusing at first, but I think you'll see what I mean As I study the wrath of God, I see that as one aspect of God that makes the gospel so amazing. That makes the gospel so glorious. You say, how in the world could the wrath of God against the sinfulness of man make the gospel glorious? I want to show you a verse. Turn to 1 John. I'm telling you to do a series on the wrath of God, it is fascinating. But turn with me to 1 John and chapter 2. We're going to reference a word here. You've probably heard it preached and read it in the Bible. Maybe you didn't fully understand what it means, but it's a powerful, powerful tree. 1 John chapter 2, and I'm going to begin reading in verse number 1. My little children, what a tender phrase. My little children, these things write I unto you that ye sin not. And let me just stop and say this. One of the reasons God gave us the Bible is so that we don't sin. These things write I unto you that ye sin not. And if any man sin If you do, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. Now what is an advocate? You've heard of animal rights advocates. crack pots as far as I'm concerned. But uh I listen, I'm all for animals. I think they're great with mashed potatoes and gravy and and uh but anything. But anyway um An advocate is somebody that stands before an authority on the behalf of someone else, generally someone that has little or no power. or or representation before that authority. So you have quote unquote an animal rights activists, they supposedly stand before the authorities on behalf of poor little piggies and and uh Raccoons and stuff like that. So what does it mean when it says we have an advocate? Jesus Christ, get this. Now we're sinners. Have any man sin? He says here, these things write unto you that you sin not, but if any man sin, we have an advocate. We have someone who stands before this holy God. This thrice holy God, and he stands on our behalf, representing us. Now we get to verse 2. Look at this. Jesus Christ writes this, and he is the, here's this word, he is the propitiation for our sins. You say, what in the world is that? To propitiate something, and try and explain this, means to appease the wrath of something. In other words, God is holy. He is blindingly holy. He is incomprehensibly holy on our part. So pure and perfectly righteous. And we are sinners. We are corrupt through and through. We have absolutely nothing good in us. Even our righteousness is as filthy rags. There's no way we can stand before this God. Our unrighteousness, our sinfulness, it draws the immediate response of God's wrath. That's why John says that the unsaved are under the wrath of God. That's God's holiness responding to our sinfulness. But Jesus Christ is our advocate. And he propitiates God's wrath. In other words, he appeases that wrath. He quenches that wrath. He fulfills. He satisfies. What the wrath of God demands. And when he was down on that old cross, the most amazing thing took place. The wrath of God's holiness on you and I because of our sin was poured out, was appeased, was satisfied with the suffering and death of Jesus Christ. And so when we think about the wrath of God on us and mankind because of our sin, makes the gospel so glorious that Jesus Christ Would appease that wrath with his offering of himself as the sinless, perfect Son of God, the Lamb of God, and he fulfills that wrath of God Isn't that an amazing thing? So there's two types of wrath referenced in the Bible. One is the wrath of God. It is pure, it is good, it is righteous in every aspect. But we also have a second type of wrath in the Bible. That's the wrath of man. Very different than the wrath of God. The wrath of man is rooted not in the holiness of man because we have no holiness of our own. The wrath of man is rooted in the sinful flesh of man. Turn with me, if you would, the Galatians. Chapter number five. It's amazing to me how often we end up in Galatians chapter five, but turn over there with me. God's holiness, God's wrath, the wrath of God is rooted in his holiness, his pure, perfect holiness. The wrath of man, I have no holiness. The only holiness that I have is the holiness of God imputed to me at salvation. So my wrath, the wrath of man, is not rooted in holiness, it's rooted in sinfulness. Look at Galatians chapter 5 and verse number 19. Now the works of the flesh, the flesh Are manifests which are these adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variants, emulations. Next word. Wrath Wrath. The wrath of man is not rooted in the holiness of God. It's rooted in my sinful flesh. God's wrath is pure and good and holy and right and just. My wrath is the exact opposite of that. It's impure self-self. I put it this way: the wrath of man is rooted in sinful flesh and is a reaction, not a violation of my holiness. I had none. It's a reaction to the violation of my self-will. We get angry when it doesn't go our way. We get we express wrath When it's not the way I want it to be. Our wrath is not the result of our holiness. We have none. Our wrath is the result of our selfishness, because that's all we have in and of ourselves. The wrath of man is not, and then you come down to verse 22-23, the wrath of man is not A fruit of the Holy Spirit. We have no holiness of our own. So When God's wrath, you say, yeah, but what about when you get angry over something that is against God? What about when a man, what about, what about righteous indignation? Ah, there's those those sodomites, we're just righteously indign indignated indignated. How's that, Sandy? That's a good one. Uh wait a minute. It is God's holiness that is being violated, not mine. And who is responsible to react to God's holiness God. In fact, let me give you scripture, Romans chapter 12, verse 19. Turn over there with me real quick. Now I've heard preachers say, and good friends of mine, and I I disagree with them, but they'll say something like this: We need to get good and angry at sin. I understand that and I appreciate that, but I disagree with that. We ought to stand firmly against sin. But it's not my place to get angry. It is God's responsibility to be angry at sin. I found out I've got enough sin of my own to be angry about. I don't need to go around getting angry at others Now let me show you. I think I have a scriptural principle here that see if I can communicate this. Romans 12 verse 19. Dearly beloved, look at those next several words. What's it say? Avenge not yourselves, but rather give place unto wrath For it is written, vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord. So what's he saying here? He's saying, listen, If somebody does wrong, if somebody sins, we're not to compromise, we're not to justify it, we're not to excuse it, but give place to wrath. That word phrase give place means step aside from it. Put some distance between yourself and it. Don't let wrath step in. The wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. The wrath of God worketh the righteousness of God. Not the wrath of man. And so he goes on, he says, but rather give place unto wrath. Put distance away. Put aside. Why? For it is written, Vengeance is mine, I'll take care of it, is what God's saying. Vengeance and wrath are very closely associated. Vengeance is God's wrath reacting, is God's wrath carrying out his holiness, his righteousness. I have no holiness and righteousness of my mind, of my own. I have no claim to vengeance. So I gotta step aside. And let God deal with that in his wrath and judgment. You follow what I'm saying? And so we have two types of wrath in Scripture The wrath of God, which works out God's righteousness, and the wrath of man, which does not work out God's righteousness. It worketh not the righteousness of God. And so you say, oh, all this. Yeah, we preach against it, we teach against it, we point people to Christ, we warn people about sin, but when it comes to being wrathful about it, we step aside, God, that's your job You're the one that expresses wrath. You're the one that displays wrath. You're the one that carries out the vengeance. I warn people about God's wrath. I point them to the savior the uh the uh the advocate we have who made propitiation for God's wrath. I tell folks about the gospel of Jesus Christ But as far as carrying out the wrath of man, it doesn't work the righteousness of God. I've got to step aside. Let the wrath of God do that. You know I found out God's pretty good at taking care of himself God's pretty good at dealing with the unrighteousness of man. And so I can step side. So we have two types of unrighteousness, two types of wrath. The wrath of man, the wrath of God. Of those two, only the wrath of God is pure and just and holy and good. Mine is corrupted. Mine's the result of flesh. Let me quickly give you number two The tragedy of man's wrath. And we're back in James chapter 1 now again. The tragedy of man's wrath. My brethren, be slow to speak, swift to hear Let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath. Why? For the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God So if the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God, what does the wrath of man work? If it worketh not the righteousness of God, the wrath of man would work The unrighteousness of man. He says, your wrath, my wrath, us getting angry and acting on that anger doesn't work the righteousness of God. Works unrighteousness of man. That's the opposite of the righteousness of God is the unrighteousness of man. In other words, when we lose our coal, we get angry, even maybe over a good thing, we get angry. It's a tragedy It's a tragedy. It doesn't bring the righteousness of God. It works the unrighteousness of man, the exact opposite. Um, Moses. Moses had a problem with anger. And it cost him dearly. It was a tragedy, his anger. Jonah You study Jonah chapter 4, he's that whole chapter, he's just angry as can be. He's mad at God, he's mad at the Ninevehes, he's mad at everything, he's mad at a plant, he's mad at a little worm. He's mad at everything. Now stop and think about Jonah with me for a minute. Here you have a man that was used of God in miraculous ways. Historic ways, epic ways. And we end up, the last thing we know about Jonah is he is mad. I thought, how tragic. His whole testimony is stained. And I thought, how many good men, how many good women throughout the history of the church. Had great influence and were known as people that God used, but they stained their testimony because of their wrath. It's tragic. It's tragic. Their anger hurt them. Um, King Saul He eyed David jealousy and anger very closely related. He was mad at David the whole time and lost the kingdom. I mean angry to the point he was trying to kill him. You talk about bullying over rat. Prodigal son's brother got angry at how his father was being so gracious and forgiving to his little brother there. And uh he got angry and he was rebuked. The Pharisees were constantly angry at Jesus. In fact, it says some places that they got so angry they were just mad with their anger. Infuriated. The tragedy of man's wrath. Man's wrath is usually expressed in one of two ways. Either internally And they just kind of clam up and they internalize it and inside they are just steaming. Do you ever see the little cartoons? Right? They don't say anything, they don't do anything, they just cram up and get quiet, and I get that You know the tragic thing about that is? You say, well, that's the best way. Just internalize it. You know what that produces? Bitterness. That produces hatred. And bitterness and hatred are battery acid on the soul. Destroys the container that it's in. Anger, man's wrath, is tragic. And sometimes it's expressed by internalizing it And this is true in Christian homes and non-Christian homes, this is true across the board. You internalize that and that eats away and eats away and eats away before you know it, that root of bitterness Has spread throughout your whole thinking, mind, and soul, and you are so angry and so bitter. And I believe that eventually produces depression. They say that depression is often a result of anger, internalized anger. And I just get to the point where there's nothing I can do, and I've been done wrong, and I just soak down in and there's no hope. No. Isn't that tragic? The other way to express anger, one is to internalize it, the other is to express it externally Just to blow up Godzilla It's destructive. Somebody told Billy Sunday one time, Yeah, I got a bad timber, but I just shoot it and it's over with, and everything calms down, and Billy Sunday said, Yeah. You shoot someone with a shotgun, it's over with two, but the level of destruction afterward is horrendous. And how many people have been hurt, and how many marriages have been destroyed, and how many children have been beaten. Because somebody got angry. The wrath of man. I was reading different articles I read about. I mean i if it wasn't so tragic it would be humorous, but back not far from where I grew up up around Allentown, it wasn't too long ago, a couple was to be married. And the bride to be got so angry at the groom to be on the day of their wedding before they took their vows, she stabbed them to death. She got so angry. Um I was reading about down in Atlanta. Fellow had his two-year-old son in the toddler's seat in the back. And he was driving down and he did something that some other motorist took offense at. I don't know exactly what happened, but the other driver uh got so angry. And he pulled up and cut off the man that had the toddler on his son, came back with a gun and shot through the window, intending to shoot the driver. The bullet missed the driver and went through the head of the little two-year-old boy A tragic anger. The wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. It is destructive. Nothing good ever results from the wrath of man. Show me anywhere in the Bible Where any person came to know Jesus Christ as their personal Savior because of the wrath of man, nowhere. There's never been a revival in all the history of mankind. There has never been a revival that was the result of the wrath of man. You don't find no one that has ever experienced the tremendous blessings of God because of their wrath. You can't show me a happier home because someone in that home was wrathful. Doesn't make happier homes. Doesn't bring revival. Doesn't point people to Jesus Christ. Doesn't bring the blessings of God upon us. Doesn't make happier churches. Nobody says, boy, I'd like to go to that church. They're all mad at everybody. Now there might be some sickos out there that like that. I've never seen anybody say, yeah, boy, I can't wait to get to church. They're all mad at each other. It doesn't bring God's blessings. The wrath of man, listen, the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. It's a tragedy. Let me give you my last thought here real quick, and I wish you could do a series on this, and it would be a great series, but the taming of man's wrath, the taming of the wrath of man. I just put these down, and this is not exhaustive, and I'll say this. God can deliver us from any sin known to man. Power God. Listen, the flesh cannot stand against the spirit of God. The flesh cannot conquer the flesh, but the Holy Spirit of God can conquer the flesh. And you say, preacher, I just, it's a part of me, it's so different. I'm telling you here, there is a God in heaven that can deliver us from the most difficult of sins. I believe that with all my heart. So how do I tame this wrath? How do I deal with it? Well first of all, I just put this down just real quick. One, confess it as sin As long as I'm justifying it, as long as I'm excusing it, as long as I'm trying to minimize it, I'm never gonna get rid of it, I'm never gonna put it off, as long as I'm some God, this is sin on my part. It is a fruit of my flesh, it is a work of my flesh, and it is sin. It is a violation of your holiness. It is impure, it is ungodly, it is unrighteous, God, it is wrong. And unless we have that attitude about it, we will never conquer it Number two, I must forsake it immediately. Wish we had time to go to references of scripture. Ephesians talks about this, but it says, put off, put it off, put it off. In other words. Get forsaken. Um the Bible says, be ye angry and sin not. The idea is this, when that anger comes up Don't let it develop into sin. Let not the sun go down upon your wrath. He says in that same verse. He says, Listen, you deal with it. You get take care of that. You get alone with God, confess it, humble yourself before God before that sun goes down. The idea is as quick as you can before it does a bunch of damage. Confess it is sin, forsake it, and then last of all I put this one down. Die to self. And let the Holy Spirit of God fill me. And that is where the victory is. In the filling of the Holy Spirit of God. Think about this. This just I All these years, I learned this down at brother, down at Tessie Temple, Brother Kobelitz. I learned down there, I guess I knew it, but I learned down there that the Holy Spirit of God lives inside me And I thought, what an awesome thing that is. That God lives inside me. And I can walk and live in victory. Because of the presence and power of the Holy Spirit God that indwells my body. And if I will die to self, And let that Spirit fill me and bear the fruit of the Holy Spirit. I can have victory over that flesh. And I can be a gracious, kind, fruit of the spirit, love, joy, peace, long-suffering, goodness, kindness, temperance. That can all be characterized me rather than the wrath of man. I read about Bruce Godrich. He was a freshman going into Texas AM University. And he was going through some, he was a Christian boy. And they had him going through some initiation right. This was in ten years ago or so. And part of the initiation, right, he had to run until he dropped. They ran him and ran him and ran him part of this initiation, and he dropped. But he never got back up again. That young boy going into his freshman year died of a heart attack and during that initiation series, never made it to his first class. Short time after the tragedy, Bruce's father wrote a letter to the administration, faculty, and student body of Texas AM University. Now think, put yourself in that father's position. Here's my boy. They mistreated him. They did wrong, and my son is dead. Do you agree with me? Flash might get angry about that, huh? Phew. Wow. Listen to what he wrote. I would like to take this opportunity to express the appreciation of my family for the great outpouring of concern and sympathy. from the Texas A<unk>M University and the college community over the loss of our son Bruce. We were deeply touched by the tribute paid to him We were particularly pleased to note that his Christian witness did not go unnoticed during his brief time on campus. Anyone want to write this? I hope it will be some comfort to know that we harbor no ill will in this matter. We know our God makes no mistake. Bruce had an appointment with his Lord and is now secure in his celestial home. When the question is asked, why did this happen? Perhaps the answer will be, listen to this, so that many will consider where they will spend eternity. Wow. Not the wrath of man. Can you imagine the testimony had that Christian father said, We hate you? You did us wrong, we're sure, we'll never forgive you. What kind of testimony would that have been? But he died the self. He put away wrath. The Spirit of God filled them, and they were able, I'm convinced, by the power of the Holy Spirit of God, to be able to be gracious. and kind and see Christ's hand in all of that. What an amazing, amazing testimony. My brethren, be swift to hear. Slow to speak, slow to wrath. Why? The wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us. Lord, we all need this. We all have this old flesh. God help us to see what the Holy Spirit of God can do in our lives. Help us to see what simply dying to self and yielding to you, what an impact That can have in a positive way in this old angry world. And I pray that you would help us. Lord, I don't know how to give the invitation exactly on this, but I know all of us, Lord, have a sinful flesh, and I know that sinful flesh gets angry And as Christians, God, we don't want that to be. That doesn't work your righteousness. We want you to take care of the anger part. Lord, help us to take care of the humble part and the gracious part. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, in one way or another, this message tonight touched my heart? Preacher, in one way or another, the Holy Spirit of God has challenged my heart tonight and my walk with God in my frame of mind. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I could live a spirit-filled life. That I could live a life dying to self and Christ living through me. You say, preacher, that's what I want. Is there anything like that? The uplifted hand. Preacher, pray with me. My hand's raised. I feel with this as much as anybody else, no doubt. Lord, we need you and hear us and help us. There's some here tonight and say, preacher, I'll know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I'm telling you, if you're not saved, you're under the wrath of God right now. The wrath of God. But Jesus Christ appeased that wrath, and if you'll accept him as your Savior, that wrath of God will dissipate. And you'll be under the blessings and part of the family of God. Is there any tonight say, preacher, pray for me? I'm not saying If I die, I'll go to hell. I'm under God's wrath. I want to be saved from that. Any at all like that? Any at all? Preacher, pray for me. Father in heaven, a lot of hands raised. You know our hearts. Help us. Help us in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads about eyes are closed