2 Peter, chapter number 3, is where we're at. 2 Peter chapter 3. Is everybody okay out there? Alright, good. Somebody asked me if I knew what the ninth letter of the alphabet was. Now it was a complete guess, but I was right. So I was right. Alright. I don't I don't know what you did to the crowd this morning, Pastor Matt, but they are dead tonight, I'll tell you. 2 Peter chapter 3, and I just want to read verse 16. It's the second half of the verse is what we're going to look at. It says, as also in all his epistles. Now Peter's writing and he's referring to the Apostle Paul. Remember from back in verse number 15, he references the fact that Paul had written some things, um he says that an account that the long server of our Lord, uh verse 15, is salvation, even as our beloved brother Paul, according to the wisdom given to him, has written unto you. So that's what he's referring to Also in all his epistles, Paul's speaking in them of these things in which some things are hard to be understood. Now we looked at that before. Now look what he says. He says, which they that are unlearned and unstable rest. These things that are hard to be understood These people that are unlearned, unstable, they rest these things, as they do also other scriptures, unto their own destruction. So what caught my attention is that resting of the scriptures, W-R-E-S-T, rest the scriptures. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to help us learn this here tonight. Father in heaven, again, we're grateful for a good Lord's Day. Father, there's just no place like Mountain Lake for me. I'm just glad to be back here tonight. And I ask your blessing on our service. I pray you'd speak to our hearts. Lord, I yield myself to you, my mind. I pray you guide my thinking as I try and preach. Pray your Holy Spirit would direct my thoughts and my words to be exactly what you would have me to say I present my body anew to you, Lord, and ask that you would please fill me with your Spirit, and that it would be you speaking your word, teaching your word through me. And help us to be open. Help us to be strong in our understanding of Scripture and in our convictions on your word. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. From our very first week I was here as pastor back in 1993, we have emphasized the importance of the scriptures. In our church life, we uh work, we we we give diligent attention to keeping our church Bible-based. By that I mean this. Everything that is taught in the Sunday school classes, in the Wednesday night ministries, teens, and master clubs here from the pulpit, everything that is taught must be in line with Scripture. We teach and preach the Bible. I like what my friend Andy Bloom, who's on our radio, he's with the Lord now, but he would always say, we preach the Bible as it is to men as they are. And that has been our emphasis here in the church, right from day one. The word of God is our final authority. And not only in the church have we emphasized that, but in our own personal lives. Has anybody here ever heard me say that every Christian ought to read their Bible every day. Yeah. Uh we push that, we beat that. Why? Because it's so vitally important I think one of the most important things a Christian two the two most important things a Christian does, I believe, is number one, spend every time with God in scripture reading prayer, and number two, faithful to the local church. Those two things will do more to help a Christian grow in the Lord and be strong in their faith than anything else I think you can do. And so the Word of God, we've emphasized the importance of the Word of God Peter does the same thing through his writings. He's emphasizing the word of God, the importance of Scripture in the life of the believer. and in the function of a church. If you would come back with me very quickly to 1 Peter and notice with me verse number chapter 1, verse 22. 1 Peter 1 and verse 22. Notice what he says. Now we've preached through this in recent years. We worked our way through, but look at verse 22 of chapter 1, 1 Peter. Seeing you have purified your souls in obeying the truth Through the Spirit, an unfeigned love of the brethren, so that ye love one another with a pure heart fervently. Now look at verse 23. Being born again. Not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible by the what? Word of God. He says our salvation is based on the Word of God. We're born again by the Word of God. He goes on. He says, it which liveth and abideth forever. For all flesh is as grass, and the glory of man is as the flower of grass. The grass withereth, the flower thereof falleth away. But The word of the Lord endureth forever, and this is the word which by the gospel is preached unto you. Do you see the emphasis on the word of God? In our salvation and in our preaching. Come over, if you would, to chapter 2 and verse 2. Let me read verse 1. Wherefore, laying aside all malice and all guile and hypocritical hypocrisies and envyings and all evil speaking, as newborn babes desire the sincere milk of what? The Word That ye may grow thereby. So not only does Peter tell us that the Word of God is vitally important in our salvation, listen, if we don't have Bible salvation, we don't have salvation. You can call it what you want, you can say whatever you want. Reality is salvation is Bible salvation, period. Then he says our spiritual growth is dependent upon the Word of God. How many people here, glad you're safe? Say amen. How many people here want to grow as a believer, as a Christian? Amen? Yeah. Alright, then we have to have the Word of God. We have to like a little baby, like little Caleb hungers for that word. Every Christian ought to hunger. Or hungers for that milk. Every Christian ought to hunger for the Word of God. Come over to 2 Peter. Look with me Chapter 1 of 2 Peter. And what I'm trying to say is this, Peter emphasizes all through here, under the inspiration of God, the importance of the Word of God. Verse number four, 2 Peter 1. He says, Wherefore, given to us, look at this, exceeding great and precious promises That by these ye might be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust. Where do we find these precious promises? And the Bible. We don't get them from CNN. We don't get them from the university. We get them from God's Word. He's emphasized the importance of the Word of God. Look at verse 19. We have a more sure word of prophecy whereunto ye do well to take heed. What's the word of prophecy? The Word of God, the Bible, it's more sure. And he says, we do well to take heed to it. Hey, Christian, we ought to take heed to God's Word. We ought to listen to what it says and do what it says, believe it. As unto a light that shineth in a dark place. Look at verse 20. Knowing this first that no prophecy of the scripture is any private interpretation For the prophecy came not of old time by the will of man, but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. This is not the writings of men, this is God's word given through man And so he's emphasizing the Word of God, the Word of God, the Word of God. Come over to chapter 3, verse 2. And we preached on all of this, knowing this, that there shall come in the last days. scoffer s uh scoffers uh walking after their own lust um and uh and they're making fun of the word of god uh verse number 16 where we're at It says, speaking them of these things which are hard to be understood, and they rest the scriptures. So what I'm trying to say is this. Peter emphasized the importance of the word of God. We emphasize the importance of the word of God. Somebody said, and then this please don't misunderstand what I'm trying to say here. It's not me, it's our church. But uh one of the folks in our church, one of the men in our church was telling me it's been some time ago He was inviting someone to church and they said, Well, I heard about that church. He says, if you want Bible teaching and preaching, come to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Right? I mean that's what we're all about. That's what we want. And that's what we should do. So Peter emphasizes this. Now the major purpose, as we noticed, of 2 Peter is warning about false teaching. He does it in great detail. He does it very soberly, very In your face almost, chapter 2, and down through chapter 3, scoffers. He's warning us about false teachers. And now in verse 16, the second half, he mentions Now this is this is what we want to look at. He mentions that some parts of Scripture, particularly some of Paul's writings, are difficult to understand. And we underst and we looked at that last week. They're hard to be understood. Anybody ever read a passage of scripture and say, I don't understand what he's saying there. Anybody? I d I I do. There's various places I get to. I don't understand what he's saying. Now he says that there are certain people That take those passages that are hard to be understood, and they rest them. They rest them. So that's what I want to look at. Number one, I want to give the definition of that word rest. What's he talking about? W-R-E-S-T. It's the only time that word is used in the New Testament. It's used three or four times in the Old Testament, only time in the New Testament. They rest the scriptures. Here's what the word rest means. It means to twist. Or to distort in some way. One of the definitions I came across, and I looked this up pretty thoroughly, was the idea of perverting what the scriptures say. Twisting what they say, distorting it. It's hard to be understood. It's not real clear. So they come and take it and they twist it. They distort it. They pervert it I thought this definition was interesting, and hear me out to see how it applies to what he's saying here. But the word itself is actually used about a form of torture. Is anybody familiar with the rack? Anybody study that in history? The Dorney Inquisition? The Catholic Church would find what they called heretics. 99. 9% of the time they were simply Bible believers. A lot of them were Baptists. And they would take these heretics as they defined it. And by the way, I don't have anything against a Catholic person. I have everything against Catholic doctrine. Catholic prop pro uh pro uh practice. And uh I want to be very, very clear about that. It's wrong. And so they would come and they would uh take these heretics, and in their attempt to get them to deny Christ And deny the scriptures. And by the way, the basis, the bottom line of their problem with these heretics was the authority of Scripture. The Catholics teach that the Catholic Church is the authority, not the Scriptures. Scriptures must submit to the Church's teaching. That's their position. I mean, it's documented. And so when somebody held to the scriptures, they said, no, the scriptures are the word of God, loyalty to the scriptures. And then they had a problem with that. And so what they would do, they take these heretics, and they were morbidly genius In the ways they would come up to inflict pain, to get these heretics, quote unquote, to deny the faith, to reject the scriptures. And uh they became they they were uh again morbidly brilliant on how they could inflict torture on people. I was down uh several years ago, a group of us went uh with beacon we went down to mexico and while we were there in that one town they had a museum It was actually a torture chamber that the Catholic Church had used in Mexico back in the 1600s, 1700s. And they still had the actual instruments there, the chairs and the devices that they would attach to their bodies and the horrific things and we had a guide went through. and described all this, how they would do it, how they would position the person, how they would administer that torture. I mean it was horrific. And they had one that they had particularly devised, and this is what I'm getting at, this is where the word rest uh uh uh uh alludes to, the meaning of it, it was called the rack. And they had various vari they had variations of this, but the principle behind that particular device, torture device was you would stretch a person out, their arms and legs, and they would slowly, with a crank or something, just pull that person apart. Their legs and arms, and they would just pull it, pull it, pull it, pull it, pull it out. And eventually their their shoulders would come out of joint. And their elbows, it would pull that apart and just literally pull the skeletal part of the body to separate it, separate it, disjoint it. And the word rest means to pull out of place, to disjoint. And so Peter says that there are these certain fellows, and he describes them here in a bit, and they rest the scriptures. In other words, they pull it out of place. They twist it from its context and what it's teaching. And uh and so the idea of resting is to twist the meaning of what the Bible says or pervert the meaning of what Scripture is teaching or to torture The teaching of Scripture is what the idea is. Now let me give you an illustration of that. If you would, now keep your place here, come with me very quickly back to Ezekiel, the Old Testament, Ezekiel. Isaiah, Jeremiah, Lamentations, Ezekiel. And verse number 37. Now, while you're finding that, I was at the house one day, this is a number of years ago. Uh they don't come by my house anymore, but uh two Mormon fellows came by. And they were all, you know, they looked like typical Mormons. I saw them coming and um I said They saw them coming down the uh the road. They came down my driveway. I said, oh boy. I just kind of enjoy it a little bit, maybe too much But um so they came up and I went out in the porch as we always do and we always say you know don't invite them in but I went out in the porch we got talking And I uh I'm telling you, I was respectful, I was very respectful. And they gave their little spiel. And um and so we got uh talking about uh the Bible and the Book of Mormon. And I said to them, I said, the Bible's the Word of God. Oh yes, we agree with that. I said, the Book of Mormon distorts, teaches contrary to the Bible. They say, oh no, it doesn't. I said, yes, it does. And they said, no, it doesn't. I said, yeah, it does. And they said, no, it doesn't. And so about 45 minutes later, um He made this statement. He said, I said, you view the Book of Mormon on equal authority with the Bible, if not superior authority. He made this statement. He says the Book of Mormon is equal to Scripture, but if it teaches something different, the Book of Mormon explains what the Bible means. Listen to me, that's backwards. And I said, where do you come up with that? I said, that's that's unscriptural. Nowhere does the Bible even remotely suggest of anything about the Book of Mormon having any authority. He says, yes it does in Ezekiel. Now if you would look here with me. This is the passage that he gave to me. Ezekiel chapter number 37. Look at verse 15. Now I don't know that this is Mormon doctrine, but this is what a older Mormon man told me on my porch. So I'm taking it as Mormon teaching. Ezekiel 37. And notice verse number 15. Now he said this passage teaches that the Mormon Book of Mormon is equal to Scripture. The word of the Lord came unto me, saying, that's verse 15. Moreover, thou son of man, take thee one stick and write upon it. For Judah and for the children of Israel, his companions. Then take another stick and write upon it For Jerusalem, the stick of Ephraim, and for all the house of Israel, his companions, and join them one to another into one stick, and they shall become one in thine hand. He said the one stick is the Bible. The other stick is the Book of Mormon. And God takes those two and puts them together, and they become one authority. And so he's telling me this. I said, wait a minute. So I ran and got my Bible. I said, let's look that up. And so we looked it up. And if you look down down, if you read down through here, what he's talking about is the nation of Judah and the nation of Israel becoming one nation again. They were separated And becoming one nation again, particularly during the millennial reign. It has nothing to do with the Bible and the Book of Mormon. What he was doing was torturing that passage. He was pulling it out of context and make an application that is not there. And it's it happens all the time. And so Peter is warning. He says, listen, there are passages that they will rest, they will pull out of context, they'll twist it, they'll torture it. So the meaning of the word rest means to twist or distort, to pervert. I put in the margin of my Bible, to put on the rack Anytime somebody takes the Bible and puts it on the rack and starts pulling it apart from what its context and what it's teaching is arresting the scriptures. Number two, come back to Peter here if you would In which things which are some things hard to be understood, which they that are unlearned and unstable rest. So number one, the definition. Number two, the individuals who are doing this. Who are these individuals that are resting, torturing, twisting the scriptures? Well, he mentions two characteristics of them. He says two things about them. Number one, they're unlearned. The word unlearned means what you think it would. It means to be without instruction, to not have understanding. And so these people that torture or pull the scriptures apart and make them say things they don't say and and have them teaching things they don't teach They are unlearned. They don't have any instructions. They're without instructions. They're without understanding. They don't know the scriptures. They're ignorant of the scriptures. They're unlearned of the scriptures. Now, I think there's two reasons why somebody might be unlearned in the things of the Word of God. Number one, maybe they're immature. Maybe it's a new believer, and they've never read the Bible to any extent, and they've had no time to study it and be trained and learned in the Word of God. They're young. And sometimes a new believer, a young believer will uh get a maybe a wrong idea from some scriptural teaching simply because they're immature in the faith, they're inexperienced And they need training. That's why the discipleship ministries of our church are so vitally important. Many, many cults will use new believers as prey for their false teaching. And they'll get those new believers. So it's vitally important when a person gets saved, it is so vitally important to get them in the Word of God, get them into the house of God, get them under the teaching and preaching of the Word of God. So they can be learned in the scriptures. He said these guys are unlearned in the scriptures. So one reason a person might be unlearned in the scriptures is they just might be immature. By the way, Paul sternly warned Timothy to not put somebody in the position of a bishop or a pastor who is a novice. Let me give you the reference for that. That is 1 Peter 3:6. Not somebody that's new, not somebody that's young in the faith that's novice means new. Why? Because they would be vulnerable to twisting the scriptures. They need some training. They need to be learned in the Word of God. Now, ordination is not in scriptures and it's not necessary. Some great men of God were never ordained. I don't push it hard. I'm not against it. I was ordained in Indianapolis There was, I think, if I remember correctly, there was about 25 or 30 pastors on my ordination thing. Whoo, if you know preachers, they like they'll ask a question. They really don't want to know what my answer was. They wanted to say what they believed about that position. So it was interesting. But the purpose of that whole thing is to make sure if we're going to put this guy in a position of preaching and teaching, we want to make sure he's learned in the things of God. He knows what the doctrine is. And so sometimes a person might be unlearned simply because they're immature, they're young, they haven't grown in the Lord. And so they come up with some different ideas. And along those lines, let me throw this out Give new believers some slack. Give them a little bit of room to grow. Well, a guy got saved Thursday. He don't even understand the Trinity. Well, God bless you. Let's give him a chance to learn. Amen? What does he believe about transubstantiation? I don't even know what I believe about it. And you laugh at this, and I do too. It's humorous. But the sad fact is I've come across this over the years. I was did a Bible time rally, and the pastor wouldn't lead kids to the Lord unless they knew uh all their theology and they I mean it was uh crazy what all they had to do. Listen, give them some room And so he says, these people are unlearned, and they twist the scriptures, they pull them out of context, they pervert them. Now, I don't think he's talking about unlearned because of immaturity. Some people are unlearned because they're unwilling to take the Bible for what it says, to study it and learn it and take it for what it says. And there's an element of pride in all of that. Take your Bible, if you would, keep your place, come over very quickly to 2 Timothy, and notice with me chapter 2. Now remember, the whole context of all of this is false teachers. People coming in the church and bringing false doctrine, unscriptural teaching. Doctrines that they have tortured from Scripture. They pulled out of joint from Scripture. 2 Timothy chapter 2 and verse number 15. Notice what we're in what Paul instructs us. What's the very first word of verse 15? Study. That word study also involves the word diligence. It is part of that definition of that word study. In other words, apply yourself very diligently to be learned in the Word of God. Study to show thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed. Look at this last statement. Rightly what? Dividing the truth. Not torturing it, not pulling it out of joint. But keeping it within the teachings of Scripture, what the Bible says. And that requires study. That requires diligence. If I am going to be a learned Christian, and we're not talking about pastors exclusively, it's all believers. If I'm going to be a learned believer, I must make time and effort to make sure I learn what this book teaches. To study it correctly. He said, Well, preacher, how do you do that? Well, I think one of the best places To learn the scriptures, be taught and trained in the things of God and in the Word of God, I think one of the best places is the local church. I have learned more about this book and about living the Christian life in the local church than I have anywhere else in the world. I crammed a four-year degree into six years. I was in Bible college for six years. Five five, five and a half. And uh but um and I'll tell you, and I'm grateful for that. Please don't misunderstand, I'm all for Bible college. I I'm for it. I think you ought to give one year to a good Bible college. I th it helped me, there's no doubt about it. But I'll tell you I've learned more In the local church than anywhere else. Anything I learned in Bible college. The Sunday school hour, the preaching, Bible Institute, Wednesday night studies Anybody do a lot of series, Sunday nights and Wednesday nights, boo, boo, boom, boom, boom, work away. Anybody notice that? Anyone notice that a lot of our preaching and teaching is almost word by word? You know why? Because we want to be learned in the Word of God. We want to be able to rightly divide what this thing is saying, not pulling some passage out here. This is a little obscure and pull that out and come up with some bizarre doctrine, unscriptural teaching. And so sometimes people will rest or torture the scriptures simply because they're unlearned. And I don't mean this in a negative way, just the raw definition of the word is just ignorant. They don't know what they're doing. They don't know what they're talking about. And so the local church, the teaching of, and by the way, you want to learn the Word of God? Start teaching the Word of God. I mean get some groundwork, get some basics down, the fundamentals down, but then get your ministry and start teaching. I'll tell you, you know who gets the most out of these sermons and Sunday school lessons? The ones preaching and the ones teaching. Am I right? Sunday school teachers are not. And so they're unlearned, and thus they start pulling that thing all apart, come up with this bizarre stuff. So one reason he says is they are unlearned. Then he gives another characteristic of these individuals that rest torture the scriptures. They're unstable. Now, the word unstable means to be unsteady. Just over here and then over here. Did you ever see somebody that's Walks and they're unsteady and I'm not trying to make fun of anybody because it's a real issue for a lot of people. Believe me, I'm starting to learn. And um But you know they they it's hard to put all their weight on one side and boy they're just unsteady. anybody know what I'm talking about? And um but they're talking uh spiritually they're unsteady They can't get their feet grounded in the Word of God. They can't be settled in the Word of God. Paul talked about being blown about with every wind of doctrine. Some new teaching they get on YouTube or some stupid uh internet thing and uh they get this, oh boy, I've never heard that before. Listen, if you've never heard it before, it's probably not Bible And by the way, there's nothing new. It's been all this heresy going on in the world today has been around forever. It's just re-word it and rename it. And so they're unstable. They can't get grounded. So some wind of doctrine comes along and it tickles their ears. And oh Oh, that's fascinating. And they'll go running. There's the word of God, and they'll hear some teaching about this. Oh, that's fascinating. And they'll go running after that, and they get away from Scripture. They're unsteady. They're unstable. It means to be inconsistent. Oh, they'll take the Bible. Yeah, the Bible is God's Word, but they won't make it an authority. They're inconsistent, inconsistent. They're not grounded in the scriptures, they're always open to a new interpretation. Listen, I'm not interested in any new interpretations of Scripture. I want to stick to the old, tried and true understanding of Scripture. You follow what I'm saying? I'm not interested in new versions of the Bible. I got one right here that is proven by God over and over and over for hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of years. Amen or not. And that's our position. And ground it. No, we're not moving. No, we are not changing our doctrine. We're convinced it's solid scriptural doctrine. But not these guys. Hey, I'm open. I'm open-minded. I'm open to new ideas. Not when it comes to the Word of God, I'm not. Huh? You say, boy, you're awful narrow-minded. Yeah. The Bible's pretty narrow. The truth is awfully narrow, amen or not? And so they're unstable, they're not grounded in scriptures. I like Psalms chapter 40. He heard my cry, waiting pace of the Lord, he heard my cry, and brought me up out of a horrible fit, out of the miry clay, and he set my feet upon a rock. and established my goings. That's the way we need to be on the scriptures. We're set on the scriptures. We're established. We're not leaving them. These guys are unstable. Every little thing comes along. Oh, yeah, I'll bite at that. Oh, yeah, I'll bite at that. They elevate their own understandings and opinions to be equal or superior to Scripture. Well, what I think about it, it's not what I think about it, it's what it says. They have no conviction about the authority of Scripture or the infallibility of the Scriptures. I tell you, I just, I, uh, I uh these churches that every new version comes off the press, man, they'll just go running after it. They're making a terrible mistake I like what Bob Jones Sr. said. Whatever the Bible says is so. And that settles it right there. When we are unsettled on Scripture, we're going to be unstable spiritually. So let's just get settled. Just settled. This is the Word of God. What it teaches us is so. So number one, the definition of rest. It means the torture, twist, distort. The individuals resting the scriptures are unlearned and they're unstable. And last of all, I end with this. What are the dangers? Look what he says there at the end of the verse. He says, which they that are unlearned and unstable rest. They twist it. As they do also the other scriptures. So not just the hard-to-be-understood passages. They do it all scripture. Notice what he says. This is sobering. I'll be honest with you, if this means what it says, and I believe it does, this is fearful. Unto their own what? Destruction. That word destruction means perishing in hell. In 2 Peter 2, 4, just turn back there if you would, just a page. 2 Peter chapter 2, look at verse 4. He's talking about these angels that spared that uh spared not uh that um God spared not, verse 4, God spare not the angels that sinned. Look at this, but cast them down to hell. Deliver them into chains of darkness to be reserved unto judgment. Chapter 2, verse 4, unto judgment. I'm sorry, come up to verse 3, I'm sorry. And through covetousness shall they with feigned words make merchandise to you, these false teachers, whose judgment now of a long time lingereth not here it is. And their damnation slumbereth not. That word damnation, same word. It's the word destruction in verse 16 of chapter 3. What's the danger of messing with God's Word? Tell you what the danger is: damnation. The judgment of God in hell. Now let me be clear. It is possible to innocently misinterpret Scripture. Alright? I've heard preachers preach something that in my mind didn't line up, and then later they come back and say, you know, I misinterpreted, I misunderstood. I want to be correct. And by the way, hats off to a preacher that does that. This is thinking among some circles that never admit when you're wrong. I have no respect for somebody that doesn't admit when they're wrong. I've had two early on, particularly one time stand out, we had Hugh Pyle here preaching, and I made a statement after he was done preaching, I made a statement from the pulpit here When we were winding up the service, I made a statement, I got home, and I realized, wait a minute, I was wrong. That wasn't scripturally true what I said And so the next night, I don't know if anybody here remembers it, the next night I had to come back and say, wait a minute, I need to clarify something. I said something last night that didn't line up with scripture, I was wrong. I want to correct it. Now that's the way it should be So it's possible to innocently misinterpret Scripture. And again, maybe sometimes a young believer might do that, a young preacher starting out. And so that's not, we're not saying if somebody innocently and inadvertently teaches something unscripturally that they're going to, they lost their salvation and they're on the way to hell. What he's talking about here is deliberate rejection of Bible teaching. We noted this earlier in chapter 2, earlier in chapter 3. It's not that they are ignorant of the scriptures, they reject the scriptures. And to reject the scriptures is to reject salvation. Because there is no salvation outside of Scripture. Amen or not? And so these are unsaved people. These are people who know the plan of salvation, know how to be saved, they reject it, and they deliberately teach something. That's twisted out of line. Would you agree with me? That's sobering. That's sobering. And we have a world full of it. And we have quote-unquote churches in the name of Christianity are teaching doctrines that are twisted, that are torturing Scripture, or not found in Scripture. Come on now, it's true. So so it's a it's a serious thing. Now I want to end with this very very quickly, some safeguards. Number one Be faithful in your personal scripture reading. Read the Bible. Know what this book says. Amen? It's going to be hard for people to get me to twist the scriptures to me and get me to buy it if I know what the scriptures say And so be diligent in your reading, in your study of the Word of God. Everybody ought to study the Bible. I know not everybody has the time that a pastor would have. We're on staff. This is our calling. But some time needs to be devoted to not just reading, but studying the Bible at some point. And then be faithful in our church attendance. That's as I said, that's where I've learned the most. Get under the teaching and preaching the Bible. And then be careful. Be faithful and be careful. Be careful of unscriptural influences There's a thing we preach and probably not enough, but it's called personal separation. And there are influences in the world that will draw me away from the Word of God, draw me away from the teaching of Scripture. I hope you're hanging in here with me tonight. That'll draw me away. And I must be very, me, Dennis Leatherman, individually, as an individual Christian, I must be very, very careful what I allow myself to be influenced by. Because I want to be true to the Word of God. What's true for me is true for you. That's why we hold standards. That's why we say You know, don't get involved in this. Be careful watching that. Don't don't go to these places. Make sure you're faithful here. Do all that. Why? Because there's a there is a spiritual warfare going on trying to draw us away from the truth of the Word of God. So be very, very careful on unscriptural influence. Be very, very careful about unholy desires, unholy actions. Because they affect the way I think. What we do affects the way we think, and what we think affects what we do. I learned this in our study of David. Remember when David was on top of the roof, he didn't go out to war? Everybody remember that? He stayed back, he sent all the warriors out. He's the king! He's supposed to be leading them. He goes, nah, you guys got it. I'm gonna stay back here. He goes up on the roof. And he sees Bathsheba. We know the story, right? When he saw her bathing, it changed the way he thought. What he saw affected his heart and mind. He says, I saw, and then he desired, and then he took. And so I've got to watch out for unholy desires. We all have them. We're sinful in nature. They're there, latent in our very heart. And if we're not careful, we allow those desires, those unholy desires, to affect our thinking. And here's what happened: either we start just disregarding what the Bible says, because I want this. Or even worse, or just as bad, we start twisting what the Bible says to try and justify my unholy desires I know the Bible says that, but that was cultural. Listen, if the Bible said it, the Bible said it. Well, that was just for those. This is 2025. Things are different now. My Bible hasn't changed one iota. And so what we do is we get this desire, man, I want this and I want to indulge in this, I want to take part of this, I wanna I want this. And it's contrary to scripture, and if we're not careful, we'll twist that thing. And try and justify what we're doing. Be careful of this statement. Well, what's wrong with this? Huh? Maybe a better question is what's scriptural about this? Huh? I've seen it. I've seen it for years and 40 years I've been doing this. And it's true across the board, all ages. When I was a youth pastor, I saw it. We'll have some young man who loves God, dedicated to Christ, got convictions and standards, right priorities. And he meets some gal that might not even be saved. And all of a sudden, all those convictions, all those standards, all those biblical values. Start to get loosened up and twisted and changed because I want her. I want her. And I've seen it, I've seen it, I've seen it, I've seen it That spiritual well-being just goes down, down, down, down, down. Because they're twisting scriptures. You follow me? He said, oh, and the same thing with the girl, with the guy. I've seen it, I've seen it, I've seen it. He said, Oh, those kids, they always say, hey, I've seen adults do the exact same thing. With the job Start compromising conviction. I get this job, man. It pays good, preacher. It pays good. I've gotta do this, or I've got to get involved in that. I gotta come I know the I know what the Bible says, but man, this pays awfully good. All of a sudden they start justifying, excusing, twisting around so that I can disobey God's word and make good money. You follow me? I've seen it, I've seen it, I've seen it. And so we have to be careful. I hope you understand my heart in preaching this tonight. We want to be right. Here's my thinking I'll end with this. Everything we do, everything, everything about our life boils down to this. One day I'm going to stand before the judgment seat of Christ. And my Christian life is going to be evaluated. Not my sins. They're dealt with on the cross, praise the Lord. But I really, and I think I'm speaking for a lot of people here tonight. I really, really, really want to hear Jesus say, well done, Dennis. Well done. I don't want to be ashamed. Amen? And I want him to hear him say, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Well done. Read study the book, the churches in Revelation. Evaluates them. I want to be one of those churches where he says, well done. You did what I called you to do. You stuck to the Word of God. You kept yourselves pure, doctrinally, spiritually, morally. Well done. Well done. Let's pray. Father in heaven, Lord, we want to be true to your word. We want our lives and our ministries, our behavior. To please you and line up with Scripture. And I pray that your spirit was in this tonight. I pray it wasn't just me talking. Lord, your Holy Spirit would stir us to be very, very careful in our response to the Word of God. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, Pray with me that I'll be more diligent in my Bible reading and my Bible study. I'll give that I need to give that a higher priority in my Christian life. Any like that all around. Tell you it's one of the main things we can do. Get that in place. Get that established. That will do so much. And then church, just being faithful, making that a high priority. How many say, preacher, I need to make My church attendance a high priority. I need to adjust that. Anything like that at all? I need to make that a priority. God bless you. And we need that. We need that. And then be very, very careful. Father blessed now our invitation. I asked him, Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.