I think I owe you an apology. This was a beautiful day, wasn't it? Huh? Man, how often do you get these days? Because I haven't seen a lot of them since I've been coming up here, but uh this was a beautiful day. Didn't start out so good But uh it ended up beautiful. And uh this uh is this summer today? Is this summer? Tomorrow you get into fall or something But uh it was a beautiful day, and I know it is. This is beautiful country. Let me ask you to turn your Bibles to Luke chapter fourteen tonight. Luke chapter fourteen And I want to read in Luke chapter fourteen, beginning in verse twenty-six. You'll pardon me, I'm having a little throat problem. This uh this nice weather, this this nice day today caused me problems. I was doing okay when it was rainy and chilly. Verse 26 of Luke chapter 14. Well, let's read verse 25 first. The Bible says, and there went great multitudes with him. And he turned and said unto them, so he's speaking to the multitudes now. He says, If any man come to me and hate not His father and mother and wife and children and brethren and sisters. Yea, in his own life also he cannot be my disciple. And whosoever doth not bear his cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. For which of you intending to build a tower sitteth not down first and counteth the cost whether he has sufficient to finish it Lest happily, after he hath laid the foundation and is not able to finish it, all that behold it begin to mock him, saying, This man began to build and was not able to finish. What king going to make war against another king set not down first? and consulteth whether he be able with ten thousand to meet him that cometh against him with twenty thousand, or else while the other is yet a great way off. He sendeth an ambassage and desireth conditions of peace. So likewise whosoever he be of you That forsaketh not all that he hath, he cannot be my disciple. Now, Father, again tonight we want to ask you to open this scripture up to us fresh tonight. We know there's nothing new. But we knew though we do know there's things here that that uh we may not have heard, may not have realized, and and that we need to understand. And I pray tonight that you would give us understanding, where only you know we need it personally, individually, and make it a very profitable evening for all of us in our walk with you. Just bless tonight. Thank you for what you've given us this week. Continue to make us aware of your presence as you meet with us. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Three times he says here, you cannot be my disciple. Verse 26, he says the last part of it, he cannot be my disciple. Verse 27, cannot be my disciple. Verse 33, uh, he cannot be my disciple. Now, as as I read this, I personally do not think that Jesus is saying You cannot be a part of me if you're not doing what I want you to do. Here's what I think he's saying. Now think about this. I think he's saying to us, if you don't hear what I tell you Then you're not going to know how to be what you what I want you to be in order to be my disciple. Now you think about it, we are often faced with having to learn something To be able to become what we desire to be. Right? To prepare for the position that you want, for the pay you want, for what you want to accomplish. And if you did not listen, if you did not learn Then you could not become what they wanted you to be in order to fulfill the position they wanted you to fill. And I believe that's what he's saying here. I want you to be my disciple. I want you to be a part of what I have planned. I want you to walk with me and follow me. And I want to be able to use you to accomplish things that count for eternity. But if you don't listen to me, if you don't learn what I need for you to learn Then you're never going to become what I need you to be. So I think what he's saying here If you don't do this, then you're just not going to become what I want you to be. And so he's not just saying, hey, boom, you cannot be. Boom, you cannot be. I think he's saying, you just will not become what I need you to be. I learned a great lesson in this when I was very young, the lesson of listening, listening to learn I uh played football in high school. Now I know you could tell I'm very athletic looking and what's a snickering about? I grew up down in Grundy, Virginia. Anybody ever heard of Grundy, Virginia? Way down the Appalachian Mountains. That's where I grew up. I mean, I grew up where uh Uh they brought corn out in bottles. It's uh, you know, coal mining country. And when I was in fifth going into fifth grade, I played uh junior varsity football at Grundee High School when I was in ninth grade. And uh between ninth grade and tenth grade, my father made a decision. He didn't want us boys, we had three, he had three sons, he didn't want us working in the coal mine, so he decided to move to Maryland. So we moved to Elkton, Maryland. And when the fall came around, I wanted to go out for football, and the place where we lived was right across from the football field. And so they started practicing and I went over and went out for football for uh Elkton High School. And so uh he needed he was uh He needed a uh second string, a backup halfback, coach did. Mel Masenheimer was a coach's name. He needed a backup halfback and a backup quarterback. And so he put me at those two positions because he needed somebody there. And I was a body there. And so I started learning. We started practicing and I started learning. And uh we ran a wing, what they call a wing T. And it was different than anything that they run today that we see. But uh I was backup quarterback and I practiced and I learned some things and we went into our first game with Newark, Delaware High School And the second quarter of that first game, our starting quarterback got hurt. Now he didn't just stump a toe. He was out for the rest of that game and a number of games after that. I am in the game. Needless to say, we lost our first game. But when we went back to practice that next week I began having to learn quickly how to be the quarterback of that team. Now the way that Wing T works, The the quarterback is under center. And you have a fullback right here behind you and a halfback right here behind you. The other halfback is either off the end on the right side or off the end on the left side. But everything's together. Today you have these wideouts, they're all over the field. They're just running wild it looks like. But everything was sort of scrunched together. And what I would do, the key to this offense was, when I got the ball from the center, I had all three of these backs that I could fake to Or keep it myself or fake that I was keeping it. And the key was to make the defense think that the person that had the ball didn't have it, and the person that didn't have it did have it. That was the key just going through it. So so if I ran, say I ran to the right side, I would get the ball and I would just come over here And the ha the halfback would come through and I would fa uh the fullback and I would fake the Freddie Ferice. Kenny Over Miller would come around. I would Fake or give it to him. Jim Hagerman would come across, I would fake or give it to him, and then I would keep it if I didn't hand it off to any other. And the key was to keep The faking going. If I handed it to Freddie Friese first, don't stop and just watch him go, go through the whole process of everybody And so I would start. I started practice. And I would uh fake, I would give the ball to Freddie Freeze or fake to him if I gave it to him. I might take a couple steps and I'd turn around and Masenheimer would tell me. Now Masenheimer was old school. If he coached today, mommies would be calling the television programs about him He couldn't coach today. He would say to me, Creed, carry out the fake. So I would. I'd carry it out for a while. And then two or three places later, I'd give it to Freddie, and I would lollygag over and look around. It's a creed carry out the fake. If you don't carry out the fake, then the whole thing is is uh dead. It's not gonna work So I would do it for a while, and then again I would hand off to Freddie, take a couple steps, turn around. One time I took a couple steps and I turned around, and when I turned around, Masonheimer was standing right there And he hit me in the face with his fist. I mean, he hit me, and my nose went flat. Stuff came out of my face that I didn't know was in my face. Green stuff, yellow stuff, white stuff. And uh my nose, it's still it was broken, you can see it's still a little crooked. I didn't have it straightened a little bit, but he broke my nose. I'm on the ground bleeding Stuff all over my face coming out. And he looks down and says, Creed, carry out the fake. Now I'm going to tell you something. I heard him that time. I mean I heard him as clear as you could hear him Now, I think that's what he's saying here. And I'm not trying to liken Jesus to somebody smack you in the face. But I believe he is saying very seriously, if you don't hear me You're not going to become what I need you to be, and it's not going to work. You're not going to be able to be my disciple because you'll not know what you need to do to become what I need you to be. So you've got to hear me. And you know what the key of the whole thing is? Putting him first. Now we say that. We say that all the time. But I'm afraid it has just become a term we use. Jesus is first in my life. He's first. And it really doesn't mean that much to us. But in this portion of Scripture He explains to us what it means for him to be first. And he gives us those root places. Those places that we must dig down and learn to listen about in order for what grows up out of that. Because we deal with a lot of surface stuff and never get to the root of the thing. We put a lot of band-aids on. And never let the surgery be done that we need done. So notice what he says. First of all, he says in verse 26. That he must be before any other person. Now we know that But uh I don't think a lot of Christians understand that, the importance of that But notice what he says now, verse 26. If any man come to me and hate not That's strong. Now we know he does not mean to literally hate What he's saying is, there must be a caring for me, a love for me that makes every other relationship look like maybe we don't care And then he names people, look at what he says, hate not his father and mother And wife, and children, and brethren, and sisters, yea, and his own life also he cannot be my disciple He said, now listen, if you're gonna learn to be the disciple, I want you to be. Then you're going to have to come to a place that you learned this lesson. No other person Can take my place in your life. I don't care who they are. Father, mother, husband, wife, children, nobody, nobody can come before me. Because you see, whoever's first has your heart. Whoever's first is going to rule your life. And so he must be first. We are going to listen. Think about this. Whoever we love becomes the authority of our life. Whoever is first, that's the one we're going to follow. You think about A teen a teenager in the home. And I know a lot of parents uh experience this. When uh young person um gets out of high school and now they uh there may be maybe even still be in the house or or even as a teenager in high school They meet someone that you really know is not the right friend for them. But all of a sudden that person has their heart. Huh? Now what happens? They start listening to that person instead of parents. Right? You've seen it own home or in someone else's home. You've seen when that teenager gets so close to someone else And and they they just become so close that they start listening to and start following. And what happens? All of a sudden, the parent does not know. They're just out of touch. You know, they're just too old and they don't understand. What happens? That person that has become first to them in their life becomes the authority of their life. And the real authority, the God given authority, is pushed aside. And that's what he's saying here. You can't come to a place that anybody, I don't care who it is, you can't come to a place that anybody gets your heart. And it turns you to them. And you don't listen to me the way I want you to listen to me. You're not going to learn what I need you to learn, and you're not going to become what I need you to be if you don't hear what I'm saying. Right? We've experienced that. We know what it's about. And we fall into that trap ourselves June and I, when we uh when I was when we were called, when we went to Bible school, I had um What had happened, not to go into a long story, but but I was working in management and manufacturing for this company and they transferred us to New England. They bought three plants up there, changing the product over. So we had We had gone to New England. We were gone for about two and a half years. And June's parents had a r had a very special relationship with our children. They They were just like our children's parents. I mean, they were very close. And so when we moved to New England, it really, really hurt them. But then I got a job with another company and moved back to our home area near Elkton. We bought a new house, bought a car. I mean, I was uh uh had already uh Ready to for a promotion, and we were just moving the way we wanted to move, doing what we wanted to do. And I went to church in uh December of 1966 on a Sunday night Just walk in regular service. And I was sitting there, and God reached down and touched my heart. And I walked forward that night, and God said, I want your life. And that night I said, My life is yours. And you know what he did in my life? He totally changed my agenda. No more did I have the drive for that job and accomplishment and promotion and all of that. All of a sudden, God moved in. In a different way. And right away we knew we were going to Bible school, and so we started planning to Bible school. Now, before I tell you this, I want you to know I was not afraid of my mother-in-law. Now there you go again. I just made a statement. But when we got ready to sell our house, I told the realtor, we uh we don't want to put a sign in the yard. Not because I was afraid of my mother-in-law. I said, you if you have somebody to to look at the house, you just call us and and uh we'll set up a an appointment and One day June and I went shopping and we asked our mother to keep the kids. So we went shopping while we was gone, the realtor called. Said, Miss Creed, I have someone to look at house. Could we come over? And my mother-in-law said, What are you talking about? Well, when we came home I'm telling you, June's mother went up one side of me and down the other side. She said things to me. I mean she called me stuff. I mean, I mean everybody moved over. Even the dog moved over to her side. Nobody would stand near me. She tore me down. I mean, she was irate. She said, You are dumb. You are taking these kids Uh and you are making an emotional decision and you're going to ruin them psychologically, and she just went on and on and on. And that day, June and I had to make a decision Do we listen to people we love? Or do we listen to God? Do we do what God wants us to do? Or do we do what these people that love us want us to do? And we had to make a decision that severed the relationship. For a number of years. And we made the decision to leave and go to Bible school the way God wanted. And that's what he's saying there What he's saying is, nobody can become more important to me in your life, more important than me, to cause you to make decisions that keep you from hearing. What I want you to hear, or you're not going to become what I need you to be. So, first of all, he says, no other person Can come before me. Now look at a second thing he says here. In verse 27, it says, And whosoever doth not bear his cross. Now what's the cross represent? Death. That's what he's talking about here. Death to self Who does not bear his cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. Now here's what he's saying. If you are going to hear me, you're going to have to come to a place that your own life does not come before me. Your own desires do not come before me. How many people you you think about Christians in churches? We are so fickle Huh? Our churches are filled with whiners, crybabies Because it's just not going the way I want it to go, right? How easily We are offended over piddly little things that do not mean anything You know people tonight. You can sit here and think of people that used to sit in this church and some little thing happened. And now they don't even go to church. Are there in some church that that does not stand for the Bible, like this church stands for the Bible? And it was all because they were offended by some pitly little thing that took place. And that's what he's saying here. He's saying, listen. You need to get a grip. You need to stand up and take what I permit to come your way. You need to realize that nothing can take place in your life except I permit it or cause it. And anything that comes in your life, it's coming for a reason. I'm trying to make you something that you can that I can use for my honor and my glory And if you're ever going to come to a place that you hear from me, if we're ever going to come to a place that we hear from God, The way we need to hear from God, then all of these tiddly little things around us that that cause our jealousy to arise, our envy To stick its ugly head up, then we're going to have to come to a place that we realize I must die to myself. I cannot respond to my emotion when I am hurt because of some little something someone says or someone does. And that's what he's saying. How many of us miss what God is saying often, sometimes, because of something someone else has said Or something someone else has done. And so we've got to grow up. Hey, the Christian life is not a rose garden, it's a battlefield. We're battling the devil and he's trying to get you out of here and trying to get you to the place that you won't listen to God And he knows how to get to us. Huh? He knows how to do things to get to us. And what Christ is saying there, you're going to have to bear your cross. You're going to have to come after me, not after uh some little old something that's said that doesn't mean anything, you're gonna have to come after me. When s when you hear something that offends you, then run to the Bible and find something that'll battle it. Something that'll give you the victory over it. Don't give in to it, he's saying. If you do Then you will not hear what I need you to hear to become what I need you to be. And uh we've got to grow up We've got to be mature. I uh years ago we had a fellow come to our church. And uh he walked the aisle and made a profession of faith. And he got into church and And uh became regular, attending church. And after he was there for a while, he wanted to visit on a bus route. So he got one of the bus captains and started helping him and visiting and And he visited for quite a while and he came in to me one day and he said, Pastor, he said, I need your help. He said, you know when I got saved, I I I lived a terrible life. He said said uh my finances were a mess and I just uh I I I just had terrible credit and and and uh just terrible name financially. But he said, my car is a wreck and I need to buy a car. I need a car And he said, uh he said, uh could you give me advice? Could you tell me what I could do to maybe get a better car? He said, I'm visiting on the bus route, I want to visit. I really need to do something. He said, could you tell me I We prayed about it and after a while now I'm gonna I'm gonna ask you uh not to laugh at me. Thank you I signed for him to get a car. Who left? I heard somebody. That is the dumbest thing you can do. Huh? I co-sign for him to buy a car. Now you say, how could you do a dumb thing like that? Well, you know, I think I think God sometimes, you know, He protects us from a lot of dumb stuff. Huh? We we we know we would do a lot of dumb stuff if God just didn't protect us. But I think sometimes he says, well, that's that's dumber than I'm gonna put up with. I'm just gonna let you do it. And I think that's what he let me do. He just let me sign. I co-signed He paid three payments, then left. He didn't care about his credit. He didn't have a good credit rating. He didn't care about his name, but my name is on that thing. And every month I had to sit down and write a check and send a payment for a car he was driving. When he is not even in church anymore. Huh? You think I wasn't mad? You think I wasn't offended? I tried to figure out a way I could kill him. But I could not get a way that I felt was really really a way that they'd never catch me. And I knew if they caught me it would hurt my ministry and so I even thought about, you know, I could've I could have hired a hitman from DC for fifty dollars. I considered that. You think I wasn't offended? I mean, when I had to sit down and write that check, I was mad, I was angry And it got to the place over a few months that it affected my preaching, it it affected me in my spirit and and sharing the Word of God. And I had to come to a place God dealt with me, and I had to come to a place. Now think about this. I had to come to a place that I could sit down and write that check and not be mad about it. That's what he's talking about. We've got we've got to recognize when we're offended. We've got to recognize. Now it may be somebody else's fault. It may not be our fault at all. We may not deserve it. That has nothing to do with it. What we've got to do is come to a place that it does not bother me. It does not cause me To be hindered in my relationship with the Lord and stop me from hearing what I need to hear if I'm going to become what God needs me to become. Amen. Some years later, we had a young man in our church came up to me after a Sunday night service, and he dropped in my hand a set of keys to a Mark IV. And said, Pastor, I'm getting another car, and God laid on my heart to give you this. And when he did, it was just as if God said, just want to get things squared. Because he never takes advantage of us. Huh? He's not going to abuse us. He might teach us some lessons that might be rough when we're taught, but he's not going to take advantage of us But we've got to come to a place. First of all, that nobody else comes before him. And secondly, that our feelings do not come before him. Our desires do not become before him. We must die to sell. Then he gives us one more. Look at verse 33. He says, so likewise, whosoever he be of you, that forsaketh not all that he hath, he cannot be my disciple. He says, number three, no thing can come before me. Boy, things get us, don't they? Huh? Now you're getting quiet. We like those things. Huh? We love to play with those things. Get those new ones. New phone's coming out pretty soon. Now I'm not saying it is, I'm saying we think. Hey, they announce it, oh, iPhone twenty five's coming out soon. Well they do line up a mile down the road to get the first one. Why? What's wrong with the one we have? Oh nothing wrong with it, but I got to have that thing. Those things get get a hold of us. And some of us let things get into our lives to the place that God can't be there the way he wants. We listen to that thing and want that thing and go after that thing, and we don't listen to God. And He can't speak to us. Now this is a root thing. This is a root thing. A lot of things come out of this. But he says, listen, if anything, if anything Becomes so important to your life that you just give yourself to it. You listen, you're not going to hear what I want you to hear. New cars. Huh? Let me tell you this. If you don't want to and you're not ready to buy a new car, Stay away from the showroom. Huh? And if you do go to the showroom, if you go to the dealer, you have to take your car in, get the oil change, get something done to your car, don't go in the showroom. Just stay in there that smoke filled room or whatever in this just stay in there and put up with it. If you go in that showroom and you open the door, it's over. The smell gets you You can't resist the smell. Once you get the smell, it changes your whole attitude about that car you're having repaired in there. You get in your car and you start down the road and you start hearing things you didn't hear before. Little rattle, a little dingle, you start hearing it. And then this is the thought that comes to mind. You know, I think I could pay the payment on that car, and it wouldn't be that much more than what I have to pay to repair this one. Huh? That comes from the smell. Stay away. I used to I used to love those grandmarquis back in the late 80s. They were like a box. And uh boy I loved that car. I'd get one every three or four years or so as a pastor and And I found out, and I think it was 1987 or something like that, they were going to make the last model. And I loved that model. So I waited right at the end of the season So I could get at the end of the season and have it longer. And I went and got me one, boy, it was pretty. Uh sky blue with a white vinyl top and had a blue Vallure interior. I took that home. I wouldn't let the family near it. They could they could stand within twenty feet and I would open the door so they could look at the inside but they couldn't get close to it. Finally I started letting them get in the car and they could get in, but they couldn't put their feet on the floor. They said that's about the way I acted. And uh one day I had sitting out in the driveway and and I left one of the windows cracked and it rained. And I went out and that that velour interior was just soaked. So I went in, got me a hairdryer, and plugged in, got me a extension cord, and ran it out there. And uh started trying to dry that thing 'cause I knew what June would say. I acted so stupid about the whole thing. I was trying to dry it and it wouldn't dry, and I was afraid she was gonna come out that door and I got closer and closer to it Finally I got so close with that hairdryer I branded it right into that velour interior. It was just as if God said, Okay, dummy, it's just a thing But isn't that the way we act? About the new thing? I mean that new thing means so much. And what we've got to do is come to the place that we realize how things are used in our life to interfere with our relationship with God. It's so important that he comes and he says to it to us, you cannot have anything. more important than me in your life. If you do, you're not going to hear what I want you to hear. So the thing I want us to do tonight is just think about this. God wants to speak to us. God wants to be so personal with us that while we're driving down the road, He's able just to say, what about this in your life? What about getting involved in this? What about helping so-and-so? What about doing this? God wants to constantly be speaking to us. And if you and I let something else become more important to him, We're going to miss that relationship. That intimate relationship that brings us to the place that we become a real disciple. And all of us here tonight want to be a disciple. Amen. Let's pray. Every head bowed, every eye closed. How many folks tonight will say, preacher, that's what I want? I don't want I don't want anything to interfere With how God wants to speak to me this week, draw me to the decision I need to make, the commitment I need to make. I don't want anything to be so important in my life that I miss what he wants to tell me. I want to please him in this matter of missions in our church. I want I want to be a disciple of his. I want him to be the authority. I want I want him to be the most important to me. Would you just pray with me and pray for me that that God would help this to sink into me and that I would that I would gain In putting him first. Would you pray with me and pray for me? Would you slip your hand up all over the building? God bless you. Why don't we just get alone with him tonight, do business with him, ask him to help us, help us to grasp this. Help us to hold on to this thought. Let's stand as we pray. Father, bless tonight as we do business with you. Thank you for these that have raised their hands. I pray that you would just do some very special things in our heart tonight. Help us to be reminded. We we know all about what we've talked about tonight, but we just need to be reminded. And enlightened about how to practically put you first. I pray that you would meet every need here Do a special work. Bless the invitation. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed, pen is placed