In John chapter chapter three, I know this is a familiar portion of scripture and and uh I trust that uh it'll not be a a bore to you as we uh as we look at some of the verses there in John chapter 3. I'm going to ask you to stand with me and do reverence to the Word of God as we read just several verses here. I'm going to start reading in chapter 2 In John chapter 2, and uh let's start reading it uh let me see let's start reading verse 23, John 2, verse 23, and then we'll go to John 3 Now, when he was in Jerusalem at the Passover in the feast day, many believed in his name when they saw the miracles which he did. But Jesus did not commit himself to them because he knew all men, and needed not that any should testify of man, for he knew what was in man. Those are important verses. Where it says that because he knew all men and that he knew what was in man, you've got to realize that Jesus is God. You know, you uh uh you think you're hiding stuff from him? I got news for you. He knew what was in man. So uh then it goes to verse one of chapter three. It says there was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, the ruler of the Jews. And the same came to Jesus by night, and he said to him, Rabbi, We know that thou art the teacher come from God, for no man can do these miracles that thou doest except God be with him. And Jesus answered, and he said unto him, Verily, verily I say unto thee, except the man be born again He cannot see the kingdom of God. And Nicodemus says unto him, How can a man, there's that word, Pastor, How's that man, how can a man be born when he's old? Can he enter the second time into his mother's womb and be born? And Jesus answered him, Verily, verily I say unto thee, except the man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh. But that which is born of the Spirit is Spirit. Marvel not that I say unto you, you must be born again. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, as we bow before you here this morning, I thank you first of all, Lord, for this church and this pastor and these people that have built a great work here with your leadership and and uh your unction from on high. Lord I thank you for I look on across this auditorium, I see all these all these these booklets that's going out to to uh people, sixteen thousand of them to that means that there's sixteen thousand people that's that's gonna have an opportunity to receive you as their personal savior. What a joy it brings in our hearts to know that the Word of God is going forth from this place. Lord, we we ask your blessings upon this message. You know what my needs are. And more importantly, Lord, you know what the needs of these people who are out in front of me here, and I pray that that somehow or another Uh it's that need that's going to be manifest one way or another that you would answer the need of that heart. Save that soul that sneers tells Pray that you'd reclaim the that one who has been sort of slipping out back into the world. Lord, I pray that uh you might just bring them back. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. And amen. May be seated. If you were to take a a poll, if you were to I know we're getting into election season, you know, and and uh uh polls are gonna be more and more important, you know, to find out whether President Trump is hated or loved and all that's you know, that's all gonna be a big mess. When you get the spiritual things, and if you were to take a poll uh in town here, or anywhere as you would go And uh ask the question of how how can I how can I get how can I be sure that when I die I'm going to go to heaven? Uh you'd find probably uh probably as many people as you ask that many different ideas. Since the Bible now is uh not uh uh uh uh taught in school and uh since uh the Bible's is uh anymore does not seem to have a preeminence in our society Uh it's amazing how few people really know anything about the Word of God. And so when you ask them about anything, or they would ask you anything about salvation, how uh Whatever you tell them just about is what they're going to accept. But most people they have their own ideas about it. Some people have uh have the idea that uh el elaborate uh rituals will somehow get them to heaven. And there's some churches that can provide that and they have the robes and they have the innocence pots, you know, and the do all that thing and and uh somehow or another they they feel that if they just get into a church like that, why it's gonna be all right. Or maybe uh uh maybe it's uh uh excruciating self denial. I know uh in over over in the uh uh Oh, in the Middle East, I guess we'd say, uh Malaysia and Siam and places like that. They uh certain times of year uh people take uh cat of nine tails with uh steel and glass in in woven into the the uh uh the strings and they beat their backs until it's just nothing but a bloody pulp and they somehow or another equate that to uh you know uh satisfying God and be accepted into heaven. And then there's others who uh believe that it's maybe it's just uh if we're just really uh uh enthusiastic about our works and we and we you know they get out and they They do this, and they help old ladies across the street, and they bake a pie for Maggie, and you know, they do all those all those good works, not knowing that uh it's not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us And then there's uh well there's uh like I say, there's so many different ways that uh some people can, you know, uh have in their mind that they can get to heaven. But Jesus is laying out an enlightened pathway here for Nicodemus. But in order for it to do anything for you, and and I I say that uh if there's any uh if it's uh Uh it just went over my head. I don't know what it was, but uh the uh uh For God to do anything, for you here this morning, there's a few things that you have to do. And here's the first thing. You have to believe that God is and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. Now that may seem rather silly in a in a fundamental Bible-believing church There may be some people in here that maybe you know you have some questions. Maybe there's uh someone here that's lost and uh you've never you know you you're just listening to all this and and trying to make heads or tail out of this old man up here trying to, you know, spiel out some doctrine. But uh that's the first step. You must believe that God is. You know, with Pastor and I mentioned earlier, we went out and was looking at the stars and looking at that satellite that went across the sky. But in that background of that satellite was uh was these billions of stars. Well we couldn't see all billions of them, but we could we we knew that that someone had to place all that stuff there So you must believe that God is, and not only that, but He is an active God. He's uh He's working in our behalf And then the second thing is you must accept that we have an accurate and reliable Bible. I don't know about you, and maybe you've got a different Bible than I have. But if you want the Word of God, you'd have an old King James Bible like I've got. You don't have to have an old Schofield. That's what I've had all the years I've been saved But it's a King James Bible, and the reason I lift that up, and by the way, I suspect that every one of these is King James. You know, and it's uh so uh we must accept the fact that we have a a reliable uh bible in our hands. I mean if you if you can't be sure of this book then you can't be sure of anything. So that's the second thing. And then the the third thing is you must you must lay aside what we think, what you think. And realize that uh that be God be true and every man liar. Now that's a hard uh hard task. I used to when I uh I would uh mention that verse, I would uh I would point to the people sitting on these front rows and usually the pastor was there and I make sure I always pointed the pastor, you know, whether God be true and every man a liar. And he would look at me very strange. And then I would uh go on with the message. But the truth of the matter is this Now I'm not saying that, you know, this is what you, but I want you to understand that as far as your makeup is concerned, the carnal man, the carnal mind is an enity with God And this old flesh that we have uh is really an enemy of God. And you may think, well, I serve God, I love God, and I win souls, I do it, but but inside, this old carnal flesh It's still alive. If you're if you're not alive, you can it's kind of, you know, kind of scary if you're still sitting here. But you understand what I'm saying? That this old carnal nature is against God In this verse of scripture, in these verses, you have Jesus dealing with this Pharisee, Nicodemus. And Nicodemus uh there's he has heard about Jesus, he's seen the miracles, and he's convinced that there's something different about this man. And so you gotta remember that Jesus is dealing with a at the at the best would be a young Christian if he's saved, but uh He may not even be saved at this point. If we know that he got saved through that somewhere later on, perhaps. But the but the the thing is that uh uh Jesus is dealing with him as with a child. And so he's using metaphors and types as he deals with him, takes him down this road of enlightenment to a place where he can and uh shove him off into where he can trust Christ as his personal Savior. So let's see what uh what God says and how Jesus answers uh answers Nicodemus in the questions that he asks. The first thing that I I noticed about how he deals with Nicodemus is that he he doesn't dilly-dally around Yeah, we go on visitation and and we talk about the kids and the grandkids and we talk about this and maybe maybe you don't, but that's maybe that's how I've done it. and uh you know, to lighten people up and get 'em used to you a little bit. And then then you get into the scriptures and you start talking about it. But I noticed Jesus, uh, he assumed apparently a little bit of knowledge and so he jumps right into it. And he says, for no man, or Jesus said in verse 3, he says, and Jesus answered, he said, Verily, verily I say unto thee, except the man be born again, he cannot, you know that That to me was is amazing, that he just jumps right into the this fact of being born again. What uh why would he do that Well, he goes on. He listens for Nicodemus' uh next answer. And Nicodemus said unto him, How can a man be born when he's old? And that's what Jesus was looking for. Jesus answered, Verily, verily I send you, except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. Now you can Uh when you read the commentaries on that verse of scripture, uh many of them will talk about uh water baptism. And I don't believe it has what it has to do with it all. Matter of fact, I believe the next verse uh puts it in context, and so we just look at the next verse to find out exactly what Jesus is speaking here He said, Except a man be born of water. What's he talking about? Verse 6, that which is born of the flesh is flesh. He's obviously talking about the water birth. When a when a woman's water breaks and the child comes forth So he's talking about, he said, you're you're you have to be born physically, and then you must be born again. That's the thing that most people can't really get a hold of. I know for years before I was saved, I just uh you know, I th I thought, well, uh if you do m more good deeds than you do bad deeds then you go to heaven. Now if the bad deeds overweigh the good deeds, then you go to hell. And that's somehow or another, that's that's what I had in mind. And a lot of people today still have that mentality when it comes to the manner of salvation because they don't see that there is a necessity of a change of nature If you're going to get to heaven, you can't get there with the physical body. There has to be a change of nature. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. There has to be that new creature created. And only God can do that. Verily, verily I say unto you, except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, so there must be that physical birth, and there must be then this this spiritual birth. The spiritual birth after the physical birth. Verse 6. That which is born of the flesh is flesh. That which is born of the Spirit, the Spirit. Marvel not that I say unto you, and here he says again, you must be born again. I know Charles Spurgeon has a message that I believe it's God's emphatic necessity, and he uses that verse, that you must, you must, God's emphatic necessity. There isn't any question that there must be a new birth in order to go to heaven. And you may say, well, uh I think of uh you know, I'm not that bad of a person. And I think I can, you know, if I just you know keep going down the the straight and narrow and I still you know and I go to church and I give them my tithe and I ever but that's not what the Bible says The thing that's most important in an individual's life is a relationship with God, and that can only come through a new birth. must be a born-again experience for a person to get to heaven. And then he he chain he g gives into this this m metaphor. He says the the wind bloweth where it listeth. Thou knowest not. Verse 8. The wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh or whether it goeth. And so is every one that is born of the Spirit I remember when I got saved back in 1962. I was going to EB Church, that's the Evangelical United Brethren Church. My granddaddy preached in that church, as many of you already know, uh for forty or fifty years, uh uh uh before I was er even saved. And uh but I was going to the EUB church over in Lochland And uh I've been well that's when the uh the uh uh sword of the Lord came into to be. My brother had gotten saved and uh uh He started sending me the sword of the Lord. I don't know, but I wasn't saved. And I'd get the sword of the Lord and I'd see that sword of the Lord on there and and I knew he'd send it. And so I just throw it in the trash. And the next week, why I think it was a weekly Yeah. Because every week I do out its face is sword of the Lord, throw it in the trash, it's sword of the Lord, throw it in the trash, throw in the You know, it got to be then but there one time there was this I don't know there was a headline that caught my eye And it's something like, are you going to hell? You know, when the when the those words kind of hit you in the face and they have meaning in your heart, it does something to you. And that's when, you know, things started changing in my life. And uh then it got to the place where I was trying to figure out If I went to a a Billy Graham crusade, I could walk down the aisle with all those thousands of people that walked down the aisle and I'd get saved there. I didn't know you could get saved by just asking the Lord to save you. I didn't know that uh you could just uh, you know uh trust the Lord uh out by your the shed or something, you know. I didn't know you could do that. So I was trying to figure out how to get saved. And uh They had a little revival going on at the UB Church, and that's when I went to that meeting. And I think, if I'm not mistaken, it was he was either, I think it was a Wednesday, it seemed like it was a Wednesday night And that night I walked in and I sat in the back and the preacher, Brother Simpson, was preaching. He was our next door neighbor, right across the road. And I When he finished preaching, I have no idea what he preached. He could have been preaching Mickey Mouse. Because I was there for one reason. Spirit of God already got a hold of me, you know why? Because I kept throwing those sword of the Lords away and the Lord kind of convicted me, making me feel bad every time I threw one away. So the Lord had been convicting me and working with me and that night when I walked into that church and I sat down in the back I had my mind then uh I need to walk out of high and get saved. When he gets done preaching, I'm going to walk up there and I'm going to kneel down at that altar and I'm going to get saved. And when he finished preaching, you know what I did? I got up out of my seat and I walked down there and I got down on my knees at that altar and I said, God, I don't even know why I'm here. All I know is I need to get saved. And so I'm asking you to save me. And I just sit there, you know, and and there wasn't any, you know, wasn't an angel came down or nothing. And there wasn't uh, you know, I didn't have any tingling feelings and uh, you know, I kind of looked around and Finally, somebody came down and slapped me on the back and said, Well, congratulations. And I said, Okay. How do you feel? Same as I always did. You know, I just didn't. In other words, nobody took the Bible and showed me how to get saved. But you know, God saved me. You know why? Because for with the heart man believeth unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. God knew my heart when I walked out. I believe when I stepped out in the aisle, maybe even before that, when I had the thought of stepping out in the aisle, God saved me. God looks at the heart of man. He knows what your needs are. That night as I walked down that aisle, God was ready to meet me at the altar and fulfill every promise that he made in this book to me. That night I got up and I I I have to admit, I didn't have any fuzzy feelings I didn't run around the walls and I didn't jump up and down and people slapped me on the back and and congratulated me but uh I just uh I said, you know, I acknowledged it and smiled and and walked out. But there was something that happened inside because I had become a new creation, a new creature in Christ Jesus. And there was new desires. The first thing I did is I told Nan when I got home that I got saved. And then I said, I want you to go to church with me tomorrow night. And she just smiled and said, No. He's been saying that all these years. She wouldn't go with me the first night. But if I if I had my days right, it was on Friday night, she did go. And that night it kinda tickled me because I knew what was gonna happen. I knew I knew that Mrs. Simpson was gonna get her. That was the preacher's wife. And uh she was uh she was sitting there beside me and she saw Mrs. Simpson get up and start around and and sure enough she just stopped at Nan and took her down at the altar and uh showed her how to be saved. So we were a whole family. You see, God could use the sword of the Lord even if it was just a headline. You get me saved. Can you imagine what happens when people actually read that that that book or that that paper? Marvel not that I say unto you, you must be born again. The wind bloweth where it listeth. He's going into a metaphor here now concerning comparing he's trying to explain to this this uh uh child in the spiritual realm He's trying to explain about how the spirit works. He says, says you cannot, when the wind blows through the trees, You cannot see the wind, but you can see one thing, and that is that the leaves and the tree are moving. And so that's the way it is with the Spirit. I got up off my knees that night and nobody could see my heart. Nobody knew that in my heart that God had already transformed me. But God knew. And the next day, when I got home and tried to get her saved, was the leaves beginning to move in my life. Actually of the Holy Spirit moving in my life. That's the way the Spirit works in this matter of salvation We can't see the Spirit doing anything, but we can certainly see the evidence of the Spirit working in your life. Nicodemus answered and he said unto him, How can these things be? And Jesus said unto him, Art thou master of Israel and knowest not these things? You would have thought that that uh perhaps that Nicodemus would have been aware of some of this stuff, but it was it was oblivious to him. What he was taught in in seminary, I don't know. But he said, Barely, barely I say unto thee, we speak that we know and testify that we've seen, and you receive not our witness. If I have told you earthly things and you believe not, how shall you believe if I tell you of the heavenly things? And no man hath ascended into heaven, but he that came down from heaven, even the Son of Man which is in heaven. And then he gives his last illustration on this path to enlightenment, that I call it. And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up. We all know the story of what happened back in the Old Testament. The nation of Israel had been complaining to Moses and and to God because uh they had just come out of Egypt and and uh while they had been like slaves in Egypt, as they when they came out uh and into the wilderness uh there wasn't plentiful uh food and and stuff and so as a as a result of that they were griping and complaining to Moses about it and finally God got tired of it And he sent fiery serpents in the midst of the camp of Israel, and they began to bite the people. They were poisonous snakes. And when they begin to bite the people and they begin to die off, why, they came to Moses and said, tell them God to take away the serpents. And so God says, well, I'm not going to do that. But he says, I'll give you a remedy. You see, that's what God did with you and I. He looked down and the fiery serpents of sin have been have been biting us and and uh gnawing on us and and injecting us poison into our lives. And so instead of just taking away the serpents, what he did was he gave us a remedy. And his name is Jesus. And the Bible says in the book of John in chapter 12 in verse 32, it says, and I, if I be lifted up, I'll draw all men to me. And that drawing, the lifting up of Jesus, was a picture of how he was to die, which was to be crucified. And so this is what he says here. Even so must the Son of Man be lifted up, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. If you'll remember the story, God told Moses, he said, I want you to put a brazen serpent on a pole. I want you to take it up, put it in the hill on the top of the hill up there where everyone can see it, so it's available to everyone That has been bitten. And you tell the people this. If you look, you can live If you just look at the serpent, I'll take away the poison. I'll make sure that you have life And so that's what happened. Moses takes the brazen serpent, and the brazen serpent then has to be a picture of something. And that is the Lord Jesus Christ on the cross of Calvary, as he was the judgment. He hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. And so Jesus was made our righteousness. He was the bravest brazest serpent on the pole. And when the people looked at the serpent And all they had to do was look, was an indication of their belief they were c they were cleansed and were able to uh and and had life. Whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. And then the verse that everyone knows. Would you repeat it with me? It says, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life For God sent not his son, verse 17 says, into the world to condemn the world, but the world through him might be saved. I'm so glad that we have a Savior. that cared enough to go through what he had to go through. Whenever you you think of Calvary, uh I think of the the cat of nine tales that he got beat with before that. I think of the agony in Gethsemane as he sweated over great drops of blood. I think of the agony that he went through there in Gethsemane. When his when his all his people walked away from him. I think of the time that that the uh uh he's nailed to that cross. I think of the blood that ran down that post into the ground. We have a Savior that went through everything that we would have gone through in hell. To provide a salvation for us. The question is: have you ever trusted Him as your personal Savior? There's one more must that's uh found in in the in John there And uh, let me see, it's in John chapter 3 and verse 30. And this is it has to do with John the Baptist. And John the Baptist the had some of the some of his followers were uh were going to Jesus and uh and uh They asked him about it, and he made this is what he said. This is the third must in John chapter 3. It says, he that is Jesus must increase. But I must decrease. If you're here today and you've trusted Christ as your personal Savior, Then there for on for your road to success, there must be a decrease in what you want. And an increase of what Jesus wants out of you. You're here today and you've trusted Christ as your Savior, then uh you have the option to make a decision. To trust Christ as your Savior. Heavenly Father, I pray now for these next few moments. I pray first of all, Lord, that you'd speak to that one who's here that perhaps does not know you as their personal savior. Maybe Satan has been feeding them a lie, and uh they think that they can get to heaven by some other way. Lord, whatever it is that you want to deal with our lives about, I pray that you'd help us open our mind and open our heart. Search me, O God, and see if there be any wicked way in this. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.