So I thought they were leaving. I thought, What? No, that was excellent, very good. I'm telling you, Ben don't know this, but he is open game right now. I mean everything. But no, that was excellent. If you want to turn to Matthew chapter six with me. We're getting back to the greatest sermon ever preached by the greatest preacher that ever preached, the Lord Jesus Christ, preaching the Sermon on the Mound. We had a great time yesterday down at Cass Railroad And we had about, I don't know, twenty folks maybe, something like that, went down. I'm telling you, the drive down was as beautiful as anything, just a gorgeous drive. And uh we're driving uh heading down I had the one of the new church bus we were driving and folks were sitting there. We came around a corner and here is um dead possum or something in the road, but this huge bald eagle is right on top of it and just takes off and flies right up the road in front of us. It's just a neat thing. And the train ride was exciting and uh just had a a real wonderful time. And so we're glad for everybody that went. We had a Had a great time, as I said. Matthew chapter six. I want to begin reading in verse number twenty-five, and I'm going to read an extended portion. I'm going to read all the way down through the end of the chapter. The reason I'm doing that, it's been a week or two. Since uh we've been uh attacked by birds and um I tell you, Cindy had a great idea a while ago. Set all your ringtones to somebody saying, Amen. And uh Then if you forget to turn it off and it goes off, it's just, amen, and I'll just get fired up, you know It's been a couple weeks since we've looked at this, and um this whole section from verse 25 all the way through the end is really one subject the Lord is dealing with at length. And so I want to, for the sake of what we're going to speak on tonight, keep the whole context together so we get in our minds what's taking place here. It says in verse twenty-five, Therefore I say unto you Take no thought for your life what you shall eat or what you shall drink, nor yet what your nor yet for your body what you shall put on Is not the life more than meat and the body than Raymond? And the answer to that question is what? Yes, life is more than just what we eat, and life is more than just what we wear Behold, the fowls of the air, in verse 26, for they sow not, neither do they reap nor gather into barns, yet your heavenly father feedeth them. Are ye not much better than they? Which of you, by taking thought, can add one cubit unto his stature? What's the answer to that question? None of us, we can't change how tall we are by worrying about it. Uh and why take ye thought for the for the raiment Uh consider the lilies of the field, how they grow, toil not, neither do they spin. Yet I say unto you that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these Wherefore, if God so clothed the grass of the field, which today is, and tomorrow is cast into the oven, how shall he not much more clothe you? Now look at this last statement. O ye of little faith. I'd underscore that. I circled it in my Bible. I underlined it and I circled that phrase. O ye of little faith. Then he goes on, verse 31. Therefore Take no thought saying, what shall we eat, or where or what shall we drink, or wherewithal shall we be clothed? For after all these things do the Gentiles seek. For your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of these things, but seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. And all these things, the things he's addressed, shall be added unto you Take therefore no thought for the morrow, for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. That last part in verse number thirty That little phrase at the end of the chapter is what I want to zero in tonight. I think it's very, very significant. O ye of little faith. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you bless now as we look at this statement and the passage around it Lord, I ask that you would help us to see the real need in our lives, the real the root cause of our worry and our fear and our anxiety and concerns and a lot of our fussing. I pray that You would fill me, I ask, Lord, with your Holy Spirit, and speak through me tonight, and uh teach us and challenge us And Lord, give us some direction here and help us to make good spiritual decisions as a result of what you show us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. This whole chapter, as we've said a number of times, and again it's been a few weeks, so I want to bring this back to the forefront of our minds. There's two dangers the Lord addresses here In the first eighteen verses he addresses the danger of hypocrisy. And the thing that gets me is he's speaking to not just saved people, but he's speaking to disciples. to unsaved religious people. He's not talking to Pharisees. He's not talking to just religious people that are lost. And he says one of the dangers as a disciple of Christ is hypocrisy. And he goes to tremendous length, eighteen verses Saying, don't be like the hypocrites. Don't be like the hypocrites. Don't be like the hypocrites. If he's telling them don't be like the hypocrites, then There's a real danger of them being like what? The hypocrites And so he addresses that, and we've dealt with that at length. In the second half, from verse number 19 to the end, what we just read here just about, he's addressing uh materialism. And again, it's disciples he's talking to. It's not unsaved worldlings out there just going crazy and living for the world. These are people who trusted them and have made a decision. I'm going to take on the cross, I'm going to be a follower of Jesus Christ. And he says, watch out for materialism. The first few sections there, of course, as we noted, verse 19 through 24, he talks about working for materialistic ends. My whole life is, I gotta get more, I gotta get this, I gotta have that. And working towards materialistic ends and laying up treasures on earth rather than treasures where in heaven. And he went and we he dealt with that at length. Now this last section, he's not talking about working towards materialistic ends, but he's talking about worrying about materialistic needs. What I'm gonna wear, what I'm gonna uh eat, where I'm gonna live, and these types of things. And I think, as I mentioned in verse number thirty, I think he touches on perhaps The root problem behind not just materialism, but hypocrisy, even. I think he touches on something very, very serious here. And he says, O ye of little faith. When I saw that, and I thought, hmm, he is dressing the real problem here, the real issue. that's producing all these other symptoms of hypocrisy and materialism in the life of believers, of disciples. Ye of little faith. That phrase, oh ye of little faith, appears four times in Matthew. One time here, and then if you would come over to chapter 8, he uses that same same statement again Down at verse number 26, Matthew 8, verse 26, verse 23, he gets the disciples, they follow him into a ship. And uh they go out on the sea. And verse 24 says, There arose a great tempest on the sea, insomuch that the ship was covered with the waves, but he was asleep. And his disciples came to him and woke him, saying, Lord, save us, we perish. I think that's interesting in that most of his disciples, not all of them, but a good percentage of his disciples were fishermen. They had made their living out on this sea, and they had seen storms, no doubt, and this one's pretty serious, and they get to the point, we need the Lord to intervene here. And then verse 26, he saith unto them, Why are ye what fearful? And then he uses this statement again, O ye of little faith. Now what does that tell me the root cause of their fear was? Little faith. Faith was the issue. And he says, why are you fearful, O ye of little faith? Implying that it was the smallness of their faith that produced fear, not the storm. Not the boat being covered with waves. It was the littleness of their faith. Come with me over to chapter 14 He uses this phrase again. This one time, this is a fascinating event And this is where uh Jesus, they're out in the storm again, they're in the boat, and there's a storm, and um they see verse 26 Verse 25, and in the fourth watch of the night Jesus went unto them walking on the sea. And when the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were troubled. How many folks if you were out there and you were on the sea and you saw somebody walking toward you on the water you'd be troubled by that a little bit? Yeah. Saying, It's a spirit. And they cried out in fear. And uh they thought he was a ghost coming. But straightway Jesus spake unto them, saying, Be of good cheer in his eye, be not afraid. Peter answered him, here's Peter. And said, Lord, if it be thou, bid me come out unto thee on the water. And he said, Come. And Peter was come down out of the ship and walked on the water to the go to Jesus, and when he saw the wind boisterous, he was afraid. And beginning to sink, he cried, saying, Lord, save me. And immediately Jesus stretched forth his hand and caught him and said unto him, O thou of little faith, wherefore didst thou doubt? That tells me the root of his fear and his doubt was what? Little faith. We'll look at this here in a minute, but um, I think it's interesting. Both of these situations The Lord led them into it. Both of these storms, both of these boats, it was the Lord leading into it. It's not like these disciples are saying, ah, I don't want to follow the Lord, go over here, and they get in a storm. Lord has to come rescue them This is they're following the Lord. He's directing them in these things. And they're going into the storm. That tells me this. Just because I'm trying to live for God doesn't mean I'm not going to face storms. I can read my Bible every day, pray every day, I can do everything I can to keep the world's influence out of my heart and mind. I can win souls, I can be faithful to church, I can be everything God wants me to be, and still face storms in life But it was the lack of faith, it was the littleness of their faith that caused their fear. One more, Matthew chapter 16, and verse number 8. He uses this phrase again. Matthew sixteen and verse eight, he says, uh Matthew sixteen, verse eight. Verse 6 says, Then Jesus said unto them, Take heed and beware the leaven of the Pharisees and of the Sadducees. And they reasoned among themselves, saying, Is because we have taken no bread. He said, Leaven, so they started thinking about material stuff, bread. And verse 8, which when Jesus perceived, he said to him, O ye of little faith, why reason ye among yourselves because ye have brought no bread? Now here is their concern for food. Now that brings us back to Matthew chapter 6. I just want to see the different contexts where the Lord uses that statement, O ye of little faith. Two are very, very fearful. Another one is they're thinking materialistic stuff food. And of course, Matthew chapter 6, he's addressing worrying. about whether my needs will be met. By the way, that phrase is used again in Luke chapter 12, but uh it's simply Luke's account of the Sermon on the Mount So it's a little repetitious of there. So what am I trying to say? I'm trying to say this. I believe the Lord is telling us that the ultimate cause of our fears and our doubts is the littleness of our faith What do we teach the kids? What time I am afraid I will trust in thee. Psalm fifty-six three A time I am afraid, I will trust in thee. I want us to notice a few things here on this little phrase, and I'm actually going to do another sermon, I believe, next week and carry this idea on. But I want us to notice, first of all, the people he's addressing. I kind of got ahead of myself here in the introduction, but come back over to chapter 5, verse number 1. Look at this again with me. Oh, ye a little faith. Verse 1 says, In seeing the multitudes, he, Jesus, went up into a mountain. And when he was set, his who Disciples came unto him, and he opened his mouth and taught who Them. Who's the them? It's the disciples. And so the people he's addressing when he says, oh, have ye a little faith, he is not addressing all of mankind. He's not talking to the whole world and saying the whole world, oh, ye have little faith. He's not saying that at all. The greatest need of all of mankind is salvation. Not food and drink and clothing. That's the context of uh where he makes that statement, oh ye a little faith. So he's he's not talking to all mankind. He says, you know, don't worry about food and clothing and housing and all of that uh he doesn't say that. The world the world's greatest need is salvation. That is what the world's need is. And so uh obviously food, clothing, housing is an issue for the unsaved But what they need is salvation. When we send a missionary out to some foreign field or some third world country of that, the greatest need in that country is the gospel of Jesus Christ. That is the purpose of the missionary. Now, if the people are starving, they're starving to death, it might be a good idea to give them some food, but the object of giving them food is so that it will open a door so I can share with them Christ. Right? Might need to build them a house if that's consuming them. Uh I think what I'm trying to say is this our mission's emphasis should never simply be feeding and clothing and housing poor people Our focus of our missions is winning them to Christ. I've often thought of this way, and I don't mean for it to come sound as cold as what it does. They're not we shouldn't be cold at all. The Lord clearly told us to feed and the the help the poor Well, my thinking is this, what good does it do a poor person if I fill their belly with food and they die and go to hell? If I put them in a nice house and they die and go to hell, I give them nice clothes, they die and go to hell. Now they may need the food and the clothing in the house they So the Lord is not saying, this isn't addressing the whole world and saying, oh, you world, you little faith. No, no, no. It's not it at all. He's not even addressing unsaved people here He's talking to saved people. Did you notice through here how often he said your father? Your father Your father, back in uh verse number eight and nine. I I like this verse in chapter uh six and verse eight. Uh be ye not therefore like unto them. He's talking about the pagans, the heathen But he makes this statement, For your Father knoweth what things ye have need of before ye ask them. Then he introduces the Lord's Prayer and he says, After this manner, pray ye, Our Father which art in heaven If you caught it there down through this section, he says there um uh verse number twenty-six, he says, Your yet your heavenly father feedeth them At no time does the Bible ever address unsaved people, refer to them as being God's son, or God being an unsaved person's father. Now, in a generic sense, maybe as our creator, you might refer to him as the father of creation. I think there's a few references in the Bible to that. But as far as being a child of God Only saved people are children of God. Only saved people can refer to God as my Father And so he's not addressing the world in general. He's not even addressing unsaved people. He's addressing saved people here. People who accepted Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. People who have gone beyond that and said, not only accepting Jesus Christ as my personal savior, I want to try and live for them. I'm going to try and live by his principles. I'm going to seek to be a follower of his. I'd guess, and we mentioned this a number of times throughout this passage. I'd guess most of us here, if I'd corner you and ask you, are you a disciple of Jesus Christ? Do you consider yourself a disciple of Jesus Christ? I think most of us here would answer what? Yeah I would like to think of myself as a disciple of Christ. I would like to believe that I have made the decision to take up my cross, follow the Lord. Of course, it's an ongoing development. It's a constant issue as we try to implement that. But that's who he's talking to. So the Lord is saying to you and I In a sense, ye of little faith. Now, it's just us here. I promise I won't tell anybody. How many folks here ever worried about something? You're kidding. We all do, don't we? But I thought you said you're a follower of Jesus Christ. I thought you said you're saved and all this. And we still worry? You know what the problem is behind our worry? You know what the root problem is? our littleness of our faith. He says, Oh ye of little faith. Oh good night. How am I going to pay make that house payment? When's it due? Four weeks. Alright? Is it something we ought to give attention to? Sure. It's an obligation I have. Is it something I should worry about? No, the Lord says don't give thought. Don't get distracted. The word give thought, if you remember we said, has the idea of getting my eyes off of the Lord and getting it focused onto this issue. And drawing me away from the Lord. So the people he's addressing is pretty obvious, and I've belabored that a little bit. But here's what I want to get to. I want us to notice, second of all, the problem he's addressing. Now look at that little statement again there in verse number 30. Wherefore, if God so clothed the grass of the field, which today is tomorrow's cast in the oven, shall he not much more clothe ye? O ye of little faith. Notice what he does not say. A lot of times we can learn a lot from the Bible by noticing what the Lord does not say as much as by noticing what he does say. Notice he does not say, O ye without faith. He's not suggesting that they do not have any faith at all. He's saying, oh, yeah, little faith. That word little is a neat word. It has this idea, a limited amount. Say, say, hey, uh dad says to me, Dennis, do you have any money? I'd say, a little. It's a very limited amount. It has the idea of an insufficient amount. O ye of limited amount of faith, ye of insufficient faith. Every place the Lord uses that statement, O ye of little faith, it is always people of faith. People who trusted him, he went out in the ocean, the sea, disciples followed him, they had faith, but he says, Your faith is limited. Your faith is insufficient. And thus you are afraid. In the one particular case there, with Peter walking on the water, not only is Peter a man of faith. But how many would agree with me? That's pretty significant faith to get out of a boat in a storm and walk on water and then actually do walk on the water Uh that was uh he holds the water walking record, you know, for mankind. Uh and yet the Lord says to him, O ye of little faith. I don't know about you, if I was one of his disciples in the boat and I saw Peter walking in the water, I'd have been like, Good night, look how much faith. If I'd have seen him getting out of the boat Adam and saying, Peter, are you nuts? Fact is, Peter's boldness was greater than his faith was. But he did have a pretty significant amount of faith to be able to walk in the water for a period of time. And yet the Lord says to him, although his faith was in our eyes pretty significant, the Lord says, Your faith, Peter, is little. It was limited in its amount, or you would have walked right here to me, or would have walked back together. Your faith is insufficient for what God was calling him to do. And I think that's a lot of our problems. God is leading us, and God lets us face trials, and God allows us to face needs, and one of the reasons He does that is to show us that our faith really isn't as great as what we think it is. I think one of our big problems is we think we're better Christians than what we really are. And we think our faith is a lot stronger than what it really is, and sometimes the Lord will let us go through something or suffer and need, just so we can see, my faith is not sufficient. It's not all it ought to be. So the problem was not an absence of faith. These people were worrying and taking thought. It wasn't an absence of faith, but it was insufficient faith. I do not believe, and I'm going to kind of take a mini rabbit trail here, but I do not believe there is anybody in the world that has no faith. I do not believe there's a human being that has ever lived that has never had zero faith at all. The fact is, everybody has faith. But what we do, the problem is where I put that faith in. If you would, turn with me to Romans chapter 12, and I want to give some scriptural support for my statement that everybody has faith. We had a fellow a number of years ago, and I've used him for an illustration occasionally over the years, but it was early on in my ministry here. There was a fellow and he always said over here on the right-hand side. He came Sunday nights And I would preach and I knew that he was unsaved and I would always give an invitation and every single time this guy would come forward, he'd kneel at the altar, and one of our men would take him and they'd go back in that room right there. And there was a number of times they were back there, everybody was gone, you know, and we're ready to shut the lights off. They'd finally come back out and I'd say, did you trust the Lord? No. And he would always make the statement, I just don't have faith. I just I just have to see it to believe it. I just have to I just have to know. And he give all these different things And uh finally after about a month of this, we're back there and just about everybody's gone, and the fellow that was counseling them and I were standing there and he just kept saying, Well, I just don't have faith. I just gotta see it. I just you have to prove it to me. I just I just don't have faith. I said, hold it, hold it. I says, you do have faith. I said, you have a lot of faith. I said, you had faith in your car. Did you get out and check and look at the brake lines Before you got in, you had faith that the fact that they held up all the other times you drove it, you were going to hold up this time. You didn't have to see it to believe the brakes would work. You assumed they would. You exercised faith. I said you go to I said do you get a paycheck? He goes yeah. I said you go down the bank, you cash that paycheck, you have faith that they're going to take that money and put it into your account and that when you come back at another time You want to get it back out. You have complete faith that they're going to do that. You don't have to see it and watch it the whole time and all that. And my point was this. Every one of us have faith. Everybody has faith. You and I as Christians, we have faith, and I'll develop this a little bit. But what I'm trying to say is there's nobody in existence that doesn't have any faith. Oh, I work with this guy, he has no faith. That's not true. Now, he may not be placing any of his faith in the Lord, but he does have faith. Look at Romans 12 and verse number 3. For I say, through the grace given unto me to every man that is among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to think soberly, look at this statement. According as God hath dealt to every man the what? Measure of faith That verse tells me that God has given to every human being a measure of faith. And by the way, that word measure there has this idea. The measure of faith is a measured amount. I wrote it down here. An allotted portion. God has given to all of us an allotted portion. God may have given Tom Gravely more faith than I have. And God may give one person a greater measure of faith than another person, but everybody has faith God's allotted to all of us. Now you say, well, what about atheists? They don't have any faith. Yeah, they got faith in their own reasoning. The evolutionists have faith in their theories of evolution and their basement their eternal destiny. On their own understanding, on these theories. And so the Lord says, O ye of little faith. He's not saying, he doesn't say, oh ye of no faith. There's nobody in existence that has No faith. Everybody has some faith. The issue is not whether I have faith or not. The issue is what do I fa place my faith in. Tom, by way of illustration, may have been given by God. By the way, that's why sometimes you see Christians that are walking with God, living for God, and they go through horrific trials And then you have somebody else that maybe isn't at all the Christian it ought to be and things don't go as rough for them. I think sometimes God gives that Christian greater measure of faith than the other And they're able to endure their trial. They're able to shine bright for the Lord and give a great testimony to the Lord because God's given them a greater measure of faith. Does that make sense? You follow what I'm saying So the issue isn't whether we have faith or not. The issue is what do I do with that faith the Lord has given me? Here's a person that has great faith. God gave them all kinds of faith. And they placed it in everything else except the Lord. And here you have someone that's a very small measure of faith, but all the faith they have, they put it in the Lord. Which one's going to accomplish more for God? Which one's going to bring more glory to God? One with little faith that puts it all in the Lord. Right? You follow what I'm saying? And so the issue isn't whether I have faith or not, or the issue isn't even whether I have a lot of faith or not. The issue is the faith I have, what am I putting it in? And so he says to them here that their worry and their fear and anxiety is a result of placing only a little bit of their faith in the Lord. You are looking at me like, huh? Worry, fear, and anxiety is not caused by my needs Oh, I got all these great needs. If you knew how many if you know how many problems I have, you know why. I have ulcers and um I'm so worried and anxious. You know why if you knew all my problems No, it's not the problems that cause the worry. It's the littleness of our faith that we're put in the Lord that caused that. See what I'm saying? It's the limited of faith. It's our insufficient faith in that. The problem for most of us, uh I read this statement, I thought this was pretty good, and it kind of expanded on it, but you have to think about this a little bit. The problem for many Christians is They believe on the Lord, but they don't believe the Lord. They believe on the Lord to be my Savior, but God's given us all these promises, but they don't believe those promises are necessary to it. In other words, I believe on the Lord as my personal Savior that He'll forgive me for my sin and take me to heaven someday and give me eternal life. I believe on Him for that, but I don't believe His promises that He's going to meet my needs tomorrow I don't believe his promises, that he's going to take care of me and lead me through life. It's not that we don't have faith in God, but we limit our faith in God to certain areas. You follow what I'm saying? We may have a ton of here's our faith that God has given us. And I take a bunch of that and I put it on the Lord for salvation. But then I've got grocery bills and I've got a house payment and I gotta buy clothes for the kids. And I take just a little bit of my faith and I put it on God to help me to buy the food and pay for the house. And get clothes for the kids. See what I'm saying? I got a lot on the Lord for salvation. Oh yeah, I trust God completely for salvation. But we only trust Him a little bit to meet our material needs. And so what we do is we contain the faith we have into the spiritual aspects and not into the material world. It's not that we don't have any faith in God, but we limit it to just the spiritual aspects of our life. And that's what the Lord's saying. And that's really a version of materialism. I trust God for my spiritual needs But I'm not willing to trust them for my material needs, and I've got to figure it out, and I've got to come up with a way to do this, that, and the other. I think it's in our material realm that our faith is obviously tested. That's where it comes down to. How much am I really trusting the Lord? Are you trusting for salvation? Yes. Are you trusting to meet your material needs? Well, yeah. A little. I ought to be as confident, and I'm preaching it myself as much as anybody, but I ought to be as confident that God's going to take care of me tomorrow as I am that He's going to take me to heaven when I die. I ought to be as confident that God's going to meet my needs and give me wisdom and direct me in my life. I ought to be as sure of that, that God will do that for me, as I am that God has forgiven all my sins. How many people here ever heard me say this? If I walked across the road here tonight and a truck came barreling down over the hill there, 25 miles an hour, this guy's doing 90, like most cars do, and uh I walk across, ah, boom, he hits me, and uh I'm laying there dying. Uh I know for sure that when I die, my sins are being go to heaven. I know I've called the Lord as my Savior back in nineteen. How many people ever tell me heard me say that? Yeah, I said it a gazillion times. Now here's the thing. What the Lord's saying is I ought to have that same confidence that God's going to take care of me tomorrow. Probably most of us don't lay in our beds tonight that know Christ and accept and lay there and worry whether I'm going to heaven or hell when I die How many people agree that would be wrong for a Christian to worry whether going to heaven or hell or not? I'm suggesting to you, it's just as wrong for you and I to worry whether our needs are going to be met or not. It's just as wrong for us to worry whether God's going to take care of me or not. But for some reason We've got all this settled. We've got all this faith. Oh, yeah, God's saving me. There's no doubt about it. I know I've got scripture on it. I'm telling you, there's as much scripture there that God will take care of us tomorrow as there is that God will take us to heaven when we die if we trust Him. Follow what he's saying? So what's the root cause of our worry and our anxiety and all this? It's little faith. And not that we don't have any faith. They do have faith. They trust in Christ. They're following them But now they need to take faith, take that faith and put it in the material aspect of life also. Fact is, it's easier to walk by sight In materialistic things. I haven't seen heaven. How many people here believe heaven's true? We haven't seen it. We're taking God at His Word, right? How many people believe Jesus rose from the dead Sure, absolutely. We would never say, well, I think so. Yeah, we know. How do we see it? We believed by faith. God has told us that. How many people believe there's a real place called hell? Sure. We know that's true. We're confident of that. We've put our faith in the Word of God. God said so. Now how many of us have that same confidence God's going to take care of us tomorrow? Or do we worry? Oh, take thought. Oh, I've got to do oh no. Now remember, we already said before, he's not saying don't give any attention to these things. God feeds the birds, but they have to go out and find the worm. Right? God takes care of all these things, but we have a role in it, but we are not to worry in it. While we're looking for the worms, we're trusting God's going to provide it. God's going to take care of me. There's a real We make a serious mistake when we confine our faith in God to only the spiritual aspects of life. And we don't apply that same faith to the material aspects of life. I believe that's what the Lord's telling them. 1 John 5, 4 says, faith is the Anybody know? Faith is the victory. We sing it. Oh glorious victory that overcomes the world. Material part of life. Faith is the victory. When I do not place my faith in God for my material aspects of my life, I'm exercising little faith. Now, there's a couple places, I don't have the references, there's two, maybe three places where the Lord says, how is it you have no faith? Now I do not believe he's saying they have no faith at all. What he's saying is, how is it you are not taking any of the faith you have and putting it in me in this situation? In this situation, you're not putting any of your faith in me for that situation. And so it's not a matter of the absence of faith, it's a matter of the insufficiency of my faith on a specific situation. By not trusting God for my material needs, what I am doing is letting those material needs control me. Oh, all of a sudden my peace is gone and my joy of the Lord is gone because this this material situation has me so upset and I'm taking thought. I've got my eyes off the Lord, I've got it all on this And the Lord says the whole problem isn't the need, the situation. The whole problem is you're not taking your faith and putting it in me for that situation. It's insufficient amount of faith on there. Material needs have victory over us and material needs draw our focus off the Lord. Paul learned this. He learned to place all of his faith in Christ. Not just for spiritual aspects, but for the material aspects of life. Paul is a phenomenal example. Of a man who had great faith in God, not just for his salvation of his soul, but the maintenance of his life. Let's uh look at a few places where the Lord where uh Paul does that. Turn with me if you would to Philippians Chapter number four. Now I don't know if this is doing for you what it did for me, but this sure convicted me. This sure challenged me. to uh exercise faith not just in the spiritual realm but in the uh material realm also. How many folks believe if you give the gospel to someone, you're fully confident, if you give the gospel to someone And they trust call on the Lord that God will save their soul. Sure, we're confident of that. There's no doubt we've got great faith in that. We ought to have that same assurance that God's going to help me meet this need. God's going to take care of this. God's going to provide for me. God's going to direct me. Philippians chapter 4. We're familiar with this passage, no doubt. And verse number, let's start in verse 9. Those things which ye have learned and received and heard and seen in me do. And the God of peace shall be with you. Opposite of worry. But I rejoice in the Lord greatly now that at the last your care of me has flourished again, wherein you were also careful, but you lacked opportunities, says your faith promise giving showed up, you couldn't get it to me, you were worried about it But it showed up. Then he says, verse 11, not that I speak in respect of want. Look at this, for I have learnt, in whatever state I am, therewith to be worried. He said, no. There was to be what? Content. Look what he says in verse 12. I know both how to be abased. And I know how to abound. Everywhere in all things I am instructed both to be full and hungry, both to abound and suffer and need. Then he makes this classic statement. I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. Would you agree with me? Verse 13 is a statement of faith. He's saying, listen, I'm content. You say, oh, you got all these bills, all this stuff. Aren't you worried? Aren't you anxious about it? No. I learned that whatever uh that Christ can uh verse 13, I I can do all things through Christ. I'm not going to worry about it. Come down there to verse uh 19. Uh but my God shall supply all your need according to his riches being glorified by Christ Jesus. He said, no, I I've got confidence in God. It's going to be okay. God will take care of it. I can have a lot or I can have a little. I'm content. I'm rejoicing, Lord. I'm just trusting God. God will supply over your knee. Uh somebody came to John of Race one time. I read this years ago. Somebody came to John Arce, I guess it was after service. A preacher came up and they were talking, and John Arce said to him, He says, Well, how are you doing? So-and-so And he said, the guy said, Oh, I guess as best as be can expected under the circumstances. And John Arce looked at him and said, well what are you doing under the circumstances? You know what he was doing? He was rebuking them, oh ye little faith. Why aren't you trusting God? Come with me to 2 Corinthians chapter 7. Again, Paul makes a tremendous statement. 2 Corinthians chapter 7. I want to begin reading in verse 4. Great is my boldness of speech toward you. Great is my glorying of you. I am filled with comfort. I am exceeding joyful in all look at this. I am exceeding joyful in all of in all our tribulation. I'm exceeding joyful in all our tribulation. How many people go through tribulations, trials, and difficulties and you get discouraged? Huh? I might be talking to somebody that's there right now. Oh, this is terrible. Oh, this is awful. Paul says, I don't do that. Look what he says. I am exceeding joyful. How you doing? Paul, man, you're going through it. Good heavens. Look at the tribulations. You're going. How are you doing? Oh, alright, God's helping me through. You know what that is? That's little faith Paul says, Oh good night, you're going through it. Look at these tribulations. They're beating you up, they're stoning you, leaving you for dead. You've been uh shipwrecked three times, left You've been stoned, you've been beaten, uh, scourged. Good heavens, Paul, how in the world are you doing? I'm doing great Exceeding joyful. You know why? Because he had as much faith in God to help him in the material trials of life as he did in the spiritual. Let me show you one more, and we're all familiar with this one. Acts 16. Oh brother Leatherman, you don't know how bad my needs are. You're right, I don't. Be honest with you, there's probably not much I could do if I did. Pray for you, maybe. Isn't it a shame that there isn't a God in heaven? That has everything, that's all powerful, that loves us dearly. Wouldn't that be something to have a God like that? Boy, if only we had a God like that, then we never have to worry. Say, preacher, you're being sarcastic I know it. Look at Acts chapter sixteen. And uh notice with me verse number twenty-five. Now they've been beaten, they've been scourged, their feet are in their inner prison, verse 24. They made their feet fast in the stocks. I mean, this is absolutely miserable And at midnight, Paul and Silas called CLA and threatened to sue them. And at midnight, Paul and Silas were worried and crying and whoa is me, this is terrible. No, no, no. What were they doing? They prayed and sang praises unto God. And I think it's interesting. God adds on the back side of that verse, and the prisoners heard them. Which do you think is a better testimony? You and I whining and crying and woaning, oh everything's terrible, oh I can't do this. Think that the world's attracted out, or do you think the world sees us going through it With incredible needs and saying, you know, I'm confident God's going to meet my needs, and just a testimony to them that God gives peace and God takes care of his children. Which is a better testimony? Well, Paul and Silas, they've been unjustly prisoned, imprisoned. They're in stocks, and they're praying, and they're singing praises to God of all things. And the prisoners hear them, and just a few late verses later, the chief warden of the prison is getting saved. Isn't that something I think there's a connection between the two. Paul and Silas not whining and complaining and worrying and anxious. And that guy getting saved. Now, of course, there was an earthquake and everything else took place. But Paul understood what the Lord was rebuking the disciples in Matthew chapter 6, mild rebuke, oh ye of little faith. You didn't say you guys don't have any faith. You do have faith. What you're trusting me to do spiritually for you, why don't you trust me to do materially for you? Now the next few verses, verses 31 through 34, of course 33 is right in the middle there, he tells us how to do that. How do we solve this problem of little faith? Verse, I think it's verse 31 he says, therefore, because you have little faith, you're not putting a whole lot of faith in me for these needs, therefore he tells us what to do. And that'll have to be another message. So I don't know about you. When I studied this, the Lord convicted me because don't ask my wife, she'll verify it, but um I have a tendency to worry about stuff. Shocking, right? Uh I've been around here long enough. I'm looking some folks out here have the same tendency I do. I think it's a common affliction So let's get, let's ask God, and we'll look at this, but let's do all we can to get to the point where I'm just as confident that God's going to take care of me materially as I am that God's going to save me spiritually. Amen. Isn't that good? Let's pray. Father in heaven. Lord, I don't know if this came across exactly how it did in my heart and mine. But I pray you'd help us to take our faith and put it in you, not just for the spiritual parts of life, but for the material parts, the physical parts today and tomorrow And whatever you allow into our lives, whatever trials you allow us to face, whatever needs you allow us to have, teach us to trust you. Have faith in you, not limited faith, but completely trust you. I wonder with our heads bowed eyes closed, say, preacher, I'm thinking of a situation that, to be very frank, it worries me. I'm anxious about it. And you'd say, tonight, God's Holy Spirit has spoken to my heart and challenged me from this passage, and I want to learn to trust God completely. And just put my faith in him that as my father he will take care of me, his child. Is there any like that tonight, preacher? There is something just that worries me sick. I'm worried. I'm anxious for it. And I'm going to make a decision to trust God, take the faith I have for the spiritual needs, and put it in the Lord for the material needs. A lot of hands raised. I think there's a decision involved in this. It doesn't just happen. I have to decide to do this. And so maybe tonight we can make that decision. Father, please bless. These feeble efforts tonight to challenge us on faith, and I pray your Holy Spirit would stir us, that we would grow, myself included. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. And Kathy's going to play the invitation here. And maybe after a verse like this