Radio than I am in real I get excited uh on the radio and and uh but I do get excited because it's about something worthy it's about Jesus Christ It's about salvation through the shed blood of Jesus Christ and his death, burial, and resurrection. And uh I want to take just a moment to to give you a little bit of background of FBN and where we're headed. The uh pastor Ebern uh wanted to send the gospel around the world. He wanted to carry out the Great Commission Not only the way y'all were doing, going out and knocking on doors and and telling folks in this area and then in the the surrounding area, uh, but he wanted to take the gospel around the world somehow uh to to carry out the great commission just in a little bitty uh country church in Moorhead City at the time And uh about the mid-70s, the Lord laid it on his heart, radio. Radio is a way to get it around the world. Uh so he started working on that. He for 13 years He traveled from Moorhead City to Washington, D. C. , going through all this red tape with the FCC just to get a Christian radio station on the air. And that was in the mid-70s And uh it seemed like things were a lot easier uh back then. But thirteen years of driving back and forth and then he thought he had a a station secured. He put up over a hundred thousand dollars to start the first FM station for for uh W O T J and it came right down to the wire and they didn't grant him the license and he lost the money. They took the money. Uh that's government. But uh he lost it. Most men would have given up. I don't know how many people would have gone for thirteen years trying to get a station Uh, but I think the devil knew what was gonna happen if FBN ever got on the air and God certainly knew the blessings that were on the way for for him just sticking to it and uh keeping trying to get excuse me, to get it on the air. So after thirteen years, uh FBN, WOTJ became a reality in Moorhead City, and folks were getting saved and And then that translator station up there in uh Summersville, West Virginia, WMLJ, where Mountaineers Love Jesus uh came on the air And uh we had I didn't know the story of of the station here. That was amazing. So they had been on the on the air about two years uh when when uh uh he talked to him and then started getting the station here, working on getting the station here. When we were up here at Victory Baptist Church in Oakland, Maryland, uh Y'all were six years old with the with the station here, just six years old. It seems like time has flown by so quickly and uh I would not have known about FBN radio if it hadn't been for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. I wouldn't be uh representing FBN today if it hadn't been for you folks. And I want to tell you something else that you might not realize that you had a part in But uh when we moved down there, Pastor Ebern asked me if I would do one of the overnight shifts. Somebody has to be in the studio twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week uh even during Christmas and all these other times. So pray for the staff. We usually have somebody that doesn't have family to do it during Christmas and everything and we include them in part of our celebration down there Uh but uh the first night that I did the overnight uh on a Sunday night, my night was Sunday night Um a little boy, we were listening to Oliver Green or Lester Roloff, one of them, and they were preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. And he looked up at me and was getting ready to go to bed and he said, Daddy, I want to be saved So that's fruit from Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church in a way going all the way down there. And uh It was it's amazing how God puts you at places where you need to be and then moves you where you need to be to carry out his will for your life. And don't be uh uh don't be afraid of following God's will for your life. Uh I had rather be in the center of God's will. It's safer there uh than in In the best place of police protection or or government protection or anything else is being in the center of God's will Uh so uh that's where they have been. That's where they came from. And now uh uh the three years that we spent down at uh Grace Baptist Church and learning about the radio station, learning everything about even putting a station together in Socrates in Georgia, near Videa where those good sweet onions come from. Uh, amen. Uh and climbing the tower, changing light bulbs, doing all these things was getting us ready. And in those three years, uh FBN has taken on at least two stations each year since then. Uh we had a new one in Collinsville, Virginia, near Danville, Virginia, the southern part of Virginia there. They came on the air. Soperdon, Georgia came on the air. Tallapoosa, Georgia came on the air And uh now there's for this year there's two in Wilson, North Carolina, down near Greenville. And then another one in Wilmington is going to come on the air. Wilmington lost the station a couple of years ago, a few years ago And uh we're just now getting back in there. So we're excited about this. And a lot of you say, well, we hear about the stations going on, the gospel's being preached, uh, but how much do you hear back Well, uh, when we lived in Oakland and uh we tuned in to the fall charathon And they finished up early, gathering the money for for the rest of the year for FBN. And they started taking up money for Bibles to take over to Iraq. Do y'all any of y'all remember that? And uh so they got several thousand Bibles that they sent over there. And I didn't know until we actually went to Grace what happened with those Bibles. They did get there. They were in Baghdad, they were handing out Bibles, and this is when the war is going on And we have a station in Baghdad, Iraq, during that time, and folks are being saved. Muslims are coming to Jesus Christ. uh for salvation. They don't like hatred. Uh the the only thing that their God gave them. Uh but they come to Jesus Christ But this man is handing out these Bibles and they have a team over there handing those Bibles out in Baghdad and this man comes along. He's a Muslim, he's a fighter, and he comes along and and uh he stops And we find out that uh uh one of them took the Bible and said, Oh can I show you something in God's Word? And and he said, Sure, I I'm in a hurry, but I'll I'll listen And they gave him the gospel of Jesus Christ, and he bowed his head in tears and asked Jesus Christ to save him. He said, You don't know this, but I was on my way to another tribe And I was to assassinate the leader of that tribe. And uh that was my job. Sort of like the Taliban were were doing back then, the war on terror. He was on his way to assassinate someone And uh now I've gotten saved. He said, Give me another Bible. So they gave him another, a second Bible, and he went over to that tribe, and the person he was supposed to assassinate, he said, I'm here today, I was supposed to assassinate you, but something stood in my way. It was the Lord Jesus Christ. And he took the word of God and showed that man that he was supposed to assassinate the gospel of Jesus Christ and he got saved. There's a picture down there at Grace Baptist Church of two men sitting in a bench uh in Iraq and they got their arms around each other. One was supposed to murder the other one But it didn't happen because that's the power of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Uh and one other one I want to read to you uh this morning. We'll do more tonight. And please, if you love America, be here tonight If you love the man, if you love the church, if you love your pastor, if you love the Lord Jesus Christ, be here tonight at seven o'clock for the service this evening, and we'll have the display and the the presentation. This letter comes from Liberia, West Africa. It says, praise the Lord. Despite terrible conditions, the blessings of the Lord is upon us because he has touched and changed our lives for eternity. We have moved back into a camp inside Liberia. Whenever we have been forced out of our home by gunmen, our home has always been looted. This time around, our house was burned down. The worst thing of all is my elder brother was killed by gunmen who attacked our town on May the 9th. When we returned three months later, we found his remains behind and what was left of our home. We praise God for the keys to family living program. Brother Jack Palmer up there in Pennsylvania Broadcast, which enabled my brother to accept Jesus Christ as his Lord and Savior, just nine days before his brutal death He died in nine days before his brutal death. We recorded the program and interpreted to him in our native Pella dialect because he couldn't understand English. He has been an animist worshiped animals for twenty years before he finally became a Christian. May God bless you. And that's from Liberia, West Africa. Muslims came in and killed him because he was a Christian. Nine days, new Christian, but he's in glory now, a martyr for Jesus Christ. And there's so many others that come in like this. It would take forever to give you all the All of the letters. And we don't know. Everybody doesn't email us. And uh so we'll not know until we get home to glory someday how many folks have been saved by listening to the gospel on FBN radio. And we certainly want to congratulate you and the church for standing by FBN Radio. and uh supporting your radio station. If it wasn't for Oakland, Maryland, Mountain Lake Park, Deer Park, all these places around here that call in during charathon, we would Uh I'd be crowing like a rooster more often on there trying to get people to wake up. But we do thank you for your support. It's a blessing to hear all the flood of calls and many of them. I know the names Uh, 'cause it's you that are calling in. May God bless each of you. Take your Bibles this morning and turn to the book of Zechariah. Zechariah in the Old Testament. It's just a couple of books of uh past Jonah. And uh I want to bring you a message this morning. And when you hear the title of it, you're gonna say, you drove all the way from Denton and this is all you've got to give us, but just hold on. Just hold on. Let the Lord speak to your heart this morning. Zechariah chapter number eight. I'll give you a moment to find it. They call these minor prophets, but they're not minor. They're all major. It's the word of God, each and every one of them. Zechariah, chapter number eight. And verse number twenty It's good to hear those Bible pages turning. I don't mind waiting until we're all there. Amen. Praise the Lord. I had a bookmark, that's how I found it secret. Zechariah 8. 20. The Bible says, Thus saith the Lord of hosts, it shall yet come to pass that there shall come people and the inhabitants of many cities. And I was thinking about uh Pastor Leatherman bringing that scripture reading before the service and how appropriate it is, sowing the seed and what you're doing through the Fundamental Broadcasting Network No telling how many people around the Oakland area around here have been saved or been encouraged as a Christian uh because of the Fundamental Broadcasting Network, because y'all cared and and you wanted to bring uh that station to this area, somebody cared. But I want to turn your attention to a little three-letter word in this verse of scripture. It says, Thus saith the Lord of hosts, it shall yet Come to pass. It shall yet come to pass. Now I'm going to turn back just very quickly. You can turn if you want to Jonah chapter number three and verse number four. The Bible says, And Jonah began to enter into the city a day's journey, and he cried and said, Yet forty days, and Nineveh shall be overthrown. Uh yet forty days. It seems like this scripture over here in Zechariah and this scripture over here in the book of Jonah, the only thing that they have in common is a little three-letter word, yet But it is so full. It is such a wonderful word. And I hope whenever we leave here today that we can say, I will never look at a little three-letter word such as yet the same way again But uh think about Brother Hap Ritchie, uh passed away about three weeks ago. He's the voice of FBN radio, so to speak. He had that great rich deep radio voice and And all of you know him and and how he was blind. He couldn't see and but uh now he sees Jesus face to face, amen. Uh but whenever we would have the Sherathon, I had the privilege of sitting beside him at the Sherathon, w maybe one of the first ones that I ever took part in. I was scared to death Every now and then he would punch me or somebody else would punch me from the other side and say, Give us those numbers and that's all I did. 252-223-4600 and the other number and uh that was my that was all I said And I was scared to death. But half Richie, whenever we would finish up a segment and we would get to get ready to go to music, he would say, Stay with us, ladies and gentlemen, because the best is yet to come The best is yet to come. Those were his words. And I've often I've heard uh my wife, uh Vicki, and and I want to stop right here and say, I I'm gonna be mindful of the time, but keep giving out Bible tracts. Keep giving out Bible tracts. There was a preacher came by, my wife. She did not come from a Christian family. And a preacher came by and knocked on the door and was talking to her mother and said, Would you accept this uh gospel tract. She said, well she wasn't gonna be rude, but she said, I'll take it. And uh then my wife was uh around uh little girl and she came around her lady said uh after the preacher left said can I have that Bible tract? And she said, sure I don't want it So she gave it to her, and my wife took it back in her bedroom and she read it and understood the gospel, understood that she was a sinner on her way to hell and needed to be saved And she accepted Jesus Christ as her Lord and Savior as a little girl because somebody cared enough to hand out Bible tracts Sure, you may never hear about every person that gets saved because of a Bible track you left somewhere. I leave them everywhere uh as we're traveling. We may leave 'em in a restroom at at a rest area. Uh, may put 'em on towel. I may hand it to somebody, and then I don't ever see that person again. But I may see 'em in eternity They may have read it and accepted Christ as their Savior, repented of their sins and trusted Christ. So we never know. But just keep doing what you're doing. Amen. And if you're not doing that, jump on board with the pastor. He'll be glad to show you how to do it. And uh you don't even have to talk to the person. It's good if you do it, if you give them a witness, give them a testimony Uh but but just hand them the track and say the Lord loves you. Jesus loves you. Have a great day. Do something like that. But my wife, what I was gonna say As I've heard her many times, she'll go up to a pastor or a pastor's wife or a brother and sister in Christ and she'll say, Pray for my brother Tim Hurley. He's not saved yet. He's not saved yet. She doesn't say he's not saved. She says he's not saved yet. And that little word yet makes all the difference in the world. Amen. He's just not saved yet. Now I'm not a Calvinist, a hyper Calvinist or anything, saying, Well, whatever will be, will be. If he's supposed to get saved, he'll get saved. If he's not, then he's doomed to hell forever No, it's not God's will that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. And uh so he's not saved yet I uh at our trip we were coming up here. It takes about six and a half hours from Denton, North Carolina to get here because of Brother Paul giving uh through the pastor giving us directions uh took off a lot of time of our trip and beautiful scenery the whole way. And uh it never fails. We'll get up the road, maybe outside the city limits, and one of the children will say, Are we there yet? I need to stop. Um and and you can imagine with six girls and my wife and little boy, we make several stops. It's usually for me But it's not them. But but we're not there and I'll say, no, we're not there yet. We got a little while to go yet Uh so and then my son-in-law, uh, over there in Hagerstown, Maryland, they will come down, he'll bring my daughter and those grandbabies and those grandbabies or something else, and he'll come down and he'll want to go deer hunting I don't think there's probably anybody here that likes deer hunting or anything. There's probably a bunch of animal rights activists here. Probably, yes. But we'll go hunting And uh we'll get up real early in the morning, it's still dark outside, and the frost is on the grass and it it crackles as you walk and the And I'm walking, I've got all this gear on, and he's going one direction to the one end of the property, and I'm going to the far end of the other end of the property, hoping to get something in between us. And uh real in reality I've got my pack on and I'm looking back at the house and thinking about my warm bed and and uh uh breakfast is in the refrigerator, cereal or eggs and bacon, whatever they usually cook while we're out hunting. Uh but I'm thinking of those things, but but the sun will come up and we're looking around and I can imagine he's looking around and I'll get a text uh on my phone that says, Have you seen anything? And I text back, I say, not yet. I'd be a fool to sit out there thinking about that warm bed, uh freezing temperatures outside, my hands are numb, my toes are numb And I'm looking around and he sends a text that says, Have you seen anything? I said, No, there's no deer out here. We're wasting our time. We're just sitting out here enjoying nature Amen. No, we'd be foolish to do something like that. We have an expectant hope to see that there's going to be something come by for us to s for us to shoot, uh for a deer to come our way The Word of God, changing direction here just a little bit for just a moment. The Word of God can save your life. Not just our soul in our soul sense, hearing the gospel preached and getting saved, because Jesus Christ uh took on the form of a man. He came to this earth a hundred percent God, a hundred percent man, and bore our sins on the cross and shed his precious blood and was dead and buried and rose again and ascended into heaven. The Word of God saves our soul that way, but the Word of God can save our life by practical applications. Children, young people in the service, teenagers. Uh there is a word of God that will save your life, help you to have a long life. The Bible says, obey thy father and thy mother in the Lord, for this is right. It's the first commandment with promise. And there's a promise that your days may be long upon the earth. It can save your life. The Word of God saves us. The Word of God claims us. The Word of God does all kinds of things for us. The Word of God will make all the difference as we face an uncertain future. I don't know what's going to happen tomorrow. This is not the same world I grew up in. I I I don't know. Things can change overnight. The Roman Empire. There came a time uh that Christians were uh were spreading. Paul wrote the the letter to the Romans and And uh folks were being saved all over, but then with just a snap of a finger everything changed. And it can change in this country. If we think we uh that it can't, then we've got our head in the sand It could change in this country where we would be put to death for being a Christian. Uh where we would be stopped. They're trying to stop our mouths uh to give the word of God to people We're uh uh oppressed, it seems like, in a way in this country, but the word of God will make all the difference as we face an uncertain future. A. W. Tozer wrote, The Knowledge of the Holy. He began with this sentence: What comes into your mind when you think about God is the most important thing about us. What comes into your mind, just think about what comes into your mind when you think about God? That's the most important thing about you I think about in the beginning God. Uh and that's a great beginning. Amen. Uh in the beginning, God. And and then I think about how uh the word in in the book of John, first John 1-1 In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God, and then later on the chapter it says, And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us It it brought us to a place of repentance, to a place of salvation through Jesus Christ. That's the most important thing about me this morning, and that should be the most important thing about you uh this morning. But he went on to say he applied that not only to the individual, but also to the church itself. What the church believes about God is the most important thing about that church What the church believes about God shapes everything else, and what shapes the church must ultimately shape the culture around it. Uh somebody, uh pastor was talking about the Schofield family here because they heard the gospel and because they heard of FBN and they came and joined the church. Uh that you're changing the culture around here A lot of you probably weren't here when uh Pastor Letterman started his ministry here, but you're here now Because the culture's being changed. It's changed for the good up here. Down in Soperton, Georgia, we made history down there. They said they'd never had a fundamental uh Bible preaching radio station in their area. Never. And we're hearing about people being saved. Uh me and a couple of fellows were down there putting up signs uh for their station down there before Sherathon. Two weeks before their charathon uh a couple uh a year or so ago. A couple years ago. And we put them out and we got a call during charathon. I wasn't on duty at the time, but I was listening to the radio It said that that uh he saw a new sign uh that he had always made fun of his brother. He called him a sissy for being a Christian. He said, I don't want to have anything to do with Jesus Christ I don't want to have anything to do with God. I don't want to have anything to do with the church. And he said, I saw a sign for a radio station on the side of the road, and I just tuned it in And I don't know who was preaching, but they were preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. He said, I pull my truck over to the side of the road and bow my head and ask Jesus Christ to save me. That's the power of rain. That's the power of the gospel, amen. So the culture has changed when the seed is sown. That's why the true word of God and right doctrine matter so much. That's why we use only the King James Bible. uh as as preachers on the radio say. That's why we use conservative, godly Christian music on the radio. We don't use all this other new age stuff We start with God and who he is and how he has revealed himself and what the Bible says about him and what promises he's made to us. When we're faced with great difficulties, we have to go back to who God is. Whenever a church has problems, you have to go back to who God is. It's time to go back to where you came from. Amen? Where God saved you at. All these problems will dissipate before the feed of Jesus Christ. If we have our heart right. I know wherever you have people, you're going to have problems. There's not a perfect church There's just not because where you have people, you have problems. And and I'm a problem. Amen. Point the finger at me first. I'm a problem. I'm not always perfect Never perfect. But uh but uh but whenever we're faced with great difficulties, go back to who God is and where God brought you from Go back and all these problems that seem so menial. Uh I was thinking about some things that's happened to our family in recent days, and then we got up here and Pastor Levinman was talking about all these things that's happened around here leading up to uh neighborhood bible time and FBN Sunday and all these things that are happening that a lot of you may not even know anything about and I I said, Praise the Lord, I have no problems. Amen Hmm. But when we get squared away on the proper knowledge of God, we'll have the right foundation to face whatever comes our way. And that's where that little word yet becomes so important. Not he's not saved, but he's not saved yet. Our faith works through hope. I have a hope for my brother-in-law. We've not gotten to see him in a long time. To say he's not saved is a statement of current fact. Unless he's in church somewhere, which I doubt he is And or unless somebody preacher came by and left a Bible tract there yesterday and he accepted Christ as Savior, which I don't think they did, and he did. Saying he's not saved is a statement of current fact, but to say he's not saved yet brings God into the picture. It leaves room for him to work. Amen. To say he's not saved yet brings God into the picture. You're speaking of things that you just haven't seen yet. You just haven't seen them yet. God intends to do great things That we can't see today. You know, we have we can go through our our spiritual eye and our mind's eye what the new Jerusalem is going to look like. And everybody probably has a different picture set up in their mind. But I I've got this picture that as the street is of transparent gold. It's like as glass and and that would be see-through You can see through it. And then it talks about all these uh uh beautiful emeralds and gems and all these things that make up those twelve foundations of the New Jerusalem And how they are transparent and how the the mansions are are like transparent glass and and all this. And I think about Jesus being the center part of that and And he's the light of the new Jerusalem. There's no need of the sun anymore because of the SO in. And he likes it. There's no need of of the moon by night Uh because there's no night there, because he is so magnificent and his glory is so brilliant. And I think about the New Jerusalem coming down, and as it comes down, it says it's like a bride adorned for her husband And I think about it coming down and and that light of Jesus Christ shining through all those gems and through that street, it must look like a huge kaleidoscope Coming down through the air. And it's colors like we've never seen before. We see colors here and it's beautiful. God decorates things so beautifully. But we've never seen anything like the New Jerusalem. But God intends to do things that we can't see today. That brings us to Zechariah 8:20, where God makes an astounding promise to the Jews who returned from exile to find Jerusalem in ruins and themselves under the control of a Gentile nation. He says, right here, thus saith the Lord of hosts, it shall yet come to pass that there shall come people and the inhabitants of many cities Can you imagine? They've been in exile. We've never faced anything like that unless you were a prisoner of war. But we're here in America. Can you imagine Another country coming in and taking us hostage and and binding us and taking us into another country where we don't even know the language. We don't know the culture. We don't know anything. We can't communicate with them And everything has changed overnight. Everything that was familiar is left behind. Could you imagine God coming and speaking through the prophet Zechariah and saying It shall yet come to pass that there shall come people and inhabitants of many cities. Now this is prophecy right here, but I want us to see some other things in this chapter If you read the whole of chapter eight, you'll see the amazing promises that God makes to his people. Promises that at the time must have seemed fantastic and unbelievable. When you're in bondage and when uh you're wanting to be free Just like when you were a sinner and wanted uh hadn't accepted Jesus Christ at the time, but you knew that you were missing something, and how it would seem so fantastic, somebody coming to you and saying this is how great it's going to be once you get saved. And then it happened, and but these people, whenever they thought God was saying, Hey, you're going to go back to Jerusalem And there's going to be many people come from many different cities, many countries, and they're going to come back there. It's not happening yet, but it's going to. It must have seemed fantastic and unbelievable to them Verse number three of chapter number eight, we have several promises given to the children of Israel. And some of these promises have not been fulfilled yet, but they will when Jesus Christ sets up his kingdom. In the thousand-year millennial reign. Verse number three says, Thus saith the Lord, I am returned unto Zion and will dwell in the midst of Jerusalem. He said, That's a promise Have God ever gone back on a promise to them? Has God ever uh not kept a promise to you? No, he has never. He has always kept his promises And then verse five he says, And the streets of the city shall be full of boys and girls playing in the streets thereof. I can't think of a time in Israel's uh history since they became a nation again, uh that the little boys and little girls have been able to go out in the streets playing. They've always got to be on guard I've seen pictures of children over there and and one of them may have a ball in one hand, but he's got a submachine gun in the other hand. They're taught at a young age that it's war, it's war But God gives them a promise and says, and the streets of the city shall be full of boys and girls playing in the streets thereof. Then he goes on to say in verse 6, Thus saith the Lord of hosts, if it be marvelous in the eyes of the remnant of this people in these days, should it also be marvelous in mine eyes, saith the Lord of hosts? Thus saith the Lord of hosts, Behold, I will save my people from the East Country and from the West Country. He goes on to say in verse thirteen, and it shall come to pass that as W ye were a curse among the heathen, O house of Judah and house of Israel. So will I save you, and you shall be a blessing. Fear not, but let your hands be strong Verse 15, so again have I thought in these days to do well unto Jerusalem and to the house of Judah, fear ye not. And then we see at the end of the chapter there, how he includes a vast number from the Gentile nations in verses 20, which we've read before, and then verse 23, thus saith the Lord of hosts, in those days it shall come to pass. That ten men shall take hold out of all languages of the nations, even shall take hold of the skirt of him that is a Jew, saying, We will go with you, for we have heard that God is with you Oh, this must have seemed so unbelievable, so fantastic to them. They wanted to hope, they wanted to have that hope, and now God is collecting them back into Israel, and I think the Lord's going to return soon. God saying to his discouraged people, you have no idea, no idea of all the plans that I have for you and through you. That reminds me of of uh Jeremiah chapter 29 verse 11, For I know the thoughts that I think towards you, saith the Lord, thoughts of peace and not of evil, to give you an expected end. to give you an expected end. You know, us as Christians this morning, we have an expected end. We're going to leave we're going to lay this body down or the Lord's going to rapture us out, one or the other. It's appointed unto me and wants to die, and after that the judgment. But then if the Lord returns, that's fine with me. I don't mind not going by the grave. I don't mind it a bit. This this is exciting because we may be in that generation that sees Jesus Christ, the rapture of the church Do we want a church that's going to limp in or do we want to go in victorious? We need to go victorious this morning But I think about that expected end. You know, our expected end as human beings, we think we'll live a good long life, make a lot of money, and uh uh leave our children in inheritance, and maybe grandchildren in inheritance. But it goes much deeper than that for a Christian. We want to bring up children that are going to serve God and grandchildren that are going to serve God and not the flesh I have so many messages I'd like to preach this morning, but for sake of time and for sake of y'all listening, I'm not going to go into all of them. He's saying, I've got big plans that you can't see at the moment, but the day will come when all these things will come to pass Applied in other words or a different way God is saying there are multitudes that will come into my kingdom who today are far, far away You know, there's folks perhaps sitting in this service this morning that's never trusted Jesus Christ your Savior, it's in the back of your mind, you're thinking about it And you're getting so close the Holy Spirit of God is actually tugging on your heart to come and repent and ask Christ to save you But you may not have any idea about it right now. There may be Bible believing churches, Bible preaching churches this morning, that a person came to church that I just went to get somebody off my back And they're sitting there and they're getting under conviction because of the gospel being preached, and they'll come to Jesus Christ this morning. They had no idea about it yesterday It reminds verse uh twenty there, thus saith the Lord of hosts, it shall come to pass, there shall come people and the inhabitants of many cities. Reminds me a lot of Revelation 7. 9. It says, After this I beheld and lo a great multitude, which no man could number of all nations and kindreds and people and tongues stood before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed with white robes and palms in their hands. God is not going to be defeated. We know that broad is the way to destruction, that that there's the it seems like the majority of people are going to go to hell because they won't trust Jesus Christ But God is not going to be defeated. There's an un innumerable amount of people that are going to be in heaven that John the Revelator saw before the throne of gr of God, and they're clothed in white. That means they were saved. They took on Jesus. Righteousness. John was all struck with the number in heaven. There won't be any empty places in heaven. Jesus said, I go and prepare a place for you, and if I go, I will come again. And he'll take us with him. He said that where I am, there you may be also. We'll go with him. And he's prepared a place for us We have a place in the house of God. This ought to teach us something about the power of the gospel and the greatness of God's heart and his mercy and his love. Let's do away with pessimism. Oh, I can't lead anybody to the Lord. I you know, I I just want to I just want to hang out until the Lord comes. That's not the attitude to have. Do away with those thoughts. The glorious vision of Zechariah 8 is not yet quite complete because Jesus is going to complete it in his millennial reign. But we shouldn't look at Zechariah 8 and say it has nothing to do with us, because it all rests upon God's great desire to see the gospel spread across the whole world. That's what you're doing through Fundamental Broadcasting Network. That's what you're doing, going out door to door. That's what you're doing with that bus outside and those buses and going out and bring children in to tell them about Jesus Christ You're carrying out the Great Commission. There's going to be a happy day when Habakkuk 214 comes becomes a reality, for the earth shall be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea There are some lost people today who will be saved tomorrow. It might be that co-worker that you work inside of that has shunned you and wouldn't take a Bible tract from you. He just might tomorrow. He might take that Bible track and give you the opportunity to lead him to the Lord They're just not saved yet. So that's why we wait and we pray and we keep believing. Psalm thirty-seven Verse 4 says, Delight thyself also in the Lord, and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart. 37:7, the first part of the verse says, Rest in the Lord and wait patiently for him. Waiting on the Lord, it does something for us. The longer we wait on the Lord, we start getting rid of pride out of our life. We stop seeing that it's us that's doing anything for God, but it's God working through us He's the one that should get the honor and the glory for it, and not ourselves. Then in Jonah chapter number three, verse number four, it says, And Jonah began to enter into the city a day's journey. And he cried and said, Yet forty days, and none of us shall be overthrown. That shows me the mercy of God. His whole sermon wasn't but eight words long, but it shows me the the long suffering And uh the hand of God, the hand of mercy of God upon people, because he loves people and wants to see them saved. It's not his will that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. He said, yet forty days. What if Jonah's message had been when he was walking in a day's journey and he looked around and said, You've had it. God is going to strike you dead today. He could have very well given him that message to say But he didn't. He said, yep, 40 days. And what happened? Greatest revival that ever took place on this earth, I believe, took place. Nineveh got in sackcloth and ashes all the way up to the king and said none of them were to eat, even the beasts weren't allowed to eat during that time or drink anything. And they repented and God stayed his hand of judgment Away from them. So we see God's hand of mercy there. He said, You got 40 days and they repented and were spared. We ought to be excited about that little word yet, because uh it's not a whole city uh that we're well we are trying to win everybody around us to the Lord, but there might be one person, one family member that's on your heart right now That needs to get saved. They may be in the services. I don't know. I don't know people's hearts. Only God does. I know about myself that I've trusted Jesus Christ. I've got confidence in a whole lot of people that they're saved But it may be the Lord speaking to your heart this morning. God is long-suffering, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. So we ought to be excited. 1 Peter 1:8 says, Whom having not seen ye loved, in whom though now ye see him not, yet believing, ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory. And then 1 John 3. 2 says, Beloved, now are we the sons of God. Right now, not whenever we get to hell. We're the sons of God right now. Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when He shall appear, we shall be like Him, for we shall see Him as He is What is it that you're waiting for from the Lord this morning? What are you waiting for? What are you looking for that God would work in your life and in your heart? God has answered a lot of prayers in my life just recently, in the last day or two And I'm excited about those things. But while you're waiting, don't let go of that little word yet. Hang on to it. Our faith, as I said, works through hope. Hang on to that word yet. It will yet come to pass. He's not saved yet. The situation's not any better yet. I don't have a job yet. My car's not running yet. My brother my daughter or son is not back from Afghanistan yet. Just hang on to that word yet. Hang on to that little word. It's a great word as we come to the beginning of another week. This is the first day of the this is the Lord's Day, the first day of the week I wonder how many answers, direct answers to prayer that you pray this morning without little word yet will come to pass by the end of the week. Hang on to that little word. Who knows what amazing answers will come. Do you believe God this morning? Ephesians 3. 20 says, Now unto him that is able to do exceeding, abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that worketh in us. God honors forward look and faith. Just because our loved ones are not saved today doesn't mean they won't be saved tomorrow. Tell them again. God's not finished yet. Uh church I got saved in, um, they used to sing this song and and I've not heard it in too many churches, but the chorus went something like this. It said, We're not home yet, children, so keep your eyes on the Saviour. Just a few more days to labor, and we'll sit down beside the river. How we've longed to be with Jesus and our loved ones gone before us, there's a better day of coming. We're not home yet Father, I pray that you'll take these words now and speak to hearts during this invitation time. In Jesus' name. Amen. Pastor Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. What a great challenge. Not yet. Not yet. How many folks here you say, Preacher, I've got someone that I love dearly, a friend, a coworker, a family member And you say they're not saved yet. You're praying for them. You're wanting to witness to them. And you say, preacher this morning, I'm going to trust God. I'm going to be faithful in my witness. I'm going to be faithful in sharing the gospel, inviting them out to church. You'd say, pray with me. I've got someone dear to me that's not saved yet. And you'd How about all cross? I have someone I'm thinking of specifically on my heart and mind. They're not saved yet. I want to be faithful to them. Amen. What we need to do is keep praying, keep praying, keep witnessing, stay faithful to the Lord. I wonder how many would say, Preacher, in my Christian life, I'm not really where I should be yet. Not reading my Bible like I should. There's some areas in my life that need attention, need adjustment Maybe we've been putting that off, maybe trying to ignore it. This morning say, I'm not going to do that anymore. I'm going to make it right now. Reading my Bible. Faithful to church. Being a witness, uh avoiding sin, doing right. How about it? Any like that? Say, preacher, there's areas in my life I know that need adjustments, need attention I'm not going to put it off anymore. I want to make it right today. God bless you, hands all around. Maybe you've gotten away from the Lord. You need to rededicate your life to Christ. Christ, whatever it may be, this invitation time, we invite and urge you to come. One last question. Is there someone here this morning you say, Preacher, I don't know for sure that when I die I'm going to heaven and I don't want to go to hell I tell you that's the most important issue in life. You'd say, Preacher, pray for me. I want to have that settled in my heart and mind that my sins are forgiven and I go to heaven when I die and not to hell. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand Any at all, just slip it up, say, preacher, pray for me. I need to have that settled in my heart and life. Father in heaven, I pray now you bless our invitation. Thank you for this great promise in that one little word yet. And help us to trust you. Amen. Let's stand together.