I'm wearing mostly blue and I didn't understand that at first, but I got the joke eventually. Um Yes, it was it was a joke that they see you had the same reaction. It took a couple seconds. And so I I looked down and I said, What? So a little bit more by myself, I'm usually super cheery. But also with that I'm very all over the place, so I'll look over here, I'll look over there, I'll look up and I'll look down. People are saying, What is he looking at? I'm just I'm just taking it all in, you know? So there's This week I'm excited to get to know you. If you need, you know, to talk to me, just grab me by the shoulders and say, Hey, you know, I'll stop. I'll stop whatever I'm doing. I've got fifteen thousand ribbons in this hand, thirty handbooks, and I'll say, Yeah And then we can talk. All right. Now, if you'd open in your Bibles to 1 Corinthians chapter 15, that's where we're going to be tonight, the title of the message is You Have Received. Now this week of neighborhood Bible time, uh the the boosters are gonna be receiving the gospel. They're gonna be receiving ribbons and a and and balloon animals and You know, they're gonna be playing games and they're gonna receive a great time. But most importantly, they're going to receive the gospel. We're gonna teach them the five facts of my everlasting life. We're gonna teach them about creation. You know, creation's on attack today. In in schools, everywhere they go, they're being taught from the youngest age possible, you know uh billions of years old and we all come from y you know, our ancestors, uh monkeys and apes and all that. But we're gonna teach them creation. We're gonna teach them the Bible. We're going to teach them biblical truths. We're going to teach them different aspects of obedience in in in home and in life and stuff like that. Now the boosters are going to receive ribbons and points and award for all that, but the purpose, our greatest purpose at the end of Bible time is the gospel. You see, uh everything that we do at neighborhood Bible time, our our our our theme is fun with a purpose. So everything that we do, there's a purpose behind it. And we're going to make sure that the gospel is given, presented clearly each and every day And that we're going to get them to understand the gospel. You know what? Man, by the end of the week, some of these boosters are going to be able to lead someone to Christ And and and and I say that not because I I think that you know they're outstanding and the and these booths are the smartest people, but you know what? There comes a point when they get it and they understand it and they're gonna hear the gospel this week Now, let's not forget this week that although primarily uh we're talking to the primaries or or the or the the boosters as we call them, the younger children and the teenagers You know, God still has something for you this week of Neighborhood Bible Time. And maybe that's maybe that's uh inviting people, helping, helping you know, in the program. You know what? Maybe you'll get something out of the lessons that are here today if you're a teacher. Yeah, you know, that's happened before. People have come up to me and they're like, man, that Jimmy that Jimmy that that that jump in gym story, that five day story, and you really got me, you really spoke to me. It's it's a kid story. Well you know what it has biblical truth in it. And so you know what this week, don't be close to the idea that God might have something for you. Alright, anyways, let's let's get into the text. I'm excited tonight. Alright, Romans 15, starting verse 1 through 8. Or, yeah, 1 Corinthians. Sorry, did I say second? 1 Corinthians chapter 15. Chapter 15. My bad. Alright. See, I'm too excited. I'm too excited. Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I have preached unto you. Which also ye have received, and wherein ye stand, by which also ye are saved, if ye keep in memory what I preached unto you Unless you have believed in vain. For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received. How that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures. And that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day, according to the Scriptures, and that he was seen of Cephas, then of the twelve. After that, he was seen of above five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater part remained under this present, but some are fallen asleep. After that, he was seen of James, then of all the apostles. And last of all, He was seen in me also, as one born out of due time. Let's keep reading a couple more verses. For I am the least of the apostles, that am not meet to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God. But by the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace which was vain, or his grace which was bestowed upon me, was not in vain. But I labored more abundantly than they all, yet not I, but the grace of God which is with me. Therefore, whether it were I or they, so we preach, and so ye believed. Let's pray together Heavenly Father, we thank you tonight for the Scriptures, we thank you for your word, and uh we thank you for neighborhood Bible time. I pray tonight, Lord, that you would use me as as a vessel for your word, that you would get me out of the way, and that only what is said tonight would be what you would have me to say. We love you, Lord. We ask that you bless this time now. In your name we pray. Amen. Now, let's begin. You have received something, and we're going to talk about it. So, what have you received already from the Word of God? from this f uh or or or from this section of scriptures. First, I want you to see tonight that you have received the gospel. Now I wouldn't put it past uh and And I know this from experience, I know this from family members, I know this from people that I thought it would not surprise me if there was someone here tonight who has never accepted Jesus Christ as their Savior. Maybe you're here and you don't even know what that means. Maybe you you you came with it with with your teenager and you're just checking out the program. You know, we're glad that you're here tonight. And Paul says, the gospel in which ye also are also ye have received. And I want to focus on that word really quickly for a second. Received. You have received the gospel. Whether it's, and you can even tie this in a little bit to my dad's testimony of me receiving the gospel. I heard the gospel from my father. And the chances are you heard the gospel from somebody. Now, every once in a while it happens that somebody goes and and they pull out a Bible and they just start reading through it. But that doesn't happen very often Most of the time, the Bible, people getting saved, that comes from receiving it. Somebody shared the gospel with you Somebody left a track on your door. Somebody gave it to you. You went to church one day and a preacher he told you about how you were a sinner and you needed Christ. Somebody shared the gospel with you. And we need to understand that. Is that you know the gospel is never going to get out. If there's not somebody to give that. If you are only, you know, that's how the gospel is spread. Ye have received. That's what Paul's saying in this letter is listen, the church of Corinth, this is what ye have received that has been given unto you. To receive something, it has to be given. You see, a lot of times I think that, well, we'll say, you know what, someone else is going to do it. Someone else is going to share the gospel. Y you know, but in reality, no, it's gonna it's gonna have to be one of it's gonna be somebody to share the gospel with them and you know what, that somebody might be you But let's talk about this, the gospel. And it says to this For I delivered unto you first, and this is verse 3, of all that which I also received. How that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. So that's the first part. Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. And that he was buried. And that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. You know sometimes people leave that out of their gospel presentation that Christ rose again. But Christ rose again, amen. Man, that gets me excited. Is that he is up there preparing a place and he is coming back for us someday. And and we should You know, never forget that. A lot of times I feel like we forget about how good the gospel is. You know, I forget everything. I forget names, I forget I forget what I'm doing half the time. I forget where I am sometim Where where are we? No, I'm just kidding. We I feel like we forget things a lot of times. And you know what? It you know, often it doesn't get better as we get older. But The gospel is something that we can never forget. Man, we need to remember what Christ has done for us. You see, hey, there was a time in your life if you're saved, if you've accepted Jesus Christ as you're saved, where you realize, man, my sin is great And it can't be forgiven. I can't do enough good to get rid of it. And you you know what you learned that Jesus Christ came down to earth. And you know he lived a perfect and sinless life and he didn't deserve to die. He didn't deserve to be beaten. He didn't deserve to be scorned and mocked, but you know what? He died on a cross for you. And he died and he was buried and you know what he loved you enough to raise from the dead, to show you that he did it and to prove that he was God and that he loved you You see, God proved his love for you. And you know what he says? He says, if you accept him as your Savior, for the wages of sin is death, that's our sin. The cost of our sin. The cost of your sin. Death. Hell. Eternity in a place separated from God. But the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ the Lord. Man, I'm glad that it says the gift, not not the object of which you can you purchase. That makes me so happy is that God, He loves us so much that it was a gift. Man. Has anyone ever got a better Christmas gift than that? Has anyone ever gotten a course not. Because there's nothing better than Christ having paid for our sins. And maybe you're here today. And maybe you don't know for sure that if you died, you'd be on your way to heaven And you know what? You've probably heard it a thousand times and often we shut it off as soon as somebody starts talking or preacher starts talking about the gospel. Man, let's never get hardened to the gospel. Now, here's a here's a little uh il illustration. So I heard of a man, uh this is a story, and this man he actually was on the news. And it was a man who was moving to an area. And there was a lot of earth the area was known for earthquakes and it was known for really bad weather and really bad you know everything. I have no idea where the guy was moving there. He was probably moving there for work or something But he decided, you know what, I'm gonna buy this plot of land, I'm gonna buy or I'm gonna build my own house. I'm gonna build a house from scratch. I have no idea. You know, maybe that's something that you would do. I could never imagine building a house from scratch. I just do not have the talent for it. But this man he said, We're gonna build this house from scratch. So you know he did, he went to his contractor friends and and he came and he said, you know, listen, we're in a big area of earthquakes. I want this house, I don't care what it is, whether it's flood, whether it's storm, whether it's earthquake, he said, I want this thing to stand. And his friend, and he he was a contractor, and he was writing up all the blueprints, and so he writes everything out and he gives it to him. And that guy he takes it and he starts building that house. And he starts building it from bottom to top, just the way that that guy had said to do it And you know, he finishes that house and ten years later, down the road. You know, an earthquake comes And so that earthquake comes and it shakes everything, it shakes that foundation of the house, and all the houses in the area, oh boy, it was a bad earthquake, but all the houses in the area, they were all destroyed, torn apart, all messed up. And there was one house. In the middle of it all, that stood strong and it stood firm and it didn't move. It was that man's house. And news reporters, they came to him and they said, don't you feel lucky? Don't you feel, you know, so you you know you know don't you feel like you've escaped something? Don't you feel like like God and and the man looks at the reporter and he says no He says, this house was designed to withstand that earthquake. You see, when I was given those blueprints, yeah, it was more expensive than just building a normal house. But he says when I built that house where they said put a two by four, I put a two by four. He says, where they said to put up sheet metal, I put up sheet metal. Where they put these reinforcements, I put those reinforcements. He said, I don't care if it cost me an extra hundred bucks for a screw. He said, I was going to make sure that that house is done, that that house is built correctly. He didn't cut corners, he didn't do anything. And man, a lot of times people do that with the gospel. They cut corners. They say there's other ways to do it. There's other ways to change it around. There's different things. You know what? That guy never cut any corners. You see God in the Bible, he gives us the blueprints. He tells us, he gives us everything that we need to have our sins forgiven, to have a happy family, to have a wonderful life full of joy, full of a Christian a Christian walk with God. Christ gives us everything that we need in this book so that we can be sure, first off, that we're on our way to heaven, but also how to live a successful Christian life. And a lot of times we act like we don't have the blueprints. And we go around and we don't do anything with it. And oh my goodness, how could you try to build you no you you it would be ridiculous If you hired somebody to to go into your you know your bathroom and put on you know all these all these new tiles, and this man walks in And you say, okay, well here's the blueprints to how I want this done. And they're going to remodel your whole bathroom and man you've saved up for this. He says, okay. And he takes those blueprints from your hands and he tosses them in the trash and he starts getting to work He doesn't use the right color that you want. He doesn't do anything. You see how often do we go through life and we're not using the blueprints that we're supposed to use? We're not using the word of God. You see, if we really focused on the Word of God and we looked at what it said, you know, sometimes it's a lot more simple than it seems, and we make it a lot more complicated than it has to be. Listen, the gospel is simple. It's so simple that a child can understand it. And he made it for you. So you know what this week of Neighborhood Bible time? Realize that you have received the gospel. You see, one of the greatest tools that I think we have today is Google Maps. I take out my phone, ch my phone's off right now, so it wouldn't it wouldn't work. But I pull out Google Maps. And I'm so bad with the directions, but you know what I can say? I can I can type it in, Walmart. I don't even need to I have no idea where I am right now. I'm in Western Maryland, but we're right next to West Virginia and other states in in America. But I can type in Walmart and you know where I can be? Walmart. It gives me the directions. Same thing. If I want to go find a Taco Bell, and oh man, don't don't eat a Taco Bell. But if you eat a Taco Bell and you type it in and you go shh It brings you right there. You see, Christ tells us and he presents his gospel so clearly. Don't try to add steps, don't try to don't try to take away from it. Because if you do You're gonna end up at the wrong destination. How oh man, you hear story after story about about, you know, the man who who doesn't take directions. Man, I take directions all the time. I uh you know I don't care. But people say, you know, no, I'm gonna take a left here. It's quicker. It's like no, well this the the map says go straight. Google map says go straight and you'll get there faster. No, no, no. I'm gonna take a left and then 15 minutes later you're lost and you have no idea. And you get all surprised. We shouldn't be surprised because God gave us all the steps that we need. Man. I'm so excited. I'm so happy right now. Just hearing about the gospel and God's word. God is so good to us that He would be willing to give us the directions, that He would be willing to give us the blueprints, that He would be willing to give us all that. And you know what? All we have to do is accept Christ by faith. That's the step. That's the faith. You see, we have to understand where we're going, but you know what that destination is having our sins forgiven Being able to go to heaven. Being able and and you know what we get embarrassed about sharing it. How can we get embarrassed about sharing something so wonderful and so great? I mean when you got a God on your side, man, imagine you're walking around and there's uh there's you know uh Um brother Matt. Imagine uh Pastor Matt and you get to you get to carry him around everywhere and he gets to walk behind you. Every time someone gives you a hard time about going in somewhere, say, hey, I'm with this guy. Nobody's gonna question you. You're gonna get to walk right in. I don't care where you are. You see, when you got God on your side, you shouldn't be worried about anything because God's got your back. And God's got you. Alright, let's move on. Secondly, I want you to see this. Secondly, you've received grace Now in in verses eight through eleven, if you look one more time, because often we forget about what the scriptures were just saying, and it says this in verse eight, and last of all He was seen of me also. This is Paul talking, as of one born out of due time. For I am the least of the apostles, that if not me to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God. But by the grace of God I am what I am. And his grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain. But I labored more abundantly than they all. Yet not I, but the grace of God which was with me. Therefore, whether we're I or they, so we preach, and so ye believed. Now let's look at this. You know, I hear uh a lot of people they out how they um give a definition for grace. And you know, they do that little acrimon, uh, God's riches at Christ's expense. I've heard other people say, it's God giving you something that you don't deserve. You know what? And man, Grace is amazing. If you're anything like me, you you know the amount of times that that you've messed up or that you've screwed up, man, maybe it's starting to look like Bill Gates' salary, the you know the the the totals up there so high. You know? But You see, that God, the amazing thing is he still wants to use you. And he still chooses to use you. And you might say, you know, man, I'm not good enough. I've really screwed up. I'm a really terrible person. Well, let's look at Paul's life. Paul was responsible for persecuting and putting Christians to death. And look at all the things that Paul did in his life. He was there and he watched as one of the apostles got stoned. To death, he held everyone's clothes. He said, go at it. And we sit here and we're like, oh man. I messed up again. Can't read my Bible today because I messed up. Man. You know, we live in in in and I don't know if it's just if it's always been this way, but it seems like there's just no hope. It seems like when when we preach to the teenagers, they seem so down. They seem so they feel so unable to serve God. You know, maybe you feel that way today. Maybe there's something in your life that's holding you back. You may you know maybe it's a sin that you've got to get right. You know well let's get right. You see God like we said God gave us the blueprints earlier. Let's get right with God, let's get back on track, and let's get to serving God. God never says anywhere in his Bible, hey, if you want to serve me, you have to be 75% good all the time. Why where are you getting that from? Well, you know, it's so simple to think that way. I get that way sometimes, man. And you see, I think Paul struggled with that too. He says, For I am the least of the apostles. That it's not meet to be called an apostle because I persecuted the church of God. He felt unworthy to be called an apostle. We know who called him there. God did. God wanted him. God chose him to be an apostle. So you know what? He was qualified for that. Because that's where God wanted him. And maybe God wants you to serve somewhere. God wants you to do something. And maybe that's what God wants for me. You know, if that's what God wants, that's what God wants. Who am I to question what God has told me to do? Who am I to question that God wants me to serve See, God might have something for you this week. Maybe it's just helping out. Maybe it's just baking cookies for some of the kids. Maybe it's something as simple as that, but maybe it's a little bit more. Maybe it's talking to somebody at work about Christ. Maybe it's about being a bit a better witness. What is it that God's been calling you to do? He's been saying, you know what? God, you don't know what you're talking about. Man, who do we think we are? It's crazy how we can do that sometimes is that we the only thing that's stopping us from serving God is usually us. Most of the time it's us. About 100% of the time, it's us. Because God wants to use you. Let's be used this week. You know God doesn't promise us tomorrow. And I have a coin in my pocket. It's one of these pockets. I put it somewhere. I have like a thousandth of these coins that I carry around with these boosters. And sometimes they do a little bit of magic with it. But on east coin there's a heads and a tails. And maybe who's ever played that game as a kid, heads or tails and and you do it to choose who gets you know, the food out of the snack pantry or or whatever. And so, uh when you flip a coin, you flip it up in the air and you catch it. And you put it on. And it's either heads or tails. Now if I started to flip a coin and I said I flipped it once and I came down I put it on it was heads and I flipped it again and it came down and it was heads And again and again and again. And they did ten times it landed on heads. You would say, Wow, that's pretty lucky. I'm probably going to vote for heads. Or you know what you might be saying to yourself, Man It's gotta land on tails one of these times. There's a 50-50 chance. It's gonna land on heads eventually. You know, but we treat our life like we're promised tomorrow. You see if you look at your life like this coin, you know what? God doesn't say that you have tomorrow. He doesn't promise you're gonna wake up. He doesn't promise that you're even gonna make it home safely. So what's holding us back from getting saved? What's holding us back from doing right? Because each day that we live, you know, that's a day we're never getting back And that coin flips one more time. Maybe today's the day that God calls you home. You never know. So let's live each day. Like that coin could flip on tails. Like that coin could hit the other side. Because the Bible says what is our life? Oh vapor. You know it's like a little wisp. You put a you put a pot on a stove, and a little air comes out, that's a vapor. It's gone just like that We don't have a whole lot of time. So you know let's let's get on board. Let's get what we need to get right. Let's move on and serve God. Because He has a job for us to do. You know, that leads me to the last part. It's this. You have received a command. Now, if you notice in the first verse, it doesn't say that the people of Corinth discovered the gospel. It doesn't say they invented it. They received it, and we talked a little bit about that earlier. If you're saved today, it's probably because someone shared it with you. Now In Mark sixteen, fifteen it says this. This is right before Christ, right before he leaves up to heaven to go prepare a place for us, to wait for the time that he's going to come back, and man, he's going to bring us with him. But he says this in Mark 16, 15. He gives us one more command right before he leaves. And you know what? This one's important. And he said unto them, Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. Doesn't get more simple than that. Preach the gospel. Tell others about Christ. Man, we have such an opportunity, but we don't have a lot of time. We've only got this life, you know. A lot of times embarrassment will hold us back. A lot of times wondering what other people are going to think about us or how other people are going to feel holds us back. But there's there's this uh there's this guy and and he does allusions and and he's pretty famous. And his name is Penn and Teller, and all of them I believe his name is Penn He's an atheist. And you might have heard this uh before, I'm not sure if you have, but Ben, he's an atheist, and he said this. He said one time I was walking down the street And the guy, he came up to me. And he, you know, he waited the whole time. He pushed his way out after my show. He got right in front. And he shared the gospel with me. And he told me that if I died without having my sins forgiven, I was going to go to hell. Now, Penn didn't get saved. He's an atheist. He doesn't believe in a God. We know that's a powerful story because he said, this is what Penn said in an interview, he said, if you really believed In that place called hell. And if you really believe that if you did not share the gospel, that I would go there. Or that somebody else wouldn't go there, or a family member. Says how much would you have to hate that person to not share the gospel with them? We need to get over this idea that the gospel is, man, something that we need to feel embarrassed about or ashamed of. Jesus wasn't ashamed of you when he died on the cross for your sins. So when we go forward and we tell others about Christ, you know what they reject it? Hey, they reject it. You know, what's the what's the saying? Sweat off my back, skin off my back. It it's it's not important, you know why? Because they still need to know that gospel and they still need to be loved. And they still need to understand that. Man I'm glad somebody shared the gospel with me more than once. If you know the first time my dad gave it to me and I didn't get it, and I said, Oh man, this doesn't make much sense. I'm six years old. You know, I don't understand what you're saying to me. My dad said, Well, and that's it. Guess he's going to hell And he walked away. Yeah, and we laugh about it. But that's the same thing we do at work with our coworkers. Hey man, let me give you a tract. Let me tell you let me tell you about church. And he's like, oh man, no, that's not for me. He walks away. He said, well that's it. He didn't take my track. He's a he's a goner. What are we doing? You know? If if if someone you were sitting here today, you know what? You probably didn't get the gospel the first time you heard it either. It probably took a couple of times You know, if somebody knocked on your door, you probably closed a few doors before you started opening them and listening to what somebody had to say. That's the same way. I think I heard a uh uh I heard a survey. It's like seven or eight you know, times it takes on average that somebody hears the gospel before they get saved. Seven or eight times. You know, as a salesman, it's that and not that we're selling the gospel. The gospel's a free gift. for everybody. But you know what salesman knows and that they teach is that hey if you want to get this product out if you're going to get it out you know what it takes an average of like eleven to thirteen times to get somebody to buy something of following up And calling them again and again. But you know what we do as Christians? We give up after the first time. We forget about it. We say, ah, you know what? You know, I'll just le I'll just leave the track on the doorstep. And and to be quite frank with you, as Christians, sometimes we can do a poor job at getting the gospel out the way that we're supposed to. Christ says, go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. Doesn't just say the people that we're comfortable to. And you know I understand that takes a little bit of getting out of the comfort zone. And it can be uncomfortable. Man, I still get uncomfortable sometimes. Sometimes I knock on people's door and they'll look right at me. They'll say, Are you the cable guy? And this has happened before. I'm not even kidding. So are you the cable guy? I'm like, no, I'm actually from North Valley. Doors closed on my face. That's not fun. You know, I feel for that guy, because he needs the gospel. But it it doesn't always feel great. Just share the gospel. But let me tell you, man, when someone accepts Christ as their Savior and you get to rejoice with them, and you get to know that this person is going to be on their way to heaven. That's all because of what God did. How Jesus saved you? Man, there's no feeling like it. It's so exciting. This week of neighborhood Bible time, so many of you are volunteering, so many of you are helping. But you know what? Maybe we could push ourselves a little bit more. If there's something in our life that's holding us back, maybe we could get that right. And we could start pushing forward for God. Say, you know what? What you have for me this week, God, I'm gonna get it. And man, I hope that's with you. You have responsibility. It's on us. You know, people say there's problems in America. You know, the church is failing them. You know, because those people out there, those politicians, the people that we look at and we say they're so corrupt, you know what? They need the gospel and they need Christ. And if they had that, this country wouldn't be going the way that it is. You see We need to be doing our jobs as a church and as Christians. And things aren't going to change and get better until we start to do that. So you know what? Let's get out there. Let's have a great week of neighborhood Bible time. Man, I'm so excited about what God's gonna do this week. And I hope it's your prayer and my prayer. And hope that we don't just pray about it, but that we let God use us this week. And that's one of the most exciting things that you can have. So let's share the gospel this week of Neighborhood Bible time. Let's get in it. And that's all I have for you tonight. Pastor, thank you. Yes, Amen. Let's bow our heads. Heads are bowed, eyes closed. I have no doubt in my mind. God spoke to our hearts tonight and challenged us, encouraged us in this matter of reaching others for Christ and uh just getting in tune with God's will for our lives. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how we say, preacher, God did speak to my heart. And God challenged me. My heart stirred because of what I heard this evening. Anything like that, uplifted hand. God stirred my heart and challenged me. God bless you Hands all around. Let me ask this. Would there be someone here tonight to say, preacher, I really need you to pray for me, pray with me? I'm not sure that my sins are forgiven. And listen, you don't want to go to hell. You don't want to risk that and play with that. You say, I need to get this settled. I need to get that right. Is there any like that, preacher? I'd really like for you to pray with me that God would help me get this settled, that I know I'm going to heaven. out to hell. Any at all? Preach or pray for me. Slip that hand up high. How about it? Any? Now all of us, I think tonight would be a good night. Find a place here at this altar and just beg God to do a great, great work this week. Save souls and change lives and use us. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed