Seven. Galatians chapter number seven in your Bibles. Again, I want to emphasize how great it was for those teens to be able to go to a youth conference. We have a num number of them going in this semester or semester this summer. And I believe the Lord can use these to work in young people's lives. I mean, I can do a hold of all these activities here at church, but it's just something about these youth conferences conferences. They bring these special speakers And they know just what the l Lord puts on their heart to speak to these young people. It's just such a blessing to see. Before I got too deep into my message, I wanted to go over some things in the notes that I took from this morning's message. I mean Like a little quiz, you don't want to take it on paper, but take it there in your mind. I love taking quizzes with the teens. Why? Because I want to see that they know the word of God, see if they're listening and see if they're learning and apply it to our hearts. And I wanted to go over notes, see how much we remember How many of the two commandments deal with our tongue? Which proverb says that it is better to be poor than a liar? Which group of people, when they came to God's name, writing God's name in the Word of God, they would stop, take to clean themselves completely, put on new garments, and write God's name with a pen. How many times is God's name used approximate throughout Scripture? Which name of God means He is strong and faithful Which name of God means he that will always be? Which name of God means he that is right now and he that always was? Which name of God means master? Which name of God means he owes that which he created. Which name of God means that or which way is God's name used badly or in a bad way, vainly we can say. And what would we describe God's name as? These are all things that we went over this morning, and I stopped and wanted to pause and look at it and see how much do we remember God's word. I encourage the young people to take notes all the time. Not pass notes, but to take notes. I told them I got to take two uh notebooks and s classes at school because we had to take chapel notes. And I remember those I can still remember today when I write them in chapel, and then later on that semester I would type them out, and going over as I'm typing it out, and those messages would come I was surprised how much those messages came back in my mind how much I could remember and how much God spoke to my heart. And I trust that you take what you learn in God's word and apply it to your everyday life. This summer summer, as uh pastor gives me some opportunities to speak, I'll probably be speaking all from the book of Daniel. Those are messages I got to work on this semester, and they were such a blessing and my life and I see God use them in my life and hopefully he can use them in yours. And you say, Book of Daniel, we're in Galatians. We'll get to the book of Daniel in just a minute. But I want to start here in the book of Galatians. Is this my water here? Good. I tried preaching the half hour message for class without water. I didn't make it all the way. My voice got dry. But Galatians chapter number six and we're going to read verse seven for our starting point. I hear Bible's turning, so I'll give everybody a chance to turn there. And by the way, if I'm going too fast, just feel free to make a hand motion I get that all the time at school, that that's my number one problem is I speak too fast. It's not because I'm nervous, I just think that's how I speak. I'd be at work one day, I say something, the person goes, Can you say that again? They just didn't get it. I was downstairs actually this summer with the teens with one of the classes and I caught what I said and I'm like, let me say that again and I said it again, I'm like, how many got it the first time? They're looking at me like real funny Because I took three sentences and made them into one. I never thought I could do that. So again, if I go too fast, just slow me down. I'll try to speak slowly for you. But in Galatians chapter 6, verse 7, our starting verse this evening, be not deceived, God is not mocked. For whatsoever a man soweth, that Shall I just lost my shall he also reap. For whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. That's the point I'm going to try across. In fact, that's the title of my message this morning. What you reap is what you'll sow. Let's open up in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, Lord, I thank you so much again for this day, Lord. I thank you so much for this opportunity, Lord, to come before you and share your word. Lord, I thank you for this message that you laid upon my heart. I pray that I would speak it clearly. Lord, speak to them as you spoke to me, and work on their hearts, Lord, as they need it, I pray Father, as we look at the book of Daniel, Lord, you got so much information you give to us. And I pray that we wouldn't pass it up, but that way we learn it. And Lord, if there's one here that does not know you as Savior, may today be the day of their salvation, we pray. In Christ's name, amen. At the school, I also had an opportunity to teach Sunday school class. That was such a blessing to see young people who want to serve the Lord and learn God's Word. And as I was preaching this message, That really struck home with a lot of people and thank the Lord for it. And it struck home with me, I think, mostly. If I don't know I am not you, I don't know how much you can work in your life. But this was one of the messages that really struck home with me Now trust it will with you. What you reap is what you sow. That's why I want us to learn here this evening. Can you say that with me? What you reap is what you sow. Okay, one more time. What you reap is what you'll sow. And we're gonna look at an example. Somebody's life who illustrates this in the Old Testament. Now, turn back with me to the book of Daniel, chapter number five. Daniel, chapter number five. As I was preparing this and thinking of Veterans Day, I couldn't help but think that this can apply to this. We have so many men and women who fight for our freedom. I think of what a good deed they're doing. They're sowing. Something good. And what is it they're gonna reap for it? Freedom for you and me Something good. And I look at the past history of our nation. I mean we were not a perfect nation, but so much that we sowed that was good. I think of people like uh the Wesleys and the Great Awakening. I think of Whitfield, I think of Jonathan Edwards, maybe more in recent history, Billy Sunday. And all these people who sowed and sowed and sowed the Word of God, and we reap from it today because of the blessing it was, that we can come to know Jesus Christ as Savior because these people took a stand. But I look at the world around us today. Though we were not a perfect nation, I believe this nation was founded on things and principles of God's Word. But we look at our nation today, we're not sowing that anymore. We look at our nation today, what are we sowing? We're sowing evil. We're sowing wickedness before our God. We make our own gods today. We have television which portrays images that we shouldn't even Hear of, let alone see. We have so much ungodliness going on in our nation today, and we are sowing that Now what do you think we're going to reap from that? I think so many today are enjoying the blessings of God as they're sowing these sins. And then they don't realize what they're reaping, the destruction they're going to reap because of that. I think of our own individual lives. We look at our nation, but look at our own individual lives. What are we sowing today? Are we sowing ungodliness? When others see us, do they see us sowing good that later on we can reap that which is good? In this chapter, chapter number five, we see Belshazzar, the son of Nebuchadnezzar. I'm sure we heard this story over and over when we were in children or children's church in Sunday school class. I don't know how many times I read over this. You know what? Every time I read this passage, something new pops out. You can read God's word over and over, and God's got something for you. Let's see what God has for us today in Daniel chapter number 5 I like to try to make my points easy. That way people can remember them. And when I see these four points, I pray that you would remember what goes along with them. Number one, these are four S words, so you can remember them really easily. Number one is sin. The sin of Belshazzar. Let's look at verses one through four with me. In chapter number five. By the way, if I seem a little bit off, I'm reading from a brand new Bible. The Lord blessed me with this Easter as a gift. I was so glad to get a new one. I love my old one. I study with my old one. I read from my old one. But as I was getting up to the pulpit in class and stuff, some of my pages just Start to fall out because it is really about how it is so many years old. But gl praise God I got a new Bible. But anyways, that's that point. That was just a blessing I want to share with you. Verse number one of chapter number five Belshazzar, the king, made a great feast to a thousand of his lords, and drank wine before the thousand. Belshazzar, whilst he tasted the wine, commanded to bring the gold and silver vessels which his father Nebuchadnezzar had taken out of the temple which was in Jerusalem that the king and his princes, his wives and his concubites might drink therein. Then they brought the golden vessels that were taken out of the temple of the house of God, which was at Jerusalem And the king and his princes, his wives, and his concubines drank in them. They drank wine and praised the gods of gold and of silver, of brass, of iron, of wood, and of stone. In these four verses we see Belshazzar sin. We see him throwing a party. Now nothing wrong with parties in of themselves. I mean I like to have birthday parties. I love cheesecake. Okay, I like getting some stuff. I like getting presents But these guys were not just having your typical birthday party. As we read in verse 4, they're having an alcohol beverage party. These guys were just drinking and partying and living it up And Belshar gets the Bash let's try it again, Belshazzar, as he is having this party, he gets this gray idea, he's like, You know what? That vessels over in Jerusalem the temple of Jerusalem that we brought out of Jerusalem Those look like some good vessels that would be eat for our good for our wine. I tell you what, why don't you go get them? We'll have 'em in our party I see three things he does here. First of all, he's throwing an ungodly party and they're all getting drunk. Secondly, I see they get vessels out of God's house and defile his temple. What a terrible sin. And then thirdly, I see he worships their gods with a little g. Notice that in your Bibles. Worship their gods that don't even exist. Now you stop and look at this and say, this guy is a bad man. He's doing all this ungodliness, but wait a minute. What do we do in our own lives? Let's take a look at our country for example. I believe there's a lot of partying going on in our own country. A lot of people getting drunk. I don't know, I can't remember what I learned in class, but a lot of people drink and drive and all the people they kill I told numbers because they didn't think it was uh wrong. I mean they thought it was just okay, have a good time. And then we look on defying God's house It's amazing as we study in class how many churches or churches they call them are just a fellowship gathering to have some coffee and donuts and enjoy life. That's church day in America What happened to learning God's Word? Even in our own fundamental independent Baptist churches, we'll just come and we'll just take care of nice and easy. We'll skip the doctrine. We just want to get together, you know? What happened to church in America What happened to learning God's Word, worshiping our Lord Jesus Christ, and taking a stance for them? And not only that, making our own gods. We may not be carving images just like Belshazzar was, but boy do we put gods in our lives. As I was talking with the teenagers downstairs, how many people will skip church for a football game? How many people will skip church 'cause they say, you know what, I just don't feel like a tick. I couldn't help but as I was thinking of this of Linda Hartman before she passed away, all the pain that she went through with that disease, and yet she made an effort to come out to church. She wanted to be here. She wanted to be in God's house. But a lot of people aren't like that. You know what? They were like, uh, church isn't that important. I remember sometimes somebody tell me, do you have to go to church every day? Come on, one day, Sunday morning. I go to church Sunday morning. That's good enough. We just say, you know what? We put so many things above our God I'm sure we looked at the first commandment already when I was in home. Thou shalt have no other gods before me. Thou shalt not make unto thee any grave an image. And we're doing that right here in our own nation. Now, before I get too far, let's think of our own lives I just mentioned three of these sins. There's so many more. We can study God's Word. If you return to 1 John 3:4, it tells us what sin is. Sin is transgressing God's law. We got a whole book right here full of God's laws, and how many of them do we just overlook and apply to our lives? How many do we say, you know what, this one's good, I like that, this one's good, I like that, this one's good, I like that. You know This part of the Bible really irritates me. It doesn't seem that important in most people's eyes. So I'm just going to let that go. We hear doctrines in church sometimes. I see it all the time. People listen to God's word and the pastor will say something and they're like, yeah, whatever. That's okay, you can think that's a sin if you want to. But what are we doing? The sin in our lives. By the way, as we're going to look later on, Belshazzar knew what he was doing was wrong. He was deliberately disobeying God. And many people when they sin it's not just because, oops, I made a mistake, although we have those. A lot of people are just fly out rebelling against God and saying, God, I know your word says this, but I believe this This is what I want to do and this is how I'm going to run my life. So we see the sin. Now let's move on to the second part, the scene. I like what takes place here. What give me, if you would, at verses number five and six. Can you imagine telling this in Sunday school? Well I love telling this part in Sunday school. But it says verse number five, In that in the same hour came forth fingers of a man's hand and wrote over against the candlestick upon the plaster of the wall of the king's palace, and the king saw the part of the hand that wrote. Then the king's countenance was changed, and his thoughts troubled him, so that the joints of his loins were loose, and his knees smote one against Now imagine this with me. Imagine we were having church service right here right now and all of a sudden we saw a giant hand just start writing on the wall. I don't know about you, but I think everybody's attention would just forget me, and they would go over this giant hand. My attention would forget me, and I would be looking over at this giant hand on this wall, writing something. This is an amazing scene that's taking place And the king, boy God had his attention. I love the description the Bible has here. His knees are smiting once another. In other words, this guy is so terrified, he's shaken. He can't take this. He has no clue what's going on You know, God intervened in this king's life. And so many times we think we can sin and get away with it. So many times God's going to step in. And deal with that sin. Remember why I said I want us to think about you reap what you sow? When's that day gonna come? Are we gonna just wait for it to come? Or are we gonna stop it? I think of smart nation so many times, the road it's heading down, the people I'm going to be preaching to someday, are they going to turn? Or are they going to have to wait till God steps in? and intervenes there and does something about it. That's what God did here. So many times as Christians, I like this illustration that was used downstairs by Brother Vanderkamp as he was teaching Sunday school lesson. He illustrated from Moses' life and took that illustration of the frogs and the plagues and showed us how sin we so many times just love it. And like King Pharaoh, he had these frogs and he could have got rid of them that day. But when Moses asked him, When do you want me to get rid of them? he said, Tomorrow. I'll deal with it later. That's how much so many times with sin in our lives. Alike how he pointed out, why do we do that so much? The pleasures of sin. We love it. We want to do it. That shouldn't be the way it is with us though. We're a new creature in Christ. We should be wanting to do what's right. Well so many times we have these little pet sins. Maybe it's pride. or whatever you can think of, you know what that sin is in your life, and you just want to get rid of it. Say, you know what, I want to keep that. I'll get it right someday. Right now, I want to enjoy it. Because the sin, it has a pleasure, but only for a season We must be careful before God decides to step in. Now, I think I did good timing with that to get rid of the smaller portion. Now we've got to get in the majority. Point number three. We saw the sin, we saw the scene. Now let's look at the sentence. I don't have time to go too much in the detail. But as we look here. The king's terrified. You know what he does? He gets all his astrologers, he gets all these magicians, and the like the one word, south sailors, people he likes to listen to So he gets all these people in here and they look at it and they go, Well that's pretty interesting, King. You know what? I have no clue what that says. I can't tell you anything about it. You're in trouble now, King. I can't help you, sorry Well this doesn't help the king at all. I find it interesting here. The king when he was in trouble, you think he would have ran to the person that his dad ran to, as I mentioned, we're gonna get to this. He knew what he was doing. You think he would have ran to Daniel The person who knows about this stuff, but he doesn't. He runs to the wrong crowd. I think that's a sad truth in our day today. So many times, both saved and unsaved There's a sin in their life and there's something and they finally realize it and they want to deal with it and you know what? They run to the wrong people. You know, they say, you know what, I'll just go talk to this friend and we'll talk it over and see how he deals with it Friends are good, but sometimes friends can tell you just what you want to hear. We gotta be careful. We need to deal with these. Go with the people who knows what to do about it. I think a pastor What a great man of God, who knows the word of God. We can go to him with our problems. I think in the unsaved world, so many times they get convicted of that sin. What do they do? Well let's go to this church down the road. You know what It's a good church. I mean, they have coffee, they have donuts and they have the TV preacher and I think it you know, they just make you want to feel good and I think that's what we need And sad to say some others, I can't watch that phrase I use a lot, but it is sad. You unsave a lot of them, you know, they don't know what to do, they just go to the bars, they get drunk, they don't know where to go, they run to the wrong crowd, just like this man Be careful who you run to. When there's a sin in your life. Number one, I believe we should go to God. God has the answers to every problem that we have, His Word. There's not a sin here that God does not deal with. And his word can guide and direct us. Number two, godly counsel. I believe they can help us, guide and direct us. I believe God has told me to preach. Doesn't mean I can't go see godly counsel. I'm not perfect and I'm not right in everything. God can still work in my heart. And we need to deal with that sin right away. Now let's get into it, the scene. Finally his wife speaks up. Belshazzar's wife decides to speak up. This is a side note I made to the teams down there. Fellas, sometimes the wife can have some good input. Now that's your good note for the ladies tonight. But anyways, she comes up and tells the king, you know, there's this man Daniel. This man, Daniel, he helped your dad out. This man, he can help you out. So the king's like, okay, bring him in. Okay, so that's what they did. They bring Daniel in, he comes in, he reads the hand right well. The king says, you know what? If you can read this, I got clothes for you. Now about you, I like to emphasize, Steam, this kid guy probably has some good clothes. You know what? I got anything you want, you can have it. If you can just tell me what this says. Oh, I like that idea I mean, I don't know about you, but so many times I would take up on the alpha if I knew what I was doing. But Daniel doesn't do that. He focused on the most important thing here, and that's the message of God to this man. How many times we've looked at materials and say, you know what? Boy, I would like to have that, you know what? And this man's offering me to do things. For him, that godly things, good things. If I can get all this stuff, but if I just do something right. And we forget the message of God and why God wants us to be here. What's never I overlooked at And in this uh sentence, Daniel finally gives the king what he needs to hear. I like how he starts it off though. He doesn't tell the king what it says. He goes the king's prom. He goes first his daddy. He says, You remember your dad? He had a pride issue just like you He had this prideful attitude saying, I am great, there's none better than me, I am high, I am lifted up, nobody better than me, but God brought him down And when God brought him down, I believe Nebuchadnezzar, when he writes chapter number four, gives a great testimony of God to his life, and he turned his life around. And Daniel says this in verse number, I believe it's 27 Look with me down in verse number twenty-seven. I'm getting ahead of myself. Good stuff. Actually, 22 and 24. Let's go back there. As we read these verses, it's interesting to see what Daniel says. I said I was going to get to this eventually. Let's read what the king or Daniel says to the king. My God has sent his angel and have shut the line's mouth. They have oh I'm sorry, I'm Daniel chapter number six. I'm like, that is not looking right there. There we go And thou his son, O Belshazzar, hast not humbled thine heart through though thou knewest all this Let me pause there for just a moment. He's saying Balchazar, you know what your dad went through. You know his problem, you know how God dealt with his life, and you know how he was changed. You knew this And you did not heed to him. Look filling with me in verse number twenty-three. It says, Thou knewest all this, but hast lifted up thyself against the Lord of heaven. And they have brought the vessels of his house before thee, and thou and thy lords, thy wives, and thy concubines have drunk wine in them, and thou hast praised the gods of silver and uh gold and of brass, iron, wood, and stone. Which see not nor hear, nor know. And the God in whose hand thy breath is, and whose art all thy ways hast thou not glorified Then was the part of the hand sent from him and this writing was written. I can't this is one of the things that struck me the most. Many people they look at Bell Shatters and say, you know what, he was an ungodly man, but he didn't know what he was doing. No, he knew exactly what he was doing. He was supposed to glorify God. He saw his daddy's testimony, and he didn't do it. Now the sentence is going to come. You know what Daniel's saying? You reek what you sow You were sinning. You were living it up. Even though you knew what to do, that was right. Now here's the consequences. Many people tell you I don't like that You preach on sin today and they're like, you know, I want to live like that and there's not going to be any consequences. I can do what I want. That's not what God says He'll step his foot in the door. By the way, as Christians, we can't think that we can get away with it either. If this unsaved man can't get away with it, how much more? We as his children, when he wants to chase his children, take care of them. That way they can come back to them. God knows what we're doing. God knows our sin and our lives. And why don't we deal with them? Why don't we give them up? I think so many times we could, but we just choose not to We knew he knew what he was doing, and so many times in our lives ourselves, we know exactly what we're doing. We just don't want to take care of it, as I already mentioned. Now let's look at the sentence It says, and this was the writing that was written. Now let me try to read this. Meanie meaning Tikel of Harson. This is the interpretation of the thing. Meanie, God has numbered thy kingdom and finished it. Tikel, thou art weighed in the balances and art found wanting. Perez, the king thy kingdom is divided and given to the Medes and the Persians. By the way, if you think, what in the world? It says Parether and up there it says something else. That's just a root word from the other word. But we got to reading this. So if somebody comes along and says, you know what, this word here it's something different. The Bible contradicts I feel so sorry because many people with somebody points out cock the so-called contradiction in God's word. They don't know how to f solve the problem. It's like, oh God says his word sure, I'll just take it out. We need to be able to show people, hey, this is God's word and it's true. And God, what he says here is not a contradiction, but it just goes back and ref refers to. It's the same root word, and he's trying to get the same message across. But how would you like this message for you? Hey, your kingdom, I wage your sin. Your kingdom, it's done. You have been found wanting. That's not like I want to do this, I want to do that. No. He has been found guilty This man he was going to be punished by God. We see his kingdom is going to go to the Medes and the Persians. What a sad sentence. I mean, I don't know about you, but that would just be a start of a bad day for me if I heard that about me You know so many times God has a message for you, he says, you don't get this sentence taken care of, there's going to be consequences. You know what? Instead of dealing with it right now, getting it right, we wait till this sentence comes, and then we deal with it Why do we wait that long? Why not get back here? That way we can reap good things. And so that which is good later on. Now notice, okay, he's been told all this. This is just stunning to me. Look at his response in verse number 29. Then commanded Belshazzar. And they clothed Daniel with scarlet and put a chain of gold about his neck, and made a proclamation concerning him, that he should be the third ruler in the kingdom. And then, okay, verse number 29. Note difference. Not only was his sin pointed out, but the consequences was already pointed out to this man. Oh, what a terrible thing if that's us in our lives. I think that happens sometimes to us. God says this is the problem, this is going to be the consequence. You know what we're like do? We're just like him. Say, okay, whatever, that's fine. I can deal with that. He was just like, it's okay. Okay. You're the third ruler. It's okay, okay. Thank you for telling me the interpretation It wasn't okay. The punishment came. Look at verse number 30. And that night was Belshazzar the king of the Chaldeans slain. And Darius the Menean took over, took the kingdom, being about three scores and two years old. We see that sin ended up destroying this king because he just did not want to give it up. And he had everything going for him to turn it around. I mean some people they don't have a Christian home. They Or in a nation maybe where there's no gospel taught. And you think, well, those people need to hear it, and you think you feel sorry for 'em. I'll tell you what, there's so many people today they have the gospel. They have God's word. They have the law right in front of their nose. Even Christians today. They look at it and say, I know what the problem is with the sin. I know how to deal with it. And I know the consequences. I'm just gonna throw it out though. I really don't care. That shouldn't be our attitude. I trust and I hope, if there's anything that you can get out of this, is this that you take sin seriously. Sin has consequences, and you reap what you sow with it. If you're going to sow a sin, you're going to reap corruption, as we're going to look at here in just a minute. Sin destroys people's lives. I can stand up here and testify how many people I've known in college and they just left because some sin and their lives are messed up here today. I can testify people back home Because I look at lives and they are destroyed by sin because they let sin in their lives and they want to enjoy it, but they just get the consequences that go along with it. And if we're not careful ourselves and we enjoy our sin, there's going to be consequences. We're going to reap What we sow. What about you? Is there a sin in your life? Are you sowing a sin? It's not too late. You could stop, you could turn around. And if there's anything I want you to do, get that right. I know there's sin in my life that sometimes it comes back and I need to stand. I was teaching with the young people this morning. Satan came and tempted Jesus Christ. I don't mount you, but if I was forty days and hungered Which is an understatement. I would want some food and somebody offered it to me. I didn't care if it was eggs. If y you know me, I can't eat eggs, but I would have ate it because I was hungry. But he was with able to withstand the wiles and the temptation of the devil. And when Satan comes at us with our weakest sin, that sin that so easily beset us, we need to take a stand and say, you know what, I'm not going to sow that sin. I'm not going to reap that destruction layer. I'm going to do what's right. Now we looked at three S's. We got sin. We got the scene and we got the sentence. We kind of overlooked one thing though. In fact, when I read this book so many times, I overlooked this too. There's somebody else in this story We look so much at Belshazzar and points out Belshazzar, which I believe is the main point God wants us to get. There's sin and there's consequences for it. But we sometimes overlook the other characters in the story. There's one guy I want to look at when we overlook the story, and that's Daniel. You know when that king was throwing that party for the Lord? You know Daniel had a high position for his uh master before Belshezzar. I believe you'll be considered a Lord. Could have gone in, party with those guys and said, Hey, it's cool, I mean, this is a new king, new rules, everything we'll we'll just go along with it. Daniel wasn't there. And when the king needed somebody, Daniel was willing to take a stand in front of the king. I don't know about you, but I think it would be kind of hard to tell the king of the un or the known world at that time And say, you know what, you're gonna die because of what you're doing is wrong. I think that'd be kind of hard. And I think this guy's gonna have my neck for doing such a thing. But Daniel was willing. He took a stand to do what was right You know, we don't have to sow bad things. So many times when we see this verse, I think we often think of we sow bad things and we're going to reap the corruption. You know we can sow good things. As I mentioned in the beginning, my search, we can do what's right Just as Daniel did. We didn't see him with the king's people partying around doing what was wrong. We didn't see him there, and we saw him when it was time to do what was right, take a stand, and tell them the message. Now turn with me back to Galatians Here's the point I want to drive home. Galatians chapter number six And I managed to get through all that in half an hour. Praise God. I'm Very happy. Galatians chapter number six and look with me in verse number seven. It says, Be not deceived, God is not mocked, for whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap. Now go on. For he that soweth to his flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption. And so many times when we see people in their lives, that's what we like to emphasize to them. Hey, you're going to pay for that sin one day. You're going to reap what you sow. But the verse doesn't stop there I love it. It goes on. It says, But he that soweth to the Spirit shall the Spirit reap life everlasting. Now people like to say, you know what, if he do good works, salvation. I believe God's word is clear. Salvation is by grace through faith in Jesus. Jesus Christ. And let his word explain it. Look at the context continuary. He says, Let us not be weary in well doing, for in due season if we shall reap, we faint if we faint not You know what I'm saying? Hey, if you sow good and you keep at it, you press on, you're gonna reap for that. Even if you don't, somebody is. I think of our veterans serving for us and we get the freedom. Somebody's gonna reap from that goodness you're doing. I think of the hall of faith. So many of those people that did that didn't even see the promise the Son of God coming. But they just had faith. And because of that others could have faith. Now here's the main thing I want us to get. What are we reaping? Are you a Belshazzar? Are you reaping for sin and enjoying sin? Are you reaping are you a Daniel? You're reaping that which is good. You're doing that which is right. I'll close with this. So many times in my life we get these little s in my life I could see that little sins just decide to pop in and come in. And and you know what, we want to serve God. Then it hit me one day. You know God says, which are you gonna choose? You gonna choose these little sons? Or you're gonna choose choose me. You know God, as we looked, he wants to be the God in your life. And he wants you to sow things For him. He says if you got all this little things in here, if you're sewing to that, it may not even be something wrong with it, but it's hindering number one place in hit your life And he's saying, What are you going to choose? You gonna sow good for me? You're gonna do all to glorify me with your life? Or are you gonna give into that sin, as Belshazzar did? Or are you gonna give into something that may not be sin, but you know what? It's gonna keep you from what I want you to do to glorify me. What are you going to choose? Hope you got the concept. You reap what you sow. I trust that you will reap and do what is right. Or I'm sorry, sow and Do what is right. That way you can reap later the benefits for serving our Lord Jesus Christ. Let's go ahead and close on a word of prayer Heavenly Father, Lord, I thank you so much for this message that you laid on my heart. Lord, you pointed out stuff to me all the time, every time I come to this message and say, you know what? You're sowing this, and you need to be sewing this. And Lord, I pray that you help each and every one of us to be able to get that right in our lives. So you know what? I'm going to stop sewing that In fact, I'm going to just uproot that, get rid of it. I'm going to start planting something there that is right. So many times we say, you know what, I'm going to stop doing sin. But you know what? We don't take care of it. We don't uproot it. We don't get it out before we do what is right. With heads bowed, eyes closed, I pray that each and every one of us in here would sow some