Exodus chapter number seventeen. Exodus chapter number seventeen. And uh Go ahead and hold your uh place there. Uh I I said I would be short this morning and I tried and I succeeded, although I didn't succeed as well as I wanted to. Um and then uh tonight my wife said don't say that you're gonna try to be short because there's danger that you won't be. And then you're a liar. And so I'm gonna try to be short and I'm gonna try not to lie. But um But I give my I give my wife a lot of trouble um while I preach. Um, even after teens. I told her told all my teens that my my wife was a rebel. In our uh in our last in uh Team the Live and uh and I can explain that later. But um but I should have probably explained now, but it takes too long. And I'm trying to be short. But uh so just know that she is a rebel. And um my point to this is I love my wife very much and she is she is uh everything to me and uh and she's a great wife. And how many of you know that you're hard to live with? So you some of you may be not hard to live. Some of you might be really easy. Some of you may be like like just like servants, I guess. Servants would be easy to live with. Like just a bunch of people serving you all the time. I could use some of that. I don't have that. But um anyways, my point is um I know I'm hard to live with and here's one of the reasons why is because my wife doesn't think it that I listen Um and it's true. It's not true that I don't listen, because I do listen. It's just true that she thinks that. And the reason is is because we'll be in a in a giant discussion about something, and probably it's important. And then I'll be like I need new shoes. And she looks at me and she says, What weren't you listening? We just we I've been talking for ten minutes. What do you mean you need new shoes? And like I think I need new shoes. And if you look back in my mind and it looks like I'm not listening, but if you actually look back in my mind The reason I thought, oh man, I need new shoes is because we'd just gotten back from DC and and I and I walked a long ways and I hurt my feet and I got blisters. And so when we were in DC I was talking about that. And DC of course led back to you're thinking I was thinking about the election because two people were trying to compromise and then I thought about compromise and and I went and and you go several steps back and I was thinking about what she told me to and then I just went too far. Has that ever happened to someone? I remember another time where uh where I was told that I was not listening, and this is one of my favorite stories, and my wife was there for it. And she remembers it. She could tell it to you right now. And um this is one of my favorite stories because it was a really happenstand thing. See, we'd we'd just met um a few weeks before and uh and she thought I was incredibly attractive and funny. And handsome and awesome. And sh of course she was right. So um and the in the fact in the and so we're sitting in class and we're writing notes to each other, like you shouldn't do, the answers. Um but we are in college, so it makes it all right because we are paying for our education. And so um Throwing notes back and forth to each other. And I don't know if we'd been warned or something. Had we been warned? Yeah, we've been warned twice to stop to stop talking. And he look and my teacher looks at me. I don't know if he throws something at me, but I felt like he threw something at me in my mind. And that's just because of how it feels sometimes. Anyways but he third but he says Grant. He's like, what did I just say? And I repeated back to him almost a paragraph and a half of what he just said. And he looked at me like this He said, Well, okay. And he kept teaching. And I've never done it since. But anyways, but it was a really fun thing. Because maybe I'm not good at listening. And so the reason I said that is uh is because it had nothing to do with the sermon. I just thought it was an amusing story. But um Exodus chapter seventeen, um in verse number eight, it says this Then came Amalek and fought with Israel and referred him. And Moses said unto Joshua, Choose out us out men and go fight. Fight with Amalek. Tomorrow I will stand on top of the hill with the rod of God in my hand. So Joshua did as Moses had said to him, and fought with Amalek. And Moses, Aaron, and her went to the top of the hill, and it came to pass when Moses held up his hand that Israel prevailed And when he went and let down his hand, Amalek prevailed. But Moses' hands were heavy, and he took a stone and put it under him, and he sat there on, and Aaron her stayed up his hands, one on one side and the other on the other side, and his hands were steady until the going down of the sun. And Joshua, discomfited Uh Amalek and the people with the edge of the sword. And the Lord said unto Moses, Write this for a memorial in the book, and rehearse it in the ears of Joshua, for I will utterly put out the remembrance of Amalek under heaven. And Moses built an altar and called the name of it Jehovah Nishi, for it said, Because the Lord hath sworn that the For the because the Lord has sworn that the Lord will have war with Amalek from generation to generation. This is an interesting story, and it's a it's a great story because it can be used a number of different ways. I remember the first time I heard this story, I was about seven years old. This is weird because this is one of the first elements I remember hearing, and I remember And the funny part is, is I remember it differently than it was actually actually preached. And the reason I remember it differently, um and I know that I remember it differently, is because when I was ten years old they asked me to preach. And so I said, hey, I like that sermon. I'm totally going to steal that And so I called the preacher, the preacher, and I said, Hey, I want your notes. And I'm ten years old. And his notes are eight pages long. And he says, I'm just going to give you a basic version. So he gives me the basics. And I was like, that's not what you preached. I was like, you preached something completely different. I had different points. For his sermons. Now it's ten. I was wrong. And by the way, if you're ten, you're probably wrong. Just in general. Um but uh but he but he but the good friend of mine and so um is now and so So I went and I wrote my own sermon and this is one of those the first sermon I think I preached was out of this uh passage. Um It's an interesting story. If you didn't if you didn't understand, I'm gonna just give you the uh the quick uh the what do you call it, the cliff notes version. Although it's a Bible passage, and usually Bible passage stories are the Cliff Notes version. And then when preachers get up and talk about them, they give you the whole version, which is weird, because the Cliff Notes version is all that we have to work from. But um so uh what happened was it and by the way, being a preacher is just like cheating in school, if you're wondering. Um when you get those cliff notes. And uh that so guys that cheat in school become preachers because you get this little portion of what God said happened and then you get to make up the rest. And that was how I wrote all of my papers in high school. So uh That's true. Um anyways. So anyway, so um Amalek is going out to fight Joshua and God says, Joshua Moses said, Joshua, go get some men and send them down there and you're gonna fight them. And Moses says, here's what I'm going to do. So Joshua goes down. He's going to fight Amalek. Moses says, here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to go up to this hill. And I'm going to sit up here. I'm gonna actually he didn't even say sit yet. Basically, I'm gonna stand up here and I'm gonna take the rod of God with me. Now I like that he calls it the rod of God, the staff of God, because everyone else calls it the rod of Moses See the difference there? Is is we call it the rod of Moses and we don't and again, that's because we're trying to pinpoint a specific rod in the Bible. We say, Oh, that's the rod of Moses because because that's his rod. And Moses says, wait a second, this is the rod, or did God use the part of the Red Sea. This is the rod that can turn into snakes And the other snakes. This is the rod that it does these things, and he's like, This is not my power, this is God's power. So Moses calls it the rod of God and he says, I'm gonna take this rod, we're gonna go up, I'm gonna lift it up Above the people so that um so that you win. It comes to pass when he's lifting up the rod, the people, the Israelites, they're winning. And he went and gets tired and and and lets it down, the pe Israelites lose. And this rod has these has these properties that we don't under quite understand, but we know it's God. That God is letting the Israelites win when he's holding it up, and they're losing when he's holding it down. So what do they do? Well they say, all right, well Moses is getting tired. This is a nine this is about a probably a nine hour battle um or so And uh and they're up there all day and it's getting about even Diamond Owens gets tired, and so he sits down and uh they get him a rock. By the way, moving a rock is Moving a rock big enough to sit on is is a task, by the way. But uh but they get a rock, they push it over, and he sits on the rocks, and then he keeps his arms up, and then to keep his arms up, Aaron Uh the uh the high priest of Israel, Moses' brother, holds one arm and her um holds the other arm. And they win the battle. So, what do we learn from this story? The reason I think that we're going to be short tonight is because I have one page, well, two pages of notes. But one page is front and back, which is what I had this morning, and it's a short story. Because there's only four characters we need to worry about. There's Aaron, there's Moses. There's Joshua and there's her. Now my question to you is which character can we do without in this story? Think hard. I'll give you one second. Sorry, I have to be short. I give you thirty seconds, but I have to be short. Um which character can you do without a story? Let's try. Let's go ahead and just take out certain characters. Let's take out Moses. The um God's um The man of God that he put in front of Israel, their leader, not their not their military militaristic leader, but their leader in general, the man who has organized Israel. Let's put him and take him out of the story Let's just take him out. Say uh you know we went back in time, said hey Moses, go get a burrito, well we go fight this battle. Go get the burrito. We're missing him in the story Guess what? In this particular story, there is no one to hold the rod of God above his head. The uh the Israelites don't trust him. They don't know what to do, they're not organized. They're thinking, well if he's not here, then God's not here, and if God's not here, we're going to lose the battle because they've already And they will soon experience that um with Ahai um in a few years. So they think, well if God well if Moses isn't here, then God's not here. If God's not here, then we're going to lose, and if we're going to lose, then I'm going to have to fight. And we're and we're probably going back to Egypt because they're gonna say that real soon too. So can we really deal without Moses? And he's a leader. Probably not. Probably can't deal without Moses. Can we deal without Joshua? Can does this story happen without Joshua? So okay, let me tell you what the story looks like without Joshua. Without Joshua, it's Three guys on top of a hill and one guy's holding up a stick and the other two guys are holding up his arms and nothing's happening because Joshua and his army is not there So that's not going to work. And then we look at Mo and then we look at Aaron. Aaron is the high priest of Israel. That is a big deal. He's a high priest. He's uh he's Moses' right hand man. He knows what he's doing. He he's a he's a smart guy and he's helping hold up the rod. Now without Moses Oh sorry, without without Aaron, think about this, without Aaron, the rod falls and uh and they lose. Or at least it's like this. And they only half lose. And then we say, well without her and her is the same story, they lose. Now that's that's real quick, right? That's half the sermon. You should be impressed. I'm impressed. By the way, if you guys don't know who Her was, that's only because he's mentioned twice in the Bible. Once in uh Exodus 24, 14, um, which really says nothing about him. Just mentions his name. But it's right before the uh the golden calf. Um now rabbis, now I don't don't okay, so z okay I'm gonna be real honest with you guys. Um be very careful. Who you listen to about the Bible. Okay? Because here's the thing. I'm going to give you I'm going to give you a piece of knowledge here, but it is a traditional knowledge, which means it's probably not true. But it's something that rabbis teach. I hear this from a lot of Christians where they're like, well, this rabbi teaches about the Bible this. Well, that rabbi doesn't believe that Jesus was the Son of God. So that rabbi doesn't know the Bible very well. So you can spend all your life studying the first, uh, only the Old Testament, and guess what? Who cares? Because if you don't believe in Jesus Christ, you're still going to hell. Period. So be careful just saying, well, I was studying these Jewish traditions. By the way, most of Jewish traditions, these were the people that that God that Christ preached against and called hypocrites, were the scribes and Pharisees Now again, is there some knowledge that can be learned? Yes. Is most of it fable? Absolutely. So just be careful. But I'm going to give you some I a some I some ru uh rabbinic uh philosophy or whatnot. What's not philosophy? But legend. Her they think, the rabbis think, even though the Bible doesn't say it died um when the when Israel built the golden calf. They think he was killed. I'm trying to stop them building the golden calf. That does not come from the Word of God, but that's what they think. What we do know is that he was a good man. What we do know is that he was willing to stand and do what he could for God. He was not able to fight in the army, seemingly. But he wasn't there to hold up a man's hand. And that's what he could do. And that just turns out to be the most important thing in this story. But let's keep going. I just think that her gets um gets kind of left out. I like her. Um I like her too. But um The visual joke, sorry. But the fact is, every person has a purpose. I say who could we do without? Because I want to know who could we do without? And so, and you say, well, no one. In that story, all the I mean all the characters, I mean no one. You can't do without anyone, because then the story doesn't happen. My other question is, is then in this church, who can we do without? And the answer is nobody. Which means one of two things. A is the th thing that I don't think that you're going to that you might not have a problem with. I'm in fact I would say this is a good church. I m most of you don't have a problem with this. But don't ever think that you can just deal without someone. You know that um Austin Ringer, stand up. Now you now many of you don't know Austin, I know Austin, you said. Austin Austin and me go way back um like three years now and uh and you think well Austin I mean he he he rides the bus or his bike. He's also a bike kid. He's a bus kid and a bike kid. Um but he's but he's one of my teens and I like him. Right? I told you that. I've also told him I didn't like him, but I tell everybody that, so don't worry about it. But um but the fact is is I like him and you think well he's just he's just a teeny he just he just rides the bus. What good is he in this church? Be very, very, very, very, very careful. Be very careful about that. Because, as I said, a man named Her just stood and so did Aaron, by the way, just stood there and hold up a dude's arm. And that and that that caused a great effect that we didn't know. Um go to if uh if you could go to 1 Corinthians 12, 1 Corinthians 12. And so before we judge people and say, well, you know what we can do without this person, we don't need to treat them the same as uh as we'd be treated, be careful, because that's wrong. But that's not what I think everyone in here n necessarily struggles with, although you might And if you do, um in in the most in don't don't think that way about people. Um But something that maybe you don't realize is that often we think that way about ourselves. Th a lot of people have a problem with with um self Uh with just with just hating themselves or disliking themselves or thinking they're useless or thinking they're of no worth to anyone. And the fact is, is that her might have thought that about himself too. Can you imagine he's you know he's kinda old? No one knows who he is. He kind of has a girl's name in a way. Um But no one really knows who he is. Um and no, he's close enough to Moses, but he's but he can't fight. He's like, alright, I guess alright, here's my deal. I'm gonna hold up this guy's arm. I'm gonna hold Moses' arm. And so he does it. Now imagine if you said, you know what, they don't need me here and walked off the hill. How different would have the battle been? Don't count yourself out. For as the in there we're in 1 Corinthians 12 and uh verse number 12 it says this For as the body is one and hath many members, and all the members of that one body, being many, are one body, so also is Christ. We're by one spirit, are we all baptized into one body? Whether we be Jews or Gentiles, whether we be bond or free And have been made to drink into one spirit. For the body is not one member, but many. It'll go on later to talk about saying, hey, the eye can't tell the foot. We don't need you. Alright, it goes on to say the the the the um the the the foot can't say hey man or the uh uh nose can't say hey because I'm not an ear, I'm out of here. Right? Or in in other body parts. It says it it it basically says what I just said that the the and the Bible says it better of course. That everyone is needed, and just because you're not performing this role or that role, or just because you're not as as uh as active as you once were or once could be It does not mean you are useless. It means that you are a different body part. And here's what I'm going to go with here is that listen, you know what's important? Is your liver? Livers are important. But you wouldn't know that looking at a person. You know, I mean and this is why my science is so funny, because they used to think, well, you got too much they and George Washington, maybe we'll talk about him in a bit. George Washington was one of the coolest people ever If you don't know anything about George Washington, go home and Google. And just read all the his stories. He is an amazing individual. He died because modern medicine was like, you know what he has too much of it in his body is blood. Let's just take some of that out of here. They bled him to death Whoops. You think uh but uh talk about the liver. Or uh livers are not very big, kidneys are not big. Um we look at uh we look at um vertebrae really are quite small. Vertebrae is only like that big, right? But tell you something you're just missing a vertebrae one day, you're going to wake up with a different type of day. Your heart? You're like, oh man my heart's not gonna but but if you but if uh if your heart's done, you know if you're if or if uh or if uh one of your little uh one if Uh your uh what is called all arteries get clogged and it's just like, I'm a useless artery. I'm just gonna clog myself because no one cares. You're in trouble, right? Um And and yes, your arteries sometimes feel that way, so be nice to them, eat cheerios or something. Um but uh start commercial about that once. But anyways, the fact is guys, um every part of your body is important. Except for your gallbladder. No, it's not true. But you're the thing, if the gallbladder how many of you have ever had your gallbladder out Alright, how many of you know that gallbladder attacks are like the worst attacks ever? And I'm and I'm just gonna I I'm gonna straight up say they are. And women are like, no pregnancy is worse. I don't know. And you're saying, you're saying, well, you're like, no, no, no, no, no, no. The baby just comes out eventually, right? Gallbladder attacks, if you don't get that salt, they go on forever. And you wish you were dead every single time you're like, Oh, I don't can die And and my and I discussed this with my wife and she reads it Gallbladder attacks are the worst. Now, pregnancy, I'm not gonna go there. Like instance by instance, it's a completely different thing. But I hate it. It's one of the worst things ever. And it bec in my mind was like, I'm not gonna work. I was like, why don't you just gonna work? He's like, I'm just not gonna work anymore. So here's what you're gonna do. You're not gonna be able to digest food. And I looked down at him and I was like, that's cruel. How would you do that? And he's like, you didn't even name me. I didn't know that gallbladers wanted a name, but apparently they did. Anyway, so anyways we ended up just, you know, cutting out of me and that was that and that was a wonderful experience. But um But my point in that is is that you don't know where a gallbladder like if you were looking at your body most of you would be like, Yeah, I bet your gallbladders are like right there Like unless you're a doctor, I think you probably don't know where the gallbladder is. And most of you, unless you had that pain, don't know what it does. And most of you don't really care. And that's okay, because you're falling asleep. That's you know, it's almost bedtime, so don't worry about it. But um the fact is, guys, you think a god just compares this to a body for a reason, and that's because a body dies without certain of its members And sometimes it doesn't die, it just lives maimed. You know, my grandpa um was missing his uh his ring finger. Um And uh and he used uh and he used to tell us that it was because he picked his nose and then got stuck. He was a character. And you know what? He could do pretty much everything you and I could do except play piano. He probably could have worked his way around piano. Um that's why he bought a player piano because it works better that way. But um my wife's grandpa um was missing an arm. He just had a nub. And uh and he could drive A tractor trailer with one arm and drive with his knees. And that's terrifying. But he can do it. But you know what? Well yeah, it was a stick shift. Oh okay. Sorry, I I was like yeah, anyways. But you know what I bet you he would a he kinda missed his arm at one point or two. I bet even my grandpa, even though it's just his little ring finger, and they're kinda useless. I mean he had enough of it to hold on a wedding ring, so I mean there was pretty much there. Um but I could bet you he missed it. My other grandpa. And uh he might listen to his message, so hi grandpa. Um God is nose bitten off by a human. I don't know if he wants me telling you that, so I hope he doesn't listen to those. But it's true. You know, it didn't really affect him much other than like it just wasn't there. And he needed that surgery and it and like, you know, it took a long time, but they replaced it and you couldn't even tell today. But God compares us to body parts because he knows that if one of us aren't there, you're missing something. You cut off your big toe and your balance is like gone. I don't know if you can regain it. I never talked to someone without a big toe. But they say your big toes is where all your balance is. Like that that's very important to walking. Some of you say, I'm just a stupid toe, but you're the toe that keeps the church on balance. Some of you say, I'm just a stupid finger, but you're the finger that that allows you impossible to play piano. Some of you might just be a nose and you say, well I'm just a stupid nose. And yeah, but it makes you easier easier to look at. Some of you say, you can't even see me in the church, I'm hidden. You know your most important body parts are not out on display What would I rather lose? A hand or a liver? Well, I'm thinking about it. Probably a hand. There's a liver. You guys couldn't see it, but I'd be dead. See what my point is? Who can we do without? We can't do anything without in the story, we can't do anything without in the church. But let's just uh talk about these people. Moses was the leader. And the leader provides direction, provides organization. He provides a he provides a uh he provides a sense of uh A sense of direction. He says he says we're going here, we're going to do this, and and he and and he helps uh and he delegates And and he helps and he control. And this is in the church is a lot is obviously the pastor. People called Moses the greatest pastor of all time. And the pastor is um is the leader of the church, but although there are many different in a way, and you have to l listen to how I'm putting this, I'm not saying I'm not saying anything against the Bible, but in a way there are different pastors among us. And what I mean by that is actually there are different leaders among us The church sure has has one leader, and that leader is actually Christ, not the pastor. But the Undershepherd, of course, is the pastor. And by but by the way, you control your own group of people. And this is true among teenagers, but it's certainly true among the adults, is that if one of you drops out, all of everyone else might just drop out. I've seen it happen. Some of you are very important to other people, and you're actually the Moses of that group Your testimony, your direction, your your what you say actually means enough to keep them going or pushing them forward. And I'm not just talking about just as someone leading church or staying in church. I'm talking about someone being in church and being a average Christian versus if with you there, they might turn into a great Christian. You might be the difference that pushes a kid or a teenager or an adult into a better Christian through leadership. Do not discount yourself as a leader just because you don't have a title. Moses, all he had to do was hold up a stick, and it changed everything. How will you decide, you know what, I know it's late, I know I'm tired, but I'm gonna go to church tonight. Change something. I don't know. It might not, but it might. How will you say, you know, I'm tired? It's Saturday. I'm not preparing my lesson. I forgot to prepare my lesson earlier this week. I'm just gonna wing it tomorrow. How will that change it versus preparing your lesson? Teachers. You have testimony. Next we have Aaron. Now Aaron really represents the uh the spirituality of the group. He was the high priest. Some of you now here's the thing. We are all priests in God, which by the way, this is why uh okay. Alright, you're ready for Catholicism. I don't like it, why I don't like it? 101. That's a whole class title right there. Um but uh the reason I don't like Catholicism is because they still have priests And the Bible is uber, uber, uber, uber, uber clear that we're all priests and that we all commune with God. And we all can get our sins forgiven by ourselves. And that's why that annoys me to death It's because it's telling people that they can't have a relationship with God. But let me take that let me take the principle out of this. Is the high priest's job was the comm uh was to be the relationship between God and man, and he was the conduit. So, here's my point. Some of you are priests in your family, and what I mean by that, in family and friends, and groups, and what I mean by that, is you're the actual spiritual connection. You see, some of you have families and they might go to church. Some of you have friends and they might go to church. Some of your families and friends may not go to church, but some of you are the only link your family has left or has at all to Christianity and to God. Some of you, your what you say, what you do, and how you react is the only link your family has to God, and you are and you are in essence their priest. In essence. Because it you actually because they see you as someone who knows God. Don't discount yourself As someone who can't do anything just because all you have is a relationship with God. A relationship with God is very important. Next we have Joshua. Joshua. Oh, and let me give you a couple verses for this. But uh Matthew five sixteen says, Let your light shine before men that they may see your good works. and glorify your Father which is in heaven. What I'm talking about there is or what the Bible talks about there is letting your letting people know that you are a Christian and that you have that light Because Aaron had that light and he showed the people. And when they went, and again, you need to listen. This is very important. And you might need to listen to this, but someone does. The fact is, is when they went to build that golden calf in just a couple chapters Aaron's the one who said it was okay. What you say might make someone else sin. And not because you mean to, because you're apathetic If you're the spiritual leader, if you're the spiritual conduit, if you're the one who knows God, and you say and they say, What would you do? And you're saying they're going, I just don't care. And by the way, I've been there where I just didn't care. And see you just spat off some answer and don't think about it. Don't think about what God would say. You just say, well, whatever is on your mind and whatever you feel personally about the subjects, you might be the reason for someone else's sin. But if you take a stand, if Moses or if Aaron would have taken a stand because he was there and said, No, this is blasphemy, and I'm not going to build you a calf, and and then actually stuck to it and didn't take all their golden earrings and melt it into a calf. Like he did. If he would actually stuck to his own beliefs, perhaps those that died in the aftermath wouldn't have. We look at Joshua and his army. Joshua had the willingness, had the ability to fight, to go forward. And I'm talking to a lot of you that you have a lot of ability. You have the ability to soul win, you have the ability to uh read your Bible, you have the ability to uh talk to others about Christ, you have the ability to go forth and fight the enemy, and when I say the enemy I'm talking about um the devil and his angels. What I'm saying is you have the ability to actually be in the forefront of the battle and actually get into it. And some of us are wasting that ability here. Listen, you can waste leadership and you can waste spirituality, but if you waste your ability, the problem with that is if someone does there's no one else to replace you. If Joshua wouldn't have been there, there wouldn't have been a battle. If there's no battle, Amalek wins. Where are you with your willingness and ability to serve God? Are you always using it? Are you thinking of new ways you can use it? Listen, some of you have have wonderful talents. That don't get utilized for God. And some of you are completely talentless. I don't know who you are, but I well I do. I'm one of them. I'm very talentless. Ask my wife. Some of us are ver are have no talents. But you use what little you got. You gotta use what little guys. And you're doing more than people who are vastly more talented than you. In fact, the sad p the sad fact about it is Most of us. Most of the people I see, let's say, that have the most talent often waste them for God. And the people who really can't do much Maybe they're not the smartest, maybe they're not the most talented, maybe they're probably the worst well spoken, something like that. Maybe maybe maybe those people they end up doing as much as they can. Use your talents. Don't waste them. And lastly, we have her. And her is a weird one. As we know nothing about them. This is what I know about her. Her is humble. Hers in the shadows. Hers not famous. His only claim to fame is holding some guy's arm. But it was important. Some of us need to be hand holders, arm holders. Use an encouragement. Some of and listen, I'm not saying people don't do this, but I'm just I'm just giving you my heart and what the Bible says. Pastor needs someone to hold him up. He does I listen, sticks first sticks get heavy when you hold them above your head for long. When you're, you know, eighty-five years old or eighty years old, I think is what Moses was. I mean, man, that's that's a lie. My buy heavy stick But there's a lot of burden on on pastor, on our leaders. It's a lot of burden. And sometimes they don't need someone to take the burden off of them. They just need someone to hold them up. And that holding up can change more than we know. Talk about chain reactions and I was talking about chain reactions with my wife and how she talks about something and I just keep going and going and going until I always find out I need new shoes. That's always where it ends up. I really need to buy shoes, by the way. Let's see that's really important. Um but uh think about chain reactions. Uh they're called degrees of separation. Um uh I I don't know I don't know every I don't know um what you call but but degrees of separation is if you think of someone and that person affects someone and that person affects someone and that affects someone this person affects someone. So think about Pastor in his everyday life. If you don't think Pastor gets discouraged, now you wouldn't think it because you go with smiling. I guarantee he gets discouraged. I know he does. I know all of you get discouraged. Think of what the little and and the little note. The little letter that it could take you ten minutes to write to Pastor Could do for him Hmm? Could do for him. And so he's discouraged, he gets that note. And it changes how he feels when he goes to the next visit. And he goes and visits someone in the hospital and instead of instead of being discouraged by everything, he he gives them the gospel with more fervor than he would have because he's encouraged. And then they get saved. And that soul is indirectly related to a stupid note that you could have written. That's just a little thing, but I I have an example. My uh my old um my old college uh vice vice president, my old college vice president, he was getting hammered by a lot of people, a lot of people. And uh you didn't do anything wrong. And so I just wrote him I wrote him a note. I think it was I think it was a paragraph and I was like, Hey, praying for ya. I know you're doing the right thing. I know you're you're I know uh all these people are getting down, but I want you to know that the we believe in you, praying for you, love you, that's it So I just I dropped it in this box and I just walked away. Seven months later, eight months later, not even uh you know I'm sorry, it was a year, it was well over a year later, he comes to me, he's like, hey, I don't want to talk to you He's like and I said, okay. And I always thought I was in trouble. Because whenever anyone of authority ever talks to me, I'm always in trouble. That's just how it works. So he so he says, I Um he's like, you remember that note you wrote me? I was like, yeah. He's like, I was going through your worst time. He's like, that note to this day sits on my desk and I read it whenever I am discouraged. Because they helped me through a lot of stuff. Now, I'm not saying that to praise me, I'm saying saying they I think it took five minutes out of my day to write that. And it helps someone month after month after month after month after month. Some of us can't can't be a leader. Not really. Because you're not really you don't really go out and be a leader. People choose you as leader. See, some of us can't be a leader. Some of us really can't be the spiritual um uh the spiritual beacon in our family because our our family's already spiritual. Or or or just because, you know, maybe because we're not the most listened to person. So some of us aren't listened to and and we also don't have the ability to do as much as other people do. So we're kind of useless. We're not young and we're not and like think of Joshua versus Moses. Joshua was forty years younger than Moses. He should have been fighting the battle. But Joshua fought the battle, and he was able to do that, other people couldn't do. And we don't know how old her was, but what we do know about her is that he couldn't fight in the battle, as far as we know, and that he could he wasn't the leader and he wasn't the priest And so her was just no one and kind of useless, and yet his little bit of encouragement Was able to stop an army from destroying the Israelites just by raising up one person's arm. So I end with this and I'm done. Some of us in here have one of these qualities, some of us in here have many of these qualities. Some of us in here have these qualities, and we don't know how to develop them, but the Bible says in 1 Corinthians 9:22, to the weak I am become weak. that I might win the week. I am become all things to all men, so that I might by all means save some. You may not be comfortable being a leader. You might not be comfortable um being the uh being the spiritual beacon. You might not be comfortable being out there in the trenches and fighting and winning souls and and fighting uh and fighting Fighting wickedness. You might not be comfortable encouraging someone. None of these things matter because to the weak you should become weak to be uh to truly make a difference. We must not just be ourselves, we must change ourselves into what God would have us do. This is my last point. You might not be all of these things, but are you any of them? Are you the leader? Are you the willing the willing servant, the willing warrior? Are you the spiritual beacon? Are you the encourager? And I say that to this. Everyone should be able to do one of those four things. And if you're sitting there going, I'm not really that, I'm not really that, I don't really encourage anyone, I don't really I don't really so wouldn't myself, I don't I don't really play the spiritual beacon part where I can't give people advice and I don't lead I d and you say I don't do any of those things I'm not sure anyone in this room shouldn't be able to do at least one. Encouragement takes encouragement may be the least of these, but they're also it's also one of the most important. We can do something. And like her, our name will be recorded forever for doing that thing. All he did was raise an arm. And he's recorded in the Bible. And and and it's crazy to think about this. 3,600 years later, this guy who held up some other guy's arm is being talked about I can I cannot ta name you any of the soldiers that died in past wars. 300 years ago, 400 years ago? I can't name you half the kings. I can't name you um the the the I can actually name you a couple. But I um the but um but you're talking about the great generals of the past of Persia Three thousand years ago, the great kings and the great and the great uh warriors. Most people don't know those, but I'm guarantee her gets preached about from Many pulpits in America, and all he did was raise a man's arm. Let's raise some people up Let's do what we can for God. Let's pray. Dear Lord, just thank you for this day, Lord. I just ask that you just bless us as we go throughout the rest of our service of God. And just uh, Lord, just uh Help us to be what we can for you, Lord. Not just be what we would like, God, or not just fall into place. But help us to be something for you. Your name. Amen.