I appreciate that. Alright, take your Bible, please. Turn with me to the book of Psalms. I thought I'd preach an obscure text tonight. Psalm twenty-three. Book of Psalms. Psalm twenty-three. It is good to be in church on a Monday night, and I'm glad that you're here And if somebody could please run out in the parking lot and grab God and ask him to come back. I felt him leave when Brother Leatherman made fun of West Virginia people, but we need to invite him back. Um, but I'm glad to be here anyway. I do appreciate the invitation, Pastor, to come and be with you. And of course heard great things about the church and ministry here. And this meeting, and I'm honored just to be a part of it, and I'm asking God to meet with us in a powerful way. I don't know what God will do, but I know enough about God to know this. He wants to do something. And I'm praying that God will meet with us. It's good to have my younger brother with us. He's not my little brother. He's my bigger younger brother. And my brother Andrew. It's on the front row. He's in law school at WVU. And it's good to have, of course, a good friend of mine, Pastor Mike Elder, on the front row. And uh he's a stalker of sorts. He shows up everywhere I go. But anyway, I'm kidding. I I love him And always enjoy preaching with Dr. Smith. Never really thought I'd ever preach with Dr. Smith, but used to listen to him preach a lot and read after him. And God's been good to allow me to preach with him. I was teaching a church ed class on Friday and we were talking about three important words. Everybody needs to know what they mean. Independent, you know what that means, talking to the young men at the school. Number two, Baptist. That word matters, right? Fundamental that matters. And I use the slogan, the Sword of the Lord slogan. If you ever look at the paper, I guess it's probably still on there, but there is a little statement there. An independent Christian publication standing for And it lists some things they're for. But doesn't stop at just what you're for. It also says opposing. And we talked about that word fundamental. That means more than just believing these basic bedrock truths, but also willing to contend for those truths And I appreciate the legacy and the influence of the sword of the Lord. It's an honor to be a part of conferences like this. If you're able to stand with me, would you stand if you're able to Psalm 23? That'll give you a chance to stretch your legs We have a table set up back there. The school sent it ahead of time. And I'm a horrible salesman, but if you'll just walk by that table and look at it, that at least let me feel good about having them ship it here Uh this this second row interests me. Are you seventh grade enough, most of you? You ladies and you all right, well here's what you do. If you'll fill this out you can get a free t-shirt. They didn't tell me I could do that, but they're not here. So you go back there and fill that out, would you? One of these cards right here, I'm gonna give you a free t-shirt, and then uh they'll they'll probably bill me for that. But you go do that. Psalm 23 Verse number one, I want to give you something that God used in my life to be a help to me, and I pray it'll be a help to you. The Bible says, The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures, he leadeth me beside the still waters. He restoreth my soul, he leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I'll fear no evil, for thou art with me, thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me. Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies, thou anointest my head with oil, my cup runneth over. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Now, probably everybody here tonight has read Psalm 23 before. Many of you can probably quote Psalm 23. We've heard it many times at funerals, in hospital rooms, places where people needed comfort. I'd read this song many times before, but there was a time in my life and our family's life when we needed some comfort. And I'll tell you about that here in just a few minutes, but I knew others had gone to that well and drawn comfort from it, so I thought I'm going to go there and see what I can get from it. And I'd read this many times before, but when I came to verse number 4, God used this statement to help me. And I want you to see this phrase. It's a two-part phrase. The first part of the statement will say it like this. It is a God thing. Here's what it says: yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death. David doesn't say that he might walk through it. Or if he walks through it, or that he could walk through it, but he's saying, I am going through it. There's nothing he can do about it. He can't outpray it, he can't hide from it. We'll just say it like this. Providence has put his path through that valley. Now I don't want to be discouraging on a Monday night, but there are things that come into my life and will come into yours as well that are just bigger than you You can't do anything about it. You can't change it, you can't alter it, why have to say it like this? It's a God thing But while the first part of that phrase is a God thing, totally up to God, the second half is totally contingent upon David I want you to see the response. He says this Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, now watch this. I will fear No evil. The valley was up to God. The reaction was up to David. The circumstance was up to God. The attitude was up to David. The action, we can say, was up to God. The reaction is up to David. God gave the valley, but David determined the depth of it For just a little while this evening, I want to try to be an encouragement to your heart with this truth that God helped me with and preach on this thought. You determine the depth of your valley. You don't decide when they come, and you may not decide when they go, but you will determine how low you go while you're in the valleys. Let's pray. Lord, I pray you'd help us tonight, please. Speak to the hearts of your people. Thank you for faithful folks who are out on a Monday night. I pray you'll tailor make this message to meet the need of our hour tonight in Jesus' name. Amen. You can be seated Let me give you a couple of stories to illustrate the truth, and then I'll get into the message. In July of 1651, three men made a trip on foot from Rhode Island to Lynn, Massachusetts. Those three men were named John Clark, John Crandall, and Obadiah Holmes. Now if you've ever studied Baptist history, those are three very familiar names. They were going to Lynn, Massachusetts, to visit a man by the name of John Whitter, who was a shut-in. Now, as these men traveled, they went with the intent to hold a service in the house of the man who was a shut-in. At that time in Massachusetts, it was illegal to be a Baptist. That's hard to believe, isn't it? I mean, what we're doing this evening would have been against the law at that time in Massachusetts Now I have preached in some churches I felt should have been outlawed, but it's hard to believe that that would have been illegal. As they held a service in that man's home, the local law enforcement found out and they broke up the service and they arrested the three men, John Clark John Crandall and Obadiah Holmes. The first two men paid a fine and were set free. The third man, Obadiah Holmes, was held in prison from July to I think it was September 5th or so of that year Now think about it. For several months he's been in prison. He's been sleeping on the cold, hard ground. He's been eating food that we would not want to eat, chains around his ankles, fetters around his wrist, sleeping in a jail cell. They escort the preacher from his cell to Boston Commons. I just preached there back in March and saw this spot. It's still you can see it there They escorted him there and they tied this man to a post, and he was sentenced to be whipped thirty times for the crime of being a Baptist. Not a murderer, not a terrorist, but a Baptist preacher. The story I read said that they took the shirt, stripped it off his back And a man with a whip that had three prongs on the end began to swing that whip across the back of the preacher. He swung his whip, and three white lines appeared upon his bag He swung again and the white lines turned red. After several more the red lines opened and blood began to run from his body They said so much blood poured from his back that the cotton pants he wore were stained deep crimson. Around either of his feet were gathered pools of blood, yet he never opened his mouth or made a sound, he stood there and took his lashing Now I would say he was in pain. I would say he was hurting. I would say he was going through something unlike many of us have ever had to face before. They untied the preacher and began to walk him back to his cell, and he looked at the man who had beaten him, and he made a statement that has made him famous since he looked at the man who had beaten him and he said, This, ye have beaten me as with roses. Now, can I say it was anything but that? In fact, I would say he would have liked to have cried out in agony and pain. But here's what that preacher had to determine in himself. He had a discernment. I can't change the fact I'm a prisoner. I can't change the fact I'm in chains. I can't change the fact that man has beaten me. I'd like to cry out, but it wouldn't change the circumstance, so he decided this. That man might break my body, but he'll not break my spirit. And I'll not dig this any deeper than it already is. So he elevated his valley, looked at the man, and said, You've beaten me as with roses Maybe you've seen the video. Maybe some of you were there when this happened. I've only been able to see the video, but I believe it was 1994 at North the North Side Baptist Church in Charlotte, North Carolina A preacher named Curtis Hudson was in the pulpit and he was singing the song that he made famous, I'm on the winning side. You can see that video, and I think you ought to go see it if you haven't. He's in the pulpit and begins to sing once I drifted out in sin and no joy, no peace within my soul was burdened down with pride. And then he gets to the chorus, but I'm on the Winning side and a couple thousand people in there, man, they're having a time. They're saying amen. They're waving their Bibles. Men were sitting on pews. It was a lot like tonight's service. But anyway, I mean they're just shouting it out while he sings, I'm on the winning side. Well what many folks today don't realize is he was dying and would die with cancer. In fact, what I've heard is all the way to the service he was on an RV with an IV in his vein putting fluids in him to give him strength to stand to sing the song. You know, he could have got in that pulpit that day and said, you know what, fellas, I'm tired. I'd rather not be here. God, why do I have to have cancer? It's not fair. I'd rather be home on the couch. I'll probably die before anybody else in the building. And he could have discouraged a couple thousand people. But here's what he had to determine in himself. I can't change the fact that I've got cancer I can't change the fact that I'm tired and I'd rather be at home on the couch. I can't change the fact that I might die before anybody else in the building. But I know this. I can either be a discourager or an encourager, and I'm going to choose to be an encourager. If I was on the winning side, Adam still on the winning side, so he lifted up his voice and encouraged a couple thousand people. Here's what he did, he elevated his valley Now, I've heard this statement over and over again: two things in life are certain, death and taxes. And usually when one comes around, we consider the other strongly. But I think we can say it like this: three things in life are certain: death, taxes. and valleys. Now I wish it wasn't so, but it is. I wish the Christian life was always birds singing, flowers sprouting, sunshining, babies laughing, money in the bank, mother-in-law million miles away, say amen right there. No calories in your Big Mac, but it's not. Sometimes the seas get rough, sometimes the road gets rocky, sometimes the sky gets dark. I like the hymn that says, I'm living on the mountain underneath the cloudless sky. Praise God, but can I say I'm not always there In fact, I would say in a crowd of this size, there are some folks here tonight that's more than a cliche. That has been reality for you. You know what it is. I mean it's not just something cute that the preacher says. We've been there, we've done that, we've experienced those low points. in life. I mean we know what it is, some of us, to get that phone call in the middle of the night, and it changes your life forever. Some of you might know what it is to sit in a hospital waiting room and just pray to God for good news from the doctor as he comes through those double doors Maybe you know what it is to stand beside a freshly dug grave and say goodbye to a husband, a wife, or maybe a child or a parent Maybe you know what it is to go to the mailbox and find in that mailbox more bill than what you have money in your bank account. Am I the only one in the wrong kind of work? I mean you guys must be doing pretty good Maybe you know where it is to have a friend of a lifetime walk out on you. Maybe some of you had someone say I do at an altar. Then wake up one day and they said, now I don't. And they left you forever. And can I say the valley is a very real thing? I don't want to be unkind this morning, but can I tell this evening, but can I tell you this? I wouldn't change it if I could. You see, here's what I believe. I believe God knows better for us than we know for ourselves And you and I are better off to go through these valleys from time to time in the will of God than to get out of the will of God and miss out on the valley. You see, I believe just like you and I take an old washcloth. In fact, I'm so close to West Virginia I can just say it right, a wash cloth And I I just like you and I would take an old washcloth and we'd wring that thing out to get every drop of water out of it. Can I say God knows how to get the most glory out of my life and yours as well? Can I say that God knows Abraham needs Mount Moriah? God knows that Job needs the ash heath. God knows that Paul needs the Mamertine prison. He knows David needs an absolute. And God knows what you need, and God knows what I need to get the most glory out of our life. And I wish it always happened on the mountain, but sometimes it happens in the valley. And I want to make a statement, and I don't want to be depressing, but the valleys are going to come and you can't do anything about it. Well, while the valley is a God thing, can I say that you do determine the death? A man was in the midst of battle and everybody in his group was dead. He was the only man left standing. He called in for backup and said, Help, I'm getting shot from the front. And he said, Soldier, it looks bad. Hang in there, we're going to send back up. He called and said, Help, now I'm getting shot from behind too They said, Soldier, it looks bad, but don't give up, we're gonna send back up. He called in and said, Now I'm getting shot from the left. They said, You're getting shot from the front, the back, and the left So that's right. He said, Don't give up. We're going to send back up. Then he called in a minute later, I'm getting shot from the right as well. They said, You're getting shot from the front, the back, the left, and the right. And they said, He that's that's right. They said, Soldier, it looks bad. We're gonna send back up. He said, I don't need back. Back up now I've got 'em right where I want them. He elevated his valley. I think about Paul standing before Agrippa. Paul is standing before a man that could take his life. That man on the throne held Paul's life in his hand. That man could end Paul at any moment. Paul has been sleeping in a jail cell, I mean making his abode with wraps, has chains around his body, horrible living conditions, and they look at Paul. I mean it's a Hair's breath from death, and say, Paul, give us a word. And Paul looks at Agrippa and says, I think myself happy. I'm going to say, wait a minute, Paul, how could you be happy? That wasn't a Hampton in, that's a prison cell. That wasn't a steak, that was a rat you had for supper last night. That man is not your friend. He wants to kill you. But here's what Paul decided. I can't change the fact I'm in prison I can't change the fact that man might kill me, but I know this. If God was good before, God's good now. If I could trust him then, I can trust him today. And it won't change a thing if I pout about it. So he looked at a griffus, stuck at his tongue, and said, I think myself What do you do? Elevator disvalley. I think about John on the Isle of Patenus. John had been boiled alive for being a preacher. They put John on a desolate island called Patnus. The buzzards flying around his head, licking their lips, wanting to eat John for supper. He doesn't have a pillow, he lays his head on a rock at night. There is no human fellowship there. The weather beats upon his body. And yet John on that i isolated, desolate island, testified and said, I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day. Now I want to say, wait a minute, John, they forgot Pastor Appreciation Month on the Isle of Patmos. That's not a patent pew you were sitting in. You didn't get to hear a good special. Those buzzards want to have you for supper, John. But here's what he decided. I can't change my circumstance. I can't change where I am right now in life. But I know this. If God was good When I laid my head on his breast in the upper room, he's still good on the Isle of Patness. So he cleared off the spot and said, I'm gonna have revival anyhow, be in the spirit anyhow, and he elevated his valley. Here's what I'm trying to preach tonight. You could be happy. In front of your own agrippa, if you want to. And you can be in the spirit on the Isle of Patness if you want to. And even though we walk through the valleys of life, thank God we don't have to fear any evil. Psalm 23 is a psalm of comfort. David knew affliction, but thank God he also knew comfort. And I'm glad his comfort then can be our comfort today. I was reading through this in a time in my life when I needed some comfort, and I'll tell you about that in just another three or four hours. Thank you for paying so close attention tonight. But I got to verse number four and I found a statement. Verse number four is a statement that a lost man cannot make, and let me say it like this, it's hard sometimes for a saved individual to make the statement Now the first part of the phrase says this, Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death. Again, let me say it like this. He doesn't say he might walk through it He doesn't say if he walks through it. He doesn't say he could walk through it. He says, I am going through it. And can I say this is more than a hangnail, flat tire, somebody says something bad about you on Facebook kind of a valley. This is a treacherous place. a place of adversity. He doesn't know what waits for him there. There can be pitfalls and snares and robbers. He doesn't know. But it's bigger than Goliath and stronger than a bear and fiercer than a lion. And David has to go through it. Nothing he can do can alter his course. through that valley. And let me say it again. The same thing will be true in my life and the same thing will be true in your life. There will be times in life when you can't outpray it, you can't outrun it, you can't hide from it. You're just going to have to weather it and go through those seasons. of life. It just happens. And I read that and thought, God, that's where I am. I'm there in verse 4. I feel like I'm in a place I've never been before. It's a dark place, a treacherous place. I'm in that valley. But then I got to the second half of the phrase. It almost make a baptist shout on a foggy Monday night. I got to the second half of that phrase and I read that statement, yea, though I walked through the valley of the shadow of death, I saw this and I thought, boy, I'm gonna put that in my pocket. I'm gonna carry it through life as I saw day. David says, yeah, I've got to go through it, but I'm going to go through it like this. I will fear no evil. Here's what he determined. God is in control of the circumstance. God is in control of the situation. God is in control of what comes and goes in life. But I can control David. I can't control the weather. I can't control the storm. I can't control the season. But I can control my spirit. And he said, here's what I'll do. I've got to go through the valley. Fine. I'm going to smile my way through the valley. I'm going to sing my way. my way through the valley. I'm gonna step as high as I can in the valley. It might be overwhelming, but I won't let it overcome me. I'm still on the winning side, even in the valley. Can I say praising God is a cheap thing on the mountain? Praising God is a costly thing, a sweet thing in the valley. Sometimes we don't even get to praise him God, we just praise what God does. Hello? Ask the average person for a testimony and they brag on their uh their their their pay raise and their new car and this, that, and the other, but what if all that's gone? Can I say I think the sweetest praise is when everything else is stripped away and we just got to praise God for being God. And here's what David said. Hey, I might go through the valley, but listen, I'm still saved in the valley. I can still pray in the valley. I still have a new song in the I I still have a mansion on streets of gold in the valley. My name is still in the Lance Book of Life in the Valley. And can I say passing out invitations to a pity party and attending your own pity party will not change? But you start praising God and worshiping God and trusting God and f by faith following God in the valley and you watch as that valley. You might not get through it any quicker, but thank God you can go through it at a higher elevation elevation. You ever heard of the statement attitude affects altitude? It's a good statement, but I like this one better. Faith in God affects altitude. You know what we do? I don't have any any notes written down here, but this is giving. You know what we do? We read Psalm 23. You know what we automatically think? As soon as I announced Psalm 23, you already knew what I was going to talk about, didn't you? You know why? Because you're negative, just like I am. And we all assume Psalm 23 is a psalm about the valley. Can I say the valley to shepherd ratio is very lopsided? David only mentions the valley once. He talks and brags about the shepherd in every single verse. You want to know how you can go through the valley on a high note? Quit maximizing the negative and start emphasizing the positive. You know, here's how we do it. We can illustrate this. If I were to get a little boy we don't have really uh uh a a young fellow, where's the guy who poked me in the rib d just a little bit ago during the fellowship? It's still hurting. Where's he at? Point him out. But anyway, uh if he was here he Oh he's playing on his computer now. But anyway, uh if I were to have him come up here and have the pastor get down there, I mean that's his pastor. And I were to say, Jump! He's gonna catch you, you know what that know that not just him, but any young man would do Jump. You know why? Because boys are stupid. But wait a minute, girls, don't laugh because you marry us And some of you are looking like you're right. God help us. But But a young a a little a child would he would just look at that man and say, He said he's gonna catch me and he just ch he wouldn't think about the negative. He wouldn't think about the draw, the distance, insurance, bad back He wouldn't think about any of that. He just jumped because of childlike faith. But if I had one of you big strong well, I don't see any of those, but just one of you men come up here Brother Matt, maybe. Just one of these small little Father one of you men get up here and the pastor get that's your pastor. Would you that's your pastor? That's your man of God He writes your paycheck. I mean, just you know I mean You know what we'd do, any of us, we'd start thinking, man, I don't know. I don't even know if I can climb up on that pulpit These hips don't lie. I don't think I can jump that far. You know what I mean? The bicep to belly ratio is not very good on the path. But anyway, I'm just kidding, preacher. We'd think about everything that could go wrong, and we'd never jump. David goes through his valley opposite of how we often go through ours. He doesn't look at all the you say, David, is there a pitfall there? Is there a snare? And if he'll lead me to it and lead me through it, I think I can go through it singing. It's sort of like the illustration that You hear all the time with the boys playing baseball and a man walks up to the right fielder and says, What's the score? And the boy said, We're losing 42 to nothing. They got the bases lowered and we got zero outs. And the man says, You're getting killed, aren't you? He goes, nah, we haven't even got the bat yet It's all about perspective. A little girl, six weeks of age, you know who she was, and was made blind at the hands of a man imposing himself to be a doctor. He prescribed the mother to put hot mustard poultices on the eyes of this girl who was having high trouble six weeks of age. Those hot mustard poultices burnt that girl's eyes and she was made blind because of it She lived in that valley of darkness, blindness her whole life. Not too long after that, her mother passed away and she was Her father passed away and her mother was forced to clean homes and just raised in poverty. If anybody had an excuse, if we would say in the flesh to get mad, to get bitter, to get down and depressed, it would have been that lady who was mistreated in that way. But she didn't She used that valley, she elevated that valley, and from her darkness she pinned a few songs like Blessed Assurance, Jesus is mine, Pass me not, O gentle Savior, rescue the perishing, care for the dying, Fanny Crosby And a man said, I wish that you had sight. She said, if I could ask one thing of the Lord, it was that I was born blind, so the first face I would have ever seen would be the face of my Lord. Let me give you a couple statements and we'll close. Number one, remember this. The testimony that you've built on the mountain is too valuable to waste in the valley. I know so many people who live a lifetime of faithfulness in the heat of trial, squander it all. I want you to hear this. This is not fair, but this is reality. Nobody remembers how you acted before your trial. But don't remember how you acted in your trial. Don't run from truth but lean on it. Don't quit singing in the choir. Don't quit soul winning. Don't fall out of church. Don't quit being faithful. Don't run out on your family when trial comes. Yeah, you just keep doing right Statement number two, the God I ought to write a song about this. Thank God for it. I think I'm gonna write a song about this. The God of the mountain is still God in the valley. Pray for me. I'm thanking a song about that You know what I've discovered? The same God who is God in the delivery room was also God of the funeral home. The God in surplus is God in lack. The God on the God on sunshiny days is God when cloud Paul found out the same God that was there in Damascus Road showed up in the Mamertine prison. Job found out the same God that was there to bless him with everything was there when he sat down in the ash heath. Peter found out the God that caught him from the sea to be a fisher of men was there when he backselled and went fishing again. And can I tell you something? That's our God this evening. He is not just God when you think he is, and he's not just good when you feel like it. God is always God, and God is always good, and he's worthy of worship and honor and praise. Praise and your faith even in the valleys of life. Next statement, let's go. Your valley is not the only valley. Other people have been through it and they made it. Right. Sometimes we're going through something and think we're the only person. Can I say Job is not the only Christian, or we'll just use the word term Lucy to ever lose his family? Paul's not the only person ever put in jail. Peter's not the only person that ever cussed. Some of you all probably did on the way to church tonight when somebody pulled in front of you in traffic. And can I say whatever it is you've gone through, whether it's a horrible tragedy, whatever it might be, can I say you're not the only person that's ever had to face it? And the grace of God that was sufficient for them is sufficient for you. Last statement, God will give the valley, but he'll let you determine how low you go. My wife and I have been married now over just over 13 years. Our little boy is named Lincoln. Lincoln is two and a half years old, going on, like 30. He speaks fluent Spanish, jumps out of airplanes. He's amazing. He's just like his daddy. But anyway And he's cute. I forgot to add that. But anyway, we prayed for a long time for children. If I can just use this word, I'm in the wrong kind of work to not have children. Because everybody, everywhere you go, is nosy. Baptist people are nosy. Hello, that's you guys. I'm talking about you guys tonight. But anyway, everywhere as soon as you walk in Why don't you have kids? Don't you want kids? Don't you like kids? Don't you know how that works to have kids? Don't you want to you And everybody everybody's asking these questions. And you want to say thanks for the advice buck. And you know that everybody has their own home remedy You know? We have all these Baptist witch doctors now. And some of you are already under conviction because you know I'm bowling down the essential oil lane as we speak. Hello. They know it's right. Some of these men can't say amen because their beard's like a diffuser right now. They reek of lavender. And that's because they don't run their house. But anyway, B. R. Lakin said you're so hen pecked you got a roost at the foot of your bed every night. But anyway I mean we've walked into these churches. I mean never even met these people before. And they're trying to give us, you know, tips on this thing. They'll say, well, if you'll take this oil, rub it on the back of that earlobe, maybe on your little toe, spin four four times on a full moon, drink fresh mountain spring water for the floor. From an east flowing river, I mean, you know, uh I mean all these trade things, you might get pregnant. I'll say thank you for your advice I want to say if they grow up to be like you, I don't think we're gonna have children. But anyway What people didn't know is my uh we were having trouble with that. I mean tr And and trying everything you could think of. My wife gives testimonies about it and spoke at a ladies' thing on Friday about it, but she has a condition and the doctor told her that she might not ever be able to have children And we tried everything, every every ex thing uh uh sort of the most expensive thing we couldn't afford it, but everything we could afford we tried. And I tell you, it gets kind of dark sometimes when you're trying to live for God and you begin to question God, how come it is people go out there and get drunk in the backseat of a car, get pregnant, and have an abortion? Or leave a baby on the side of the road and well, we just really want a baby. I was preaching in Florida and I got a phone call from my wife on Tuesday and I said, hello, and she didn't answer. I said, hello, and she whimpered back to the phone. I could tell something was wrong. And I said, what's going on? She hadn't told me this, but she'd been pregnant. I'd been gone from home for a month at that time preaching. And she'd been pregnant A couple of months, I think. It was a couple of months, just sort of a couple of months pregnant. And she hadn't told me. She was waiting on me to get home. And she'd already planned it out and she'd planned the she's gonna video me coming in the door and have balloons all over the house and things. So we've been praying about this for for eight years or so. And I said, what's going on? She said, well I didn't want to tell you until you came home but I've been pregnant. And of course I got excited. She said, but I just want to let you know I just left the hospital. He said, I woke up this morning and didn't feel good. And she said, I just wanted to let you know that I just lost that baby. I'll tell you something, I've never felt pain like that before. And it wasn't even so much for the baby because I know where the baby is, but for my wife because I was in another state. And I couldn't get to where she was. That night I was supposed to preach in a church of several hundred people, and I'll be honest with you, I'm not very spiritual. I didn't want to preach to them at all. I didn't want to see them. I tell you what I wanted to do is get on an airplane and go home and see my wife. I could have cared less if they heard preaching at or not. My world got about that big when that happened I called a couple of different people, called my pastor, and and my wife went and spent the day with my pastor at the time, his wife, and it is dark. And I got in that hotel room and that's when I went to Psalm 23. And I saw that statement and I thought, God, that's where we are. Never been here before. But then I saw the second half. I will fear no evil. And I made a decision to go to church that night and preach, not like we'd just gone through a valley or win one, but like we'd just been given a million dollars. And I didn't make a big show of it, didn't even tell the church, and they didn't even know about it until uh over a year later when I told the testimony at that church when I went back the next time. And can I tell you I'm not that spiritual, but I will tell you this, God helped me Enabled us to get through that valley. And I think it's all because we decided, you know what, let's just, it's bad enough as it is, let's not make it worse. Let's just go with God and trust God through it. I don't know who's here tonight, but this is what God laid on my heart to preach. I really wasn't settled on what to preach. I told the men back there they asked me for a sermon title and I told them, you know, go pound rocks. No, I didn't really. I said, I haven't decided. I haven't decided yet what I'm going to preach. I said, I'm just still praying about it. But maybe there's this one person here that needed to hear this. You can't control the valley, but you can determine the depth of it. Let's be our heads this evening. We'll have a time of prayer. I pray God spoke to your heart. God knows the need. Maybe you're here tonight and say, Brother Cooper, I needed that. In our family's life, we've been there. Maybe you are there tonight. And you just raise your hand and say, I God knew I needed to hear that tonight. And you lift your hands and say, Pray for me. Would you would you be honest with me? I see those hands, many of you around the building. Boy, I see that. You know, if you preach to hurting people, you always have a crowd of folks to preach to Maybe here you have folks on your heart that aren't in church tonight, but they're going through a valley tonight, and you say, Preacher, I've got somebody I care about that could use that truth and you say, I just want to Acknowledge, you know, they're on my heart tonight. You lift your hand and say, I know somebody tonight like that. Boy, I see your hands. Many of us. Many of us. We almost all of us are either there or we know somebody there. I'm going to open up the invitation to the altar now. If you need to come pray, you come. If you're tonight and you're not sure that heaven's your home, you're not sure you're ready to meet God, you'd say, Brother Cooper, I'm concerned about eternity. Would you please pray for me? Would you lift your hand right now if that's you say honest with the through? I don't know for sure I'm ready to meet God. Pray for me. Would you lift your hand right now and say that's me? Up and right back down. You have to hold it up, but I need to see your hand. All right, I appreciate your willingness. You think you can put it back down. Anybody else say pray for me? Just up and back down and say pray for me. I'm going to pray. This altar is open. If you need to come, you step out and come. Lord, I pray you please bless the invitation now. Help us, Lord. to take this truth, to put it in our back pocket for when we do need it. I pray for those who are there now. I pray for the first message you'd help us, Lord, not to forget that truth in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's