And turn with me to the Old Testament Book of Proverbs, Proverbs chapter twenty seven Proverbs chapter twenty seven. Whatever The book of the Bible I'm studying at any given time that seems to become my favorite book in the Bible. But Proverbs is without a doubt one of my favorite books in the Bible. I try to every day read a chapter from the book of Proverbs. And I try to read a chapter from the book of Psalms each day in addition to the other books in the Old and New Testament. But I try to Those two days read. And Proverbs chapter 27, and I just want to read one verse, verse number one, Proverbs 27. The monitors seem a little bit louder. They're on the verge of squealing, I think, there, fellas Proverbs twenty-seven, verse one. In fact, I would like for you to read this verse together with me if you would. Let's read it in unison. Ready? Boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth I underlined that verse in my Bible and I circled the words, Thou Knowest Not. And I'm entitled to my message this morning, You Never Know You never know. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, I thank you for what a beautiful day you've given us, weather-wise. I thank you, Lord, for a good service. Lord, I've sensed your presence in the service this morning. We're so grateful for your blessings on our country and our grand history. We're so grateful, or it just seems trite to just say thank you, for men and women have given their lives, suffered horrifically. So that we could be free. I pray, Lord, in light of that, you'd help us to live the lives that you intend for us to live. That we would be the people and the nation you intend for us to be. God, I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit this morning. I yield myself to you. I pray you'd take me. I present my body anew, and pray you'd fill me with your Spirit Lord, I just ask that your will be done in each of our lives. Help us. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. The Bible was given to us by God. And it was given to us by God for two reasons. As I study the Bible, I find two reasons the Bible was given to us. First of all The Bible is given to us to prepare us for the inevitable day when we stand before God. To prepare us for that day when we meet God. In Amos chapter 4 and verse 12, God said this: Prepare to meet thy God. It is inescapable. Every one of us Will one day stand before God. Each and every one of us as individuals, we will stand before God and we will give an account of ourselves to God. For how we've lived our life and our obedience to Him. Now, there are two, basically two judgments that every one of us here this morning are going to stand before. Now what I'm saying to you, I'm saying emphatically, this will happen. Okay? This isn't speculation. This isn't just theory. This will happen. The Bible is very clear. And we can take ours this morning And just go verse after verse after verse after verse that verifies what I'm about to tell you. There are two Every one of us here will stand in either it will stand in one of two judgments. The one judgment is for people who are saved. Folks who have trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, folks who have been born again. We will stand, not theory, not maybe. We will one day stand as Christians before what's called the judgment seat of Christ. At that judgment, we will stand individually, one-on-one, one before God, individuals, and we will give an account for the deeds we've done, our service to the Lord, how we lived our lives as Christians. Now, that judgment is not to determine whether we go to heaven or hell. That is determined the moment I trust Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. So, the judgment seat of Christ, I as a believer, someone at uh my sins have been forgiven, I've trusted Christ as Savior, He's given me new life. I will one day stand before the judgment seat of Christ, not to determine whether I go to heaven or hell, but to be judged for how I lived my Christian life. And be rewarded accordingly, or lack of rewards, whatever the case may be. Now don't think for a moment Don't think for a moment that because that judgment does not determine my destiny, that it is insignificant. That judgment will be very significant. I had a young man in Indianapolis say to me one time, he says, You know, I'm not too worried about it. As long as I make it to heaven, that's all I'm worried about. He's not going to feel that way at the judgment seat of Christ. How many folks here are familiar with the fella in the Bible by the name of the Apostle Paul? Sure, if you've read your Bible at all, you know Apostle Paul. How many folks here would agree with me? Paul was a tremendous Christian. He gave his life. He suffered in tremendous ways for the cause of Christ. Probably, if not the one of the greatest Christians that ever lived. You know how he described the prospects of him standing before the judgment seat of Christ? One of the greatest Christians that ever lived, when he considered that day when he will stand before the judgment seat of Christ, he said it is a terror. He was terrified by the thought of giving an account of how he lived his Christian life to the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, if it terrified the Apostle Paul, what effect should that have on you and I? If it was given to us, To enable us, to help us, to prepare us for that inevitable day when we stand before God. Now, for the believers, that day will be at the judgment seat of Christ, which I just briefly described. What about the unsaved? What about the person that has never trusted Christ as Savior? What about the person that uh mocked the things of God? What about the person that denied the truth of Scripture? What about the person that knew the truth of Scripture but simply neglected it? What about the church member that just went through the motions but was never genuinely saved? The unsaved Regardless of whether they're open apostates, rejectors of Christ, or whether they're simply hypocrites and just went through the motions. If they die in the unsaved state, they will someday stand before God, not at the judgment seat of Christ, but at a different judgment. Same God, same judge, different judgment. That will be, at the Bible, Revelation refers to it as the great white throne judgment Now, each of those names, great, white, throne, each of those titles are significant. They give us insight as to the judgment But the unsaved will stand at the great white throne. Again, that judgment is not to determine whether they go to heaven or hell. The great white throne judgment, God's not going to decide, all right, am I going to send them to heaven or am I going to send them to hell? That fate was decided the moment they died without Christ. The moment they died, in Jesus' terms, died in their sins. Their fate was settled. The great white throne judgment for the unsaved, the person that never trusted Christ, is to determine the degrees of their judgment. The Bible says the books were opened. And whoever was not found written in the book of life was cast in the lake of fire. But in that same passage in Revelation 20, it also says That there were other books opened. The books of their works. Now, I'm speculating here a bit. I think I have scriptures on my side, but I want to qualify this as this is uh Dennis Leatherman's speculation. But I believe those books of the deeds that were done, their works had to do primarily with the opportunities they had to be saved and they refused. The opportunities they had to be born again and escape this judgment, and they simply neglected it. Did not act upon that opportunity. No doubt, behavior as an unsaved person will be a factor in it. So I come back to my beginning statement. God has given us the Bible, and one of the purposes that he gave this Bible to us was so that we could be prepared to meet God. So that we can be prepared to escape the great white throne judgment for the unfind salvation in Christ, and then be prepared to face the judgment seat of Christ as a believer. Is everybody with me? Everybody okay? All right. Everybody catching up on your rest and all that. Praise the Lord. We want to be have a ministry of all stripes. So, from Genesis to Revelation, the Bible points us to our desperate need of a Savior. And that's what I'm trying to say The Bible points us to a desperate need of a Savior. There's a second reason God gave us the Bible. One, to prepare us to face the judgment of God, to face God. Shows us we need a savior. If we're going to survive that judgment, we need a savior, somebody to save us. But there's a second reason, as I just said. The second reason God has given us the Bible is to equip us. To live here and now on this earth. Not just a future event that we are prepared for, but to enable us to live here on May 29, 2011. To live the life God intends for us to live. He instructs us. He tells us in his word that if we're going to have God's blessing, If we're going to live a life that's full of purpose and meaning, if we're going to accomplish God's will in our life, there are some things He tells us in His Word that we need to be sure that we do. There are some things we need to be sure to avoid. There are some actions we need to be sure we take. There are some actions we need to be sure we never engage in. He tells us how we can live our life in such a way That we have the joy of the Lord in our hearts. That our lives have meaning and purpose. There's fulfillment, so that we can have peace of mind. God tells us how we can live. When we live our lives in obedience to God's commands and in obedience to the principles in God's word, we can experience every blessing that God intends for us to have. Now here's the problem. Here's the problem. The world. The world has us convinced That those people who are miserable are actually very happy The world has us convinced. They'll put them on the TV screen, they'll put them on the computer screen, they'll put them on the magazine uh cover. And people who are absolutely miserable. They'll portray them as very, very happy. Huh? And they'll portray the person that has genuine joy, genuine happiness down inside their heart and life. They'll portray them, those people are miserable. Isn't that something? This world, we have a problem. The world has convinced us that the people whose lives are empty Whose lives have no purpose beyond shallow, meaningless existence. The world will convince us, but boy, those l they're they're they are full of purpose. And the people who have something to live for beyond the simple uh flesh and blood and possessions and And temporal things that those people, their lives are empty. The world has convinced us that people who are bad are really good. And the world has convinced us that the people who are really good are bad. The world has convinced us that The good is bad and bad is good. The empty is full and full is empty. Basically, the world has done what Isaiah has warned. In convincing everyone that that which is evil is good, and that which is light is dark. And the sad thing is, we bought into it. Now God says to us, I've given you my word If you will live by the principles of this, if you'll follow my instructions, if you'll heed my warnings, if you'll claim my promises, you can live a life that has meaning and purpose and fulfillment You can have a joy that this world cannot give you. You can have a peace of mind that you will never find in a bottle or in a movie theater or in a joint. Or in a nightclub. God says He can give us that The Bible was given to us for two purposes. One, to prepare us for the day when we meet God, and two, to enable us to live a good Fulfilled, God-pleasing, glorifying life here and now. God's word, I like this statement. God's word operates in the realm of truth. Not in the illusion of perception. There used to be a commercial years ago. And I think it was about a camera, if I remember correctly. But this was their statement, this was their motto. Image is everything. Anybody remember that commercial? Image is everything. The fact of the matter is it's the exact opposite of that. That's what's true. Image isn't anything If all you have is an image of something, how many, uh I was out working yesterday, and I know this is hard for some people to believe, but pastors do work occasionally One day a week. I was out working in the yard yesterday and doing different things and washing my wife's car and I always wash her car. She never washes my truck. I just thought of that. But anyway, uh I was I was doing some things like that and I got very, very thirsty And I come in and I bought some Gatorade. Now imagine anybody here ever work hard and become very, very thirsty? About seven people. Uh, can you imagine coming in being very thirsty and all you had was an image of a glass of iced tea That'd work, wouldn't it? No problem. Image ain't nothing. But that's what the world has convinced us, that image is everything. They put this illusion up there that that which is good is bad, and that which is bad is good, and that which is empty is full, and that which is full is empty. And God says, no, no, no. If you follow the world's suggestions, if you pursue the world's image You're going to end up empty. You're going to end up without joy. God says, here's my word. I give you instructions. I give you promises. I give you warnings. Now don't believe the world's lie that if you live by this, you'll be empty and unhappy. And end up with nothing. That's an illusion of the world. The truth is, God's word operates in truth, not in illusion. God's Word presents life and reality as it is, not as the world would have us to believe it is. Now we come to Proverbs 27 in verse number one. This is an incredible principle here that is so simple and so obvious. That we miss it. This verse has a principle that enables us to prepare for the day we meet God. This verse has principles in it that enable us to live our lives full of purpose and meaning here and now Boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. Now, I could preach a series of messages, anybody could, on that first phrase: boast not thyself of tomorrow. You're crazy if you just put everything off until tomorrow. It's basically what he's saying. Don't you brag about what you're going to do tomorrow. You have no idea. But it's the second phrase here that the two tie in together, but the second phrase that caught my attention and that I want to try and apply to our lives here this morning is where he says, Thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. And this is what gripped my mind. You never know, you never know what just might happen Now I jotted a few different things down that might help us. I put this down, number one. Just because we never know what might happen tomorrow, number one, we should not be overcome with anxious care today. I don't know what's going to happen. You know what I found out? How many people here are ever worried about something and it never happened? Anybody here? Can I get a witness? Oh, wait, I don't know how you are. And I've got a lot of people come up to me. I've said this a number of times over the years, and I had people come up and say the same thing happens to them. But I don't know how you are. But I'll wake up about two o'clock in the morning And something will grip my mind. And I'll get thinking about that. And that grows and grows and grows and grows. And by four o'clock, I am worry sick. I'm on the verge of a heart attack. The world's coming to an end. I'm gonna be broke. The house is gonna be repossessed. Uh my family's gonna leave me. Then you eventually fall asleep in this turmoil and nightmares. You wake up a couple hours later, it's like, that was silly. That wasn't even anything. Anyone know what I'm talking about? I'm glad I'm not the only one. Often what we worry about today never materializes tomorrow. Listen, we have no, you don't know what tomorrow is going to bring Let me suggest this. The prayer you've been praying for years, you never know. It may just be answered tomorrow That prayer you thought God would never answer, thou knowest not what a day may bring forth You don't know that tomorrow is not the day that God may come through. I thought about in Luke chapter 15, you have the story of the prodigal son. Most of us are very familiar with the story. A father was fairly wealthy, had two boys. The youngest son said, Daddy, I want all my inheritance now. I don't want to wait until you die. I want it now. And the daddy, for whatever reason, agreed, sold his life insurance policy, and cashed in his IRAs and everything, and gave the boy all that he was to inherit whenever daddy died. The boy being the grateful, thankful young man that he was, took the money and ran And uh he gets to the far country, he lives it up, he's partying, he's carrying on, uh rocking and rolling and drinking and just uh having a big time until it's all gone. You know the story He ends up in the pig sty, feeding pigs, eating the husk that the farmer throws out, and finally the Bible says he came to himself And he says, you know, my father's servants have beds to sleep in and food to eat. I'm not worthy to be called his son, but I could go back and at least work as a servant for my dad. And so he cleans himself up the best he could and he heads back. Now, here's where in Luke 15, verse 20, it says that when the boy was coming back, the father saw him afar off. You know what that tells me? Daddy was looking for him. Daddy was watching. He the boy didn't get up to the door and knock on the door. And daddy come to the door and say, Oh, son, you're home. No, it wasn't that way at all. Daddy was out there and he saw him coming up this, walking up the road. Far off. Probably had his binoculars, Savarsky binoculars looking out there. I'm going to suggest to you day after day after day. That daddy prayed and watched for that boy to come home. Day after day after day, that daddy prayed and watched for that boy. To reestablish the relationship and get back in a place where God's blessings could be on him. And every day, he'd get up and look, and nothing. The next day he'd go to bed at night and he'd get up the next morning and he'd watch and watch as he goes about his business. He's watching and watching, and another day goes by and the son doesn't come home. And another day goes by, and the son doesn't come home, and another day goes by, and weeks go by and months go by, and maybe years go by and the boy doesn't come home. But you never know. One morning he got up, and that day the boy came home. You never know. Tomorrow, I'm talking to some folks. You've been praying for something for a long time. Your heart's broken. It may be a loved one, it may be a child, it may be a parent that's unsaved or away from God, it may be a brother or sister, maybe a dear friend that's out of fellowship with God and they're wasting their lives in the world and ruin And you've been praying and praying and praying and praying, and every day goes by and it doesn't look like anything's going to happen. I'm telling you this morning, you never know. Tomorrow May be the day that brings forth that answer to prayer. Don't you give up on it. Don't you quit. You never know what tomorrow may bring My daddy got saved when I was ten years old. He immediately began to pray for his family. He prayed for eight almost nine years. He prayed that God would save his boy. God save my boy. Change his life God give him a new life. God save him from his sins. Eight years day after day after day. I got saved May 7, 1979. It was a Monday night. Daddy didn't know it. He was out on the road driving truck. He's a truck driver. That end of that week is probably, I don't remember the details, but it's probably a Friday. Daddy came home all week long. Now that was back in a day when you didn't have cell phones. Right. So we didn't communicate during the week. We had a we had you're gonna be impressed. How many people want to know what we had? We had a home base C B How many people knew I was going to say that? We had a Moonraker antenna on the roof. How many people remember the moonrakers? That wasn't any just normal antenna. That was the antenna. Moonraker. Yeah. But that old Moonraker home base C B didn't reach Chicago. So I never could talk to Daddy. I said all that to say we didn't have C we didn't have cell phones Daddy got home that Friday, just like any other Friday he had for years. Been praying for his son to be saved. God been working on my heart. I had to tell people. I told guys at work. I told everybody I got saved. Jesus came. I accepted Jesus as my Savior. They all thought I was a freak. A lot of people tend to feel that way. But um that night daddy came home just like any other day Came through that back door just like any had a thousand times before. But this time is home. Huh? What are you doing here? Dad, I got something to tell you. What is it? I accepted Jesus as my Savior. You never know. You never know. That whole week he had no idea that that day he would come home to a boy that God had saved You follow what I'm saying? You never know what tomorrow holds. Oh God, I've been praying, you have an eld! God's never going to answer this prayer. Don't you say that? You have no idea what may happen tomorrow. God will never meet this need. How about this? I'm never going to meet that one that I can marry. You may meet them tomorrow. I got thinking about this. I had fun studying this. I'm having more fun preaching this than you are listening to it, I think. I had a good time. I mean I got stirred up. I put it this way, the dream you've been dreaming may come true tomorrow. In Genesis chapter 24, Rebecca was a single young lady. She was getting older. I think, again, this is Leathermanism, I'm just injecting this here. Warning. uh disqualification. This is uh I mean not disqualification uh I'm qualifying this statement uh this is what I think I think she was getting desperate And I have reason to say that because she agreed like that to go marry a guy she never met. You gotta be desperate. So Rebecca's there working and besides that, she's taking care of sheep. What woman in the world wants to do that? She's going and going, I think she's praying, God, someday I want a nice, good husband that loves God. God, or something And uh day after day after day. And I can hear her saying this to her s I can hear her texting this to her friends. I'm gonna be an old maid. Oh, there's no way I'm ever gonna. And lo and behold, the next day she's taking the sheep out, and here's some strangers standing by the well. And he says, you know, I'm thirsty. And she goes, All right, I'll give you water. I'll give your camels water too. Little did she know God was about to make her dream come true. You never know. That next day, you never know. It may be the day God Makes your dream come true. I thought about Joseph. You think about dreams, you've got to think of Joseph, right? He dreams that one day his father and his brothers are all going to bow down and worship him. And they all say, you little punk. And to make a long story short, they beat him up and sell him. He ends up in Egypt. Potiphar's wife falsely accuses him of rape. He ends up in jail in Egypt. I mean, you talk about alone, you talk about hopeless You talk about dreams shattered. How in the world is that dream ever going to come true? And lo and behold, one night Pharaoh has a dream. And one of the buttons, was it the butler or the baker, or was it the candlestick maker? It was the butler, wasn't it? The butler says, hey, you know what? I had a dream. And there was a guy in jail told me my dream. It came perfectly. And Pharaoh says, Roy, what was his name? I think it was Joseph. Hey, go find Joseph Yes, sir. I had this dream. Joseph says, dreams belong to God. God knows the answer. He tells them the dream. Next thing you know, Jacob and his boys are all bowing down to Joseph. You never know. You never know. What I'm trying to say is this don't give up praying Don't give up hoping that God will answer that prayer. Don't give up on anybody. You don't know what tomorrow holds Don't compromise your convictions. Don't go back on God's word. That says you don't know what tomorrow holds That person you've been waiting on, that situation you've been longing for, may be tomorrow. You never know. You never know. You never know. Wait on God. Don't compromise convictions. Never give up on that wayward child. Never give up on that struggling ministry. We are in desperate need of bus workers. And James said, Amen. We're in desperate need. Somebody says, ah, why don't you just shut the buses down? Forget it, you know, you're just bringing in a few kids and all that time and effort. You know what? I hate to shut it down because you never know. Maybe this week God will speak to someone's heart and take that and it explodes for the glory of God. You never know. We've been knocking on doors in this town for 18 years. Ah, it's uh You never know. We may see start seeing people saved like that, left and right, and lives changed You follow what I'm saying? God says, don't boast yourself about tomorrow. Thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. Now the first part is kind of a negative thing. Don't get too proud of what's going to happen tomorrow, but the second part has a positive connotation to it. Hey, that that tomorrow may be the day And so, number one, I put this down. Don't become over anxious, don't be overcome with anxious care about tomorrow. Don't give up on your prayers and commandments. I put this down. Number two, don't neglect God's commands today. Listen, you say, preacher, the Bible says that what I'm doing is wrong. I've been doing it for a long time. Ain't nothing happened yet. You never know. Tomorrow may be the day when the chickens come home to roost. Um I put this statement down. I made this to my wife the other day. We were driving I said, I'm afraid. And let me just share a little bit of my heart with you. The older I'm getting The more I'm regretting decisions I've made years ago At the time it didn't seem that big a deal. At the time and years following, as I get older I look back and say, you know That decision brought a lot of pain. I made this statement to my wife, and then I wrote it down. We got back. I'm afraid we fail to understand How deeply and far-reaching the damage is that our disobedience to God brings. We fail to realize. We think I can just neglect. I can I know what the Bible says, but I'm afraid a lot of times it's not till tomorrow we realize how deep that decision to disobey God really hurt. Follow what I'm saying? Don't neglect God's word today, because you don't know the consequences of that action may fall tomorrow. Just because there's no consequences today doesn't mean there won't be consequences tomorrow. For years, for years, Sodom and Gomorrah lived in open rebellion against God For years, day after day after day, Sodom and Gomorrah flaunted the clear principles and standard of God's Word and mock the very concept of purity and righteousness And then one day, the fire and the brimstone began to fall. They didn't know the day before that the next day was going to be their last day. You never know. Say, well, nothing's happened yet. Oh, you never know. Tomorrow may be the day. Don't disobey God's will today. David and Bathsheba. We know the story. They hid it From this country. They hid it from his nation, his sin. Bathsheba became a child from David while she was married to Uriah. David, he thought very sneakily Had Uriah killed? He thought he had his sin hidden. He married Bathsheba very quickly. Nobody would know. We've gotten away with it. For over a year? Day after day after day, nothing happened. We got away with it. We're safe. We're fine. Everything's good. We pulled it off. 365 plus days later, in David's courtyard, shows up a fellow by the name of Nathan. I got a situation I want to tell you about. Okay. Little man was very poor. I don't know if he was little man, a man was very poor. He had one little lamb. It was like a child to him. He loved it. There was another fellow that had herds of sheep. And a traveler comes by to the wealthy man with all the sheep. And the wealthy man wants to satisfy the traveler. He wants to meet his need. And so instead of taking one of the many sheep he has, he goes and takes his neighbor's one little lamb. He kills it. He gives it to the traveler to eat. David said, That man deserves the judgment of God. Never entering David's mind that he was about to be exposed. The day before he had no idea, he pulled it off. I got away with it. And Nathan points at David and says, Thou art the man. And David's life changed. And never the same. The judgment of God fell. He lost that child. His testimony was scarred. His children rebelled against him. Paid a heavy, heavy price. So what I'm trying to say is this We may think we can get away with something today, but listen, you don't know what tomorrow holds. Tomorrow may be the day when your Nathan shows up Tomorrow may be the day when the fire and brimstone of God falls on your rebellion. Numbers, God told the in the book of Numbers, God told the nation of Israel, Be sure your sin will find you out. It will happen. So number one, don't get overly anxious about tomorrow. Tomorrow may be the day your prayer is answered. Your dream comes true. Second of all, don't get too negligent today. You better be careful your walk with God. You better, listen, for la excuse the crudity of it, but you better keep your nose clean. Huh? Because you don't know. Tomorrow may be the day. Let me give you the third last thought. Because we never know, because we don't know what tomorrow holds, do not neglect the matter of salvation today. God guarantees that whoever wants to, they can be saved. But that guarantee is only good for one day And that's today. He says, Oh, now is the accepted time This is the day of salvation. You know what he's saying? He's saying today is the only day I guarantee you where you can be saved. You put it off tomorrow, you don't know what tomorrow holds. Here's the sad thing. I've seen it over and over and over. Whether it's in a church service like this and the preacher's preaching And you have an unsaved person and the Spirit of God's in with their thinking clearly and they think, you know, I need to be saved. I need to settle this matter. I can't play this game anymore. I've got to make settle this matter. And they'll say something like this, not outwardly, but in their mind. I'm going to take care of that this week one day. Tomorrow I'm going to get this matter settled of my salvation Or maybe I'm at a door and we're one of our soul winners and we knock on someone's door and we engage them in conversation and our motive is nothing more than simply to tell them how to be saved And we get our Bible out, we sit down, go through the plan of salvation. I've had it time and time and time again. Yes? Trust Christ. Yes, I need to have God forgive my sins. I need to be saved. But just not now. I'm just not ready now. And I come by some other time. Oh, sorry, preacher, now's not a good time. And I come by another time. Sorry, preacher, this isn't a good time. And it never becomes a good time. And soon that concern fades away. And they go off and never get saved. Listen, you don't know what a day may hold. You just never know. I like the statement, you never know what the tide may bring in. You don't know what tomorrow holds. I guarantee uh we had recently a fellow in the news predicting the return of the Lord. That's crazy. But I predict something, and I guarantee it. I guarantee that in every one of us here, I guarantee that within our lifetime Do I have your attention? How many people want to know what the guarantee is? Come back next week, I'll tell you. No, I'll tell you right now. I guarantee this. Within our lifetime, every one of us here alive, the young people that are trying to stay awake down front here, older folks around, uh I guarantee in our lifetime One of two things will happen. Either the rapture will take place, or we will die. In our lifetime, one of those things, two things will happen. Either we're going to be raptured, the Lord will come back, or we're going to die. There's no other way out of here Now here's my point. You never know. One of those now they're going to happen. One of those two is going to happen. No doubt. Either raps, the Lord comes back, or we die. Now here's my point. You never know. One of those two may be tomorrow. Huh? You never know. I did a funeral Friday for a lady last Sunday Had no idea she'd be in eternity today. No idea. I put this down. I think this is a good quote. Live each day As if you knew you were facing God tomorrow. Isn't that good advice? Live today as if you knew for sure that you were facing God tomorrow, because you never know. It's a very real possibility you will be facing God tomorrow. Did you find that, Kathy? Would you uh TJ, would you bring that up here to me? Kathy has something there. Would you bring that up here? Now, for the fellows that have been to wild game dinners with me Here you go, take this back. We always put coats on our Uh for the fellows that have been to a wild game dinners with me, you recognize this. This is a Winchester 3030 model 94. It's not the old wealthy one, real expensive one, but it's a nice one. I bought this when I was 18 years old You got one just like it? Really? I I used a wild game dinner here just a few weeks ago. A guy wanted to buy it off me. Um I bought this when I was 18 years old It's been a good gun. I killed a lot of deer with it, some deacons, you think. Um I saw it advertised. I was eighteen and I'd I've been using my grandfather's old twelve gauge single shot shotgun with a slug deer hunt. So I sold this for sale and so I went over the house to get it. I was 18. I wasn't saved at the time. And a lady came to the door and said, I'm interested in buying that 3030 I saw advertised. She goes, Okay, I'll go get it. She was real sad looking. This was in the springtime or summer maybe. Maybe. She came out and said, Here it is. I said, Well what do you want for? And I act worked the action a little bit and whatnot. I said, what would what do you want for it? She goes I'll take $80. She says, I believe it's worth a lot more than that. She said, but if you'll give me $80 for it, I said, sure. I said, well, I'm curious, why are you selling it? She began to cry. She said this past rifle season, my husband is an avid beer hunter. He said he always used this gun. He said he overslept the first morning of rifle season a little bit. He always wanted to get up to the spot. He used tree stands in a whole lot back then. She had a certain stump or whatever he sat on. She said he overslept a little bit that morning. It was a little late. It was already getting late by the time he went out there. So he always got dressed in the back of the pickup truck. He'd put his boots and clothes on And he's making his way up the tree line to where he hunts. And she said he got halfway there, and another hunter shot him through the heart and killed him. She said he was probably dead before his body hit the ground. She goes, I don't want it in the house anymore. I hardly ever get this gun out where I don't think about that. You never know. When he got up that morning, when he went to bed that night before, he had no idea that'd be the first night, that'd be the last night he slept in his bed. When he got up and put his boots on that morning, he had no idea. That would be the last time he'd ever put on his boots. You never know You never know. We've got to make sure we're saved. We've got to live for God today. And on a positive note, don't ever give up in prayer, in trusting, in believing. Believing God. Because you never know. Tomorrow may be the day that God answers that prayer. Tomorrow may be the day that that wayward child comes home. Don't ever give up. You never know. Father, help us, Lord, to have faith in you. Help us, Lord, to understand the brevity of life. Help us, Lord, to be sure of our own salvation. God, give us a concern for others. Help us. Help us. Our heads are bowed our eyes