Am I on there, Bob? Bob, baby Bob, all right. Gotta make sure and uh uh we're good to go here and uh I wanna get ready and It may take me a second to find Jonah. It's right behind Obadiah. If you can't find Obadiah, you're on your own. But anyway, I'm so glad that God has spared us for this time. And I'm glad that you have a missions church. Pastor Leatherman, you do not need uh I I don't need to say anything and how to fill the the the faith promise cards out because you covered best as any pastor I've ever seen. All right. And uh he knows how to do this. And uh praise the Lord for that. Some guys I've been with that you take the brothers along I don't I don't have a spell faith promise, you know. And they're afraid and scared to death. But hey, uh I tell you what, God blesses you, get into this, and it's just the beginning. Now keep this in mind Tonight's message is is not at anybody personally. All right. I do not know anybody's situations in in your in your homes I don't know anybody's situations financially. I just know the preacher fed us some horse meat tonight. And uh how many had that horse meat? It was pretty good. And uh And I was looking for those venison bratwurst that you had left over last night, you know. And I thought they was gonna be here tonight, right? Uh he still got 'em over there in his refrigerator somewhere To some things you don't feed at the International Banquet and that's one of 'em. But anyway, maybe they'll be next year. But thank you so much for hosting this I know the missionaries are grateful and uh man uh uh I I'm grateful I got the cabin over there. Man I got stuff all over. It's gonna take me five hours just to get everything back together 'Cause I spread out over there. Uh several things going on at once, several messages, several things around the world in missions. And so usually have to go in a hotel, you gotta be neat. You know, and that house that missionaries have, man was I covetous once I left. I'm telling you what. Man, I'm telling you. You know, suffered for Jesus over there. And uh we all got into one of those coffee making machines I don't know what it was in it, but man, it's like coffee old steroids. And I was up to four o'clock this morning shaking, but that's good. So they go a little bit long tonight just because of what I had in me yesterday. You might be a Jonah if. Now you guys remember years ago, I don't know if he's still alive or not, remember Jeff Foxworthy? He had this uh this is this kind of shtick or comedy act he had about being a hillbilly, is that right? Or a redneck. And uh he said uh you know you might be a redneck if you have a complete set of salads in your house and they all say cool whip on the side How many's got those? That was a couple of churches they have 'em, you know. And uh you might be a redneck if you uh uh if you uh your wife says she's game and you try to shoot her, you might be a redneck. Closer to home than you think, right? You might be a redneck if you've been accused of uh lying through your tooth. You might be a redneck This is this happened in uh Vienna, West Virginia. You might be a redneck if your wife says, Honey, come move the transmission out of the tub so I can take a shower You might be a redneck. If you th you might be a redneck if you think fast food is hitting a deer at seventy miles an hour with your car You might be a redneck if your daughter's Barbie doll house that you have made for her has four or five rusty vehicles in the front yard. This is one of the best ones. You might be a redneck if you missed eighth grade graduation because you had jury duty that week. That's closer to the truth anyway. You might be a ragneck if someone tells you you've got something in your teeth and you have to take him out and look and see what it is. It's kind of home, doesn't it? Now, on a more serious note, as I unwrap this tonight, I want you to catch the drift of this and we have a good time. But you might be of Jonah if you have some things coming to your life. Jonah is a mission story. Jonah is the Holy Spirit of God telling him what to do and how to do it and where to do it and why to do it. And he said no on so many levels. Comes of faith promise giving. I hope you're not a Jonah. That's you look good and you've got that status as a Christian and or you even got the status as a missionary or God wants to call you to the mission field, but you'd rather take that boat down to Tarsus instead of go to Nineveh. You'll find out along the way that you're not in charge. God is. And uh and I I'll tell a little bit about my story tonight, but you know, I was uh raised in a place like this country And uh rough uh hillbilly background. Everybody walked with the limp because there was no level ground in you know Monroe County there in the southern part of Ohio, just like across the river from West Virginia And uh got saved at 16. Hal Webb was preaching a message along with Thurman Babcock, the Russians are coming, the Russians are coming, and back in 1969, we thought they were coming You know, and and I didn't get saved in the service. I was too proud, but I was laying on my bunk that night, couldn't sleep, eleven thirty at night. And I got up right in the middle of one of the worst storms ever. I thought God was sending that fish to swallow me Because I didn't get saved. I ran across the little driveway from here to the back of the church, and the man that paid my way to camp for eight years was sitting there with a cup of coffee. His name's Jim Beaver And I went in that camp kitchen and he said, I know, uh Dan, what what's on your mind? I said, I need to get saved. And he led me to Christ that night. Oh you know, and then I got baptized a few weeks later downstream of a bunch of cows. Don't do that. Try to get upstream of them, all right? And uh God uh God was calling me into the ministry, but I wanted to be a Voag shop teacher. Back there in the hills. Wanted to go to Eastern Kentucky University. And I had a plan, man. And at one time I was a about a hundred and eighty pounder One of the meanest guys you'd ever meet played cornerback in high school and a scat back and I had four or five colleges looking at me and they all said I was too small but one college is going to give me a full scholarship God wanted me to go to the ministry. Dan wanted to go play football. Between my junior and senior year, that that fish showed up. I broke my shoulder running hurdles, the state finals. Went back into place. First time I'd ever experienced uh morphine. That's good stuff, amen I didn't feel I didn't know I had an arm until the next day. This one here. And then I still gonna go my dreams. And I broke it out again. And a third time. And God had to have me have a surgery and they cut that thing off and they put it back on. I couldn't move that thing for ten weeks. My scholarships dried up. My plans dried up I didn't have one friend, the high school football coach. I was the captain of the football team. He said you've lost your captainship because you can't play both ways and You know, if you even make the team this year he'll be lucky, but hey, thanks for your three years, four years, and he walked out. Now that is getting lower than roadkill, amen. It may not mean anything to you older folks, but you're sitting there at seventeen and every dream you have just went out the door. Because I sat there those next ten weeks. God took me down that Jonah trail. You might be a Jonah if So then as I teach this, I want you to understand you missionaries, those that want to support missionaries, and those that God's calling to the mission field. Don't you be the Jonah here, amen? And we're more like him than we want to think. Amen. So let's take a look at this. Jonah chapter 1 verse 17. Now Jonah, you know drun sideways, he's supposed to go to uh Nineveh, but he went to Tarsus, you know the chapter. Chapter one And the word of the Lord came in verse 1, and came unto Jonah, the son of Amatai, and saying, Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry against it. Sounds like the call of God there, doesn't it? He heard that, but Jonah rose to flee into Tarsus from the presence of the Lord. Folks, you can't outrun it. Been there and tried that You go down to verse 17. We know he goes to sleep. We know the storm comes. We know they draw the straws or cast the lots. And he just confessed to them the whole thing's on him. And he said, the only way you'll get this storm stopped is you just kick me up and throw me overboard. I mean, they did everything. They didn't want to kill him. He said, you need to do it, the storm will not stop. The Bible says that the men in verse sixteen of chapter one feared the Lord exceedingly and offered a sacrifice unto the Lord and made vows. Now the Lord had prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah, and Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days and three nights. Three days and three nights. That guy's about hard-hearted as some of us, amen. I would have gotten right with Jesus while I was going through the air before I even got my toes wet. I confess things I hadn't done. I mean, especially if I couldn't swim. He sat in there for three days. But he's more like us than we want to admit He said, I cried by reason of mine affliction unto the Lord. And he heard me out of the belly of hell, cried I, and thou hearest my voice. He said, There's a reason why I'm here. And God's got me in the mouth of this fish and the belly of this fish. And man, I'm here by reason. I cried out to God that, you know, and I, but three days? How many hours is that? 72, I don't know how it's good in math in here. You take this clock, I calculated it, you know, and it let's say three days is all those hours and You know, and you just think about all the people that died in Nineveh before that fish got him to the seashore, maybe four days later. Then he had to walk in a day. And preach an eight-word sermon. And when he'd done that, the greatest revival ever recorded in biblical history happened. Wow. You might be a Jonah if. Write these down and we'll go quickly tonight. You might be a Jonah if. In Australia, they'll call you a Jonah if you do a runner. Do you owe a bill for a house rental? You take off, go to the other part of the country, you did a runner Or you bought a car and fa uh said you're gonna give 'em five thousand now and five thousand next week and and next week never comes and you take that car and go to the other side of the country, you did a runner. All right, you get that I want you to understand in our in our Christian world, in our relationship with God, the first thing I come up with here is this, to apply to missions, is this. If you oppose what God wants to go do through you, if you oppose what God wants to do through you. You might be a Jonah. Look at chapter 1 in our text today. Take a look with me in verse 3. But Jonah rose up to flee the Tarsus with the presence of the Lord He went down to Jump and found a ship going to Tarsus so he paid the fare up. You know the devil, when you start wanting to do something for God and God begins to work in your life, the devil will bring things that to in front of you and say, Well, it must be God's will, 'cause I just got enough money to run away from God. It's amazing how we think. I wrote three things down here. You won't submit to God's will. I want you to understand if you oppose what God wants to do through you, you might be a Jonah. And I've run into young couples I've run into older couples that God was calling them into missions, calling them into to be pastors, assistant pastors, and they always say this, preacher, you know I've been praying by this don't have any peace About what? I don't have any peace. About what? Well, they might have mosquitoes there. I've heard they've got snakes there. Lady come to Australia. She wa at Samper going to New Zealand. Preacher you may run into them. I don't know. They come to all Kansas, Australia, and this is serious and They're there in our house and they come to our church and they're gonna go start a uh wanted to start a church about an hour up in the mountains from us and and uh she asked a question, Are there any mosquitoes and dinghy fever in cans? Are you kidding me? It's like water here, you know. And uh what about snakes? Oh yeah, we got a couple, you know. What what are they? Uh garter snakes or black snakes? I well they they got uh you know uh They got a typen here that uh that'll you know that's the most poisonous snake on earth. But then they got another snake in Australia. You can Google it. It's called the brown snake. It's it's poisonous than the typen, and it eats the typen for breakfast She says, how big are these snakes? Oh, eight, ten, twelve feet. Good night. She said, honey, we can't move here. They got snakes. You know, they don't have the Nawai, I don't think Not many in Alaska. But you know a lot of people are a lot like Jonah when they try to manipulate God's will for their lives. You might be a Jonah if you won't submit to God's will Jonah knew what God's will was, and he didn't do it. Aren't you glad it's his name there instead of yours? Number two, Jonah, get this. Wouldn't agree with God's word. Jonah knew what God's word said. Look what it says there in verse 1, chapter 1. And the word of the Lord came to Jonah. The word of the Lord. God Almighty, the Holy Spirit. And then he would not do what the word of the Lord said. Verse 17 says in the first chapter, now the Lord had prepared a great fish. To swallow up Jonah. And Jonah was in the belly of that fish three days and three nights. Why? Because he wouldn't listen to God's word. L-O-R-D. Listen to God's word. Obey God's word. Respond to God's word. And do what God puts in your heart to do. And you won't be a Jonah that'll oppose what God wants to work through you. And the third thing I want you to catch here is this. Jonah had a pride problem. Boy, he had a pride problem. Missionaries asked me this week, what's the two biggest problems? What's the biggest problem for a male missionary? It's his pride. It's his pride. And yeah, there's no way around it. Men sitting in here today, ladies, will tell you this biggest problem uh men have is price. It's the last thing to die with us Ladies, the biggest problem we have with our ladies is they don't know how to surrender their expectations. They think everything's going to be perfect. And nothing's wrong gonna happen. I'm telling you, when you step up to missions or you step into ministry, there are gonna be some rough days, but you cannot manipulate God's will for your life. Psalm 563 says this, what time I'm afraid I will trust in thee. You know, my arm was broken and I got right with God and I'm getting ready to go off to Bible college and uh, you know, and uh uh uh uh and this young lady showed up at a a camp and And preacher I call her Delilah Debbie. Or Debbie Delilah. I don't know where she come from, but boy she liked me, you know. And uh She would sit by me in the preaching services and she'd drive an hour one way to go to Sunday school with me and and uh I you she met me at camp and good night three weeks later she wanted to marry me. Amen And I felt pretty good for an 18, 19 year old guy, you know, and I'm getting ready to go serve Jesus, and all of a sudden she shows up. When I told her, well, I'm glad you're coming to church, but I'm not really interested in you because you're not interested in what God wants to do through me. I'm going to go off to Bible college and be a preacher. Man, she dropped me like last week's roadkill Father has something on me. Best decision I ever made. Amen. Are you listening? Hey, you might be a joint if you oppose what God wants to do through you. He has to work through you before he before he work uses you in his ministry. Number two, you might be a Jonah when you're willing to pay a price for your sin. You know the Bible tells me, keep your hand there in Jonah. Would you go with me to Galatians chapter 6 for just a moment? When you're willing to pay a price For your sin. Man, Jonah's supposed to be going over here uh to Nineveh. The band he he got that boat going down to Tarsus and he paid the fare up thereof. He got in that boat and he he's running from God and he's willing to he paid a price for this. Man, he paid to get out of that situation. You know, when Jesus tells the the uh the young disciples, let the dead bury the dead He was telling them, quit waiting for that inheritance and get into ministry now. I mean I'll take care of your f your shoes, I'll take care of your meals. You don't even have to carry a credit card with you Just go. I'm going to take care of you along the way. And th those guys went out, did they not? About seventy of them. They come back and they cannot contain the excitement and how God would bless them every step of the way. And missionaries, you've got to get this in you You know, am I going to get a a Microsoft uh am I going to get a an Apple? Is it going to be a four stroke diesel? Going to be an eight stroke. Is it going to be a twenty-five thousand watt generator? Is it going to be a hand crank generator? Are we going to have white socks or black socks And you hear missionaries talk, I want to tell them, get over that. Get over where God's called you. Don't worry about all this stuff back here. Because when you start bringing that with you, you realize it's more about you. And it is about him. Are you willing to pay a price for your sin? Like Jonah did. What's the Bible say in Galatians chapter 6? Look what it says. Let him that taught in the word communicate unto him that teacheth in all good things. Hey, I want to teach you something here, Paul says. Let me tell you something, Galatians. Be not deceived, God is not mocked Whatsoever man soweth, he shall also reap. For he that soweth to the flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption. But he that soweth to the spirit shall of the spirit reap life everlasting. And when you sow to the spirit Hello, Dolly. So to the Spirit, listen to this. That means you're doing what the Holy Spirit wants you to do. Now watch carefully. And let us not be weary in well-doing, for in due season we shall reap. If we faint not, as we have there for opportunity, let us do good unto all men. You're called a surnaum You're called to New York. You're called to Honduras. And I'm called to wherever, amen. But my heart's in P and G in Australia and the US in that order. Sorry folks. I I'm a yank, okay. But I'm also nausea. All right. But I mean God's called me to that. That doesn't mean much to you. But I I'm on I'm on the phone or we FaceTime with our pastors and yesterday in Port Moores of Be alone we we w went over fifty four hundred in our eight churches You know, well, we've been there for twenty-some years. I didn't do a thing except take the text and take the phone call and started something back in 1994-95. God has ballooned that thing in an unbelievable way, but God's done it. Just think. Well, I'm not going to go to New Guinea because, you know, I like Hawaii better. And what if I went to Hawaii on my own account? I'm no different than Jonah. Are you are you listening to this? Now you folks listen. If God's called you, if God's calling you into missions tonight, you better answer that call. If he's calling you to uh Catholic, I can't pray. Stand, okay. It's one of those stand countries, all right? Or if God's calling you to to New Zealand or God's calling you to Siberia or Greenland or Iceland, that's great. God you know, I know God's called me down along the tropics It's a lot warmer there, amen. Now wait a minute. God called me to Greenland, I'd go in a heartbeat. Well, preacher, how do you do that? How do you do that? Mrs. Yates, a teacher, used to teach for me. Said, Brother Long, how do you know? How do you know that God wants you in Papua New Guinea? How do you know to leave the United States? Man, you'll go over and get some disease and you'll not come back. And I mean you're going to strand your wife, you're going to strand your your family. Man, how can you do this? And I said, God put something in me. It's not that I have to come back, but it's that I have to go. And a lot of us in here has never got to that point. Because you know what what happens to my 401k or my 401 Z? What happens if uh my grand granddaughter's not born yet? I'll never be able to see them You know, because they're in one country and I'm in a Hey, you know what? Give that to the Lord. You'll make all that come together, amen. Number one, you might be a Jonah if you oppose uh what God wants to do through you. Number two, you might be a Jonah if you if you if you are willing to pay a price and do what we call a runner. Willing to take a chance to go against God. Look at chapter 1 of our text, please, with me back in Jonah. Look at verse 10. I want you to catch verse 10 here. It makes this statement Then there were men exceedingly afraid and said unto him, Why hast thou done this? For the men knew that he fled from the presence of the Lord, because he had told them, Man, taking a chance You know, wanting it his way. And I'm telling you, pride was driving Jonah. I think of another man in the Bible that made a bad mistake. His name was Samson. He did pretty good for 20 years. He kept playing around and trying to map and manipulate God's will and take down the power of God on a human level. God's got a haircut You want to ask Samson, how'd that work, Samson? Stand there between those two giant pillars with hundreds and thousands of Philistines on top of them, like watching a ball game. He's a gazing stock. He's chained to those two pillars. He got a little boy about the size of the lanes boy, eight or nine years old, his hands, his eyes He's standing there, his eyes is taken out, and Delilah's moved on, and he's been a cartoon or a zoac for several years. Strongest man on earth brought down Because he wanted to do God's will his way. He did a runner. He's supposed to go to his Nineveh. He's supposed to go to his Nineveh. But he was taking it over to Tarsus. God let him sit for a while, amen. My God tell you, it it's not if God's judgment's gonna come It's when. It is so good to be in the middle of God's will. Amen. Number three, look at this with me. I want you to catch this. When you're unconcerned about your relationship with God, you might Be a Jonah. God wants a relationship with us. I didn't say it this morning when I preached uh on the prayer thing at Sunday school hour Uh where that widow went to the judge because of her adversary. She just wouldn't quit ha you know uh knocking on his door. And the young man wanting the bread from his friend up on top of the house, he just wouldn't quit his importunity She troubled the judge and his importunity. And I want you to catch this. What both of those individuals did, they got the attention of the person that could take care of their problem. And when you are in the middle of God's will and you go to God in prayer, you're going to get God's attention. Ask. Seek, not. It's going to be opened, and you're going to find it. But I want you to be careful. You've always got to have a close relationship with the Lord. You missionaries Forget about the numbers, they'll come. Forget about the buildings and for bidding forget about the schools and the Bible call. That's all going to come. But the key is to have a right relationship with God as you go in this All God's people. But we'd expect that the missionaries, they got to walk on water. They got wings, don't they? Look at the halos they got because they're answering God's call. No, they're no different than anyone sitting in here tonight Now I want you to catch this. When you're unconcerned about your relationship with God, you will be a Jonah. Would you hold your hand in Jonah and slide with me real quick to 1 Corinthians Chapter 6. I want you to catch this with me. It says in verse 19, What? Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost that is in you, which ye have of God? and you're not of your own, for you're about with a price. Therefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit which are God's. My friend, you've got to have that close relationship God wants it. And number two, you've got to have a communication with God. You know, I've been calling my wife all week. Amen. We text each other and uh for Mother's Day I don't tell her this, uh for Mother's Day, I've got her some she likes those those cherry berry things, you know. She likes strawberries that's got all that googly glop on it, you know, and And uh I love 'em, you know, instead of buying two or three, I buy a dozen 'cause I like it more than she does. And and I make sure she doesn't get it 'til the day before I get there and she'll only have one eating. Next day they're all gone. I I want you to know it. I know what she likes. You know, outside of that, preacher, her number one dessert is doves ice cream bars. And every once in a while I'll have them door-dash to the house, and I'll be in some town or some city, and God will knock on the door. Delivery! And my wife wants wonder what that could be. She opens that box up. I'm telling you, would you see those dove bars in there? There's no hassle in my castle How many understand what I'm saying here? And when you do what God puts in your heart to do, and you do not flinch, and God calls you in the ministry, I'm telling you what, he will bring he will bring the blessings to you. And the Bible tells me it gives you a peace that passes all understanding, but it will not come unless you have that tight relationship with him. You might be a Jonah. When you don't take correction. Ouch. You might be a Jonah when you don't take correction. How many of you ever got in trouble with your parents? And your daddy was getting the belt out or taking you back to the paddle place. And you were confessing things that you never did. Just make sure you covered everything. How many have ever been there? Amen. Then I've seen some people, I didn't do it, got you on camera, didn't do it. I got you in slow motion, doing it frontwards and backwards, didn't do it Is that right? Then you say, I'll take your doll baby away, or your football helmet. I did it, I did it, I did it. And most of us in here don't get right with God until we realize we're going to lose something. We're a lot more like Jonah than we think. Are you kidding me? Throw me in the water! Man, I said, Hey God, I've got to get right with you. Don't tell me, guys, I'm going right now. And jump myself But he was so hard-hearted, he made them do it. There he goes, through it mid-air, hits that water, he's going down, and here comes his fish. Swallowed him whole. I'm telling you what, how many have ever fall fallen under the water unexpectedly? Your kid scared me to death yesterday. I'm watching him around the water. That little kid's going down the dock and he go he goes, Woo! Ah! You know. I couldn't get to that kid if my life depended on it. I need to help him get up out of the chair just to cook a hot dog. I mean I how many's ever seen somebody drown? Took me three hours to find the body. One of my best friends graduated Bob Jones. I kept diving here. Body floated over there. Name was Steve Wright in the ministry with me. Very hidden, I think he was there visiting maybe. Was watching the lake and standing up on the canoe and had his life jacket home, didn't have it tied, and he fell down and he went in that thing. Bad situation. We go through one of those things. You put the life jacket on the next time. Amen. Like Cousin Benny Doc, we're having a family reunion like we were doing yesterday with a party. And he but no one's paying attention, he's about the size of that little boy right there, uh Timothy I think is his name, and and he was swimming in the water and he disappeared. And I went running as like a 25-year-old and I just jumped out in the middle of the water and I happened to hit me in the head with my hand and I picked him up. That kid's still sending me old model stakes today For saving his life. Hey, you listen to me. I've almost done a Jonah, and maybe I have. I've learned one thing in my life. You need to have a close relationship with God Because you missionaries are going to get in some things. If you're not right with God, you wonder why things are going on in your life. Amen. Do not Be a Jonah. You might be one if you're unconcerned in your relationship with God. And you might be one. And I want you to get this number one. I gotta hurry. Number four. You might be a Jonah when your walk is not consistent with your talk. You might be a Jonah. Parents, you want your kids to do the right thing when you're not around. All the parents said What's the number one worry when your kids turn 16, 17, 18, and not in your house and they're out there is, are they going to do the right thing? Let me tell you a secret. If you put the right thing in your child's heart, And they have the right heart and the right thought process. No matter what situation they get into, they will do the right thing. Alright? Now you might have some moms in here like my mother She do the smell test and I wonder what she was smelling for. She said, I smelling for liquor. Mom, I don't drink. What else you smelling for? Girls? Well, I'm not with any girls. All right. What else you smelling for? See if you're still right with God or not. Good. I'm glad I had a mama like that, aren't you? That she could get a hold of God. God would get a hold of me. That's why I still limp today. I am telling you We need godly parents, amen. Don't you parents pull a Jonah and go read some psychological book. Don't you guys at God's call in the ministry go read some guy's writing. Hey, right here, it's all right here. Amen. And the Holy Spirit talks to you. You answer that call in the ministry. You answered that call as a parent. I want you to understand when your walk is not consistent, if your talk's not consistent with your walk, Jonah's thoughts Jonah's actions and the judgments Jonah had at this point in his life was completely upside down and backwards. He thought he was in charge. So much that he did the runner. And a fish swallowed him. After three days in that, I mean after all that storm, for three days he sat there before he said, Can you go with me to chapter 2, please? Verse 1. I want it took three days for him to get there. Then Jonah prayed unto the Lord his God out of the belly of the fish. Why did he cry? Well, I've been in the mouth, belly of a fish. It's going to be curtains for me. It's going to be over. Now he knew why he was in that fish. And God dealt with him. And God got a hold of his heart. And I want you to understand the last point I have tonight is this. You might be a Jonah if When you do everything but repent of your wrongdoing, you might be a Jonah. You know, I uh I was uh Getting ready to go to Bible college. Getting ready to go off to Bob Jones University. Bill Barrens and I both went there together. He graduated a year or so in front of me. That's where him and I met And uh as we're as I'm talking there and uh with him and some others, and you know, uh he said, You gonna do God's will when you get out of college? And I I said, Well, I want to. What do you think God's will is for you? I think why God wants me to be a Christian school teacher and work with youth. Barons are sitting there at the tables, the dining common. We said, why don't you come up where I'm at? Why don't you give God a chance? Who is this guy? You didn't know that, did you? He had a bunch of teenagers there and he sat down at my table He knew I'd talked with the pastor before. He said, why don't you just give God a chance and do what God's will is for your life? He looked at me and he had a little smirk. It ain't rocket science. Good night. That got a hold of me. I want you to listen. Hold your hand there in Jonah chapter one and go to 2 Peter. I want to show you something as I close tonight. I'm looking at chapter 2. I want you to catch this with me. I want you to give a sense here as I unwrap this for us, you know, that when you walk, your walk is not consistent with your talk. You might be a Jonah. The Bible says in 2 Peter chapter 2, it tells us in verse 20 and 21 and 22, it makes this statement. And after they had escaped the pollution of the world through the knowledge of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, They are again entangled therein and overcome. The latter end is worse than the beginning. For it had been better for them never to have known the way of righteousness than after they had known it to turn again from the holy commandment delivered unto them But it's happened unto them according to the true proverb, a dog is turned to his own vomit again, and the sow that was washed to her own wallow in the mire. It doesn't make sense For a dog geek to eat his own puke. It doesn't make sense that he voiced that pig for the four H show at the county fair. But by their natures, they'll do that. But when you get saved, you're supposed to have a new nature in you, right? Greater is he than you and you that is in the world. And Jonah was not acting like this in his story But the Bible tells me at the end of chapter two, it says, verse nine, but I will sacrifice, and Jonah here says this, unto thee, with the voice of thanksgiving, I will pay I will pay. I will do what I vowed. I will do it. I will do it. About that time that Well, he'll puke him out on the ground. Here's what happens. This is so key. Jonah is also not only mission stories, but a second chance story that God will work in us. And on us and through us. Verse 3, chapter 3, verse 1. And the word of the Lord came unto Jonah a second time. That's fantastic, is it not? When you do everything you do but repent of your wrongdoing, you might be a Jonah. You know, Jonah got right with God. And God said, They got a sermon for you, preach. Walk in about a day, town of 120,000 people. He walked in there He said, Now here's what I want you to preach this eight-word s uh sermon, yet forty days, and none of us shall be overthrown. Y'all are going to die and go to hell. 40 days. You gotta get right, gotta get saved. No hip, and or buts. Every hog, dog, frog, mule, it's right there. I don't understand all that. But that that city got right with God. Amen? And God spared them for 100 years. And then he judged them later on. These were Assyrians. These were bad people. But when Jonah finally did what God told him to do, The greatest revival in scripture ever recorded took place. And it's not about Jonah. It's about God Almighty It's not about the the uh stall cups there, it's not about the lanes and it's not about uh the uh the mariners, it's about what God wants to do through them But you all can't do it, Jonah. 'Cause you really stick out then. As a church you can well, I don't I know God wants me to put in the offering, but hey I'm not gonna do it, you know. I think he's asking too much and maybe I'll just give about half and And and you know, you know what what motivates you? What motivates you to do as a church what you do do? It's the lost world. Is the world worse than it was in nineteen ninety? Raise your hand if you agree The 1990 people, yeah. Is it worse than the year 2000? How about 2010? I mean we're go it's gone. What a time for some Jonas. To say, hey, the Lord's come a second time. I'm overdo what God wants me to do. And he went and preached that thing and that whole country turned around. That whole city turned around You might be a Jonah if you do you do the opposite that God wants you to do. You might be a Jonah if you're willing to pay a price for your sin You might be a Jonah if you're unconcerned about your relationship with God, and you might be a Jonah if your walk is not what your talk is. You might be a Jonah if you'll do everything you can, but repent of your sin. You know, I give you a statement earlier that I I said I it's not that I can't go uh you know to t uh you know to New Guinea, Mrs. Yates got after me It said I won't come back. It's as that I have to go. I got that off of a lady that failed college. Her name was Mary Stryker. She failed college. She's from Alabama. She tried to go with two mission boards, but she could not pass the entrance exam. Make a long story short, she wasn't very tall, and she wasn't very smart. But she had a little farm down in Alabama, had four or five cows and some calves. She saved her money. And God had called her to the Iran-Jaba side of Papua New Guinea. Up into the mountains where the head hunters are. And she had a church that would send her and she sold everything she had and God had called her and she's going into a place where you couldn't even fly in or walk in or float in. And uh one of the oil company haw uh helicopters from the States, I don't know if it was mobile oil or who, had a flight into that region and they was going to drop her down on a rope about 150 off feet off the ground and she'd slide down that rope with her suitcase into a village. And uh she's flying there. The pilot tried to talk her out of it. So did some of her friends. And she always had the same answer. It's not that I have to come back, but God put it in my heart that I have to go. They load her in that village suitcase, and they'd never seen a white lady coming out of the sky. But a year before the head man of the village said he was praying and thinking that God's going to send somebody to change change our lives and they'll come out of the sky. When she touched the ground, there was nobody going to headhunt her. I man, she had no idea what they were saying. Ten years later she had the language down. Two years after she got there, uh another missionary family came. And she stayed there for 10 years. They got a church, they got a Christian school, they had a medical infirmary, and I'll never forget what she said. If God can use me, God can use anybody. I want you to understand that. He's in the using business, but don't you try to manipulate that thing. And I'm telling you, why is the drop-off in missions, missionaries the last 25 years is because we're trying to manipulate the thing. We'll say, Here am I, Lord, send me if they have running water, if they have electricity, if they have, you know, a a fiat or a Electronic cars. Uh Lord, I will go. Send me. If they've got a Walmart there in that country. If they don't have a McDonald's, I can't. God's not leading me there. You you know I am not making it up. I deal with this in recruiting missionaries. There's so many ifs they put on that. And that's what made me think. You might be a Jonah if You tried to manipulate God's will for your life. Now God put this on my heart to speak tonight. I was wanting to teach and preach on something else, but I believe God's going to call somebody to the mission field out of this church. I believe that with all my heart. You need to make that dedication tonight. And I believe many of you have given your faith promise, but I know, and I believe with all my heart that God wants you to do more. You've got to trust God with it. Amen. When he says do it, don't even think about Tarsus. Because when you start moving out for the Lord this way, the devil's going to bring along the Delilus. The devil's going to bring along the Debbies. The devil is going to get uh want you to go to a state college or give all this stuff out. I'll tell you what, when God's in charge. And he got my attention. And I carry two zippers on this right side. I got an eight-inch screw in there. Sets the alarm off at the airport for the last 56 some years as a reminder when I was going to do my Jonah And God stopped that. Aren't you glad? I'm glad He did it. Yeah, that I had to lay in the hospital for two weeks and lay at the house for ten weeks and you know, and God had to humble me. I had a pride problem And then they courage if God can use me, God can use Mrs. Stragger or Miss Striger, God can use Jonah, God can use you. Oh, God's people said Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Lord, we thank you for tonight and your opportunity you've given us to meet. I know I could preach on other things, but you led me to do this. And Lord, I'm glad Jonah listened to you a second time in chapter 3. And I'm glad you didn't give up on him. And I pray and glad you won't give up on us. Lord, the mission of this church is to reach the loss of the world. You told Jonah to arise and go, and he went the second time. The greatest revival ever took place in Scripture. Lord, you give him the message. You've given these missionaries the message. It's not rocket science. The Bible says when he gave that message, Nineveh believed The motivation, Lord, tonight, if it's for us, we are the method that you use. And may you give us a heart that listens, obeys, and responds and do. We will do your mission work for you, not only here in Oakland, not only here in the county, not only here in the state of Maryland, but around the world. And Father, we pray these things in your name. Pastor How many folks God spoke to your heart in one way or another in the last several nights, tonight, and through there? Anybody at all? God spoke to your heart. You know what I think would be an excellent way to bring this thing together is to kneel at an altar and just say, God, yes, I agree. Whatever you dealt with my heart about, I'm going to trust you. And I'm just going to follow your leadership and follow your direction. The interesting thing about the book of Jonah is it's not really about Jonah. It's about God saving millions of people in Nineveh and what he had to do to get Jonah there. It was easier to save souls in Nineveh than it was to get the preacher to go to where it was supposed to be. And God will save souls in Suriname. God will save souls in Honduras, New York. It's just getting the people there. That's the challenge. Maybe God's speaking to your heart. Maybe God's challenging you. If you have the slightest stirring in your heart, That it might be God's will for you to go, I'd really like for you to talk to Dr. Barron before you leave. Or Dr. DeLong, I'm sorry. Dr. DeLong before you leave. Just come and ask questions. Tell him what God might be doing in your heart. He'll be able to help you. He'll be able to give you some direction. Father, bless this final invitation of our missions conference. Help us to be sensitive. Help us to be submissive. And we want you to use us, Lord, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes