Excited about what God is doing. I'll tell you as we serve the Lord. We've been missionaries now for 32 years. And every year it just gets more and more exciting. We see God do marvelous things and He's done that. Not only in our works in Mexico, to to see them continue to grow and pastors are being faithful, new works are being started. out of the works that we started, uh, but then to see what the Lord has done over the past five years. We went to Fort Smith, Arkansas in 2009, five years ago. We just left there in June uh and moved away. But uh when we got there we started in the lobby of a car wash with our first service had thirteen people in attendance including Barbara and I that day And uh the first thing we did as we started that service in that church, I told those people, I said, we're going to be a a biblical, fundamental, independent Baptist church. And the first thing we're going to do is take home missionaries And we voted that day and took on two missionaries, and I believe God honored it. We it was just a thrilling time. We outgrew the car wash well, I mean the car wash, which you'll see in just a moment uh very quickly and uh moved into a storefront building. We outgrew that within three months, moved into a house that another in a bath church loaned to us for a while, and within six months we'd outgrown that and had to find a location We began praying and asking God to uh open doors. We found an old assembly of God church that had been closed down, up for sale, and uh they were asking $150,000 for that building. Uh we prayed about it. We didn't feel we should give them that much for it. Uh it was uh half a block from the Salvation Army, two blocks from the mission, old downtown Fort Smith. So that gives you an idea of the of the area we were in. It needed a lot of renovation But we felt the Lord wanted us to have that property. And we began to pray and we went to the realtor and I told him, I said, well, first of all, we need them to find this. And he said, forget it. They will not finance. They've already turned down two or three other groups one in financing. I said, Well, that's the only way we can do it, and I believe God wants to have it, so I'm gonna ask you to submit the requ the uh offer to him anyway And he said, okay. He said, what do you want to offer? And I told him we'd offer him $100,000 instead of the $150,000 that we're asking. I said, uh, and we also want 0% interest. He looked at me like I was kind of crazy. I said, Well, that's what we have to do. And uh and then he said, Well, I want you I want you to know before we do the rest of this That baby grand piano that's there and all those church chairs, he said, that's not part of the deal. They're selling those separate. They think they have a client. I said, God told me they're supposed to give us those. I said, I want that in the offer. And he really looked at me like I was a nut. And uh I told him, I said, We'll we'll pay it off in two years And uh he then he looked at me again with his eyes real big. He said, Okay. And he told me, he said, it's gonna be about two weeks before they'll get back to us on this. They'll have to have a council meeting and all kinds of stuff with their organization. I said, That's fine. The Lord has all the time he needs Within two hours he called me and he said, I can't believe it. They've accepted your offer. And I said, Well, I can believe it because we have a a faithful and awesome God. And uh so we began praying about that uh and and how to use that. We we updated the building. God just worked in marvelous ways. And we were able to leave the work there in June. We turned it over to a Hispanic pastor. In fact, the Lord paid the building off in three years. They gave us one year extension, still at 0% interest, and uh we the Lord paid that building off in three years. And so at the end of the five-year period, uh we turned it over to Hispanic pastor, debt-free, and uh they are continuing on. We were out there three weeks ago for a family conference. They asked me to come back through and preach And it was just a a tremendous blessing to go in and see four new families since June that we didn't even know. Four families they've led to Christ And uh one of them's already been baptized and singing in the choir. And so we're excited about what the Lord's doing there, uh just a vibrant work, and then excited about what God is going to do where we're headed We have just moved to Hendersonville, North Carolina. We've been praying about several locations where the Lord would have us to go. And I began to pray. I was doing my devotional time in Hebrews. uh last September, uh in the early days of September, and I uh came across again the very familiar verse of Hebrews 11. 6. Without faith it is impossible to please him. And he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. And I began to pray, and I said, Lord, I want more faith I want to trust you for more. And I want to seek you in such a way like never before that you could openly reward my faith, but that you be honored and glorified through it. And I I just began to pray, and and the Lord laid upon my heart that He would do great things. And I began to ask the Lord for something special. I said, Lord, I want you to give me a church building for free. I don't want to have to buy another one. I don't want to have to build another one. I'm asking you to give me a church building for free. Wherever it is you want us to go, give it to us. Uh within two and a half months I received a phone call uh from our sending pastor and he said, Brother Ed, I said, Yes, and he said, Are you ready to come to North Carolina and start that Hispanic church? And I said, well, not quite yet. Don't have the Hispanic pastor in place yet. Uh, but we're praying about it, and why? And he said, because somebody just gave you a church building. And I paused for a moment and I said, Tell me about it. And he said there was a church closing their doors. They had dwindled down. Unfortunately a pastor had gone into Calvinism and driven it into the ground And that's what error and wrong doctrine will do. And so they were going to close their doors, but they wanted it, the majority of the people, or the four of the five families left, wanted it to stay in the hands of an independent Baptist church. And to continue on in the ministry. And he went and he talked with him, he told them about us, and he just handed him the key, said, Here, give it to him, it's his We'll leave. He comes in, takes over, and turn it Spanish. And so God has given us a building. At the end of the presentation, you'll see one or two, maybe three pictures of that new building. I have some others on on my half dead iPad. We dropped it and it's about half dead. Anyway, it's it's no good anymore. But I can show you some pictures, any of you want to see them afterwards, of the new building. But God is d doing tremendous things Uh we're excited about it. And I want to ask you to pray that God will supply the needs to upgrade or update the building. It's had some serious problems. It was uh vacant from the time we could get there seven months had some serious water damage, a lot of humidity, mold, mildew, the works. But then we just found out this past week the the heating system is no good. And uh it's starting to get cold there too, up in the mountains. And we have to get that fixed. That old dinosaur, he said, has to come out. We've got to put new units in, and we don't have any money. So we're asking God to do that. And uh I want you to pray with us that God would supply the needs for that system and then the start-up things that we need for songbooks, all kinds of stuff we need to just get started up Uh and and the electric bill and gas bill and water bill, they're still coming in. Uh even though they left, we've taken it and we have no people yet because we haven't got started. But we do praise the Lord that we have had some people saved We've been doing some visiting, door knocking, and uh we've had a lady and her daughter, teenage daughter, that received the Lord as her Savior. We're doing Bible studies in their homes right now. Uh we have several other families we're visiting and she's already begun inviting other people, invited her sister and brother-in-law to come. And they came for one of the Bible studies. She's wanting to invite some of her friends. She asked me, said, Can I bring some of my friends I said, sure can. You can bring all of them you want. We'll pack your little trailer out. So uh God's blessing. We are excited about it. And I know the fact that if if we have such an awesome God that does incredible things, if he can give us a building, folks, he's gonna fill it He's going to fill it. And I have asked God to give us the greatest and and strongest, most vibrant ministry that he ever has in our entire lifetimes through this work. And I really we are believing that God's going to do that and excited about it. So we'll go ahead and do the presentation, and I pray it'll be a blessing to you to see the work that God did in Fort Smith. What you're going to see is over the past five years in the work in Fort Smith. I will be to lost control. I will give my life control. I will Tell them of the queen's unflow. So many lost men dying in this world today. Have you heard the crying? Or do you turn? The harvest now is plenteous, but the laborers are few. God needs some willing vessels to be here. Here am I I will go I will leave the lost and told I will I will tell them of the crimson fall Is it too late? Who carry does Jesus really say? Are you truly praying for the find to find their way? Little children, I'm following. Into a burning hell. Will anyone heat the calling to go and turn? Here am I I will be the lost control. I will be the light control. I will tell them of the crimson flow. For my Savior died on a rugged cross. He thought of me when he counted the cost. Can I say that I love him if I don't reply? Here am I I will go I will I will raise the past and cross on the I will give away the mouth. The crimson clo I will tell them of the crimson cloud. Well amen. Isn't that exciting? Man alive. And um uh what a pioneering attitude he has. That stirred my heart when he said Brother Ed, you said that uh you're asking God to give you the most vibrant ministry you've ever had. Now, you're not a kid anymore. And uh I've seen my experience has been this is one thing I'm concerned about. A pastor sometimes get in their fifties or whatever, kinda settle down, I've done it, I can start backing off. I appreciate Brother Ed staying right at it, going out, starting a new church And it used to be in America, at least seems to me, used to be America, if you're going to reach Spanish folk or something like that, you go to the cities You know, you go to maybe New York, Boston, some of these areas, Miami, but anymore, it's just across the country. Everywhere you go, there's Spanish speaking people. So that's fantastic, Brother Ed. Thank God. He's going to preach here in a little bit. First we're going to get our hymn books out and we're going to stand and sing a little bit, have our special, then Brother Ed will bring our message tonight 233 Little is much when God is in it. 233 In the heart and still come I send the work for all together. Work the way the sun is falling through the heart of Will is not a million neighborhood or well. There's a clan magic and waiting and no place your tall is made. Like a cord with the rapidness and a rain but earnest pride He was saying all the time to He may be seated, I believe, Austin's got something for us. Give out the good news. Good song. Thank you, Austin. Well anybody did you say thirty-five years you've been in ministry, sir? Did I understand? Thirty-two years. Anybody That's been serving the Lord faithfully and successfully for thirty-some years. Uh we ought to pay attention to what they have to say, especially when they open up their Bible and preach. So let's get our Bibles out. Brother Ed, if you'll come on, anything else you want to say about the word it'd be great and uh bring us a message. Amen. Thank you again, Pastor, and we do appreciate all that's been done for us, the nice room and the meals and stuff. It's been a blessing. And uh am I on? I am okay. Um I did want to mention he mentioned, you know, the fact that uh everywhere you go now you find Hispanic people. And what a lot of people don't realize is there are over sixty million Hispanics in America now. We are home to the second largest Hispanic population in the world. The only other country that has more than we do is Mexico. And the mission field has come here. We've got to reach them. And uh just in our county alone, Henderson County, uh North Carolina. Uh there are uh four or five of the elementary schools that I know of that are fifty percent or more Hispanic in the school. Uh it is incredible. North Carolina is in the top ten of the fastest growing Hispanic populations in the country now. And it has been that way for the last nine years. They do not have the most, but they're one of the fastest growing. And the population just continues to increase there. And so we have a a job to do and it is our goal is the if if if I could sit down and show you a map I could show you but uh i i i th our goal is to be able to start this church and then launch out and start another one ten to twelve miles up the road. And then another ten miles of the road, be able to start another one. It it's that popular with Hispanics that we could do that and and and not be on top of each other and not be in competition. I mean just get the gospel out and see people come to Christ. That is our goal and our desire. And so uh I I want you to pray uh that God will do that. And uh I also want to ask you to make sure you get one of our prayer cards, please, and take it home with you tonight. I want to ask you to do something different with it. Please do not put us with the other missionary prayer cards. I know that sounds strange. I love missionaries. I love to fellowship with them. But I want you to put us someplace different. Start with the center of the TV screen. That's a great place. You'll see us there, okay? Uh but I want to ask you to do something different with it. Put it where you're going to see it, someplace different. And then every Sunday night, I want you to remember the O'Brien's A good Irish Hispanic name, you know. And go take the O'Brien's down from where you put us tonight and move them to a new location And then the next week do it again, move it to another place, and then another, and then another, and another, and another. And I promise you, you will have at least seven different locations, minimum of seven different locations That you will move the tube from week to week. I promise you that within a short amount of time you will have a new car, a new boat, new fishing rods. I'm kidding. No, I will promise you this: you won't forget to pray for us You will not forget. If you will move it around, you won't forget to pray. And you know it's true. If you leave something in one place long enough, it can become part of the woodwork. You'll be able to walk right by and not notice us. And we don't want to be part of your woodwork. We want to be part of your prayer life. So please remember to move us around. I want to ask you to turn in your Bibles tonight to Second Corinthians chapter five. Second Corinthians chapter five. And Pastor, what time do you normally finish? Amen. Thank you. My wife is screaming, don't tell him that. Second Corinthians chapter five I want to read a very familiar passage with with you this evening and ask that you stand with me in reverence and honor to God's word. 2 Corinthians 5, verse 17, and to the end of the chapter, verse 21. 2 Corinthians chapter 5, beginning in verse 17. The word of God says, Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. And all things are of God who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ, and has given to us the ministry of reconciliation. To wit that God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto himself, not imputing their trespasses unto them, and has committed unto us the word of reconciliation. Now then we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God did beseech you by us. We pray you in Christ's stead, be ye reconciled to God. For he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Let's pray. Father, we do thank you for this evening and the opportunity that we have to come and freely be able to open the Word of God. And Lord, we ask you to speak to our hearts tonight. I pray that you use me, Lord, as an instrument in your hands. Father, that we would be a blessing to your people. And Lord, that you would speak through me. Father, may you be honored and glorified through all that is said and done tonight. And please have your will and way in each and every life. And we ask these things in Jesus' precious name. Amen. And you may be seated. If you take a read through the book of 1 Corinthians, you find that Paul was dealing with a church of very immature Christians. And they were a large church, perhaps one of the largest in the New Testament, apart from the church at Jerusalem. Uh they they had plenty of money, they were a rich church, and yet they were very mature. And if you look at the base of of all the problems that the apostle Paul had to deal with, the base of every one of them practically was pride. He had to deal with pride in their lives. They were prideful and puffed up over how much they knew and what they could do and their gifts and and what they had and and and just everything. It was bickering and arguing and fighting and pride all through that church And so Paul had to deal with each of those issues. Now he comes into the book of 2 Corinthians and he begins to lay down some doctrinal issues and issues of their service to God. And what God is, and remind them of what God has done in their lives, what he's done for them, and why. And so we come to verse 17, and we find that he says to them, Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. Now, a good study of that would tell you that when we first got saved, there's not a one of us here tonight that could stand and say, oh, when I got saved, God made me perfect. I don't have any more problems. I've made it, I've arrived, I'm fine. No, we know we couldn't do that. We know we couldn't say that. That is because what he has done was a work that began at the moment of our salvation and and he has begun to do this work and continues and continues and continues throughout the rest of our lives He is making us that new creature. The old things are passing away as he deals with those and gets them out of our lives. And the the new creature in us is becoming that new man. It's a process that we all have to go through But the danger is that we would come to the point of of thinking that we have arrived. Of looking at ourselves now as we've been Christians perhaps for years or whatever and think, yeah, I do a pretty good job Man, I I don't do the things I used to do. Yeah, I'm I'm doing pretty good. Yeah, look at my life, you know. No, Paul comes at this and and he doesn't stop with verse 17 Then he jumps right into verse 18 and he says, And all things are of God. And all things are of God. He reminds them immediately: don't get puffed up about this. The fact that God is making you a new creature isn't for your benefit. It isn't, although we do benefit from that. But it wasn't for us, and it's not because of us I want to say something to you tonight. Everything that you saw in that presentation tonight, everything that God has accomplished in my life, and the life of my wife and my family, has nothing to do with us It all has to do with him. I can take no credit and and need not have pride in my life that we're great or we've done something special. It is all of God. Everything he has done, he's done it. Every change he makes in my life, he's done it. Everything he does in your life, it's him that's doing it. And there's a reason behind that. So we have no reason to be puffed up with pride. And he tells them that. Look, you're a new creature. Old things are passed away. All things have become new, and all things are of God. You remember that That's what he's telling them. Don't you forget God is the one doing this. And then he says who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ. Then he begins to tell him, this is what God has done for you. You remember, God reconciled you to himself by Jesus Christ. Now, what are we talking about there? You think of the verse of Romans 3. 23. For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God? Do we understand what that really means? We have come short. We were destitute from God. Destitute means you were helpless, you could do nothing for yourself, it all had to be done by somebody else, or you weren't going to get any help And God did that. He allowed his son Jesus Christ to come to suffer and die on the cross of Calvary and pay for our sins He made the way of reconciliation. He took that first step. You know, I think of marriage relationships. Guys, have you ever had problems with your wife? You know, they get out of line sometimes and you got, hey, hey, hey, you know Come on guys, be honest. Yeah, you're afraid you don't want sore ribs, do you? I know the trade. And ladies, uh you know, I know it's true Uh the men they sometimes get out of line, don't they? And there's conflict. Yeah, now they were bold in saying, yeah. And there's problems. All right. We understand that. That happens. It's natural. But what happens? Okay, here's the man, and he's standing over here with his arms folded and lip puckered out, you know, outing. And here she is over on this side, and she's got the arms crossed, but she's turned around giving the look, you know. Yeah, buddy, you you're in trouble now. Well what happens? They could stand there all night if they wanted to We could do that if we wanted to, but somebody has to take that first step of reconciliation. Somebody has to decide I'm going to turn around and and make things right and make up. You know, I tell Barr, hey, you want to fight so we can make up? You know. So we somebody's got to take that first step. And that is what God has done for us. He took that first step. He brought us into reconciliation with himself. So he made it possible to be reconciled. And then he continues and has given to us the ministry of reconciliation. Now, what he did for us, he says, now I've given you that ministry. You have a ministry of reconciliation. What is your ministry? It's to help others be reconciled to God. Help them to come to Jesus Christ. And so we continue there with this. You look at verse 18, he says, to wit, that God was in Christ reconciling the world unto himself. He took that step. But then this is great. He says, not imputing their trespasses unto them. Not imputing their trespasses unto them. Do you realize God doesn't keep a record? When we got saved, he took the the eraser and totally erased the whiteboard. It was all written there and he totally erased it. It is clean. It's gone. Washed white as snow. Amen. And so he has reconciled us to himself. He has gotten rid of all of our sins. And he says, I've given you that ministry. Could we not say to others, hey, did you know that God Can wipe away and erase all of our sins. You just say that to somebody one day. You could say, hey, you know, I found out something, God has done a wonderful work in my life, and He took every sin I ever committed and it's gone. He erased it. Did you know God can do that for you? You'll get their attention, believe me, you will. Because people are sinners. And they know that. And so they they know they carry this burden of sin. And we can have a part in that ministry of reconciliation. And then he continues there and he says, and have committed unto us the word of reconciliation. Now, he doesn't just stop with verse 18 saying, and given to us the ministry of reconciliation. Now he says, I've committed to you The word of reconciliation. I've committed this unto you. I remember one thing in growing up. When my dad committed to me certain responsibilities, they had better be done, or I was in trouble. I remember I loved to play baseball. Springtime come along and the only the bad thing about springtime, summertime was the grass would grow. And I had to mow the grass and dad would say, Ed, I want the grass cut today. It's getting too long. He'd go off to work, he'd come back, and the grass wasn't cut. I didn't get a ride to baseball practice. Until it was cut. I could miss a game if I didn't cut that long. And so God is committed to us. He has charged us with that ministry and that word of reconciliation. He says, I'm giving you responsibility. Now when it's the back of it or thinking permitted so we don't lose this thought. God has made us new creatures in Christ. He has reconciled us to himself. He has washed away all of our sins, given us a clean record, but he says, why? Because I wanted to give you a ministry. I wanted to charge you with that ministry and that word of reconciliation. He has given us a responsibility. That's the reason we're to be a new creature. So people can see the difference. So people can see the reality in our lives and will desire to be reconciled with God. When they can see what God does in our lives, what God has done in my life and with me, they're going to have a desire to also be reconciled with God. So they can't see the difference. What do we got? What do we have if they can't see anything in us? That's why it's important to see and allow God and to cooperate with God and let Him make us that new creature. And we continue in this, and he says, now then we are ambassadors for Christ. We are ambassadors for Christ. And we all know what an ambassador is. It's a representative of one country that goes to another and speaks on behalf of his country Doesn't speak for himself, doesn't speak what he wants to, but he speaks on behalf of his country. We are ambassadors to foreign people. Now, literally speaking, Barbara and I are ambassadors to a foreign people, Hispanic people But did you know that you are ambassadors to foreign people? You are ambassadors not only in sending others as missionaries, but you are ambassadors to lost people. People who are lost without Christ are foreign people to God. They are foreigners, separate from God, and they need to be reconciled. And God has sent you as an ambassador to reach a foreign people. And we're not going to understand this if we don't begin to see people as lost people I try to see everybody I see when I meet people out there, think of them. These people are probably lost. And until I find out different, I need to act in a way and and work in a way as an ambassador to help them be reconciled to God. You say, you know, Brother Ed, it's really difficult. A lot of times, I mean we do go knocking doors, and I know you do, I'm preaching in the choir here with a lot of you. You go knocking doors and you pass a track and that is that is awesome. It's is it's the what we're supposed to do. We're being obedient to God's command and doing that. But I know that a lot of times you knock on a door and nobody's there. Or you knock on a door and you hit them a track, but you don't get an opportunity to talk to them. You don't know who they are. You don't know their name But God began to burden my heart with something a few months back, and I began to try to practice this. And it's difficult at first because we're not used to doing it. And some be some of you may. You may know what I'm about to say But I I have noticed something. When I go to Walmart, when I go to a restaurant, when I go to a store, most places of business. People wear name tags. You ever notice that? And when you don't notice that name tag, it's because we're caught up in our own little world. But if we would notice that name tag on people and use their name, do you know what that does for people? It does something for people. And and and and and you you speak their name, you say, hey Katie, how you doing? You know, they look at you, oh, you saw my name tab. I'm doing fine. You having a good day today? Well, it's alright. Okay, is there anything I could pray for you about? I mean that's a non-confrontational approach. And I know it's different, but you know, you you speak somebody's name, what does it say to them? This person cares This person's offering to pray for me for some whatever reason. This person cares. You see, a lot of people a lot of times people don't care how much we know. They want to know how much we care. And so to use that, and God drove that home to me recently. When we went back out a few weeks ago to our Spanish church, we hadn't been there since June. So it's been what, three months? And and the kids were on a break. They were having meetings. We got there for the the second si series of meetings. We were traveling. And uh we walked around the building and she was ahead of me, you know, b from here to the back of the auditorium. When she walked around first and I was carrying some stuff. And all the kids were outside and they started screaming and went running toward my wife and just hugging her and just so excited to see her. And I came around the corner and here they came. Scream, you know, Pastor, and they came running and just hugging me and talking to me, excited to see me. But God drove it home to me when three or four of those little ones looked up at me and they said, Hey, what's my name? What's my name? They wanted to know that I hadn't forgotten who they were. They wanted to know that I still cared and I still loved them. And that meant the world to me. Oh, I began to weep. You know, then what's wrong? Nothing, nothing. I'm fine. But just to know that they cared that much and wanted to know that somebody loved them. Folks, people want to know that they're loved. That's what they need. And that's why God has in charge of us with the ministry of reconciliation. He said, hey, you're an ambassador. We need to start acting like ambassadors. I mean ambassadors they they put it on. They I mean the you the uniform this the sit they go out and they they handle themselves in a way that people know they're a respected person. As a Christian, we should act in a way that we can be respected as a Christian. Amen? And so we're ambassadors, we're given this ministry and this responsibility. And this is all because He's made us a new creature. That is the purpose behind it. But I want us to back up now and look at verse 9. No one's to see some application of this. He says, wherefore we labor that whether present or absent, we may be accepted of Him. That verse in itself is loaded. I mean we could you you could develop some good messages around that verse. But the very fact is that we may be accepted of him. All of us want to be accepted, don't we? We want to be accepted. I know my little granddaughter, she'll sit down and draw a picture and bring it to Bubby or Nanny. And she'll say, Bubby, do you like the picture I drew for you? I said, that's so pretty, sweetheart. You did a really good job on that. I like that. And she'll hand it to me. She said, you can keep it. And she'll write off and play. She's fine. Because she felt accepted. You know, could we not come to God and say, Lord, we've got two people in church that we brought to church? Are you pleased with the picture I've drawn? Are we accepted? He says all of this is because we should want to be accepted. It should be that desire within us. But then you look at verse 10. And he says, for we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that everyone may receive the things done in his body according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad. Folks, we're talking about a judgment here. The judgment of Christians. And remember, this judgment has nothing to do with to see if we get to go to heaven or not. No, no, no, no, no. We're going there. If we are saved, we have accepted Christ as personal Savior. We will be in heaven. And this judgment will take place. And we are going to be judged on what we did as Christians. Now, if you think with me in this, he's leading into this area of you're becoming a new creature, and I want to use you in the ministry of reconciliation. There's what's going to be judged. Were we active? Were we participating in the ministry of reconciliation? And we're going to be judged on that. There'll be many other things, yes. But we are going to give an account to God. And that and that's the point there. All of us will give an account to God for what we've done. We're going to give an account to God for our gifts, our our talents, uh for our money How we've spent our money, how we've used it for the Lord's ministry. We're going to give an account for our families, for our message, for our testimony. All of that. But we're going to give an account to God of whether or not we were a good ambassador for Christ. An ambassador for Christ. And so Paul drives this home, and Paul was just consumed with this thought. I will give an account to God. And then he comes to verse 11. He says, Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord. Knowing, therefore, the terror of the Lord, we persuade men. And I think about that. Is there any reason as a Christian we would have to feel the terror of the Lord? No. We should not feel terror before the Lord. Yes, we will stand before Him one day. And I hope and pray that it is our desire to hear him say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. And then we will receive some rewards from him because we have been active and done the ministry of reconciliation. But we don't have any reason to feel terror. But you know who does? Those that will stand before Christ, before that great white throne judgment. Those that have rejected Christ as their personal Savior. And they will stand there knowing that they are about to be cast into the lake of fire for eternity because they rejected the Lord Jesus Christ. They will fear that terror. And Paul says, because of the terror of the Lord, we persuade men. We beg them to come to Christ. We beg them to come to Christ. Paul said, I beg people, I beg them and I beg them. And he says, I would give my own salvation to see people come to Christ and be saved if were possible. Why? Why would Paul give his life? Why did Paul go through everything he went through? Why did the other disciples and apostles go through what they went through and suffer and become martyrs for Christ? Why? We look at verse 14. For the love of Christ constraineth us. The love of Christ constraineth us. That means God's love gets a hold of our heart, he grips it, it squeezes it It means that we can come upon a person that we normally would not love and don't want to love, and yet God gives us a love in our hearts that we don't understand. And we can love a person that is difficult to love. I'm gonna be honest with you. I have a hard time with drunks. I have a real hard time with them. I do not like to be around them. I don't like to have to deal with them. And and and y you know, I've seen the results and and and it just it's disgusting to me. Yet one day God allowed me to go visit a home in Mexico. Speak with a man named Salvador, who was a drunk. A man that beat his wife and was going to get a divorce from his family and and and beat on his kids. So I'm one day laying in his vomit in the street. It was disgusting. And yet we ended up at his house to witness. And I sat down and spent over two hours with them. And he said to me at the end, he said, you don't understand. You don't know the things that I have done. And he said, God can't forgive me. And so yes he can. And I tried to deal with him and two hours later he would not accept Christ as Savior. We left there Burden for his soul. We went back. I knew his wife was ready to get saved, but she wouldn't make that decision unless he did. And we went back a second time, spent about two hours with him again. Left again with no decision. The third time, the fourth time. And after the fourth time I told Barva, I said, Huh I think this guy's hopeless. I don't know what else to tell him. I don't know where else to go. I used every verse you could use. I mean I'd come up come at it from every angle I could But God said to go back one more time. And we went back that fifth time. As I walked in there, I said, Lord, what do I do? What do I tell him? And the Lord laid upon my heart to go back to Romans 5. 8. But God commended his love toward us, and while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. And just talked to about how much God loves him, even though he's done all these wicked things. That's the only verse I used. And tears welled up in his eyes, and he said, Will God really forgive me? And I said, Oh yes. He'll not only forgive you, but he'll transform your life. He'll make you into a new creature that you won't believe what God can do with you. And he and his wife received the Lord as their Savior that night in their home. They grew in the Lord. They came to church. They got baptized. And God called them to preach. Amen. And I had the privilege of training that drunk one-on-one in my garage for the ministry. Watching him become the pastor of that first work. He is still the pastor of that work today. And that was the very first work we started 30-something years ago. And he has been faithful. Oh, how God has worked in his life. You know, God gave me another drunk. Got another one. And he's pastoring the church. God did a work in my heart. Why? Because the love of Christ constraints me. So how can you love these people? I don't know how, but it's God's love. It's what he does. Remember, all things are of God. It's not us folks. It's him. If we would just yield ourselves to him, we'd say, Lord, help me to go back that fifth time. That one more time. Lord, help me to love these people that are unlovable. I know they come to the door dressed like slobs, smoking their cigarette and blowing it right in your face. God help me to love them anyway. Help me to love them anyway. It's the love of Christ that constrains me. Let's stand with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. Do musicians come to play through meditation? I wonder night if God has spoken to your heart, convicted you, and put a burden on your heart to truly be involved in His ministry of reconciliation. To be an ambassador for Christ. To realize why He has made you a new creature. It is for that purpose. Maybe the Lord has burdened your heart to. Just allow him to love others through you. But let him use you. And I wonder tonight, would you just, God has spoken to your heart, would you just flip up your hand and say, Brother Brown, would you remember me in prayer? God spoke in my heart. And I want him to do a work in my life. Amen. God bless you. Amen. Several She begins a place of human limitation. Would you just come to this altar tonight and say, Lord, please, work in me? I want you to use me. I want to be used. I want to be responsible for somebody in church. I want to be used of you to bring someone to salvation and bring someone that I could see growing the Lord. That you could say that, yes, I I I've got two or three here that are here because of me. That should be our desire. Amen. If you're here tonight and you do not know Christ as your Savior, I want to encourage you to come. Please don't leave here tonight without knowing for sure. If you died, you're on your way to heaven. If you are not sure of that, you say, Brother O'Brien, I I'm not sure. Honestly, I I just don't know for sure. And I want to ask you to pray for me. Would you just flip up your hand If that is your desire, you do not know that you are saved. You've never received Christ as your Savior. Is there anyone here? Should you just slip up your hand and say, Brother Ed, would you pray for me? Maybe there's somebody particular on your heart and mind tonight, a specific person, and God stirred your heart, brought them to attention. You want to see them say, if you'd like for God to use you, a good thing to do is kneel at an order and say, God, help me. God, give me compassion. Give me that wisdom. Give me that love that I need to speak to that person. If nothing else, just invite them out to church. Share a God. gospel track with you have opportunity to sit down with an open Bible and share the gospel from the Word of God. But God will use us if we want Him to, Lily, if we care about we To be soul winners, to be ambassadors. Father in heaven, thank you, Lord, for this challenge tonight. Lord, we do want to be faithful. In sharing and representing the Lord Jesus Christ with this world. Lord, we ask that you would stir our hearts, put a real love in our heart for others, dear God, a real concern for their well-being. uh to the point that we're willing to step in and be involved in their life and and uh engage them. So please help us. Thank you for Brother Brian and his challenge tonight. Help us, Lord, we pray in Jesus' name. I couldn't help but think of in I think it's in First John where it says, How can we say that we love God who we don't see if we don't love our brother? Who we do see. How can we say we love God? We don't love people around us. Sometimes people make the statement, I believe you probably heard this, Brother Brian. They'll say, I love the ministry. I just can't stand people That's impossible. Uh what I'm basically saying if I say that, what I'm saying is I don't love God. Can't see if I don't love people who I can. So good message. I was convicted. Thank you, brother. Brother Ed. Ushers, if you would, come on down. We're going to take our offering up. And um, if you would, be sure and indicate our faith promise giving of what goes to that and our general giving. A couple of prayer requests. Would you please keep my good friend's wife, Amy Nance, in your prayers? We mentioned this morning she was supposed to, they found cancer. She's 47. They were going to have a double mastectomy. They went took her in, as I mentioned this morning, somebody heard this. They found she's expecting. Unexpectedly, she's expecting. And so that's where there's a wrench in the whole thing. So they didn't do the surgery. Pray for Amy Nance. It's a very, very complicated, very difficult situation. Just pray that God would give grace and help him. He's a faithful preacher down in Florida. Brother Grant has surgery on Thursday, so if you would keep Brother Grant, uh Lord will an outpatient surgery. And then Brother Dave Wagner was diagnosed with shingles this morning. Bless his heart. And uh so he has shingles and he has to live with joy. So just keep him in your prayers. Keep him in your prayers. Ron, would you pray for us And then we follow him and you have to thank you for the business service. Lord, thanks most of all for savings. Lord help us to be better crystal. Help us to be the ambassadors if we need to be mighting all Honor and glory to you. Pray for these special house requests for Miss Amy Nance. Just be with her in a very, very special way in her family. Again, we pray for Brother Penn as everything will go well there through For him, Lord, and Youth Day help him to get over these shingles real soon, Lord. Just help him, Lord, not to have problems there and just have things work out fine. We pray now to just bless the office, bless these Fifth as well as the giver, which in Jesus' name we cry. Amen.