Revelation chapter two read verses one through seven Revelation 2, verse 1, unto the angel of the church of Ephesus, write, These things saith he that holdeth the seven stars in his right hand. who walketh in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks. I know thy works, and thy labor, and thy patience, and how thou canst not bear them which are evil. And thou hast tried them which say they are apostles and are not, and hast found them liars, and hast borne and hast patience, and for my name's sake hast labored and hast not fainted. Nevertheless, I have somewhat against thee, because thou hast left thy first love. Remember therefore from whence thou art fallen, and repent. and do the first works, or else I will come unto thee quickly, and will remove thy candlestick out of his place, except thou repent. But this thou hast, that thou hatest the deeds of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate. He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches. To him that overcometh will I give to eat of the tree of life which is in the midst of the paradise of God. Let's pray and then the message to see what Lord, I thank you for this day you've given us. I thank you just for the good fellowship we've had already. Lord, I ask that you would meet with us tonight. Lord, be with uh be with my voice. I ask that it would uh be able to hold up tonight. Lord, I just ask that um You would speak to all of our hearts tonight, Lord, and that you would touch our hearts, Lord, and that there be conviction where needed. Help us to be open to the conviction of the Holy Spirit, Lord. Lord, I ask that you be with me as I speak. Help me to say exactly what you what you would have me to say. Lord, I want to yield my will to your will, Lord, and I just want you to to speak through me tonight. And it's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen The Book of Revelation is really a very fascinating book. Most of you have probably read it more than I have. And it's just full of all kinds of stuff. I really enjoy reading it. I was reading the other day in chapter 9 about those locusts that come up out of the pit. That's scary stuff. Um I actually remember when I was eight years old, um I was saved just about a year before this, and when I was eight years old, I was reading in Revelation in that chapter, actually, chapter 9, scared me to death. I went upstairs in the middle of the night, woke my dad up. He's like, Dad, this is scary. I don't want to be here for this. And he he explained to me, you know, you won't be And then actually I got assurance of my salvation that night. But the book of Revelation is fascinating, talks about what's going to happen once we're gone, and I'm glad we'll be gone for a lot of this stuff Of course, then it talks about what happens when Christ comes back and we come back with him. And then the millennial reign and it talks about just the end of time. It's a fascinating book. But the way it starts The first few chapters here, God instructs John to write to seven different churches. And these were actual established local churches in actual cities. Um much like ours. They were just established local churches and and God wanted John to write to each one of these And each church he was giving a different message. Each church had its own characteristics, had its own strengths, had its own weaknesses, and he wanted each one of these to be addressed with something different. One of the more famous ones was the church at Laodicea. Remember the reference, they were neither hot nor cold, but you're lukewarm. Because you're lukewarm, I'll spew you out of my mouth. Um I would that thou were hot or cold, but because thou art lukewarm, um I will spew thee out of my mouth. That was a famous one. Another one was the church at Pergamos. And I'm paraphrasing paraphrasing here, but basically Pergamus, he was saying, you guys live in a nasty place. Uh the the seat where Satan dwells is what he referred to it as. We said, but I have some things against you because your doctrine's messed up. Like I said, I'm paraphrasing. But each church he wrote to had different characteristics. Tonight we're going to look at the church at Ephesus The church in Ephesus. In chapter 2, we're reading what God has inst uh instructed John to write to the church in Ephesus Now, if you remember, uh Ephesus, uh Timothy was the pastor at the church at Ephesus, and that might give you a little bit more insight as to who we're talking about. Um Timothy was a young man, and then John here is now writing to the church, but at a later date. So anyway, he's writing to the the church here at Ephesus. This church was known for being a a powerhouse type church. I don't know how else to explain it. They were known for for For being right. They were known for being right down the right path, if you will. And God is saying here that he recognizes it. In verse 2, he says, I know thy works. And let me let me just tell you, church tonight, that God knows your works. And this is something that we understand. God is aware of what you're doing. And a lot of times we just Think of this in a negative way. We think, oh yeah, when you're doing evil, God knows it. And he does. We know the eyes of the Lord are in every place beholding the evil and the good. So when you're doing good, God knows that as well, and I think that's a good thing to know. I think um it's good what's the word I'm looking for? Um Confirmation, maybe that's it. Recognition may be from God. God knows when you're doing right. God knows when you're doing good. He knows when you're doing well. And he says that here, I know thy works. And we could look at that positively or negatively. God knows when you're doing right, God knows what you're doing wrong. God knows your conversation at home. God knows what your family life is like. God knows all of these things. And here he's uh addressing Ephesus, and he says, I know thy works. Um now the church at Ephesus was known for for just that, for their their good works. And he lists here several Uh good works. God says right off the bat, Bat, I know your labor. He says in verse 2, I know thy works, I know thy labor. God says, I know you've been laboring for me. I I I know that you've been working hard for me. And that's a good thing And I was thinking about this. God knows whatever your ministry is here, God knows you're doing it. He knows you're working hard. God knows you've been at the bus ministry for a long time. God knows you've been singing in the choir for a long time. God knows you've been running the sound room. God knows you've been cleaning the church. God knows you've been knocking on doors. God knows you've been doing fingerprints. He knows that you are working hard for him. He knows, and that's good. That's good. And I understand I uh uh uh it's good to be a part of a church that is busy laboring and laboring hard. He says in verse 3, and for my name's sake hast labored. God says, I know you've been working hard for me, and I recognize it. Verse 2 he goes on to say, and how thou canst not bear them which are evil. The church at Ephesus was known for not putting up with evil, with evil people. Now, I believe here at Mountain Lake, I believe we're known for that as well, and that's a good thing. You know, we don't put up with with sin. We don't put up with evil. We have standards. We have convictions. And pastor will get up here and preach hard against sin, and that is good. That is a good thing to be against. How many of you would say it's a good thing to be against sin? Amen. We um we hate sin. We hate rock music. We even more so, we hate Christian rock music. We we can't stand um perversion, we can't s stand abortion and and gay marriage and all that kind of stuff. We can't stand that sodomy. We We detest filthiness and dirty language. We preach hard against that stuff. We don't like it. And God's saying to the Church of Ephesus, I know your works. I know your labor. And I know you can't stand evil. And that's good. That's a good thing. Also in verse 2 he says, and that hast tried them which say they are apostles and are not. Watch this. Thou hast tried them which say they are apostles and are not, and hast found them liars. God was aware of the fact that this church at Ephesus took a very firm stand on doctrine. A firm stand on doctrine. That's a good thing, people. There are doctrines that we find in the Word of God that we are not going to compromise on. I'm glad we have the pastor we do, because you all know he's not backing down on these things. He's not back going to back down on the King James. He's not going to back down on eternal security, virgin birth, that kind of stuff. He stands hard on this stuff We do as a church. And if you're in any other minist any of the ministries in this church, we stand firm on this stuff. We can't stand another gospel, if you will, which is not another. We take like I said, we take a strong stand on the King James virgin birth. We take a strong stand against the contemporary movement. We take a strong stand against the emergent church and ecumenicalism and all that, if you will. We take a strong stand on these things. And if someone has a a different uh way to be saved or a different uh religion or a different God or an uh as Paul put it, another gospel which is not another We have nothing to do with that, and that's good. Understand, separation is a good thing. And John is saying to this church: look, I know thy works, I know your labor. I know that you hate sin and you take a firm stand against this. You don't compromise with other beliefs, other denominations, whatever you want to call it. And that's good. And we could fit that mold. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church could fit that mold. Hey, we work hard. The hardest bunch of working bunch of people I've ever met. And that's good. Man, we can't stand sin. We preach hard against it. We we talk hard against it amongst ourselves. We're we we're we're against this. uh the contemporary movement. We're against false doctrine. We're against Calvin. We're against everything. It's great. It's wonderful. And he goes on. God says, I know your patience. That's how you deal with people. And again, we could fit this mold. We just understand this. I think some people think just because you take a hard stand against things that you're not good with people, that is not the case And if there's anyone that knows how to talk to people, it's the members of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. You knock on doors, you visit kids, you have kids in Sunday school, you go to nursing homes, and you go to the hospitals, and you visit with folks, and you're patient with people You talk with people. You love people. I think this is safe to say that Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church loves this community. We love these people That's why we have so much emphasis on trying to lead people to Christ because we love them. And that's good. And he goes on here. There's more. He recognizes their consistency in verse 3, and he says, and has not fainted. A lot of you. I'm going to run out of. Oh, there's plenty of water down here. This is great. Um he says, I know your consistency. Oh a lot of people here have been here for a long time. You've been coming to this church longer than I've been alive. You've been serving God longer than I've been alive, and you have not fainted. Consistency. You were singing in the choir a long time ago, you're still singing. You were tithing a long time ago, you're still tithing. You were reading your Bible since you were saved, and you're still reading it. And you're getting more out of it. Consistency and you're faithful and you keep plugging away and you keep plugging away, you keep knocking on doors, you keep putting Romans booklets together. How many have we put together this year? And there's more to do. We'll keep putting them together. Amen. And he says, and hast not fainted. I mean, the church of Ephesus really had a lot going for him. They worked hard, were patient, hated evil, on guard against false doctrine, labored and were consistent. But of course we know that what we just read it, the sad part is there was still something missing. Paul instructed Timothy, if you remember, in 1 Timothy 4. 12, Timothy was the pastor at Ephesus. He instructed, he said, let no man despise your youth, but be thou an example of the believers. And I think that it was very evident that they took that seriously and they were trying very hard to be the model Christian. And I think if you were polled amongst other churches, I really believe that our church would be at the top of a model Christian. Man, we got people here that have worked hard, are faithful to fit all of this description. Patient, kind, worked hard, whatever the other ones were, you remember. But Jesus says, nevertheless, I have somewhat against thee, and verse 4. Nevertheless, I have somewhat against thee. He said, You're doing everything right. But there's still one thing I have against you. Could it be they were not kind? No. They were patient. Could it be they were going liberal? No. In fact, we see just the opposite. They tried them which said they were apostles and found them liars. Could it be they were lazy? Because no, they labored hard. For Christ, so what was it that God had against this model church? And let me ask you this question What is it if we were the Church of Ephesus and God was saying all this stuff to us right now? I know your works, you're doing everything right, but I have something against you, I'd be listening. He said, Nevertheless, I have somewhat against thee because thou hast left thy first love. Thou hast left thy first love. The problem the church at Ephesus had Was even though they were doing all of these things for Christ, they did not love God the way that they first did Which tells me something. It is very possible to be doing all of the right things, believing God out of it. And before we look at this church and say, well, how could they have left their first love before we get critical of them or before we get critical of another of another church that might fit that description. We have to look at ourselves because that could be Matt Treese. That could be you that is doing all of this stuff for God and everyone's like, whoa, man, powerhouse church. But we better every now and then check up on our heart and make sure of the motive for the things that we're doing. It could be maybe we are working for the Lord and doing right because we just feel like we have to, maybe we just feel like we should or feel obligated. We maybe feel obligated to come to church, obligated to read your Bible. Maybe you feel like serving Christ is something that you're compelled to do. Or you pass out tracts because it's tracked month and that's what you're supposed to do. Or maybe you go soul winning because it's just a uh a habit. And don't get me wrong, if you're going to have a habit, that's a good habit. It's a good habit to have. It's much better than some other habit. But we we have got to make sure of our motive behind this thing. We have got to. Maybe we've gotten into a rut and now it's just the comfortable thing to do. It's church life. Maybe it's just going through the motions. Understand this is very easy to do. You get up Sunday morning. You get dressed, you get a shower. Well that's silly. You get a shower, then you get dressed. That'd be Anyway. So you you get hopefully you get a shower and then you get dressed. And then you you you come to church, you go back there, you make coffee, spill it all over the place. I lose mine, you hide it from me, I know you do. And then um Or I just lose it. I probably just lose it. But then we go through the we go through the rut, we go through the emotions. We love each other. We're family and we get along and that's good. But that's it. It's routine. Again, it's a good routine. But that's all it is, is routine. Now I I don't know maybe we're just it it's very easy to get stuck in a round maybe you're you're you're you're here for someone else May maybe I know for for for young people it's easy you're here just because your friends are here, maybe. I I don't know And I'm not trying to belittle Christian fellowship. That's a good thing. But understand this, we don't serve Christ because of Christian fellowship. That's a perk. That's a benefit. And I was thinking about this too. We don't serve Christ because of the benefits of serving that we get. Serve Him because we love Him and then we get some benefits along the side He wants to be good to us, but we're not good to him b we don't serve him just so we can get stuff. You know what I'm saying? We don't serve him for the benefits. We serve him because we love him, and then we get benefits. That's why Jesus said, if you love me, keep my commandments. Not if you want baked potatoes, keep my commandments. Not if, you know, not if you want good fellowship, keep my commandments. If you love me, keep my commandments. So I'm not trying to belittle any of these other things like singing hymns are good and being in the choir is good and ministries are good. We're supposed to do them, but why do you do the things you do? And now you might be thinking tonight, like like I was, maybe the Holy Spirit's convicting you and showing you that this is you. You're doing the right stuff? Man, you're taking a firm stand against evil. You're working hard. You're compassionate. You're getting the gospel out. But there's something missing. You read your Bible and you don't remember what it was. You come to church, you don't remember what pastor preached. Fulfillment, there's no joy out of your service to God, it's just you're stuck in a rut. It could very well be that we just left our first love. Could very well be. And if you if you're here and you say, you know what, that might be me, Pastor Matt, uh uh uh uh I want to fall back in love with Christ, how do I do that? Well he gives us he gives us some things here. If you're thinking, you know what, that yes, that's me, and I I don't want to be known as the Christian that doesn't love Christ. Let me just think about this for a second. I have a relationship with my wife. Um it's husband and wife, we're married. Okay. So we're married. And it's very possible for us to have a relationship, but to just kind of go through motions. You understand what I'm saying? Not that I have anything against her, that she has anything against me. We're just going through the motions. It takes effort and time and consciousness. To p to to have that first love relationship. I pick on you all the time. I love you, so So anyway, but but but how is it that we can fall back in love with God the way we first did? Well he gives us some things here. First of all, remember Look at verse 4. He said, Nevertheless, I have somewhat against thee because thou hast left thy first love. Remember, therefore, from whence thou art fallen. Remember from whence thou art fallen. If you really want to fall back in love with the Lord, the very first thing we need to do is remember who we were. You all understand that we're people, that's bad. People are bad. We were sinners. First Corinthians 6, 9 through 11 Be not deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abusers of themselves with mankind Thieves, covetous, drunkards, revilers, extortioners shall inherit the kingdom of God, and such were some of you That was us, those negative things, adulterers, fornicators, thieves, bad stuff. That's what that was me That was you. I just really want to have a heart for God. The very first thing, remember from whence thou art fallen. We're nothing. We are dirt. We are dust. And all of us are sinners, and that's why God had to send Jesus to die for our sins. Think about what he had to go through. You want to fall back in love with Jesus Christ? Remember from whence thou art fallen and what Jesus Christ had to do to rescue you from that. Man. Jesus Christ was born of a virgin, lived 33 years on this earth, and didn't sin. That's important. Because the wages of sin is death, meaning no sin, no death. So he was the only one that could die for our sin. He didn't sin, but they arrested him. He was beaten. He was blindfolded, spit on, and whipped with a cat of nine-tails. He was beat on the head with a reed, like a rod, and they put a crown of long thorns, spikes into his head. Bible says he wasn't even recognizable as a man. And then after all those tortures and beatings and trials, they made him carry that cross up a hill. The blood lost, and he was weak. He collapsed under the load. Someone else had to carry it the rest of the way. They nailed him to the cross. And it wasn't smooth. It was it wasn't smooth like that. And it wasn't little nails. It was big old it was big old rusty spikes. They nailed him to that. On the ground. They raised that thing up, dropped it in a hole. When they dropped that thing in a hole, every single bone in his body came out of place. Every joint went out of place. And we think, man, all these horrible, horrible things, physical things that happened to him, the worst part was this. The worst part was this, when he's hanging on this cross, and then Matt Treese's sin was put on him. Virginia Bowser's sin was put on him. And then God, the only time this could ever happen up to this point, where God had to turn his back on God because my sin was on him. Remember from whence thou art fallen. You want to fall back in love with him? Just read read the gospels again. Read what he did for you again. Remember from whence thou art fallen. Man, he he then he died. Here I wrote it down somewhere. Um I forget the reference from uh He ha he hath made him who knew no sin to become sin for us He didn't just die for our sins, he became our sins. And that that that cup of wrath was poured out on him to the last drop because Matt Trees was being judged at that moment. Remember from whence thou art fallen. We can get so busy for God, and we should be. We can be laboring, we can be plugging away. We can hate evil, we can do all be all the right stuff, but completely forget about where we came from. Church, don't ever forget where we came from. Remember from whence thou art falling. You won't fall back in love with Jesus. Just remember the day you got saved. Where you came from. Remember from whence thou art fallen. The second thing is repent. Remember, therefore, from whence thou art fallen, and repent. The word repent means a change of mind that results in a change of heart. Excuse me. And I think what God is saying here is just make up your mind. Repent, meaning now that you remember we we had a good memory here. We had a good little um review from where we came from. Why don't you just make up your mind that you're just going to fall back in love with him? Just decide, you know what, I'm going to love him. And that's what I was saying a minute ago. It's a decision. In your mind that you mate. Love can be feelings and all this, yes, but it ultimately it's a decision that you make Um you can have someone who's been married for for you know you know one year, two years and they're newly married and and there's you know they had butterflies and feelings and that's good. But when you're married for for sixty years The butterflies might not be there, but it takes a conscious decision that you're still going to love that person the way you first did. Is that register? Does that make sense? But we've been married five years and it's still kind of new and butterflies and all that and How you doing? Let me just drink this water. I'm gonna get in trouble. Repent means just make up your mind. And I feel like that's what God's saying. He's already reminded you of what he did for you. Then he said, Why don't you just love me? So remember, repent, and then the third one is repeat. Repeat. Remember, therefore, from whence thou art fallen, and repent, and do the first works. Do the first works. When you remember from whence thou art fallen, remember the great sacrifice that Christ made on your behalf, and you remember his love for you, then just make up your mind. that you're going to uh change your indifferent attitude and fall but back in love with Christ, then the next thing you do is the first works You remember when you were first saved, the first things you were doing, and people didn't have to tell you to do this. Um when uh when a young couple first fall in love, they look at each other in a certain way. And the guy, he's such a gentleman because he holds the door uh for the girl and then and you know they'll pull the chair out for her, and they'll write letters back and forth, talk on the on the phone for hours and They're doing the the first things that a couple does. They hold hands going across the parking lot and it's so cute and you're like, oh look at that, it's young love. That's the first works. They're first falling in love and they do the first works. And then sometimes, you know, couples will stay married for a long time and You don't see the first works anymore. It's not that they say, you know, we don't have a relationship. They just say they just don't do the first works. There's no excitement, I guess you could say But then you have some people, I I I like this, and we like we we we comment on this when we see an older couple and and and they're having a hard time walking, but they're holding hands. That's a good thing, people You know what they're doing? The first works. Right? Does this register, Mr. Bryan? You understand? I see you laughing. The first works. And I I love it when I see uh older couples flirt with each other. I love it. Because it's the first works Now here's the thing, they have to purposely think about doing those first works, but as long as they do them, man It's their first love. Does this register? So switch this over to what God is saying to us. Do the first works. Remember, repent and do the first works. I remember Courtney's dad telling me that when he was first saved, all he had was a little New Testament. You don't talk about those little pocket New Testaments. That's all he had. He said he wore that thing out. He's still got it. And you can't even hardly read it. The thing is so marked up and highlighted and and and is falling apart No one was breathing down his neck. You need to read your Bible every day. You need to read your Bible every day. No, he just wanted to because, man, he had just fallen in love with God. And then we're in this relationship for a while, and it can be easy for us to just not do it. Or we do it, yeah, I read my chapter. What were some of the other first first works? Man, you were just you talked to God about everything. You didn't know the you know the the um super spiritual way to pray and all this kind of stuff. You just talked to God like you loved him because you did The first works. Man, you're excited to talk to people about your new relationship with God. You know, guys, when you get a and you get a girlfriend, you're like, man, this is exciting. I gotta tell someone about this. You know what I'm saying about her? Yeah. Oh, okay. Bang, you're like, yeah, I gotta tell someone about this because man I got I got this this girl, I'm in love with her And that's what it was like when you were saved. Man, I was so excited. Man, I've been saved. I've got this relationship with God. You want to tell someone about it? Remember from where you came from, make up your mind you're going to love him, and then just repeat the first works you did. Fall back in love. Let's just make up our mind. You know, I'm going to fall back in love with Christ. Understand this. God is more concerned with the heart than what you do. You know, he said Lubai is better than sacrifice. Um in Corinthians, he said um Though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, man, all these good works, but have not charity. Professor me nothing. You know, you could come to church faithfully, be doing more for Christ than anyone else, but without the love for Christ. It's of no value. He said in verse five, Remember therefore from whence thou art fallen, repent, and do the first works, or else I will come unto thee quickly. And will remove thy candlestick out of his place, except thou repent. Remove thy candlestick. Go back to chapter one at the end, the seven candlesticks which thou seest are the seven churches God's saying you might be the busiest church out there, you might have the greatest stand against sin, you might be the biggest voice against the contemporary movement, but if you don't love me, I'll find someone who does. Now the thing with this is it's a heart issue. This is not something that you can see. So I don't know everyone's heart. You don't know my heart. We see outward, but God looks on the heart. Do we love him? Now let's read through this again. Look at verse 2. I know thy works, thy labor, thy patience. Thou canst not bear them which are evil. Thou hast tried them which say they are apostles and I and hast found them liars, hast borne, has patience, and for my name's sake hast labored, hast not fainted. Nevertheless I have somewhat against thee. Could it be that God is saying, Lay something against you? I don't want God to have something against me. I want to make sure the motive for the things I'm doing. I just I think we just need to say, hey God, I want to love you. A minute here we'll have we'll have an invitation and and then we'll go on on and and pray for things we need to pray for, but why don't we just make up our mind tonight, church? But we're just going to love God with all our heart. If you're having trouble with that, just remember from whence thou art falling. Like I said, this is a heart issue. But but yes, the action should be right. But what God is really concerned about is do you love him? Does God have something against you? And like I said, we this is a hard issue. We would have no way of looking by outward actions. But search your heart tonight. With heads bowed, eyes closed, no one looking around for just a moment. If you want to stand to your feet for the invitation. I I I really don't know how to give an invitation tonight, other than maybe you're here and you're saying, you know what, uh Pastor Matt uh that that might be me May that might be me. I I I'm not saying that I haven't been doing good things and I'm not saying that I haven't been busy for God and I'm I'm not saying that I'm backsliding but You know, I I just haven't really had the heart for God like I first did. If that's you, would you just slip your hand up and say, you know, p pray for me, Pastor Matt, that I did I just continue to have a heart for God? My hand's up. Truth be told, none of us love him the way we should. Amen. You may put your hands down. Could be there's someone here tonight and you're you're not even sure you're saved. And my goodness. What he went through for you to be saved, it'd be a waste for you not just to simply say, Lord, I want to trust in you. And if you're here tonight and you say, you know, Pastor Matt, I'm not sure that I'm going to heaven, I'm not 100% certain That if something were to happen to me, that I'd go to heaven. I'm not sure. But I'd like for someone to show me how to be saved. If that's you, would you slip your hand up? Just slip your hand up and put it back down. I'm not sure I'm saved, but I'd like to be Okay. In just a moment, she's gonna start playing and it it if God's dealt with your heart, maybe got maybe you just want to come forward and say, God, I love you. Maybe you say, Pastor Matt, that's not me. I I still I'm still deeply in love with my Savior. Well, that's good. It'd be a good idea to just come up here and say tell them that. So if God's dealt with your heart in any way, as she plays, you go ahead and come forward and do business with God