All right, Ephesians chapter number three, the last two verses, and you let me keep watering the allergies. Until I get those cobwebs cleared out. Chapter 3, verses 20 and 22. It says, now unto him that is able. By the way, he is able. Amen. Sometimes, sometimes you just read in the Bible, you stop right in the middle of a sentence. You say, hey man, that was good. That is good. There's a case in point. Now to him that is able. To do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that worketh in us, unto him, be glory in the church by Christ Jesus Throughout all ages, world without end. Amen. Now, just in reading that, I I could I could definitely be enticed to Just splash around in those verses and exegete word after word and phrase after phrase, and there would be more preaching in that than what we could get done between now and lunch. And I want to camp on one little spot. There's a part of that that says, unto him be glory in the church. Now Sometimes we say, man, that's a good church. Sometimes we'll make statements like, man, that's a great church. And we may be right on both counts. Um uh for instance, I I think you would say if a church is uh preaching the Bible uh if they're standing for things that they ought to stand for, if they're if they're preaching against all the issues of the day, abortion and homosexuality and all those things, if they're standing up for holy living, right living Uh I think you could say that is a good church. I wouldn't mind having my family in that church if they're preaching the Bible and and spelling it out so that we know how to function uh at school and at home and our business and stuff. I mean that that could be described as a good church. Now uh what what I want to do in the next little bit here I want to talk to some good churches. For the last 24 summers, it's been my privilege to be the Host for the National Sword of the Lord Conference, and as editor, it's my privilege in the afternoons to lecture. uh to uh pastors and others that uh come in from my what I call my school of the prophets. Now Uh I don't know, sometime Saturday I began to because I had some things that I brought with me, I began to think Maybe maybe I could do a couple of those things here at this time this morning. So I I want to talk to you about your good church. You know, some of our good churches are not growing. Um but they but they need to grow. Uh they ought to grow Uh we we need to be adding people. But some of our good churches are not growing. You say now, well why why why is it that the good churches are not growing? Well, I'll give you a list of suggested reasons why a good church may not be growing. Number one, the pastor may not be in charge. He is supposed to be. Biblically, he is supposed to be in charge. He ought to be able to lead. But in some of our churches that's not the case. There there are other times, secondly, churches do not grow because the church is set up like a bureaucracy It's so much red tape that you can't turn, you can't breathe, you can't do anything unless some committee meets and authorizes it. That'll stifle growth. It will. Number three, sometimes good churches do not grow because the finances are ill-spent Ill spent. You know, we we we got a certain amount of money and we spent it on everything except the main thing. We do not do the things with the money that will enable us to actually reach people. Number four, um Sometimes the deacons, the trustees, the finance committee have too much to say about things. They need to be following and not leading It doesn't mean that they're it we're not asking to be a rubber stamp. We're not asking for absolute totality of authority, none of that. We're willing to be accountable, but uh but the leader ought to lead and the rest of us ought to be helpful. Now, uh, sometimes good churches do not grow because the inward focus is about 95% of the activity. It's like, oh hey man, this is all for us. This is all about us. It's all about us. And uh and and you know it's it's us here and them out there and everything we're doing. I mean we're preaching the Bible, we're we're t I mean singing the right songs and all that But uh but but it's us, us, us, and we're not doing anything about them, them, them. And so s the church not growing. And sometimes, sometimes our churches, good churches, do not grow. And Brother Allison already hit the nail. Carnality of the people. gets beyond the bounds of the spiritual realm. And that I've known for oh more than 40 years. More than 40 years. About uh ten years ago, he was elected president of the Southern Baptist Convention. He's a man who preaches the Bible, he had a great church. And as long as I've known him, he's been a tremendous soul winner. Hadn't seen him much. I bumped into him in the Nashville Airport while he was president of the convention. We chatted a little bit. It's the only time I've talked to him in the last 40 years But uh but I know him, he knows me, uh that we had some other contact years ago. But he immediately announced when he became president of the convention, he said uh He said, we're going to jump the baptisms nationwide from about 300,000, 47,000 churches baptizing 300,000 people in a year. You count it up. That's about a half a dozen per church for an entire year. They said, we're going to push for two years and we're going to baptize a million people. And somebody said to me, they said, Did you hear about Bobby Welch being elected to president of the convention? I said, I did. They knew that I knew him. They said, you hear what he's going to do about getting a million people baptized? I said, I heard it. They said, what do you think? I said, it'll never happen. And they got bug-eyed and they said, but Bobby, Bobby, I said, I know he's a great soul winner, but he's not going to get it done. He traveled to all 50 states during his two years in office, pushing, pushing, pushing about soul winning. You say, why did you say from the start it would not get done? I said, there's a reason. The churches are filled with carnality. They stopped preaching the book. They stopped preaching standards. They stopped preaching holiness. And it's become a Burger King type outfit where everybody does whatever you can have at your own way. And I said, with that kind of cardinality, so deep up and down the pews, you're not going to have soul-winning churches. Besides, by and large, they don't even use the term soul-winning. And when his two years was up, and with all that they pushed to do, they not only did not baptize a million people, they actually had a decrease in baptisms. The very next year. Now, you say, what's what's the deal here? Carnality. People who are who are uh knee deep in carnality are not going to do much about getting people saved. They're just not gonna do it. So our good churches uh uh sometimes because Cornelly sometimes our good churches do not grow because their written beliefs, that is the Constitution bylaws, and their preached beliefs and practiced beliefs are no longer the same. A church starts drifting, and I guarantee you their constitution and bylaws will stay like it was, but but often they'll drift away from that, and what's done in the pulpit and what's actually done from the pews will be totally different from what's in paper. Some of our good churches do not grow because the altars are cold and empty and barren. And I suggest to you let me put it this way, it's good for me to go to the altar pretty regularly There are times when Betty and I are sitting side by side in a service, and I'll reach and get her hand and tugged just a little bit. In fact, sometimes she gets my hand and tugs on me. And we go to the altar together and hand in hand, get on our knees in the altar. Make some fresh surrenders to the Lord. When our altars are cold and barren, I preach some places I I don't think you could take a 20-mule team team and pull people down the altar Because they haven't been doing it. They they're not I mean it's just not in their DNA. Um some of our good churches do not grow because All of the prayer in the church is focused on appendicitis, arthritis, and ailments of the anatomy. Really, I think some of our churches ought to change their name to the Appendicitis and Arthritis Baptist Church. Because that's all it's about. From the time you walk in, from the time you walk in till you leave. It's all about it's all about our grunts and groans and aches and pain. I'm not being without compassion. We'll do we'll we'll There's a time for all of that. But it ought not to be all the time. It ought not to be the main thing. We need to get our prayer focused for America, for our national leaders, our city, our pastor, the preaching, souls to be saved, for the backslid and revival. We need to be praying about those things. Sometimes our churches don't grow because the community has no clue that we're even there. Because we haven't gone out and waved our flag and gotten visible in our neighborhoods. Now, you say, all right, you tell me why why are we not getting it going? Uh what what do we need to do? I mean, we're talking about glory in the church for the Lord, and uh, and the baptistry's dry, and the altars are barren, and and no, uh, and there's no no sounds of new babies being born. In the family of God. How can God be glorified if that be the case? Well, already this morning some of the great passages have been quoted. Acts chapter 1 and verse 8. You'll receive power after the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and you shall be witnesses unto me. Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, the uttermost part of the earth Acts 5. 42, daily, in the temple in every house, they cease not to teach and preach Jesus Christ. You couldn't stop them. And we were getting people started, but they couldn't be stopped. Acts chapter 8 and verse 4, they went everywhere, everywhere, under duress, persecuted, pushed, shoved, but they went everywhere preaching. the word. Couldn't shut them up. So what what are we going to do? Well, after a lot of years Of trying to figure out how to get grandma in her wheelchair and grandpa on his walker and the teenagers in the junior high department and the businessman and the and the housewife and a bunch of other folks to get them to do what the Bible says we all ought to do and really uh to get them to help me do what what somebody helped me to learn how to do. Here's what I recommend. You've got to start training soul winners. You've got to start training soul winners. Now, I I went through a period of time in my ministry as a pastor where I taught soul winning. I'd take three Wednesday nights in January, beginning of the year. I'm going to teach soul winning three Wednesday nights. I taught soul winning, everybody took notes, but I get done, and you know how many more soul winners I had? Zero. Because I was teaching them the logistics, but I was not training them to actually do it. You know, uh the folks the folks who take uh training uh for aviation, uh they give them textbooks. And they put them in a class and they make notes and they and they learn I mean they learn what an altimeter is and they learn you know what this is for and that's for and so forth And um they uh they they uh they they learn all of the information. But that doesn't make them a pilot. A pilot needs that information, but he also needs opportunity to sit alongside an experienced pilot. So that one day they'll put him in the airplane and tell him that he can go solo. Now we're not going to solo him. Until he's trained as a pilot and certified as a pilot. You know, I fly a lot. I made uh last calendar year I made fifty-two trips, round trips with uh with Southwest Airlines and uh a couple of others with some other airlines, brand X. um that I don't like to fly with, but but um you know I I get on the airplane and I when I when I walk on I I just automatically I I I look to the left into the cockpit You know what I'm looking for? I'm looking for a pilot, a real pilot. I mean somebody that's got those captain stripes. I'm looking for that. Uh those other folks on the airplane that work on the airplane passing peanuts, they're on there every day. But they're not pilots. And so I want to be sure that the person in the cockpit is somebody who's been trained not to pass peanuts, but to fly the airplane. Now, when it comes to teaching soul winning, we can teach it and teach it and teach it. But we really need a structured program for training soul winners. And there's a difference You can teach the subject, or you can train the person. And teaching the subject's a part of it, but we want to train the person. And I know some of you uh pastors know you've heard me talk about it before. Um we have something we call the Soul Winning Club. Uh we put the training on videotapes, so we help you get it done. Uh my recommendation is that the pastor take the training first. And it's not that you don't know how to do it. I'm just simply saying I think it'd be good if you take the training first So that uh you will know what you're going to be helping the others to do. You'll know what they're doing. And you'll get that figured out. And um and the the pastor, get a good church, to get a good church growing, the pastor does have to set some example. In the reaching of people. Doesn't mean you have to have somebody down the aisle every Sunday, but I think it ought to be your goal. I think you ought to work at that. And we ought to train our people to be soul winners. You say, well, I I think I might even have two people. Listen, if you've got two people, in fact, I'd recommend you start small. Far better to start small than it is to start with a hundred people. You'll just do better with it. But start small, keep it going. Don't ever let up. Run them through twelve weeks, take a week off, and get you another bunch. Get some of the ones that went through the first time to go through and help you the second time. And uh and go another 12 weeks and another twelve weeks and another twelve weeks. You do that four times the year's done. And it'll bill week after week. Set up a time. By the way, I don't want to train anybody that's not willing to start going with us every I mean out in the streets every week from day one from the first week if they're not willing to do that then uh you're not ready for the training. Uh set up a time to get out, knock doors, go canvassing, whatever, during the week. And by the way, you may have to trim the church calendar. A lot of our church calendars are so full of stuff, there's no time for us to go out and do the real work. But we need to get everything organized. You know, I want the teenagers to go soul winning. Wednesday afternoon after school is a great time. Let them go soul winning in the afternoon and they can come right on to church stop at MacDee's or someplace and grab a bite and come right on to church They can do that. We've made that work for many years. Sunday school classes ought to have times for going. The senior adults ought to have time for going. The singles, the buscrafts, the deacons, the staff. Ought to have times for going, times, multiple times for going. We ought to make much ado when new converts come You know, somebody gets saved, somebody gets down the aisle. Somebody's getting baptized. You know, we ought not to be humdrum about that. We ought to show energy and excitement of fact I mean here Grandpa got saved or little Johnny got saved. Everyone's important. Make much ado about converts. Make plans to accept new converts into the church You know, we we we vote them in, but sometimes then it's like well okay they're in and we we just let them drift But uh but we need to put our arms around folks, help to acclimate them, help to get them discipled. A lot of folks come to the church, they don't have any clue what's going on here There was a man here Sunday. I heard him talking to Brother Leatherman, and he acknowledged to Brother Leatherman that he goes to the Episcopalian church. And he smiled, you remember that? He smiled at you and he said, he said, Oh yeah, man, this was different to what we have at our church, he said. But he said, I liked it. Yeah, you can bet it's different, amen. But a lot of folks they don't know when they come in, they don't know what's in. And all of us can be a part of that receiving the people. All of us can be a part of helping them to find their way Uh, folks with families come in. They know where the nursery is. They know where the restrooms are. They don't know whether to sit in the front or the back or wherever. They're not sure about all that. And you you and I can be a part of welcoming folks and warming up the fellowship. And uh and uh you know, guiding the new folks around and showing interest in them. And and by the way, getting them into the soul winning club, ASAP Folks that have just got saved. I mean within days, I mean we ought to invite them to come in and take the training themselves. There's nobody any more excited Then a guy that's just gotten saved, don't give him time to backslide. You know? And by the way, the Soul Winning Club is a great discipling program. It's not just learning the Roman road. It's a great discipling program. You get folks deepening in their spiritual walk as they go. And they're I I mean, after all, so many of the so-called discipleship programs What what what do they do? You come out with a notebook full of notes. But they're not doing anything. They're not going out and reaching people. I mean, it looks to me like the purpose of a disciple is somebody who will become a producer. And so, you know, we're we're working at that. Uh sometimes maybe we need to compare the book of Acts to our place. And by the way, guys, my my recommendation is about all this. Let's don't fuss and fume and fret, but let's do get Soul winning, set up, get it working, get it going, and then and then just just stay stay at it. Stay at it. Training, training sowers. Big deal, big deal. We get teenagers, we get the businessman, we get the housewife, we get the senior adults who are going out and reaching people. I'm telling you, your church is going to grow. I say, well, I went out and I led two people, three people, four people, five people, Christ. None of them came to our church. Go win another one. I mean, after all, if you've been reading your Bible, you know Matthew 13 is in your Bible. And Jesus told us in Matthew 13 that not everybody who says yes would mean it. And that in fact sometimes even some of the ones that mean it Some other outfit that doesn't win souls will pick them up and grab them and run with them. So no, you you won't get everybody. But if you keep at it, you will get some of them. Now, let me turn this. I've talked about why good churches are not growing. Let me let me give you a little bit on why growing churches are growing. There are churches. They take the approach to their growth, and I refer to it this way. They get an organ grinder with a cute monkey. Oreg grinder with a cute monkey. And because of some sensational thing, they draw a crowd. The next Sunday there's no organ grinder, so well you know some some churches kind of build on that. Um there there's some churches in our day they make their church platform look like a nightclub They darken the stage, you know, paint everything black, and they'll get all of the Jungle music stuff up on the platform higher rock and roll band. Now uh you know they turn it into a theater Now you you can draw a crowd doing that. But there is a vast difference between a crowd and a church. Big difference. And we can do all of that that stuff, the contemporary emergent church type stuff. Or you and I can determine God called me to this, and I'm going to be a man of God. I'm going to preach like a prophet, follow the book of Acts, build a church like the New Testament pattern says, and we're going to attempt to develop solid Christians. And we're going to go with that, whatever the enticements are and the allure of success, we're not going to let that affect us and impact us. Growing churches are no accident. I remember hearing Dr. Tom Malone more than once, he would say, Somebody ask me. How does a great church just happen? And he said, a great church doesn't just happen. Somebody causes it to happen. And he was very right. See, I know it's not about me, and I know it's not about you, but at the same time, God uses me and he uses you, and he's got us in the loop. And he wants to use us, and he will use us. You say you're talking about growing churches, you're talking about numbers. I am every person I meet is a number. Every person I meet is one person. And uh you know if you're if you're in a town of 200 people, your numbers are not going to be what somebody that's in a town of 20,000 will be. See, the thing you and I gotta get over is we got we gotta stop comparing ourselves among ourselves. Wish I'd have written that, but it's actually in the Bible. We we gotta we gotta we gotta get past this, well, you know, I I can't do what so and so No you gotta get past that. You don't know what God can do with you And uh and and but determine determined that in in the place where God has put you That you're going to get in the loop and do exactly what you know that God's commanded you to do, and if we'll decide to do as commanded, I think therein lies the secret. A growing church must have a leader, and that leader is the pastor. The pastor has to be self-motivated. He needs to have a dream, he needs to be a worker, he needs to be a soul winner, he needs to motivate others, he needs to train others, needs to organize his troops, plan a calendar, stay on top of things, and keep expanding his vision. Well, I don't think I can say that again, but anyway. A growing church typically will have a nucleus of key players who share the pastor's vision. And people who like that who will plug in and help the pastor with the vision that he has for the church. And growing churches do need to have vision. And we need to train for success. Now, I don't hesitate to use the word success. It's in the Bible one time, Joshua 1. 8. And it says good success. That's the kind I'm after. Not all success is good success. But I do want to have good success, and in order to do that, we have to train for success. Uh you know, I I have I I'm aware right now of several churches that do not have a single piano player. And you know what I tell them? I say, well, why don't you use some of the money and start paying for some young people to take piano? So well they they as soon as they graduate they'll be gone to college. Yeah, some of them might, but uh it just might be you might get to keep one or two of 'em. See we have we have to prepare if if it's uh d do you know how many churches there are now that that they they cannot find somebody that can lead can lead a song I mean music directors are as scarce as hens' teeth. So so what do we do? Well some somebody somebody needs to uh uh you know have a class on song leading And uh I mean you got you gotta start somewhere. We gotta we gotta train for success. Uh teachers, bus workers, sowers, all that. We've got we've got to train for that. And it's not just informational and academic classroom stuff, but we need to have some hands-on on the job training. I shall never forget. As a young man, 14 years of age, when I surrendered to preach, I went forward on a Sunday morning, sat down on the front pew, the pastor turned and he said, and you'll preach for us next Sunday night Now, this may surprise you, but as a fourteen year that's fourteen years and one month and two days of age. And I had no idea he was going to let me preach the next Sunday night, but it excited me to no end. I was thrilled to get to do it. I don't know whether it was worth two cents or not, but We did have some good things happen that night, including my mother and dad getting right with God. And uh And, you know, it was strange because Monday following, I got a phone call from a pastor ten miles away. I think my pastor and him, they'd probably been talking. And that second pastor called and said, Would you come over and preach for us Sunday, Sunday night? So the very next week I went somewhere else. The next Monday I got another call from about 25 miles away. You say, what were you doing? I was out practicing. And just just getting to do it Our daughter um long since being been a uh music teacher and A tremendous musician plays the piano church where she attends. She's the primary pianist. Uh but when she was just a little thing Taking piano lessons. I had a layman who was my music director, and he said to her, he said, Devenna, he said, how about you playing Wednesday night? I was never so surprised. I walked in the church. There was my little daughter sitting on the piano for Wednesday night. Now she was at a point where she could kind of halfway play a hymn or two. But Don Don let her start playing the piano even before she was good at it. I've seen other cases where they let them play the orfatory or something to get them started. But it's hands-on for what we need. In the church. Growing churches has to do that. Growing churches has to recruit workers. I said recruit workers We don't wait for folks to volunteer all the time. I mean if I'm pastor, I'm s I'm sitting up here all the time. I'm looking I'm looking over, oh there's a fellow there. He's I I wonder what he could do And I may take him to lunch and talk to him about it and find out where you'd like to plug in. But all the time, I'm a recruiter. Somebody asked me the other day about Dr. Lee Robertson, who's in heaven now, had an influence on a lot of us. But another preacher asked me, they said, you knew Dr. Robinson pretty well. They said, what would you say was his greatest strength? Well, we all remember hearing Dr. Robertson. Hear him preach, you know. Hi, go to church three times a week. I mean, you I mean we you know, we we all like to hear him. And he had a great church with thousands of people in attendance. They said, What's his greatest strength? And I thought about it a second. I said, I'll tell you what it was. He was an organizer and a promoter. A recruiter. All the time. All the time. Getting things set up, getting things organized, getting things in place. Dr. Dolphus Price was a member of the there for years and years. He told me one day, he said, you won't believe it, but he said, I saw Dr. Robertson plan some things that that failed, that flocked. I mean, absolutely failed. I said, you don't mean to tell me that Dr. Lee Robertson ever had anything that didn't go well. Dr. Price kind of chuckled and he said, I'm talking about some things that absolutely flopped. Flood, Dr. Price said He said, if it was something we planned for Sunday morning and it didn't go, he said Dr. Robertson would come up to that Sunday morning, it flopped, he would turn the corner. And come in Sunday night. Now here's what we're doing next Sunday. Here's what we're going to do in the next month. This is where he said, you'd never hear about the flock. Ever missing. He said he would turn the corner. And go right on to something else. I looked at Dr. Dauphin's Price and I said, thank you for telling me that. That'll help me. And it did. You know, I've tried a few things that flopped. I don't want to do it again, but uh but I I've had a few things I you say, what are they? I I turned the corner. You don't want to hear about it See, I learned. But we have to recruit and promote and constantly stay at that. Growing churches have to be visible and be bold in your visibility. Brother Leatherman has got six different business places here in the area where they they put copies of the sword of the Lord in those boxes and they're giving out hundreds of copies every month. I picked up on that and I'm doing the same thing in Murphy'sboro now. I get individual copies that I hand out places where I go, like all the time, like McDonald's and the bank and stuff like that. But we've got a couple of places now, and I'm trying to work on getting some more, and let us put a bunch of them out so people can just take them. You said, What are you doing? Visibility, visibility, visibility. Getting visible. Putting up signs that we can put up. All that the banner You still out here on the parking lot. You might have noticed coming through town. There's one very similar to it right on the main drag in Oakland. Talking about this conference. What's that about? Visibility. You know, I've been here so many times and he's done such a good job of promoting it. I walk into business places here and people who have never been here to this church. I had it happen Sunday morning. Went to McDonald's for breakfast. Lady all the way across the restroom. She walked over and she said, I know you. She said, You're the guy with the sword of the Lord. You say, how'd that happen? Well he's done such a good job of promoting this meeting over the years. And uh so and and that's by the way, it's not the only time that happens. But getting our churches visible, drawing a box around your church one mile in every direction, and just determining you're going to beat on those doors and beat on those doors. Beat on those doors. You got vehicles at your church with the church name on it. Why don't you go park them all over town? Just just get them and find a visible spot and park them. It's like billboards. You know? I put up billboards over in Carroll County several different times. I mean actual billboards. I only bought one. The science company, they they didn't they didn't want to they didn't want to work with me at first and I said look I said I'm gonna do this and I'll do it again I'll do it again but you gotta you gotta bend and work with me a little bit they said what do you want to do? I said I want you to put it up on 140 out here I want you to put it up and leave it a month. Then I want you to move put it on 97 south. Then I want you to put it on 27 south and 27 north and 97. Move it every month. And you know, a few months later, I had people come up to me and say, Man, you've got billboards everywhere. But I only had one. What are you doing? Creating visibility. I wanted people to know that we were there. And uh, you know, there's all kinds of ways. We can use our imagination. Growing churches are ministry minded. The hospitals, the nursing homes. We pay attention to funerals and weddings, counseling crisis times, all those kinds of things. And by the way, growing churches should not be wishy-washy. We need to stand up, sound the alarm on abortion, alcohol, homosexuality, pornography, drugs, assisted suicide, euthanasia. I mean a long list of stuff. And you say, that'll create some opposition, won't it? Probably will, but opposition really sometimes creates opportunity. And uh so you say, what are we after here? We just want to bring glory to the Lord in the church. This verse doesn't go into a lot of detail about that, but I think it'd be very difficult, very difficult for us to bring glory to the Lord in the church without being the servants. That Brother Hummel talked about, and without us cleaning up our act and being alert when the carnal cravings come, like Brother Allison talked about And without us aggressively putting ourselves in place to go out and reach people. Reach people. You say what kind of people you want to reach? Everybody that's breathing. Red, yellow, black, brown, pink, blue, whatever color they are. So who are who are they? Where do they come from? Uh doesn't matter. So I know whether they may be nothing but a suspect, but we ought to go after them. Just just make it known. We we're going after folks. We're going to do our best to make it possible for everybody in our area to know the Savior And that's why our good churches need to become growing churches. And when we are a good church and a growing church, there's no question the Lord will be glorified. Let's pray together. Stand up with me, please. Maybe some of us this morning will renew our commitment to be a servant. Go back home and volunteer, work in the nursery, sing in the choir. Or otherwise just serve the Lord with your witness and giving out gospel tracts and Maybe some of us this morning need to in this altar acknowledge that we had some carnal cravings that have gotten a toehold, and we need to deal with them before they become a great issue. Maybe some of us need to determine that we're going to do what I've been talking about here this morning, and we're going to get some things rolling at our place that'll make the difference at our place. And start reaching them and getting them out on the outside to come on the inside and be with us Whatever the Lord's done in this service this morning to speak to your heart, the altar is going to be open momentarily. And I hope you'll simply respond to whatever God says to you, whatever the burden that you carry, whatever the need that you feel Whatever God has done to touch your heart this morning. Don't be afraid. Nobody's gonna do anything for you. You have to do for yourself. What you need to do. Father, thank you for what you've done here this morning and for the privilege that we've had to be together. I pray that you'll bless now the invitation time. And may we respond in a way that'll indicate we mean business, we're serious, and I walk with you. In Jesus' name. Amen. The instrument begins.