Well, good evening. Great to see you tonight. Thank you for coming. Let me ask you to turn. I think we're going to look at Proverbs chapter 24 tonight. Proverbs chapter 24. Let's uh spend a few minutes in this portion of scripture. Sort of uh we sort of see the missions and proverbs here. And uh So I want us to zero in on two verses, Proverbs chapter twenty-four, verses eleven and twelve. The Bible says, if thou forbear to deliver them that are drawn unto death, and those that are ready to be slain, If thou sayest, Behold, we knew it not, doth not he that pondereth the heart consider it? And he that keepeth thy soul, doth not he know it? And shall not he render to every man according to his works? Here's what I want us to think about tonight as we look at these verses. I want us to think about being a part of a rescue squad. Because that's really what we're involved in. That's what you've heard tonight. Just rescuing people And here it gives us some uh good thoughts on being a part of a rescue squad. Now let's read it again with that in mind. If thou forbear to deliver them that are drawn unto death, and those that are ready to be slain, If thou sayest, Behold, we knew it not, doth not he that pondereth the heart consider it? And he that keepeth thy soul, doth not he know it? And shall not he render to every man according to his works? Father, we ask that you would just open up these verses to us tonight and use them to stir our hearts. We thank you for the testimony. We've already heard the presentation. And all of it causes us to think about our responsibility to be involved. In uh getting the word of God to these people so they can know The wonderful life that we're able to enjoy in Christ. Now, make it a good evening together. God, these folks have come on a Friday night to get something from you. And they want something from you, and you want to give us something. Just help us to sense your presence. Now just set aside the cares of the day and plans for tomorrow. And give you our minds, and let you speak to our hearts. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. I want to give you three thoughts from this. Thinking about a rescue squad, first of all, I want you to see what it says about those that are in danger. Those that are in danger. Now notice what it says here in two different places. Notice verse 11 again. If thou forbear to deliver Here it is, them that are drawn unto death, and those that are ready to be slain. Drawn unto death, ready to be slain. That word slain there has the thought of the slaughter. You ever uh seen a pig slaughtering? That's a gruesome sight to watch. But I'll tell you one thing, uh there's no slaughter that you and I will ever see. that will compare to those that are dropped into hell to spend all eternity. And so it's talking about those that are in danger. Now I want us to think about. Think about the rescue. Think about the responsibility we have to be involved in the rescue. We we in our human nature, we are prone to be interested in a rescue, to do everything we can To be involved in a rescue, but we especially want to focus in on knowing what's going on with a rescue. You think about uh over the years, you think about uh in the past we've uh had maybe children or someone fall into an old well. or a hole. And I can remember th the rescue being over T V for days and some of those incidents And boy, people, people would gather from all over the world and they would just be there. They could not be close enough to be involved in the rescue. They couldn't do anything, but people wanted to be there. And uh every day you wanted to check the news, every day you wanted to find out uh what's going on with that rescue, have they gotten them out? Uh how are how are they doing? How are they going to do it? What's happening But that's our nature. We want to be uh informed if we can't be involved in what's going on with the rescue. Uh you think about a ship You have a ship on sea and someone falls overboard. Everybody is trying to get involved in the rescue. Get a boat over. Get them a life preserver. Do everything you can to try to save them. Or a ship goes down at sea. And boy, people start going out in planes and helicopters and and rescue boats and we do everything we can to be involved in the rescue. in a human interest way. But you think about the rescuing of those that are on their way to hell. If we had near the interest in that, uh it would probably we would probably be in a much different situation in our churches. Right? If we just had the same drive to reach somebody that's lost, that we have to reach somebody that's in trouble. With their like, uh, we would act different. We would react different. Do you remember the Seiko mine incident down near Buchanan? I uh This was in uh January 2006, I think. And uh June and I were down there a few years ago and in that area and and uh realized we were near that SACO situation and so I told you, let's let's just go over for an afternoon and just take a look. I don't know if you remember the details, but it all centered as far as TV, as far as uh us being involved from a distance, it was all centered around a little white church building. And that's where everybody gathered. That's where the information came from. That's where the news media were. And so We took an afternoon, drove over there, and thought we found that church building. That church building is at the mouth of a holler. And there's about two or three houses within sight of that church building. I mean it's it's just uh another situation. And and so we went up, parked at the church and looked around, of course, that Nobody was there and and uh uh while we were standing there a lady and her husband came home across the street, drove into their their driveway and so we walked over and introduced ourselves, told them we were just interested we uh in what had happened and we just wanted to see the area and some familiar places we'd seen on TV. And she said, Oh yeah, I said my father was one of the men that was in that uh mine uh and uh he uh was one of them that died. Of course all of them died except that one young man that got out And so I asked her after we talked to her for a while, I said, where does the pastor live? I'd like to meet him. I'd like to talk to him about it. And so she gave us directions to his house. We drove up there and he was home. And uh he spent about an hour just telling me about that situation. He talked about people coming from all over the United States They came and they gathered in uh just just sort of mingled and and just uh Just there. That's all they could do. They could not get near the mine. They couldn't get near anything that was going on. But they wanted to be there. He said they just wanted to be there. They just wanted to be apart. Even if they couldn't be physically involved, they just wanted to be apart. Now you think about that. Boy, if you and I had that same interest in reaching people with the gospel. And that's what it's talking about here. It's talking about those that need to be rescued, those that are on their way to a Christless eternity. And need someone to tell them. Just like Brother Yoda was telling, uh, you know, you you look at those people that he he was talking about. You and I, if we looked at those people Those Iraqis are are whatever in their garb and their their uh their outward appearance. If you look at them and uh we would be sort of afraid to even talk to them And we'd have our own ideas and most of it would be they'll never listen so it's no use saying anything to them. But uh hey people people uh are interested in being rescued. Right. Okay. But we need to be involved in the rescue. And so uh we're a part of the rescue squad. Years ago, uh June and I are from Elkton, Maryland. It's in the northeast corner of the state, uh town of about 5,000 people back then And uh uh when we were first married we uh used to fellowship with this couple and we'd go over to the house and play games and uh on some evenings and that type of situation and and uh in the town they had a volunteer fire department Now of course that just means that uh there were no paid firemen. They uh when there was a fire the fire siren would go off and men would come from wherever or women would come from wherever and they would gather and get on the fire truck and go to the location of the fire and and they always had a code in case you uh you were not able to make it to the firehouse You could pick up the phone, give the operator the code. We had this uh party line phone system. Anyone anybody remember a party line phone? Those are old people. Raise your hand Or they're from the boonies, one of the two. Now party line phone means that you never are on the phone alone. There's always somebody listening. Right. And you pick your phone up and you tell the operator the number and Or you can dial it and and um then you have your own ring. Maybe uh two shorts or two longs or but you had a ring and might be ten or fifteen people on the same line But you they would have this word. Each month they would change it. Maybe a color, maybe an animal, something in nature. You just give the operator the word and she would tell you the location of the fire. So we were at this couple's house this night and and the fire siren went off and I just picked the phone up You know, about a day after they gave the code out, everybody town knew it. So I just picked it up and gave her the code and she taught she said, Stoffer chemical. And that was not far from where we were. So we all ran out, got in the car, took off up to Stafford Chemical. When we pulled in the driveway of Stafford Chemical, uh no one else had arrived. We were the first ones there. And uh I jumped out of the car. Flames were leaping out of the windows of that building. And I ran around the back of the building. When I ran around the back of the building, There was a man standing in a window with bars, holding onto those bars, burnt to a crist, screaming, get me out of these flames. I am burning up. Get me out of these flames. That's what it's talking about there. People that are on the edge of an eternity without God. That need to be rescued. Hey, that's the bottom line of this week. We can talk about faith promise, we can talk about uh all we want to about the Great Commission, but the bottom line is we are to be involved in reaching people, which is the Great Commission. So we find that we have an a responsibility to be involved in the rescue. Those that are in danger Now, let's take a look at what it says about those who should be involved. Those who should be involved in the rescue. Notice what it says in verse 11. If thou forbear to deliver them. That word forbear there has the thought of restraint or refrain. Look down in verse twelve. If thou sayest, Behold, we knew it not. Now, what it's saying here, it's not saying here someone that causes somebody To go into eternity without Christ. It's not talking about someone that would that would just uh push somebody out into eternity. What it's talking about here is this. Someone that just does nothing. Someone that just refuses to be involved. Someone that just refuses to be a part of the rescue. We have three missionary families here this week, and what they're saying is, hey, uh Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, would you get involved with us in the rescue? We will represent you where God has called us. Will you get involved with us? And there's an opportunity here for the membership of this church to say, I will be involved, I will partner with you, I will link up with you. I will do my part as the scripture gives me my part. I'll do my part. In the Great Commission, in partnering with you. And we see in Philippians chapter 4 that uh our part, if we're not going to the foreign field, uh our part is to to give financially. That's how we partner with missionaries. By supporting them financially. That's why you do it the way you do it. That's why you have faith promise. That's why you give. And so this week is really an opportunity to get involved. in the rescue, by giving to faith promise, by being involved in uh in uh what God wants. Now uh one of these days uh we're gonna have to give an account and it tells us that You're privileged to be in a church like this. There are churches all over this area. That uh might talk about missions, but it's not a priority. It's not the thrust of the church. Here you are faced with missions 52 weeks a year. Here you are given an opportunity to meet the missionaries. to know the missionaries, to write the missionaries, to pray for the missionaries, and encourage to support the missionaries. That's the part of the rescue. I was invited to preach in Huntington, West Virginia. Got a call from a pastor down there, and I'd never met pastor, never been to the church, but he he uh called me and he said I'm I'm going to do something different this year in my missions conference, and I was wondering if you could help me. He said, uh, I'm going to have a conference, start Wednesday night, but I have missionaries preach, and then uh could you come in on Sunday and and uh preach faith promise and uh take the commitment on Sunday. And so I agreed to do that And so uh time came and I flew down to Charleston on a Saturday and they picked me up at the airport, went to a motel, and Sunday morning, went to the church, preached all day And Sunday night back to the motel. And then Monday morning, a fellow picked me up, member of the church, picked me up to take me back to the airport about a 50-minute drive I came out of the motel, threw my suitcase in the trunk, got in the car, and as we drove out of the parking lot, the fella said to me, He said, you know, I am really jealous of you and my pastor. He said, now I'm not jealous in a bad way He said, I'm jealous because I know I could be doing what you're doing if I had listened to God. And when he said that, I knew I was going to have to listen to a story. And for the next 50 minutes, I listened to a story. He was 65 years old at that time. Since then he's passed away. He was 65 years old. Had heart problems Cancer problems, physically not in good shape at all. But he said when I was 12 years old, said I lived down in Williamson, West Virginia. Williamson is down in the mountains from Huntington, Charleston area. He said, when I was twelve years old, I had an unusual ability, just a knack with automobile engines. He said, I could take an automobile engine apart piece by piece and put it back together at twelve years of age. He said, when I was 19 years of age, he said, I purchased my first automobile membership uh dealership He said, I lied about my age, got the dealership, and he said, when I got that dealership, everything I touched turned to money. He said, I just made money hand over fist. He said I was saved. I knew what God wanted. He wanted my life. I knew that. I put all that aside and and buried my life in that automobile dealership. He said, I uh now we're talking about late 40s, early 50s, he's talking about. He said, I built a big house, had Italian marble shipped in and put it all through the house, had a swimming pool, all around the swimming pool. He said, I own two airplanes and a helicopter That I used depending on the distance that I traveled. He said I had I had everything I needed and wanted He said, one time, one day they uh forecast rain. And uh a little later they said uh there may be flooding And he said by the evening they came and had us to evacuate. And he said, within a 24-hour period. It rained so hard that floodwaters came out of that valley, down that valley, and washed away everything I owned and everything I had. I went from having everything to having nothing in 24 hours. He said, I struggled for years trying to get my life together. And he said, finally, I came to Huntington, got in the church here, and now I am being used by God and I'm enjoying my life more than I've ever enjoyed it before. But I'm 65, and I do not have very long to live. Now I tell that story to say this. You and I do not want to wait until that point. We want to get involved in the rescue right now. Huh? Now's the time we want to ask God. God, tell me how I can get involved. Tell me how I can make a difference. That's what we want. I was thinking today about Josh and Joey Wesson. Down in the Dominican Republic. And I'm sure Brother Lederman remembers uh this fellow. But uh down there Uh when Josh pastored had a at a good church and God used him in a great way, but but joy was involved in the death ministry in the church. She had a a good crowd of deaf people and and had a tremendous ministry and and uh they're going back and as a matter of fact I talked to Joy yesterday and they have their tickets to go back in June uh her and the kids, uh permanently to stay there. But anyway I had a chance, uh had an opportunity to visit uh not to visit, but to to go out to pick up people a couple of nights The they were having meetings and we'd go out and pick up people and bring 'em in and and they picked up one fella, unusual. Uh he he now think about this. He he was uh he was blind, well he's still in the church, but he's blind, he's deaf, and he's crippled. He can get along, but it's slowly and with a limp. And he has to walk about four blocks to the place they pick him up. Now think about it. Downtown, walking four blocks, downtown Santo Domingo, walking four blocks, he had all kinds of accidents just getting to the place they pick him up. But he's faithful every service. They would pick him up and bring him. And he would come to the service, blind, deaf, crippled They'd bring him to the service. He would sit here, and uh someone would sit right in front of him, and he would put his hands in their hands And as Josh preached, that person would sign and he would feel the signs and get the message. They were just involved in the rescue. Huh? Hey, who else was going to rescue him? Oh, sure, a lot of people felt sorry about his needs. How he was going to live, what he had. But they were concerned about his soul rescuing him from a Christeless eternity. And that's what this is about. This is about you and me getting involved in giving to missions so we can partner with these missionaries and get them to a place. And the thing about it is, they don't just go and get involved in the rescue alone. We are involved in the rescue with them. As they go. Well, I would challenge you. Just ask God, God, how do you want me to be involved? Uh I would challenge you to beg him, God, don't let me miss my part. Well, we have a third thing here, and that is the one that's in charge. Of the whole rescue system. Notice what it says in verse 12. If thou sayest Behold, we knew it not. First of all, doth not he that pondereth the heart consider it Now it's talking about the one that sees the person that refuses to get involved. The word pondereth there has the thought of just to weigh or to balance. God is the one that weighs this thing. God is the one that looks at your heart and my heart. God is the one that looks at your life and my life and says, hey, here's what I have for you. Here's what I've equipped what I have equipped you to do. Here's what I want to use you to do. He's the one. He sees us. Hey, we don't have an impersonal God. We have a personal God. He's personally involved in your life and mine. And he gives us what we have so we can get involved in what he has for us. He that pondereth, he knows it. And then secondly, look what it says. And he that keepeth thy soul, doth not he know it That word keep us there has the thought of the watch the one that's watching, the one that's guarding. You know, God has us set aside for something. Huh? God had Moses set aside for something. And he came by one day, Moses came by one day, and there was God in the burning bush. Said, okay, Moses, now I'm ready. He had Gideon set aside for something. He's out there hiding, thrashing wheat, trying to get a little food for family, and God comes by. Says, okay, Gideon, I have something for you and the rescue. And he wants to do the same thing for you and me. God wants to come by. God wants to come by and say, hey, here's what I have for you. Here's your place in your rescue. Will you get in your place? He's not going to mislead us. He's not going to abuse us. He's going to bless us. And use us. And then number three, look what he says here. And shall not he render to every man according to his works? He's the judge. He's the one that's going to know what we do, and he's the one that's going to do through us what he wants to do, if we'll permit him. And if we refuse, he's the one that's going to do the judging. How many people sit in our churches today And do nothing. Do nothing. And care nothing. Because they've become calloused. There's no tender heart. There's no desire to be involved. Hey, God's not looking for somebody perfect. I don't think he's he's even looking for somebody with uh the perfect attitude all the time. He's just looking for somebody that'll Get involved. Somebody that'll let him lead us. I was visiting a missionary in Haiti one time and he asked me to go speak to a bunch of young people. So I went to this church, about a hundred young people there from uh maybe fifteen to twenty-five years of age, uh, just talked to them about giving their life to God. And I used the illustration of a fellow out of our church that got saved, and he was a dope head involved in drugs And uh when he got saved, uh he uh started going back to all these people he had stolen from. and uh trying to make things right. And he had stole a bunch of barbells from a school and he took 'em back and the gym teacher saw him bringing them back and he told him what he was doing. He said, I'm gonna call the police. He said Well when I called the police now I should have called him when I stole them. I wouldn't bring them back. And when I told that story about him getting everything right and repaying and taking things back, those kids just laughed at me I really got upset. I mean, I I had a bad attitude. It bothered me. Now the reason they laughed is uh in Haiti uh thievery is a way of life It's not something bad. It's the way you live. And they just laughed when I talked about him taking things back. And I left there with a bad attitude. I didn't say anything to missionary, but some years later the missionary said we were together again And he said, Brother Craig, do you remember that youth meeting you went with uh with me to and uh preached? And I said, Oh yeah, I re I remember that. I I didn't tell him why I remembered it He said, uh, you know, there was a young fellow in that meeting that day, and that day God called him to preach, and he now pastors that church that you spoke in. I'll tell you one thing, if it had been up to my attitude that day, that boy would have never been called to preach. But God just wants us where He wants us to be. We don't have to be perfect all the time. He just wants us involved. Let me challenge you tonight. Just determine I am going to be involved in the rescue. Just whatever God wants. Whatever God wants. Let's pray. Every head bowed, every eye closed. How many folks tonight will say, preacher, that's that's really what I want? Might be afraid, apprehensive. But you say, uh, I want to be you, so I want to be a part of the rescue. Would you pray that God would help me to to know And to uh have what's needed in my life to make the commitment God wants me to make. Would you let me pray with you? Would you slip your hand up all over the building? I want to be involved in the rescue God bless you. Let's stand as we pray. Father, bless tonight as we do business with you. I pray for these who have raised their hands, others that desire to do so. God uh there's such a wonderful church. So many people involved and sometimes message like this you feel like you're preaching to the choir. But I know that you want to use us afresh and anew, new commitments every day. And I pray that you would bless, continue to bless this congregation as they step out of their comfort zone and get involved the way you want. As a penis place, why don't you strip out of your way place and come tonight and do business with God as He's spoken to you? God, I just want to be involved. I don't know how I don't know what all I could do, but I know this. I want to do what you want to use me to do. Maybe there's someone here tonight and God saying to you, I want your life. I want you just to commit your life to me. I'll take care of the rest. Maybe tonight you just need to slip out of your place, get along with God, and say, God, here's my life. Just use me You show me step by step. Could you come? Maybe there's a young person here, and God's calling you to the mission field. Hey, don't be afraid. You'll have more fun than you can imagine. Just agreeing with God. You come I think Ashula is supposed to be a good one.