Returning to first John four, thirteen through sixteen. Now I'm calling this message confidence in Christ, but this is really an introduction to a new series on the book of 1 John. Its central purpose of the book is to boost our confidence and to encourage us in our assurance that we have in Jesus Christ. Our spiritual uh condition before the Lord, the spiritual condition of our heart. God wants us to have confidence in Christ Now no Christian is perfected in confidence. Are you with me, church? Just like no Christian is perfected in joy yet. And no Christian is perfected in holiness. Yet, or in love, or in any any of these things, any of the fruit of the spirit, anything in Christian living, we're not perfected. Yet we will one day praise God. One of the things God wants us to have is confidence in Christ. And I just want to encourage you, pursue this. Pursue confidence. Know that God wants you to have a strong conviction that you belong to him in Christ. Confidence in Christ, 1 John 4, 13 through 16, introducing the series on 1 John. Let's read the passage together, and then I'll pray for our time in the Word. By this we know that we abide in Him and He in us, because He has given us of His Spirit. And we have seen and testify that the Father has sent his son to be the Savior of the world. Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him, and he in God. So we have come to know and to believe the love that God has for us. God is love. And whoever abides in love abides in God. And God abides in him. By this is love perfected with us, so that we may have confidence for the day of judgment, because as he is, so also are we in this world. There's no fear in love. But perfect love casts out fear, for fear has to do with punishment. And whoever fears has not been perfected in love. Hopefully the words stood out to you in verse 17: confidence for the day of judgment. That means not awaiting the day of judgment as a day of terror, but with confidence as a day of salvation and deliverance. from the judgment that will be there on that day. Let's pray together before we open up this passage Father, no man can preach unless you're working, and no one can properly hear and receive your word unless you're working. So God, we pray that you would work this morning. Through your word , by your spirit, would you reach our hearts? Would you turn our hearts toward Christ? Would you give us a deeper sense of our need for your grace in our lives? Would you turn our minds to your word, to the promises and truths, the great and rich truths of your word, to set us in the right direction? Father, we pray that you would reach forth in mercy this morning. Get to the hard heart and soften it. Get to the stubborn mind and turn it around. Father, we pray that you would work now through your word and spirit. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. Confidence in Christ, we're talking about boldness. We're talking about courage. We're talking about not being afraid to be strong in the matter, that we can have a confidence of our spiritual condition in Christ. That's the name of the t of the series. Confidence in Christ. Not just confidence. If we're going to have any confidence about our spiritual condition or about our spiritual future or about spiritual power in our lives. It must be in Christ. It's only to be received and enjoyed by a relationship with Jesus. Confidence in Christ. Ephesians 6:19, Paul requests a prayer that he would boldly preach the gospel. In other words, with confidence, preach the gospel We should we should also have that same confidence when we think about our own spiritual condition. Hebrews 4. 16. It's a passage about how we should come to God for help. And hopefully you're doing that daily, coming to God for help. But this is what the author of Hebrews says. Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace that we may receive mercy and find help, and find grace to help in our time of need. Boldness confidence to come to God for help. And Paul with this preaching, he wants to preach with a boldness and a confidence. And when we think about our spiritual condition, the state of our soul, in Christ we should have a confidence. It means having certainty rather than doubt. It means being sure rather than being confused. You know who your parents are. You know what your name is. You know what country we live in. You know what church this is. You do not have doubt, you do not have confusion, but you have assurance about these truths. Likewise, no That Jesus is your savior and that your spiritual condition is right before God because of him. He's an all-sufficient savior. Friends, he doesn't need any help. from me to save me. And he doesn't need any help from you to save you. He doesn't need our help. He uses us to accomplish his ends and his purpose. On earth, but technically he doesn't need us. He brings us into what he's doing as a blessing to us. We don't need to supplement Christ's work in order to have an assurance or a confidence. before him. Faith in Christ is the only road to confidence before God. Now why is this relevant? Well, a lot of people struggle with this. There's a lot of professing Christians who struggle to attain to a strong confidence or assurance That their sins really are forgiven, or that God really does love them, or that God really does accept them. A lot of people struggle with finding confidence or assurance. Some people almost are always struggling with this. Now there's others who are not always struggling with it, but it seems like their Christian walk is going from one extreme to the other like waves in the ocean, coming over here with a strong confidence, coming back over here with no confidence, coming back over here. And a lot of times that's impacted or um Or uh determined by situation and circumstance and what's going on in their lives. Others have a strong confidence, but it can be a misplaced confidence. There are lots of professing Christians that are a hundred percent confident and can express that clearly about their salvation. But what if in their heart of hearts they're trusting in their church attendance or their good deeds as the source of their confidence? Well that needs to be addressed too with the word of God. God doesn't want us to just have a confidence. He wants us to have a true and biblical confidence, confidence in Christ about the security of our souls. Some people altogether have a false confidence. You know, there's a lot of people who believe that they are under the grace and favor of God, but if they're not born again, that's a false confidence. And it may be a confidence in that they're sincere in what they believe, it may be a confidence in that they really love coming to church, it may be a confidence in any number of things. But we're to have a confidence in Christ alone. The remedy is always the same. Whether you almost have no confidence or if you like the waves. Going back and forth. Or it's a misplaced confidence. Or if it's a false confidence altogether, the remedy is always the same to look to Jesus Christ as your only source of confidence and assurance. Before God. The devil wants us to turn inward, maybe look to our feelings, or to turn outward and look to our performance, but we must turn upward and look to Christ. The remedy is always the same. I thought of an illustration for this. Hopefully it's helpful. If you can picture one person is suffocating underwater. Another person is suffocating just because he's choking on something, and another person is suffocating because they're in a room that's slowly filling with gas. Well the situations are different, but the remedy is the same, and it's very, very simple. They all need air. That's all they need different situations. So however you struggle with finding confidence or assurance Or maybe if you don't struggle with it, but maybe you find out that it's misplaced or false altogether, the remedy's the same. Come to Christ, look to Christ, look to Jesus Christ as your source. And as we go through this passage, we'll see three aspects of the confidence we have in Christ. First of all, in our standing before God We'll see that we can have confidence in Christ. Second of all, in our future with God, we'll see that we can have confidence in Christ. And third In God's love for us, we'll see that we can have confidence in Christ. Our standing before God now, our future with God, and God's love for us. First of all, let's look at confidence in our standing before God. Confidence in our standing before God. You can go to the next slide. What we're saying is that your faith has united you to God. This comes from verse 13 and 15. By this we know that we abide in him and he in us. Now that's the key phrase We abide in him and he in us. That means right now our faith has united us to God. Your faith has brought you into fellowship with the infinite and invisible and almighty God. And the King James will say dwell. I really like that. God dwells in us. And the New American Standard will say remain. But it's all talking about the same thing. That your faith has united you to God. He has given us of his spirit. And then in verse 15, whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him, and he in God. He says it in both directions, in both verses. Verse 13, we abide in him and he in us. Verse 15, God abides in him and he in God. He's uh Centerpiecing, I don't think that's a verb, but I'm using it as a verb. He's centerpiecing, he's highlighting the relationship in Christ. You've been united to God. Your faith has united you to God. Isn't this what salvation is? Isn't this what reconciliation is? This is any way you want to say it, salvation. or redemption. What's this all about? It's about God bringing sinners into a relationship with himself. How do those sinners enter into that relationship with God? Through faith in Christ. And you can put a period after that. It's through faith in Christ, based on the gospel, that we Are united to God. And we can have confidence in this. You see three things, even in this short portion of the passage You see that this salvation, this faith that unites us to God has been received by the work of the Holy Spirit. Look at verse 13 again. By this we know that we abide in him and he in us, because he has given us of his spirit. Do you have the Holy Spirit this morning? Amen. And we need to know that if we didn't have the Holy Spirit, we would not be united to God by faith. We hear the gospel, the gospel of Christ's sacrificial death on our behalf, praise the Lord, and of his powerful and glorious resurrection and ascension. to minister in heaven as our great high priest. We hear that gospel. It changes our hearts. We come to Christ in faith. That only happens by the work of the Holy Spirit. We've been born again. Brothers and sisters, we've been born again. We're no longer Slaves to sin. Do we still sin? But we're no longer slaves to sin. We've been born again. It's re it's received by the power of the Holy Spirit, this faith. That unites us to God. But secondly, it's received as a gift from God the Father. You see where I'm going with this, talking about the Trinity and how it's Father, Son, Holy Spirit that saves us. It's received as a gift from the Father Look at verse 13 again. We know that we abide in him and he in us because He has given. He has given. And the He is referring back to the end of verse 12. God. God abides in us and His love is perfected in us. And but and then that next paragraph in verse 13, the paragraph we're looking in Looking at just flesh it that out. God abides in us, his love is perfected in us, He has given. This is a gift from God the Father. You can also look at you can we can cheat and look ahead at verse 14, the very beginning. We have seen and testified that The Father has sent his son. The Father has sent the Son. And it's the Father, through the Son, who gives the Spirit. This whole salvation thing is a gift. from God. It's a gift of grace. The whole gift of grace, the whole Bible is about God's gracious gift of salvation to undeserving sinners. So we worship Him and we're grateful to Him and we're filled with joy. This faith that unites us to God and gives us confidence before God is received by the work of the Spirit. It's given as a gift from God the Father. And let us see. You should guess this, and you have already guessed this. You know exactly what this point is going to be. It's received through faith in Jesus as the Son of God. Do you believe that Jesus is the Son of God? Yes. Verse 15. Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him, and he in God. Of course, it's not just lip service that he's talking about here. The confession of faith here is representative of a biblical and genuine Confession that Jesus Christ is my Lord. And you confess that Jesus Christ is your Lord. He is the Son of God. He is our Savior. We are sinners, yet we're coming to Christ for salvation. The power of the Holy Spirit or the work of the Spirit, a gift from God the Father that's received through, through faith in Jesus as the Son of God. God wants you to have confidence. In your standing before Him, He wants you to understand that there's a Trinitarian power, a Trinitarian grace that's been given to you. The Spirit, the Father, and the Son have bestowed their love and favor upon us. Isn't that good news? We do not need the applause or the favor of the culture around us. But we do need, and we have, through Christ. The favor, the infinite favor, the unbreakable favor of God that rests upon us. Ephesians 3 12 is a great supporting verse for this. Paul's talking about how God manifests his supreme wisdom. In the church, in fact. And he says this is according to the to the eternal purpose that he is realized in Christ Jesus our Lord. Then he says this in verse 12, Ephesians 3. 12, in whom we have boldness and access with confidence through our faith in him. What's our standing before God? How do we come to God? Paul says boldness, and we have access with confidence. And then he says this: through our faith in him, through our faith in Jesus Christ. Your faith has united you to God. A really good application question to ask our hearts is: where is our spiritual confidence Where is it rooted? Do you have security for your soul and for your future? Where is it rooted? There's lots of things that are not the road to confidence. Going to church and even loving church is not a sufficient road to confidence for our spiritual condition before the Lord. Lots of theological knowledge. Lots of knowledge about what the Bible teaches is not a sure foundation of confidence. That's not the road to confidence. That's important, but you can have you can know a lot of things And not be resting and trusting in Christ as Savior. Because Christianity is not just about head knowledge, it's about the heart being changed. What else is not a road to confidence? Well having a Christian family. Just joining in everything as a part of the family. That's not a road to confidence. Salvation is not inherited by bloodline. Every individual must repent and turn to Christ for salvation. Maybe good deeds is the source of your confidence. I do so many things. I sign up for so many things, so many good deeds. That is not a good foundation at all for confidence. Wanting to go to heaven. Just deciding that you want to go to heaven. And that you're really, really serious about that is not a good foundation for confidence before God. You should want to go to heaven. You should want to go to heaven for the right reasons, to be with God and to be with Jesus. But wanting to go to heaven is one thing. Turning your life over to Christ as your Lord and Savior is another thing. Good things, but not the sure road to confidence. Baptism is not your confidence, your spiritual security before the Lord. Church membership, uh your feelings about if you're saved or if you're not saved. The devil loves to turn us inward on ourselves and play these psychological mind games and keep us away from a sure confidence. Uh if you don't feel Saved, that doesn't mean you're not saved. Objective reality: Christ is a sufficient savior. If you've been united to Christ, you are saved. So turn your eyes to Christ as your sure and certain confidence. Faith in Christ is the only road to confidence before God. Secondly, confidence in your future with God. Confidence in your future with God. You can go to the next slide. What we're saying here is your faith has saved you from judgment. Now, when you boil down to it, this is uh the critical aspect of why salvation is such a great blessing. We're saved from judgment. We're brought into a relationship with God. But the alternative to relationship with God was judgment. This comes from verse 14. and seventeen. Verses 14 and 17. We have seen and testify that the Father has sent his son to be savior of the world. Now there's what you can underline. Savior of the world. Jesus is savior of the world. Savior means he's the one who delivers sinners from sin and all the consequences of their sin and the ultimate consequence for sin is being alienated from God And being under the judgment of God. Jesus is the Savior of the world. In other words, He secures our future with God. And here's where that's future looking. You look at verse 17. And forward, but for this point, just seventeen, by this is love perfected with us, so that we may have confidence. For the day of judgment, because as he is, so also are we in the world. By this is love perfected with us. What does that mean? That means this is what God's love is supposed supposed to produce in God's children. God's love Expressed through Christ is supposed to produce this in God's children. Confidence as you approach the day of judgment. The day of judgment is coming. But we don't live in terror, we live in confidence. That Jesus, our Savior, the Savior of the world, will spare us from that judgment and bring us into eternal heavenly glory with God. And this is what we live for. We don't live for things. Brothers and sisters, we don't live for a money. I said early we don't live for the applause of the world around us. We live As a people of hope, as a people of eternal heavenly hope with an eternal heavenly perspective. And in Christ, we have confidence of our future with God. Turn back in uh in first John to chapter two, verse twenty-eight. Chapter two Verse 28. And now, little children, abide in him, so that when he appears, we may have confidence and not shrink from him. In shame at his coming. Isn't that incredible? Because think of the lives we lived before Christ. Think of the lives we'd be living without Christ. Even as those in Christ, there's still sin in our lives, in our minds, in our hearts, and our words, and our actions, and our motives, and our feelings. There are lots of things to be ashamed by, in and of ourselves. But look at this verse again. We're abiding in him. When Christ appears, by the way, when he appears, he's appearing as judge. We may have confidence and not shrink from him in shame, not shrink from him in shame at his coming We should have a great great confidence and hope that Christ is returning, not live in terror that Christ is returning And also in chapter 3, right after that, chapter 3, verses 1 and 2, also forward looking. 1 John 3, this first paragraph is one of my favorite paragraphs. I think it really summarizes Christian living and Christian hope. See what kind of love the Father has given to us. That we should be called children of God, and so we are. The reason the world does not know us is that it did not know him. Now, verse 2. Beloved. We are God's children. Is that clear enough for you? If you struggle with confidence, if you struggle with assurance, is that clear enough for you? The promise of God, the statement of God's word, we are God's children now. And what we will be has not yet appeared. But we know that when he appears, we shall be like him, because we shall see him as he is. And every one who thus hopes in him purifies himself as he is pure. You see it is future looking and put your eyes again on verse three, because it's not only future looking. Also, she'd be convicting for a present living. We have this hope. Everyone who hopes thus, or everyone who thus hopes, looking to future, future salvation, in him Purifies himself as he is pure. That means we walk in obedience and we pray to be sanctified and we strive to live for God. Seeking purity rather than the vile things of the world or the perverse things of the flesh But by God's grace and through prayer and by God's word striving to purify ourselves as He is pure. And by God's grace, He'll work that work in our lives. Slowly. Gradually, bit by bit, through trials, through suffering, through humbling us, through prayer, but make no mistake about it, God is conforming his children to the likeness of Christ And if you're his child, he's conforming you to the likeness of Christ. Is it an easy road? No, it's certainly not an easy road. I mean there's a lot of stubbornness got us to chip away. There's a lot of sin that the Lord has to refine as through fire. But he will do it. We're trusting in God to do that. We have confidence in our standing before God. Your faith has united you to God. We have confidence in our future with God. Our faith has saved us from judgment. The day of judgment is coming, but there's a savior of the world. There's a savior of the world. And anyone who comes to Christ in faith will be saved on that day of judgment. That's why this faith in Christ is the only road to confidence before God. He's the only one who can spare us from that judgment. He's the judge of all things. He's the judge of all humanity. But if you are under his mercy and forgiveness, there's no one else who can bring judgment against you for your sin. Number three, final point Confidence in God's love for you. This really is the overarching point. In the flow of what John is talking about in this chapter, understanding that God's love rests upon you, that you're a recipient of God's love. Everything else just flushes out the details of that. You are under the the uh protective canopy of God's love. Your faith puts you under God's love, and we can't have a confidence In God's love for us. And I know there's those out there who struggle with this because there's Christians everywhere who struggle with this. Does God really love me? Can God really forgive me? And the and when you say that when I hear those things and those things are said, the emphasis, even in articulating it, is always on me. Does God really love me? We've got to to understand that God really does love you, you've got to take the emphasis off of the me, off of the you. and put it onto God's love. God's love transcends our sin. God's love transcends our weakness. God's love erases our guilt and makes us righteous in his eyes. So yes, God really can love you because it's not based on you. It's based on the righteousness of Christ which is your clothing. So clothed in the righteousness of Christ, united to Christ by faith, God's infinite love rests upon you. That's your canopy of protection. That's your shield when these doubts assail you. Your faith puts you under God's love. Look at verse 16, back in chapter 4 of 1 John. Oh, such encouraging verses. So we have come to know. Pause right there for a little aside. That's the phrase that really lit my heart. To title this series, Confidence in Christ. Because of the strength and the clarity that this is said right here in verse Sixteen We have come to know. So whatever he's about to say It's not things that we're confused about or things that we don't know, but maybe we can say what we know. We know And to believe the love that God has for us. God is love. And whoever abides in love abides in God. And God abides in Him. By this is love perfected with us, so that we may have confidence for the day of judgment, because as he is, so also are we in this world Verse 18, there is no fear in love. But perfect love casts out fear, for fear has to do with punishment And whoever fears has not been perfected in love. I tell you what, verse 18 is a convicting verse. And it's a very vivid idea. There's no fear in love. But perfect love, whose love is it talking about there? It's talking about God's love for the sinner expressed in the gospel. Perfect love. This is such powerful language. It casts out fear. It casts out fear. God's love alone can do that. Fear has to do with punishment. And since children of God are not going to be punished for their sins on the day of judgment, they do not need to have a fear or a terror. Now don't confuse this with having a proper fear of the Lord. That phrase is talking about how Christians Are people with the fear of the Lord? Which means we do have a reverence and a respect for God's authority over us. And we have it all before Him. But we're not terrified of punishment. Or judgment at the return of Christ and the day of judgment. Our faith puts us under God's love. God 's love is an attentive love. This is a truth that will help us in our prayer life as well. Flip the page, just to 1 John 5, 14. You'll see the word confidence again, and it's linked to prayer. This is the confidence. This is chapter 5, verse 14 of 1 John. This is the confidence that we have toward him. That if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. Now don't interpret that by uh erasing or blocking out of your mind the phrase according to his will. It does not say that if we ask anything, he'll hear us and give it to us. We ask anything, according to his will, he hears us. That means he receives it. As a as a father who loves us. God's love is an attentive love. There's never a time you can't pray. There's never a time where you can't come before the throne of God and pour out your heart before Him and lay your requests before Him. There's never a time where you can do that those things where he's not attentive to your cry. It's an attentive love. Secondly, it's a welcoming love. You won't have time to turn here, but I'll read it for you, and you can let it flow uh into your hearts and wash over your heart. Hebrews 7. 25 about God's welcoming love. Consequently, he's able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession for them. Well Christ is our priest and he's always re representing us before God. He's our intercessor, he's our mediator. And I love this phrase in Hebrews 7. 25. Since we're saved, we can draw near to God. Through him. God's always ready to welcome the sinner. And that sinner is either lost And for the first time, turning and putting their faith in Christ, they can if they do that, they're approaching God with confidence and assurance. Or sinners who are already saved, you know, if we're saved, we're still sinners, right? Right? We're still sinners. And we st do you still have sin in your life? Yes. And do you still have weakness in your life? Yep. Do you still have do you have things you're guilty before God and things that should bring shame? So we still need to come to God through Christ. for things like sanctification, those kinds of things. So everybody needs to know that they can come to God, draw near to God. In his welcoming love, but always through Christ. And it's a ten of love, a welcoming love. Finally, it's an unbreakable love. Romans 8, 38 and 39 I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers nor height nor depth nor anything else in all of the creation nor will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. You have security in your salvation and standing with God, not just In the moment, but that that will never be taken away from you. Nothing can separate the true believer, the child of God, from the love of God. God's love is attentive, God's love is welcoming, God's love is unbreakable. In Christ, in Christ, God's love rests upon you. And nothing in the world can take that away. Now, some quick thoughts for personal application. We must strive and we must pray and we must grow in our confidence in Christ. Because brothers and sisters, we are daily assaulted by sources of doubt. Daily assaulted Daily assailed by sources of doubt, external to us and internal to us. A cultural pluralism. A world that's going more and more pluralistic, and that there's no absolute truth. This this can bring doubt. This can bring discouragement. We must look to Christ and his finished work. Accusations against Christianity. That the Bible's teachings are outdated and oppressive and unjust and Too exclusive and too condemning accusations against Christianity can cause you to doubt, can cause us to doubt. We must turn back and look to Christ. Our own weakness. Our own doubts. Our own ongoing sin can cause us to doubt whether this is real, whether God really is working in my life by a supernatural presence of the Holy Spirit. We can be assaulted by these doubts. You know, one of the things that can bring doubts and has brought doubts over the centuries is seeing the wicked thrive, at least seeing the wicked thrive from a human perspective. And you may think about your own life and your child of God, and it's just one trial after another and one suffering after another. And why isn't God giving me this? I've been praying for this. When I look to my next door neighbor who hates God and they get everything they want, everything they asked for, brothers and sisters, that's temporary. You're going to lose all of that. But it can be discouraging from a human perspective. It can bring doubt. Going through intense suffering, feeling alone, feeling abandoned by God. That can bring doubt. Make us doubt our assurance or our confidence. And of course inconsistency and discipleship. Yeah, it's so common. I hear Christians feel like they're not doing enough. And when they feel like they're not doing enough, it can It can cause them to struggle with having a confidence. The only problem with that is our confidence is not rooted in what we're doing, or how much we're doing, or how well we're doing, or how well or how great we are at getting other people to do No, Christ, Christ alone, Christ alone. We're people who look to Christ alone and our confidence is in him. So going back to the beginning, whether you're one who almost Almost is always struggling with this and can never find confidence. The remedy is you must today purpose in your heart to look to Christ and Christ alone, his finished work of the cross as your source of confidence and assurance Or maybe you're like the waves. You go from one extreme to the other. Four months you're on fire for the Lord, and since you're on fire for the Lord, you have a strong confidence, the next four months It's the complete opposite. Well, the remedy is the same. You must look to Christ. If you have a misplaced assurance, and for this you'll have to examine your own heart. If you have a misplaced assurance or you feel great about the condition of your soul, maybe it's in church attendance or maybe it's in church Membership, or maybe it's just because you got baptized, or maybe it's just because you come from a Christian family. There could be a whole host of reasons. Examine the heart if there's a misplaced assurance or a false assurance. Altogether. Bring it to the Lord. The remedy is the saying, you must look to Christ. Faith in Christ is the only road to confidence. before God. Let's pray together. Father, I pray for the weak in faith that you would strengthen. I pray for those with a false assurance that you would turn the heart and save them and give them a true assurance full of joy. Those with the misplaced assurance, I pray you would write the ship. Those who are back and forth like the waves I pray that you would give them a a season and a sense of steadiness in their walk with you. But Father, for all of us, as we face assaults, things that can be discouraging, External, internal, I pray that you would ever increasingly turn our eyes to Christ, to rest in Him, to find peace. in him, to find joy in him, and to understand a thousand percent that through him your infinite love rests upon us. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.