Let me invite you, church, to open with me to two places in your Bibles. First, we're going to be in Matthew chapter 1 verses 18 through 25. That'll be where we're going to spend the majority of our time this morning. Open up to Matthew chapter 1, put your finger there, and then turn with me also to John chapter 1. John chapter 1, and we're going to look briefly at verse 29. So Matthew 1 is where we will be primarily, and then open as well to John 1. Familiarity can be a perilous thing. The closer we are to something or someone, the more familiar we become with something the easier it can be for us to fail to appreciate it properly. We can often be most blind to the beauty that's right in front of us, or maybe even on our own homes. I was reminded of this recently while I was driving up 165 right over there. As you drive up From Jarretttsville, going into Pennsylvania, you drive past these rolling hills of farmland. If you stop in just the right spot, there are some absolutely beautiful views. You can stop and you can see what just seems like endless hills and valleys of farmland, and especially uh in the fall that just passed, it's just com absolutely striking. Now I've lived in Harford County most of my life. I've driven up and down those roads I don't know how many times And this past fall, as I was driving up and down and seeing these beautiful views, I wondered to myself, how many times have I failed to even notice this? How many times has this backdrop of wondrous beauty just been a means to an end of getting to my destination? There's a great danger we can face with familiarity. And we face a similar danger, church, every single year as we enter the month of December, don't we? I would wager to you that the gospel narratives of the birth of Jesus are the most well-known stories in all of Scripture. Anyone who has seen a Charlie Brown Christmas has heard Linus recite from Luke 2. We read them, we reenact them, we depict them in our decorations, and and friends, none of this is wrong. But if we're not careful, our deep familiarity with this narrative can dull us, I see. To the glory and the beauty and truly the world-altering consequences of what God has done in the incarnation of His Son. Friends, we make a grave mistake if this story is merely kind of a squishy sentimental backdrop to our Christmas celebrations. We need to see that there are massive theological ramifications for what is taking place here And so as we look this morning at Matthew's account of the birth of Christ, my prayer for us, church, is John chapter 1, verse 29. The next day he, that's John the Baptist, saw Jesus coming toward him and said, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of men. Church, my prayer for us this morning is that we would behold the Lamb of God. That we would see and be in awe of God's plan of salvation reaching its climactic point of fulfillment. In the second person of the Trinity, taking on flesh, to live a life of perfect righteousness. to die as a sin-bearing substitute for sinners, and to rise again as a conquering king. My prayer, friends, is that as we read this narrative, we would see how it reveals to us the glory And the beauty and the majesty of Jesus Christ and God's plan of redemption. That's Matthew's purpose in this whole gospel account. His whole gospel is meant to show us. We've seen this on Wednesday nights, if you've been with us, that Jesus is the Messiah, that he is the eternal king who has come to bring salvation for his people and to establish his eternal kingdom. It's Matthew's point in giving us this account, and that's our purpose this morning, that we would behold the glorious plan of God in sending his Son Jesus Christ to save his people from their sins. So let's look now at Matthew chapter 1, beginning in verse 18. Now the birth of Jesus Christ took place in this way. When his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph, before they came together, she was found to be with child from the Holy Spirit. And her husband Joseph, being a just man and unwilling to put her to shame, resolved to divorce her quietly. But as he considered these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream. Saying, Joseph, son of David, do not fear to take Mary as your wife, for that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which means God with us. When Joseph woke from sleep, he did as the angel of the Lord commanded him. He took his wife, but knew her not until she had given birth to a son, and he called his name Jesus As we walk through this narrative together, I want to give you three truths to behold from this passage. Three glorious realities to see from this account of Christ's birth. We're going to behold first the providence of God. Secondly, behold the person of the Son. And third, we will behold the purpose of his coming. Dabbling in some alliteration this morning, we're going to behold the providence of God, behold the person of the Son, and behold the purpose of his coming. Well, we first need to behold from this narrative the providence of God. What do I mean by the word providence? That might be an unfamiliar term to you, but you need to know that it is a core doctrine, a core truth of the Christian faith. Providence Simply means that God is the one who upholds, who governs, and who directs all things according to His good plan and His good purpose. God is the one who is sovereign, church. He is over all things. He is in control of all things, and he always accomplishes his will for his glory and for the good of his people. This is exactly what we're told in Scripture. Ephesians chapter 1 verse 11, we're told that God works all things according to the counsel of his will. Or consider Isaiah 46, verse 10, where we're told that God declares the end from the beginning, saying, My counsel shall stand, and I will accomplish my purpose. I love how John Piper offers this very succinct, but I think very helpful definition to describe God's providence. He says simply that God has a plan for history, and his plan always happens. As biblical Christians whose worldviews are shaped by Scripture, we do not believe that history just unfolds by random chance. Nor is it God kind of reacting to what happens. No, in ways that are beyond our full ability to ever comprehend We confess, based on what we were told in Scripture, that the sovereign God is the one who works all things, every last detail, according to his plan and his purpose. And so, when we come to verse 18 here in Matthew 1, and when we read that the birth of Jesus Christ took place in this way. We recognize that the this way that Matthew is going to unfold in the narrative is according to the sovereign hand of God's plan and God's providence. What we read here is the plan of God, from before time began, to send his son in order to redeem his people and establish his kingdom. It's not haphazard. It's not accidental. It's God accomplishing his good purpose. So where do we see the providence of God in this text? Well, I want us to consider several details where we see in this narrative the glorious hand of God's providence in accomplishing his purpose. We should see it first, church, in the years and in the generations that came before the birth of Jesus. If you look above our text in Matthew chapter 1, you'll notice that this narrative is preceded by a genealogy, this long list of names and generations. And this genealogy actually has very great weight and significance in Matthew's gospel, because it establishes Jesus' identity as the Son of David, the one through whom it was promised that salvation would be accomplished. But we should also recognize that as we read this list of names, what we see is generation after generation living and dying. God's people longing for a promised deliverance, but not seeing it. Some of these figures that we read about, some of these names experienced great tragedy. Some of them were desperately wicked. Some of them faced the harsh and destructive judgment of exile out of the lands of Jerusalem. Some of them witnessed the destruction of Jerusalem, the city of God. But friends, every generation that lived and died. And that is recorded for us here is evidence not that God's plan was failing, but that God was being faithful to his promises. Because see that the line of promise does not die out. Despite the kingdom splitting, despite generation after generation of wicked, wicked kings. Despite exile, despite foreign occupation after foreign occupation, despite all the realities of sin and wickedness in the world, God had preserved his people. And God had preserved his people so that, through this line of promise, when the fullness of time had come, Jesus the Messiah would come into the world to accomplish salvation So this list of names and generations that we might struggle through if we were to try to pronounce them all should be evidence to us of God's sovereign hand at work to bring about his promised deliverance. Well, next we see God's providence in this text in the miracle of the virgin birth. In verse 18, and then again in verse 20, we're told here that Mary was with child. By the Holy Spirit. It was by a supernatural and miraculous work of God, by the Spirit of God, that the eternal Son of God took on human flesh. In the womb of a virgin teenager from Nazareth. And again, friends, may our familiarity with this narrative not detract from our amazement. at what God does here. Because it's at this moment that the God of all creation actually steps into the pages of human history as a man. And we'll consider the significance of this miracle and the significance of Jesus' identity as fully God and fully man more under point number two. But we need to see that it's by a providential working of the sovereign God by the Spirit that the Son of God is sent to earth as a man. We need to see and recognize that it is God who does this. It is God who brings about the fulfillment of his plan. We also see God's providence, though, in the righteous character of Joseph. One of the themes that we can see and trace throughout Scripture is that God accomplishes his will both through supernatural miracles, but also through very ordinary means. God is at work in the glorious miracles that testify to his power, but he's also at work in the everyday actions of human beings. And as we read this narrative, we shouldn't miss that there's this very real human drama unfolding here. There's a very real conflict in the narrative that we should see and that we should feel. As we read it, we recognize and we know because we're told from the very beginning that Mary's pregnancy is from the Holy Spirit. Joseph doesn't know that. And under the law, and according to the culture of the day, there's a very real possibility that he could have had Mary put to death for infidelity, for breaking the legal betrothal arrangement. But Matthew highlights for us, and I think he does this intentionally in verse 19, that Joseph was a just man. Your translation might say a righteous man. He was unwilling to put Mary to open shame. And so instead of having Mary publicly executed and potentially uh instead of having her publicly shamed and potentially even executed, instead he plans to protect her through a quiet divorce. But then we see that after this supernatural visit in a dream from the angel, yet another instance of God's hand of providence in the narrative. Joseph obeys. Joseph does what the angel commands him to do. He trusts and obeys this messenger from God. And the point of this narrative is not for us to just see how great a guy Joseph is, but we should see that in the providence of God, Joseph is used by God. In preserving the life of Jesus and his mother, God is at work, even in the conflict and the actions and the choices of those within the narrative. Finally, we must see the providence of God in fulfilling his plan in the fulfillment of prophecy. In verse 22, the angel of the Lord reveals to Joseph that Mary's pregnancy, Jesus' birth, is his coming into the world, it comes to fulfill. What had been spoken by the prophet Isaiah. And he quotes here from Isaiah chapter 7, verse 14. If you read through the book of Matthew, You see that Matthew is obsessed with this word and with this phrase fulfill. Fulfilment. He is always going back and he's laboring to show that as Jesus Christ comes into the world, he comes as the ultimate fulfillment of God's plan of redemption. which the Old Testament and the prophetic witness and the story of God's people had anticipated, had pointed to, and looked forward to. The Old Testament narrative and the Old Testament prophets establish these types, these patterns, these promises. And these shadows of how God had dealt with his people in the past, which then set their trajectory for how God was going to deal with his people in the future. And as Matthew draws on these Old Testament prophets, he is making the case, and it is no small claim, that in the coming of Jesus Christ, the true substance Of God's saving work had arrived. We're out of the shadows pointing forward, and we're in the reality, the fulfillment. This is the final culmination of God's plan of redemption, which was planned from before time began, now being brought about in history here by the sovereign hand of God. When we see in Matthew's gospel or elsewhere in Scripture the prophets being brought in as these witnesses to the identity of Jesus. We need to see that this whole book, from beginning to end, is a testimony to us of God's one eternal plan of salvation, which he accomplished in history through the incarnation, through the death, and through the resurrection of his son. As we see here And consider God's providence, we must recognize that what God has planned to do, He has accomplished in sending His Son. So may we behold the providence of God and may we be amazed at his great power to accomplish his plan for his people. We should read this, we should see God's hand of providence, and we should confess and say amen with what Peter says in Acts chapter 2, verse 24, that Jesus was delivered up. According to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God. This is God's plan of salvation being fulfilled in history. We turn then to consider who is this Jesus who has come, who has been sent? So we secondly behold the person of the Son. Behold the person of the Son. Who is this Jesus whose birth is announced and then recorded for us here? That's really the question of questions for every single person who has ever lived. Who is Jesus? We'll see in verse 18 first that he is the Christ. Now this is not just Jesus' last name. This is a title. It means anointed one. It's where we get the Hebrew word Messiah. And this title indicates to us that Jesus is the long-promised king who had come to save his people and to establish an eternal kingdom of God's saving reign. He's the deliverer that the people of God had been waiting for and longing for ever since sin first entered the world in Genesis chapter 3. And we need to see here, we are familiar with this language of Jesus as the Christ, but to ascribe this title to Jesus is no small claim for Matthew. He's writing to Jewish Christians who would have understood the magnitude of such a claim. We must recognize the weight of this. We must see the identity of Jesus as it's set forth for us in the Word. Anyone who claims that Jesus was merely a good teacher has not responsibly read what the Bible says about Jesus We recognize that Jesus is the Christ, the long-promised conquering, delivering King. And the truly remarkable thing in this text and the entire New Testament that we see taught about the person of Jesus is that Jesus the Christ Is fully God and fully man. Look at verse 18. We see that Mary is with child by the Holy Spirit. And this is again said by the angel in verse 20 when he appears to Joseph. What this means, and what we see clarified in other places in Scripture. Is that by this miraculous birth, at once, in one moment, the baby in Mary's womb is a real child, with fingers and toes and elbows and a heartbeat. This baby is also the second person of the Trinity, the true and living God taking on human flesh. And again, friends, maybe our familiarity with this story betrays us a little bit here. So let me say that again. The God of the universe. The one through whom all things were created, the one in whom all creation holds together, the second person of the Godhead came to earth as a baby. Jesus Christ is truly and fully God and truly and fully man in one glorious person. And what we need to see, church, as we read this narrative is that Jesus must be fully God and fully man in order to save sinners. Remove one of those two realities, one of those two truths, we have no hope of salvation whatsoever. Jesus Christ must be fully God and fully man in order to save sinners. Christian rapper Shy Lin gives what I think is just a helpful and succinct summary for why this is so. He says only a human can substitute for human lives, but only God can take the wrath of God and survive. Won't go through the whole song because I didn't memorize it, but we recognize that as a man, Jesus is able to stand in our place as a substitute. He's able to die the real death that we deserve to die. He's able to represent us as a mediator before the Father. And as God, he is a perfect, sinless sacrifice who has the authority to declare us righteous and forgiven in Him. And it's by the miracle of the virgin birth, by the power of the Holy Spirit, that this is accomplished, that Jesus The God man becomes incarnate as the only one who is uniquely able to save his people from their sins. And we must understand this, Church. This is a core doctrine of the faith once for all delivered to the saints. Only a deliverer who is both God and man can save you from your sins and bring you into a right standing before God. We should consider why this is so. Scripture teaches us that the penalty, the wages of sin, is death. Romans chapter 6, verse 23. In order for sins to be covered, a death, a real, actual, physical death, must take place. That was the entire meaning and the entire symbolism of the sacrificial system under the old covenant. The priests would offer sacrifices year after year to make atonement for sins before God. But here's the problem. We need a perfect sacrifice. We need a sinless sacrifice. We need a perfect mediator. But everyone who has been born from Adam has inherited Adam's guilt and possesses a sin nature and is guilty of sin from the very moment of conception. If someone has sin of their own, they can't stand as a perfect substitute, a perfect sacrifice, a perfect mediator for sinners. So we need a deliverer who can die as a sacrifice in our place, but who is also completely sinless. Well, how can such a thing happen? Only if God Himself, who is perfectly righteous, comes to earth as a man. And this is what is recorded for us here in Matthew's Gospel. That the second person of the Trinity became incarnate as the God man, by the work of the Holy Spirit, as the only one who can die a perfect atoning death for sinners. That makes us right before God. We need to see also how this reality, this truth of Jesus being born of the Holy Spirit. Ties together and resolves these promises and these prophecies and these types and these tensions that are built up all throughout the storyline of Scripture. From the very beginning of sin's entrance into the world in Genesis chapter 3, God promised that it would be through the seed of the woman. Through her descendants, that the head of the serpent, representing sin and representing sinful opposition to God, would be crushed. So the deliverer must be human. We're told that from the very beginning. And the story of the Old Testament follows this line of promise from Abraham to Isaac to Jacob. And to Judah, and to David, and it focuses even more on David's line. And it all establishes that God was going to bring salvation for his people through a human deliverer. But there's also another theme that runs alongside this theme in the Old Testament, which is that God alone is the one who saves. Consider Isaiah chapter 43 verse eleven. I, I am the Lord, and besides me there is no Savior. As we read the prophets in the Old Testament, there's this growing expectation that God Himself was going to come and bring salvation for his people. In the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord. Make straight in the desert a highway for our God. And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together. Isaiah chapter 40, verses 3 and 5. So God Himself was going to come and to deliver his people. We see then these two themes converging and finding their ultimate glorious wonderfulment in the coming of Jesus Christ. born of a virgin, completely sinless, by the power of the Holy Spirit. And so when we read in verse 23 that this child will be called Emmanuel, which means God with us. We understand that this is not merely symbolic language. No, this is the flesh and blood reality of God Himself coming to earth as a man in the second person of the Trinity. dwelling among his people to accomplish God's eternal plan of salvation. And friends, if for just a moment you'll permit me to stand up on a soapbox. I don't intend to do that often, but if you'll just go with me for 30 seconds, I fear that when we focus primarily on the externals of the Christmas story in our singing and in our celebration, We can be at risk of missing this. When we only sing about mangers and cow and straw and hay and sheep and not about the glories of the incarnation. We can, even if so subtly devalue this central and unfathomable truth That the God of all creation came to earth as a man. That Jesus the Christ is fully God and fully man. Now, in saying that, I don't intend to be a killjoy. By all means, you should enjoy your nativity scene, however, your family celebrates and enjoys and commemorates the birth of Christ. But we can never let sentimentality dull us to the glory of what is here in God's Word and accomplished in history. We must recognize that the baby Jesus is the incarnate Son of God. And that when he's lying in the manger in ways that we cannot even fully comprehend, at the same time he is upholding the universe by the way of God. We can't even fathom how that's possible. But this is the truth. This is the identity of Jesus Christ. So we must behold together the person of the Son. And then finally, we must behold the purpose of his coming. Why is it that the eternal Son of God came to earth as a man? We read it in verse 21. To accomplish salvation for his people. Look at verse 21 and see what the angel tells Joseph about this child in the womb of Mary. It says, She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus. For he will save his people from their sins. God's purpose in sending the Son in the world was to accomplish salvation. Through his life, through his death, and through his resurrection. From the moment that his coming is announced here in Matthew's gospel, this purpose of God is made abundantly clear. And I want us from verse 21 to just meditate on some of the things that we see revealed about this salvation that Christ Jesus came to accomplish. See first from this verse the need for salvation. The need for salvation is the reality of sin that separates us from God. He will save his people from their sins. We need a Savior because we are guilty sinners. And because sin before a holy God warrants eternal condemnation. We need a Savior because we, naturally speaking, are dead in our trespasses. We're blind to our need. We're worthy of God's wrath, and on our own, we are completely incapable of doing anything about it. Of working our way out of it. No, the salvation that we need is a salvation from the penalty of sin against God. Notice next that Jesus is the author of salvation Verse 21 again, he will save his people from their sins. The incarnate Son of God, Jesus, is the only one who can accomplish your salvation. I hope that's clear to you. He's not one option among many. He's not an alternative to the law for those who just really can't hack it. He's not one path up the many-sided mountain to God. No, Jesus is the only way to be saved from the penalty of sin and to be brought into fellowship with God. See, thirdly, the certainty of salvation. The certainty of salvation. He will save his people from their sins. Church, this is such an important point. Jesus came to accomplish salvation. He came to secure it. He did not come merely to make salvation possible. He didn't come to do his part that, but then we have to add something to it through our good works for it to really take effect. No, Jesus Christ came to live and to die and to rise again so that everyone who looks to him in faith will be saved. Salvation in Christ for all who believe is a certainty because we recognize that Jesus will save his people from their sins. It's not might, it's not could. He will save his people from their sins. We'll see also from verse 21 the recipients of salvation. Who is it that will receive this salvation? It is his people. He will save his people from their sins. Well, the question we must ask is who are his people? That's actually one of the big questions of Matthew's gospel as it unfolds. It's a question that sets up a lot of conflict between Jesus and the religious leaders of Israel. The religious leaders of the day understood God's people to be ethnic Israel. They believed that the Messiah was meant to come as this military deliverer for Israel as a nation-state. But what Matthew's gospel and what all of Scripture makes clear for us is that his people, it's not just Israel, it's those from every nation, every tribe, and every tongue who look to Christ Jesus. That's really the significance of Matthew's uh the Jesus Great Commission that ends Matthew's gospel. It's this recognition that Jesus, the promised Jewish Messiah, has come to save his people from all nations. His true people are those who believe in his name You can't be born into salvation. At least not physically. You can't earn it through good works. No, you must look to faith in Christ and believe. That's the His people of verse 21. And as a brief point of application, friends, this is why your church membership matters. Because when we publicly profess our faith in Christ through baptism, and when we're received into the membership of a local church, What we are doing is we are declaring publicly to the world and to one another that we are his people. That we are those for whom Christ died, we stand in him, and therefore we're also committed to living as his people together, united in local bodies of believers. If you're here this morning, Christian, and you're a believer in Jesus, but you have not taken the step of committing yourself to a local church, let me exhort you that that is God's will for your life. This is his plan for us to live as his people with other believers who have been brought under the saving reign of Christ Jesus and are committed to following him together. Christ came to save his people. If we are his people, we must declare ourselves as so. See next the means of salvation from this verse. How is it that Jesus will save his people from their sins? Well, this is the story that the rest of Matthew's gospel unfolds for us. Through a perfect, sinless life, through a substitutionary death bearing the wrath of God for sinners, and through a powerful, glorious resurrection Even here in this section as Jesus' birth is announced, we're meant to look forward and to anticipate his death, through which he will accomplish this great salvation. It's through his death on the cross that Jesus saves his people from their sins. Finally, consider the end of salvation When I mean end here, I don't mean a finishing point. I mean the goal, the ultimate purpose. What is the end of your salvation? We'll look again at verse 23. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which means God with us. Friends, the end of salvation, the goal of salvation is God with us. Wretched sinners like you and I, actually truly being rescued from our sins and brought into true and lasting and unending fellowship with the eternal God. In his presence forever. And this reality of God with us in the narrative, it's true in the flesh and blood reality of Jesus Christ coming to earth as the God man. It's also true, though, in the the final eternal reality for those who look to Christ in faith The storyline of Scripture ends with this scene of God with us, of God forever dwelling with his people. Listen to Revelation 21, verse 3. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people. And God Himself will be with them as their God. Christian, the purpose of your salvation is not just for you to escape the bad stuff of sin's consequences. But for you to actually truly be reconciled to God and to be brought into his glorious presence for all eternity All for his glory and all for his good. That is the end of your salvation. The glory of God in his presence forever. As we conclude this morning, let me just offer you two exhortations to really two groups of people. If you're here this morning and you have not turned to Christ in faith, Let me implore you to trust in Him for the salvation of your sins. The only way that you can be made right with God is by faith in Jesus Christ, the incarnate, crucified, and risen Son. For those of you who are in Christ this morning, who are trusting in him, who confess by faith that he is the Christ, that he is the God man, that he is your savior. Let me encourage you that the greatest way that you can celebrate this Christmas season is by worshiping Jesus Christ. Don't let, friends, the busyness of this season take you away from what is your true and eternal work. To glorify God and to enjoy Him forever. So may we together, as we behold the Lamb of God who comes into the world through a miraculous providence of God, as we behold this in Scripture, and as we are have this truth brought before us regularly in this season, may we respond by worshiping The Christ who is who lived a perfect life, who died a sacrificial death, and who is now risen and seated at the right hand of God. Let's pray together. Oh Father, we thank you for this glorious plan of salvation accomplished by your hand of providence. In sending your Son Christ Jesus into the world. Lord, we recognize that this is our only hope of salvation. But there is salvation in no other name. So God, may we respond in faith and may we respond with joy and celebration. As we recognize what you have done for us in Christ Jesus. Pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen.