Live. What a nice little crew we have. Thank you for coming. I appreciate it. I missed you all last week. I'm glad to be back. We're starting a new series. A little bit sad that we're out of Hebrews, but Hebrews will always be there for us and for you in your private devotions, the heavenly priesthood of Christ. Okay? We are beginning a series on 1 and 2 Thessalonians. So let's all go ahead and get to 1 Thessalonians. I'm calling this series by the Word and for the Word. By the word and for the word, the emphasis on the local church. The local church is established By the Word of God, and then the local church is devoted to the Word of God. It exists for the Word of God to spread it, to preach it, to teach it, to sing it, to rejoice in it, and on and on and on. We are a people constituted by the Word of God, centrally the gospel of Jesus Christ, but we also exist for the Word of God. So that's why I'm calling this series. By the word and for the word. And right after I pray, what I'll do is show you just a few verses in First Thessalonians, where that comes from, and then we'll get into Tonight, which will be one one through seven. First Thessalonians one one through seven. Historical background and overview. Alright? Historical background and overview. Let's pray together. Father, we confess our need for you. We are sinners and we need your mercy and we need your grace. We are weak And Lord, we need your power at work within us. We need the power of your Holy Spirit. We are ignorant and we need to learn from you. We are distracted, and we need you to intervene in our lives, in our minds, and focus us on you. You and your kingdom and your gospel, Father, we pray that you would help us. And Lord, we trust that you will by your good and great promises that you've given to us through Christ. Father, we come here to study this evening and we ask that you would help us and teach us. But we also come here to worship. Show us Jesus Christ. Give us a clear sight of Him deep within our hearts. And continue to cultivate within us a holy affection for Jesus Christ, that we might love Him and obey Him and serve Him as we eagerly wait for His coming. It's in His name we pray. Amen. First Thessalonians. Now the series is first and second Thessalonians, by the word and for the word Let me do a I'll try to do this quickly, but before we get into verses one through seven, let me do an overarching make an overarching comment on this title that I'm giving the series, By the Word and for the Word. So first of all, look at 1 Thessalonians 1. four and five, which actually is in our passage tonight also. For we know, brothers, loved by God, that he has chosen you. And who's the he in that phrase? The Lord, right, God. We know brothers, loved by God, that He God has chosen you. How do we know that? Verse 5. Because our gospel came to you Not only in word, but also in power, and in the Holy Spirit, and with full conviction. The word came to them in power, the power of the Holy Spirit that created within them the full conviction of faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. It is the word that made them into children of God and therefore a local church. They were created by the word. Skim right down, should be on the same page. Verse 8. For not only has the word of the Lord Sounded forth from you. Just highlight that phrase. Because that's the other aspect of this thing. They this is a local church created and constituted By the word through the power of the Spirit, but now also as a church, they exist for the Word, the Word of the Lord, sounding forth from them. That's who we are and strive to be as a local church. We are a people created by the power of the Word of God through the working of the Spirit And we are a people who are devoted, absolutely devoted to the Word of God. So You see the key word in verse 5. The word came to them and transformed them and saved them and made them into a local church. And you see the word also the same key word, which may be confusing because the key word here is word. Verse 8, now it's not the word coming to them, it's the word sounding forth from them. And friends, that should be our heart. Shouldn't that be our heart? I mean, if God The infinite, almighty, eternal God has intervened in our lives and saved us and taken away our sins and given us the hope of eternal life. brought us into a relationship with himself forever. Through the Word, if that power has come to us through the Word, we should long To get that word out so that others may taste the goodness of the Lord. Oh, taste and see that the Lord is good. So, by the word and for the word. Flip over one page. to chapter two, verse thirteen, still giving this overarching picture of My title for the series, by the word and for the word, in chapter 213 And we also thank God constantly for this Well that's j this is just a side note. This is not in my notes, but that's something we sh we could be doing for all kinds of things, thanking God constantly. You can just make a list of those things. But here's what he's writing about. We also thank God constantly for this, that when you received The word of God. They received the word of God, which you heard from us. You accepted it not as the word of men, but as what it really is: the word of God. Which is at work in you believers. Powerful phrase. Vivid phrase You received the word of God for what it is, God's word, not man's word, not popular opinion, not uh not philosophy, not the traditions of religion. You received it as the Word of God, and it is at work within us. The powerful, life-changing , life-transforming Word of God. They were a people created by the word. And then also, finally, this will be final on this overarching look at the title. Flip over two pages, probably, to chapter five, looking at verses twelve And 13. Now this is more implied that they exist for the word, but it certainly is certainly implied. We ask you, brethren, to respect those who labor among you and are over you in the Lord and admonish you. That's their leaders. To esteem them very highly in love because of their work. Circle the word, at least circle it in your mind. Their work. Be at peace among yourselves. It's the work that is the issue, which we should all know, even though we might summarize it in slightly different language, it's the work of the gospel. It's the work of the gospel. It's the preaching and teaching of the Word of God and the prayer of the pastors, of the leaders who are among them. Because why would that be such a big deal? Because the church exists for the Lord, for the word of the Lord. We are a vehicle. We are servants, a conduit. If you will, for God's word. The word comes to us and by God's grace saves us and changes us. It's at work within us Killing sin, cultivating godliness by the Lord's mercy. We are a people who sound forth that word because we love the Lord of the Word. By the word and for the word, first and second Thessalonians. Sound good? All right. Hopefully, the bullet points of application, of personal application, and congregational application are already firing and ricocheting in your mind. Because it's not just that 1 Thessalonians was written to the church of uh of Thessalonica that was the local church, but we are a local church. We are a local church. We too created by the word and for the word. Alright. Now we can move on to Chapter 1, verses 1 through 7. Historical background and overview. Boy, I do not think I'll be able to get this on here. Let's see. To minimize my letter spacing historical background and overview. Now what we did just then The overarching look and explanation of the title of the series, which will be first and second Thessalonians. With a focus on the body life of the local church and how it comes to be and what it looks like and what it's for. Let's read verses 1, 1 through 7, and then we're going to look at the authorship , who it comes from, the recipients, who it went to. Two dominant themes, two of the dominant themes of uh of this book, 1 Thessalonians, and then a brief exposition. Verses two through seven. Alright, verse one. Paul, Sylvanus, and Timothy. Paul, Sylvanus, and Timothy. So there's good trivia for you. Someone asks you, who does First Thessalonians? um come from. It comes from Paul, Sylvanus, and Timothy. They are the ones in fellowship sending this letter. Paul is the author. To the Church of the Thessalonians in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace and peace to you. That is their spiritual identity. That's their covenant standing with God. To be in God the Father. It's to be in a relationship with God the Father, to be reconciled to God. And of course, the only way that can happen is if you um are in the Lord Jesus Christ. We come to God by coming to Jesus. We come to Jesus by coming to Jesus. I'm not trying to be clever there, but this is such an important thing that there we do need a mediator between God and us, the Lord Jesus Christ. We must come to Jesus. But we do not need a mediator to come to Jesus. We come to Jesus directly through faith. Does that make sense? So important. Another religious figure does not need to help mediate our relationship with Jesus or help us get to Jesus. Our good works. Do not help to mediate a relationship with Jesus. We are saved by faith in Jesus Christ. And as those united to Jesus, we are also united to God the Father. And of course the Holy Spirit isn't is involved in there and active in there. The Holy Spirit is God, the third person of the Trinity. The Holy Spirit is at work in our conversion. But I think that phrase is um well I don't think it, I I I know it, I feel it, that it's wonderful. That he doesn't just say to the church of the Thessalonians, he Reminds them right off the bat of their spiritual identity in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. And so grace To you and peace, which is what we all need. Grace and peace. The grace of God and the peace of Christ. Verse 2. We give thanks to God always for all of you, constantly mentioning you in our prayers. Verse 3, remembering before our God and Father, your see if you see these three things. Work of faith and labor of love and steadfastness of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ. Verse 4. For we know, brethren, loved by God, that he has chosen you. How do you know that, Paul? Verse 5. Because our gospel came to you not only in word, but but also in power and in the Holy Spirit and with full conviction. You know what kind of men we proved to be among you for your sake. Verse six. And you became imitators of us and of the Lord. For you received the word in much affliction with the joy of the Holy Spirit, so that you became an example to all believers in Macedonia and in Achaia. Alright, let's talk about authorship. Verse one A. Paul, Sylvanus, and Timothy Paul, of course, is the apostle Paul. I'd like us to look at a few verses about Paul. First, Acts 9, 15 and 16. Acts 9, 15 , 16, 16. and sixteen. Jesus we're not a hundred percent certain with scientific uh p precision and certainty on the dates, but most likely Jesus was crucified in the year thirty-three. Probably April 3rd of 33. Well, if it was the year 33, it would have been April 3rd, the way the calendar works out. And um At least a year later, Saul is converted , given the new name of Paul. Acts 9, 15 through 16. But the Lord said to him, Now this is um Paul at Damascus You see, Paul's going to be at Damascus, and a man named Ananias had received a vision from the Lord telling him about Paul, and here's what he says: But the Lord said to him, Go. For he, Paul, he is a chosen instrument of mine to carry my name before the Gentiles. And kings and the children of Israel. That broadens our perspective of Paul. He was the apostle to the But he's he carries the name of Christ before Gentiles and kings and the children of Israel. And I will show him verse sixteen I will show him how much he must suffer for the sake of my name. What does that mean? Paul is going to suffer. He's going to go through beatings, physical persecution, other kinds of persecution and rejection. But It's for the sake of the name of Jesus Christ. To put it in layman's terms, to get the name of Jesus out there. To get it out there. To spread the name of Christ. To spread the message of Jesus Christ. To spread the salvation that is found in Jesus Christ. Paul is a chosen instrument. Verse 15. God chose Paul. God chose Saul, transformed him into Paul. God did the choosing. Saul did not choose to be converted. Saul did not choose to become Paul. Saul did not choose to become an apostle. He did not choose to carry Christ's name before Gentiles and kings and the children of Israel. There's not a committee meeting in heaven, and Saul got the final vote and said, Yes, I the final vote and said, Yes, I will suffer for your name, Christ. No God intervened in the life of Saul, a wicked sinner who had been persecuting the church, who hated the gospel, and who was on a trip. Of persecution. Not a mission trip. He's on a trip of persecution. And God intervenes and saves him and appoints him to be an apostle. What an amazing story! Romans one one Paul, he's introducing himself. Paul, a servant of Christ Jesus, he knows who he is. He's not confused of his purpose. He's not confused of his calling. A servant of Christ Jesus called to be an apostle Set apart for the gospel of God. I love that because not only is he clear on his calling and office, he's an apostle, but he's clear, crystal clear. About the purpose of an apostle. An apostle is set apart for the gospel of God, not for his own glory, not for his own name. Certainly not a lucrative career, but for the gospel of Jesus Christ. Paul, a servant of Christ, called to be an apostle, set apart for the gospel of God. That's Paul. And then it says Sylvanus, who in other places is called Silas, and then it says Timothy. Silas and Timothy, or Sylvanus and Timothy, were co-workers with Paul during his second missionary journey. Now don't try to write these down. Any good study Bible will give you these dates. Paul's first missionary journey is found in Acts 13 and 14. Acts 13 and 14 is first missionary journey around the years of 46 to 47. So you can just picture that. It's around 13, 14 years after the crucifixion of Christ. Now Paul's second missionary journey is found from Acts 15, 36. Alright, so we went from the first missionary journey was 13 to 14. In between is what's called the Jerusalem Council. There's a little issue there the church has to deal with. 1536 begins Paul's second missionary journey to 1822. Chapter 18, verse 22. Which would have been around the years 49 to 51. It's this missionary journey that the church of Thessalonica is planted. And later on this same missionary journey, that this letter is written and sent back to Thessalonica. So you we're just thinking, second missionary journey, second missionary journey. Silas and Timothy are with Paul, and this is where the planting of this church and the writing of this letter happens. Paul's third missionary journey. It's from 1823 to 2116. And there's a lot of the book of Acts after that, right? Goes up to chapter 28. But after the third missionary journey, which would have been around years 52 to 57. Which is chapter 1823 to 2116. Paul basically summarizing all here goes to Jerusalem, is arrested. And travels to Rome. We'll be going this way. Travels to Rome and uh the book of Acts ends with Paul and house arrest. in Rome. And we read this in our uh our pre-conference discussion. One of my favorite verses, and uh it's so weird that this has not become a memory verse for me. It should be. But the last verse, the last two verses in the book of Acts are really neat. He, Paul, he lived there two whole years, Rome, at his own expense, and he welcomed all who came to him, proclaiming the kingdom of God. Teaching about the Lord Jesus Christ with all boldness and without hindrance. I love those verses. He was single-minded, he was laser-focused. He's teaching about the kingdom of God and preaching the Lord Jesus Christ. And of course, you can't do one without the other. He's doing it with all boldness. Because you're not ashamed of it. Just clear, straightforward presentation of the truth is what Paul was committed to. And he's doing it without hindrance. That's is what he's doing. So there's authorship. It's coming from Paul, Silas, and Timothy. The setting is Second Missionary Journey. Let's see now. Alright, so I know that a lot of this you can't read, but that's okay. I would just wanted to get as much the world that area of the world as we can as we could have so he would have started here in Antioch Alright. See here, this is the Jordan River. Alright, Dead Sea down here. I see a Galilee up here. But he would have started here, come this way. Curasia minor, Troas, Thessal Ringabell from Axe, Samothrace. Anyway, Thessalonica is right here. Northern Greece. Just think northern Greece. It's today called Thessaloniki. You change the C-A to a K-I. There you have it right here. And then we know uh it probably rings a bell too that after Thessalonica, Berea ultimately works his way down to Athens, these these City sound familiar to you? Corinth. Over here is Ephesus. It's there for a long time. Okay. Wanted to get a little bit of the geography up there. The recipients. The Church of the Thessalonians. Let's look at Acts 17, 1 through 9. The passage in Acts where Paul visits and where this church is established. By the word, through the power of the Spirit. And whenever I say the word, well not whenever, but in this discussion at least. Whenever I say the word, that's communicating a couple of different things at one time. It always means the word of God generally, right? The written word of God, the preached word of God. But centrally It's the gospel of Jesus Christ that's shorthand for the preaching of the gospel, the word of Christ, the word of the cross, the word of the gospel, the word. That's the central message of Scripture. That's the climactic message of Scripture. So when I say the word, that's always on my mind. Yes, the Word of God generally speaking. Um but if we're if our I if our understanding of the Word of God generally speaking is correct, we will always think of the gospel. Always think of the gospel. This is the great work of God. This is his eternal plan to reveal himself. Through the redemptive work of Christ. This is it. There's nothing greater. There's nothing more central than the gospel of Jesus Christ. When I say the word, th all th those kinds of things are always involved in that. Acts 17, 1 through 9. Now, when they had passed through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they came to Thessalonica. Where there was a synagogue of the Jews. Paul went in, as was his custom, and on three Sabbath days he reasoned with them from the Scriptures. That's how Christians reason. Not just apostles. This is how Christians reason according to Scripture. If we were of the world, we would reason according to speculation, or according to opinion, or according to our feelings. In one way or another we'd reason according to our own sinful desires and sinful nature. But when we're in service to the Lord God Almighty, which as Christians we are in service to the Lord God Almighty, we reason according to the scriptures. That's how he's reasoning with them. He's reasoning with them. I love this phrase. This is one of my favorite phrases. I'm sharing a lot of my favorite things, right? This is one of my favorite phrases. The end of verse 2. From the scriptures, from the scriptures. Exegetical reasoning, which means up from the text. Explaining and proving that it was necessary for the Christ to suffer And to rise from the dead. Now how is he doing the explaining? How is he doing the proving? What is he using? Scripture. He's using scripture. And saying, This Jesus, whom I proclaim to you, is the Christ. Jesus is the Christ. He's working in the Old Testament scriptures, prophecies, and uh foreshadowings of the Christ, and he's proving to them from those scriptures Jesus is the Christ. The Christ has come. God has come in the person of Jesus Christ. This is his ministry. This Jesus, whom I proclaim to you, is the Christ. And uh that message hasn't changed. I mean you let me know if the message of the church of God has changed. We are people who proclaim Not only that Jesus existed and did this and did that, but that he is the Christ of God, the anointed one of God, the unique and only Son of God. Who's been anointed and appointed to grant salvation to pitiful sinners. Jesus. Jesus is our message. This Jesus, whom I proclaim to you, is the Christ. And some of them were persuaded. Some of them were persuaded. And joined Paul and Silas. As did a great many of the devout Greeks, God fearers, so believers who were not ethnic Jews. And not a few of the leading women, which means not a few is the opposite of many. So a bunch of the women. So the ministry of the word. Created believers, created new hearts and sinners, created believers, created a church, created a local church. Local churches exist by the power of the Word of God. Otherwise, guys, it's just religion. It's just one more world religion doing things to make ourselves feel better, feel like we're doing something for A greater power. No. Thus be life in the heart by the Spirit of God. And that's what happened. But, verse 5, but the Jews were jealous. It picks up right off where the gospel accounts left off. With the Jews jealous of Christ. Now they're jealous for Christ's servants, Christ, the work Christ is doing in his church. But the Jews were jealous, and taking some of the wicked men of the rabble, they formed a mob, set the city in an uproar, chaos, chaos, wickedness loves chaos. We see something we don't like, we just start chaos, start trouble. Anything we can do to disrupt what God is doing. Let's do it. Let's start a mob. Let's start a riot. Let's cause an uproar. And they attacked the house of Jason, seeking to bring them out to the crowd. Probably believers in the house of Jason. And when they could not find them, they dragged Jason and some of the brothers. Before the city authorities shouting, These men have turned the world upside down. Have come here also. Now they're shout they're not happy about this. Like we could shout the same thing. We'd be happy we should be happy about it. Like, yes! Yes, this is this world needs to be turned upside down. Have you watched the news? Have you looked into your own heart? Things need to be changed upside down by the transforming power of God. But they're upset about it. They're not happy These men have turned the world upside down, have come here also, and Jason has received them. How dare you, Jason! How dare you receive servants of the Lord! And they're acting against the decrees of Caesar. Troublemakers. Troublemakers. Saying that there's another king, Jesus. By the way, there is another king. The apostles were not lying about that. Jesus sits enthroned in heaven. He has supreme authority over all things. He is King of kings. He is Lord of Lords. And the people and the city authorities were disturbed when they heard these things. Well, the mob got what they wanted. And when they had taken money as security from Jason and the rest, they let them go. Look at verse 10. The brothers immediately sent Paul and Silas away by night to Berea. And when they arrived they went into the Jewish synagogue. Now the these Jews were more noble than those in Thessalonica. They received the word with all eagerness, examining the scriptures daily to see if these things were So if Paul's message is from the Scriptures, if you want to verify his message, you go to the Scriptures. There's no outside source by which you there's more authority than Scriptures. That's a more sure word than the Scriptures by which you can verify the Scriptures. But it highlights the fact that Paul's preaching was from the scriptures, proving that Christ is the proving that Jesus of Nazareth was the promised Christ of the Old Testament. Now there were some converted, there was a local church in Thessalonica. But it looks like, generally speaking, the hatred And the rejection of the word was more pronounced in Thessalonica than the positive response, although there was definitely a positive response. I mean we saw that in there, right? There were conversions. There's a there's a church. Paul's writing a letter years down the road to a church But in Berea, it looks like it was the opposite. There's a more widespread reception of the word. And that's under God's providence The people weren't better uh by their own merits. So the word is not always received in the same way. And you can even think of your own life. There's seasons of your life where you're more receptive to the word. The words bearing more fruit, and then there's dry seasons. And part of that is is God keeping us humble and keeping us seeing our need for Christ daily So this is we're doing historical background, right? The recipients. These are the recipients, Christians who are converted under Paul's ministry In the context of hatred and rejection for the word and a mob and chaos And the local authorities are involved and they're dra dragging Jason out of his house house and gathering believers publicly. This is a big deal. Like if that started happening to us, if someone was dragged Pastor John was dragged out of his house Right, and demanded to get get the leaders of the church right, it's w w we have a hard time envisioning these things because you can't conceive of the ancient church of the early church apart from these kinds of things happening. This is the context of the gospel spreading. That's who he's writing to. Christians in that town. Just a year or so later. Um okay, turn back to First Thessalonians three, verse one See if I can quickly um I want to do this quickly. Connect a couple of dots. So the church is planted in Acts 17, 1 through 9. Probably the year 50. Either way, it's around the year 50, okay? So there's you around the year 50. And then The mission journey continues, they leave. First Thessalonians 3, 1. Therefore, when we could bear it no longer, we were willing to be left behind at Athens alone. And we sent Timothy, our brother and God's co-worker in the gospel of Christ, to establish and exhort you in your faith. So the church is planted in Thessalonica. And Paul moves on, and Silas and eventually Timothy, although it doesn't say Timothy was uh snuck out at night Or smuggled out at night, but he left because it some point later when Paul and Silas and Timothy were here in Athens They sent Timothy back up to Thessalonica to minister to the church there. So it's planted in around the year 50, and then a little bit later on when they're in Athens, they sent Timothy back to Now look in chapter three, verse six 1 Thessalonians 3, 6. But now that Timothy has come to us from you and has brought us the good news of your faith and love, and reported that you always remember us kindly. And longed to see us as we longed to see you. But Paul 's been so happy, so full of joy, the answered prayers, because he knew what it was like in Thessalonica. He didn't know what kind of report he was going to get back. From Timothy. So they sent Timothy back up, and then at some point later, Timothy returns to the group. And then after that, after Paul gets the report, he writes the letters back to the church. So just you know, you don't need to remember all the dates and all the details, but the church was planted. Paul, Timothy, and Silas continued on the missionary journey. At some point they sent back Timothy to get a report, to first of all to minister to the Christians who are there, to strengthen the church, to see how they're doing, to encourage them, and he brought a report back to To Paul about how the church was doing, and Paul is elated about the news that he hears. God is at work in his church. Most biblical scholars believe that 1 Thessalonians was written from Corinth later on the second missionary journey. And um just for time's sake and not wanting to throw so many dates and be confusing. We're not going to go through all the different arguments for that and But that's the the common view, the traditional view of when the letter was written. So real quickly again, then we're going to get to two dominant themes in 1 Thessalonians. Okay , church is planted. Paul, Timothy, and Silas go on their way. Eventually they make their way down to Athens. They send Timothy back to get a report to minister to the church. Timothy rejoins them, gives the report, and probably Paul writes the letter along with Uh sending it in the name of himself and Paul or and Silas and Timothy, and sending that letter back to the Thessalonians. And that's where you get First Thessalonians. Pretty cool stuff, right? A lot of stuff going on. These letters don't just pop out of nowhere. They're not just um you know ivory towers. This is happening as God is establishing the church in the apostolic age. Missionary journey, second missionary journey. Most likely Paul's first letter, 1 Thessalonians. It's most likely his first letter he wrote. Alright, two dominant themes in 1 Thessalonians. And then we'll get to a brief exposition of verses two through seven. And I call it brief because I'm basically just going to share with you if I were to preach on this. What would be the subheadings of an exposition on verses two through seven? So don't worry, we're not going to rush, it's not it's not gonna be like an extra class. Two dominant themes. Number one, Christ's return. Somebody said about that in one way or another in every chapter of 1 Thessalonians. Christ's return, which includes the final judgment. It includes the resurrection. The resurrection. It includes the end of the world as we know it. And it includes how we ought to live in light of those three things. Alright, so the day of the Lord, uh 5-2 Can't rehearse all the cross references because it's throughout. It's a dominant theme. Now concerning the times and the seasons, brothers, you have no need to have anything written to you. He's probably saying that because just a little bit ago he taught them what they need to know. For you yourselves are fully aware that the day of the Lord, the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night. Now that's for unbelievers who aren't waiting for it, don't know what's going to happen, it's unexpected for them. The day of the Lord does not come like a thief for believers, for those who are waiting, waiting for it and hastening it. The day of the Lord. So Christ returned as the dominant theme and includes final judgment Resurrection, end of the world as we know it. Not the end of the not the end of all things, like things just poof disappear, there's nothing left. The end of the world as we know it. The end of this present evil age And the consummation of the new heavens and new earth. And and then so final judgment, resurrection, end of the world as we know it, and then how we ought to live in light of those three things. Pastoral practical application. Wake up in the morning, how should you live? How should you live based on the fact that there's a final judgment coming when Christ returns? Resurrection hope for believers. And this world as we know it is going to end. You cannot keep what all this stuff you're accumulating, just news flash, you can't keep it. You can't keep it. Even if you could, it still wouldn't fulfill your Fulfill your heart, but whatever. Alright, well I do want to look at one more cross-reference to that. 5, 9 through 11. 5, 9 through 11. God has not destined us for wrath. Right? Because when Christ returns, he's coming with wrath. But God has not destined us for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, who died for us, so that whether we are awake or asleep, we might live with Him. Awake, asleep, are idioms therefore alive bodily or dead bodily. Either way, we live with him. Therefore, encourage one another and build one another up, just as you're doing. We all need encouragement, we all need building up, and we all need to strive to be encouragers, and we all need to strive to build others up. This is what body life in the church looks like. The central way we do that is through the word of God and through prayer and through the fellowship of the saints. Christ's return is a dominant theme. Another dominant theme is suffering. Dominant theme is suffering. Um verse six in chapter one And you became imitators of us and the Lord, for you received the word in much affliction. In other words, in the context of much affliction. The word was not being received well. Those who were receiving the word were uh hated and being persecuted. And yeah, in that context, you received the word. But it's in the context of suffering, being hated, being made fun of, probably being ostracized. Chapter 2, verse 14 and following. 2 14 and 15 For you brothers became imitators of the churches of God in Christ Jesus that are in Judea. For you suffered You suffered the same things from your own countrymen as they did from the Jews. So the brothers in Judea, they suffered. You suffered. Suffering. Suffering. Affliction. Persecution. Cannot understand First Thessalonians apart from this. And finally, chapter 3, verses 2 and 3. Therefore, when we could bear it no longer, we were willing to be left behind at Athens alone, and we sent Timothy, our brother and God's co-worker. We should think of ourselves that way. Brethren and co-workers We're siblings in the household of God. This is an eternal family. What did Jesus say when they came in and said, Your mother and brothers are outside waiting for you? He said, My who are my mother and brothers? Those who hear the word of God and do it. Uh where was I? Middle of middle of verse two? Middle of verse two. Chapter three. And we sent Timothy our brother and God's co-worker in the gospel of Christ. to establish and exhort you in your faith that no one be moved by these afflictions. What do you mean moved by these afflictions? That you get scared and forfeit your profession of faith. It's pretty simple. That's not a uh a complex thing to imagine. It happens all the time. Difficulties come, I'm done with this. Persecution looms, it's not worth it. Happens all the time. Suffering, afflictions, persecution. Jesus said that The world will hate us because it hated him. And it we know this isn't advanced theology, guys, right? We know the impulse of sin. It's to suppress the truth of God, Romans chapter 1. It's to suppress the truth of God and to revel in wickedness. And so, of course, of course, wherever God's presence truly infiltrates and infiltrates and manifests Those who are are are driven along by the impulse of sin will hate what God is doing and will seek to rid the world of any trace of God and what he's doing. That's the impulse of sin. And apart from God's grace That's where all of us would be. We would just be unhinged, unfettered sin monsters apart from the grace of God. But Jesus has saved us and praise God that He has saved us. And let's not have any delusions about where we'd be without Jesus. All right. Sometimes I just get overwhelmed thinking about what God has done and how God has intervened. It's uh it's it's an amazing thing. Alright, let's go back to verses two through seven. And I said I previewed this. What's your love high? Set the whiteboard up, give it a nice title, leave all this space, make you thank voice. You're gonna use it for notes or some kind of teaching device. Yeah, well, there's always a chance. I said uh would do a brief exposition of verses 2 through 7, but then what I really want to do is just give you some subheadings here If I were to do an exposition on this, a sermon on this, I would call it the work of God in a biblical local church. Um so the the introduction to the sermon series would be just probably on verse one and then part two would be that and I would call it the work of God in a biblical local church. That should be our goal. There's all kinds of churches. But you have a biblical local church. The work of God in a biblical local church. And the first point The first thing I would do, I don't know how I would do it, I would have to pray and prepare for this, but I would try to show this word God in the title, the work of God. In a biblical local church in a biblical local church. Where does that phrase come from? Why did I put that in the title, The Work of God? Because look at verse 2. We give thanks to God always for all of you. That's where. We give thanks to God always for all of you. Everything he's about to say about the good things that are happening in that local church come from God. God did it. God saved them. And he's gonna talk about good things that are happening there. Good things that are happening by the word, by the power of the Spirit. Good things, really good things, godly things. Who do we thank for? We thank God for. It's the work of God in this local church. And that's what we pray for for ourselves, for God to work in our local church. So that would be the first thing I would try to do. Why is the phrase the work of God in the title? The work of God in the biblical local church. Then my first major point would be uh The work of God in a biblical local church creates pure devotion. It creates a pure devotion from verses two and three. We give thanks to God always for all of you, constantly mentioning you in our prayers. Remembering before our God and Father your three things. Three things under this heading of pure devotion that God has given them. Their work of faith. Their labor of love, and the steadfastness of their hope in the Lord Jesus Christ, in active, true-hearted service Born of faith, hope, and love. It says basically says the same thing before faith and before love. He says a work of faith, so it's not an inactive faith. It's not an apathetic faith. It's a faith that's working. It's a faith that's expressing itself in love. It's a servant-hearted, true, manifested, hands and feet, nuts and bolts, faith that's working and serving And they but then he says labor, labor of love. Love takes work. If you've ever been in a family, we've all been in a family. If you've had children, if you had a spouse, if you've had parents, if you had friends, you know love takes work. Labor of love. They're laboring to care for each other at the church Thessalonica. It takes effort. It takes energy. It takes sacrifice. Love one another. Work of faith, labor of love, and steadfastness of hope. Hope in our Lord Jesus Christ. The hope of eternal life. The hope of his return. This is really going to happen. This is really going to happen. Christ is going to return. That's our hope. That's our certain promise. Our certain future. And why is this certain? Because God promised it. Right? So steadfastness of their hope. They're not wavering. They're not wavering from their hope because things are getting difficult. Active, true-hearted service born of faith, hope, and love. Pure devotion. The work of God in a biblical church creates a pure devotion. Second second major heading would be the work of God in a biblical local church. comes from personal transformation or creates personal transformation. Now the pure devotion that he just described Can only exist if first there's a personal transformation by the gospel of Jesus Christ. Verses 4 through 5a on personal transformation. We know brothers Loved by God, that's who you are, you're loved by God. We know that He's chosen you. Because our gospel came to you not only in Word, and the gospel comes to a lot of people in Word, but it hits their ears. They have ears but they don't hear. They have eyes that they don't see. They have hearts that they don't understand. That happens to a lot of people. Happened to me for most of my life. Okay , how old am I? I'm not gonna tell you. But in a few years, I finally reached the point where I could say, if I live that long Okay, that for more than half my life, by God's grace, I've been his servant. Uh I don't know, you know, half this, half that. Numbers don't matter. But for me, that's a neat thing to think about. But The word comes to a lot of people. But it came to them how? Middle of verse 5. Also came to them in power. And in the Holy Spirit, and with full conviction, full conviction of their own sinfulness, their own need for a Savior, full conviction of faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. A full conviction, a true conviction, a strong conviction. Christ is our Savior. Well, how could they get there? The power of the Holy Spirit. You can't come up with better words than how Paul's summarizing it here. Power and Holy Spirit through the Word. This is how Christians are born. This is how sinners are born again. The Word of God. Personal transformation. These are not just religious ideas. This is The God of heaven and earth working supernaturally. Salvation is not just a human decision. It leads to human decisions. It involves human decisions. But conversion, the true conversion of a sinner, is a supernatural work of God brought about through the gospel and the power of the Holy Spirit. Personal transformation. Not a superficial change, not an outward change. Holy Spirit power. So they had a pure devotion in verses 2 and 3. That's how you know this the work of God. It's a biblical local church, pure devotion. But that was born of a personal transformation. The guys, the gospel started this. The gospel started this. And then my third and final major heading would be a persevering humility. And I mean humility in a very specific way. Well, you don't need to say very specific. That's redundant, right? It's specific. Okay? Persevering humility, verses 5B Through seven. You know what kind of men we prove to be among you for your sake. Faithful, hardworking, right? We can't look at the cross references, but that's what he's he's talking about. A good example. And you became imitators of us and of the Lord. How? In what way? For you received the word in much affliction. With the joy of the Holy Spirit. I love the how those two things are juxtaposed here, sit next to each other. Affliction that they were experiencing. And yet the joy of the Holy Spirit within them. That's wonderful. So that you became an example to all believers in Macedonia and Achaia. The reason I'm calling this point persevering humility, you could call it something else if you'd like, but they're holding fast to the word no matter what. We are a people under authority. By definition, one of the things that makes us different than who we used to be and then and different from the world around us is we no longer live under the illusion That we are an authority unto ourselves. We've repented from that and have humbly placed ourselves under the authority of God. That takes a spirit-wrought humility. You need to be gospel humbled to do that. To say, Jesus, I'm yours. You are my master. You are my authority. Jesus Christ is Lord. This is the elementary, this is the basic confession of Christianity. Jesus Christ is Lord. That takes a humility, a persevering humility to hold fast to the Word of Christ no matter what. No matter what darts, flaming arrows and darts and spears Satan hurls at us. Through his schemes. We hold fast to the word no matter what. In other words We're humble. We're humble. We never stop seeing ourselves as people who are submitted under the authority of God. That's who we are. We are a people under the authority of God in Christ. And thank the Lord He's keeping us there and He's He's brought us there and He's keeping us there by the work of the Holy Spirit. It's not something we did to earn salvation. It's one of the fruits of salvation, a persevering faith, a true gospel um birthed Humility. So the work of God in the biblical local church would be a work of pure devotion. Pure devotion It'd be a work of personal transformation and it'd be a work of persevering humility that no matter what our friends say, no matter what our family says, no matter what uh the culture says no matter what anyone says or thinks about us or does to us We're not turning from the word. We're not turning from the word. We hold fast to the word no matter what. Alright. Next week I'm going to do The last part of chapter one, and then the following week, Pastor John is going to do the first part of chapter two. Thanks for your attention. Let's go ahead and pray. Father, we thank you for Jesus. We thank you for the Holy Spirit. We pray that we would be a loudspeaker for your word in this community, trusting that you will protect us as you see fit, trusting that you will supply all of our needs. According to your wisdom and purpose. And trusting that you will use your word to save sinners, build your church, spread your kingdom. Father, we pray these things in Jesus' name.