It's good to be with you this evening. It is good to get to uh join together and sing and listen to God's word preached. Let me invite you to stand as we begin our service of worship this evening by singing to the Lord, expressing praise to Him and preparing our hearts. Jeremiah 1, 1 through 10. I'm titled this Called to Ministry. Let's go ahead and read it. The words of Jeremiah The son of Hilkiah, one of the priests, who were in Anathoth in the land of Benjamin, to whom the word of the Lord came in the days of Josiah , the son of Ammon, king of Judah, in the thirteenth year of his reign. It came also, the it refers to the word of the Lord from verse two. It came also in the days of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah, and until the end of the eleventh year of Zedekiah, the son of Josiah, King of Judah, until the captivity of Jerusalem in the fifth month. It's a long ministry. Verse 4. Now the word of the Lord came to me saying, Before I formed you in the womb, I knew you And before you were born, I consecrated you, I appointed you a prophet to the nations. Then I said, Ah, Lord God, behold, I do not know how to speak, for I am only a youth. But the Lord said to me, Do not say I am only a youth, for to all to whom I send you, you shall go. And whatever I command you, you shall speak Do not be afraid of them, for I am with you to deliver you, declares the Lord. Then the Lord put out his hand and touched my mouth, and the Lord said to me, Behold , I have put my words in your mouth. See, I have sent you this day over nations and over kingdoms. to pluck up and to break down, to destroy and to overthrow, to build and to plant. Called to ministry, we're not called to the office of prophet. under the old covenant or to the office of priest under the old covenant. Um but we are all called to minister in the presence of the Lord. We minister as servants of the Lord, as his servants here on earth A couple things to stand out before we get into the outline of this. First of all, something that's very, very encouraging for me. Verse 8 Verse eight warms and strengthens my heart. God says to Jeremiah, Do not be afraid of them. Afraid of who? Well, afraid of just about everybody was against Jeremiah. Jeremiah. False prophets, wicked idolatrous priests, and wicked idolatrous and corrupt leaders and rulers. And um he says, do not be afraid of them, and then he gives this reason. And it's so simple. And it's so profound. And it's the only way I can keep going in ministry. God says this to Jeremiah. I am with you. I am with you to deliver you. God has a purpose for Jeremiah. Jeremiah would not leave the earth until God was completed with Jeremiah's work that God appointed to him. Don't be afraid of them. I am with you to deliver you. He'll face some tough times, yes, and we face tough times. Amen. In life, in family, friends, at work, at church, spiritual warfare Brothers and sisters, God is with us. God is with us. This is not just a show. This is not just outward religion. This is not fake. This is real. God is with us. No matter what the world says about how foolish that sounds or the scoffers against Christianity or against the reality of God. Through his Holy Spirit, God is with us and He's with us till the end of the age. And everything that He has purposed for us in our lives, He will see through He will see through and then he'll take us home to our reward. But God is with us. Another thing that stood out, and I point this out at the beginning because I'm not going to be expanding on this this evening, but it is important. As we go through the book, it'll just it'll come up over and over again what this means and how it applies. Uh but in verse five at the end he says, I appointed you a prophet to the nations. Now that should We should make a note of that in our in our mind 's eye. That he's not just a prophet to Judah. He's not just a prophet to Israel. He's a prophet to the nations. And then later you see a related point in verse 10: See, I've set you this day over nations and over kingdoms. to pluck up and to break down, to destroy, to overthrow, to build and to plant. He'll do all of that through his ministry of the word. All of that. But he you see the place of authority, the place of spiritual authority that Jeremiah's ministry is endowed with God has set him over nations and over kings. Because Jeremiah ministers the word of God, he bears the authority of God. That's the prophetic office for him to he speak he's speaking God's words and you see that in here. It gets so it's so vivid. God says, I'm putting my words in your mouth. So when he preaches He's pre he's a mouthpiece for God. That's literally what the prophet is. And what's the false prophet? The one who acts like he's Speaking for Gabi's remote, speaking for himself, for his own glory, for his own following. Verse 1. Verse 1 Let me see how many points I have for you so you know what to expect. It eases the mind when you have a little bit of a roadmap and in theory it's supposed to enable you to listen more fruitfully. Five points. But now listen, when we get to the fifth one, John, there's an A, B, C. So don't start packing your stuff up when we get to point five. Number one, he's called as a prophet and a priest. That means he's a spokesman. A prophet is a spokesman position, and a priest is a mediator. Position. Look at verse one. The words of Jeremiah the son of Hilkiah, one of the priests who were in Anath in the land of Benjamin. Anath was a city of priests. If you go Read Joshua 21 when you get home this evening. It Anathoth is one of the thirteen cities that are given to the sons of Aaron when the land when the land allotments are assigned. It's about three miles north of Jerusalem. It's very close to Jerusalem. You would go Bethlehem a little further north to Jerusalem, a little further north to Anatol. So you're right in the heart. of Judah, you're right in the heart of uh of Israel, of the kingdom of God. The office of prophet does not exist anymore. Because God has completed his redemptive revelation to us in his word. We do not need the office of prophet because we have the completed Old Testament and New Testament revelation. In the apostolic era, there were apostles and there were prophets through whom God brought new revelation that was authoritative for God's people. But the apostolic era is over. The canon of Scripture is closed and complete. Therefore, we do not need the office of prophet any longer. The office of priest A Levitical priest does not exist anymore either, because Christ has done the work That Levitical priests, Old Covenant priests, Christ has done the work that those old covenant priests foreshadowed and anticipated. Turn to Hebrews 7. Keep your Bible ribbon in Jeremiah. But turn to Hebrews 7, verse 11, and following. Now, if perfection had been attainable through the Levitical priesthood, which implies what? What does that imply? If perfection had been attainable through the Levitical priesthood, it was not right Um for under the law, for under it the people received the law, what further need would there have been for another priest to another priest to arise after the order of Melchizedek, rather than one named after the order of Aaron. So the Levitical priests Could not save the sinner, basically. It could not cleanse the conscience. It could not perfect anything. So there's a need for not only another priest, but another priesthood. another priest to arise, not in the Levitical order, but in the Melchizedekian order, or the order of Melchizedek. There's your vocabulary word for tonight. There you go. Melchizedekian. It will be on the test Verse 12. This is important. Verse 12. So important for understanding what Christianity is. For when there is a change in the priesthood There is necessarily a change in the law , as well. A change in the priesthood, and then the change in the law as well, specifically as to the requirements for the priest. And now same chapter, just scan down the verse fifteen of Hebrews 7. This becomes more evident when another priest arises in the likeness of Melchizedek, who has become a priest. Not on the basis of a legal requirement concerning bodily descent, which would have been a descendant of Aaron, but by the power of an indestructible life. It's one of my favorite verses or favorite phrases that Jesus serves as priest by the power of an indestructible life. His ministry is uh is based on who he is as the risen and exalted Lord. Verse seventeen, for it is witnessed of him, you are a priest forever, after the order of Melchizedek. For on the one hand, a former commandment is set aside because of its weakness and uselessness For the law made nothing perfect, but on the other hand, a better hope is introduced through which we draw near to God. And that's what we do when we pray. We draw near to God. And that's what we do when we first came to Jesus for salvation. We drew near to God. When we cry out for help, we're drawing near to God. And all of our drawing near to God is through Jesus Christ because He is our priest. Christ is our priest. There's no need for Levitical priests anymore. We can turn back to Jeremiah. Jeremiah, a prophet and a priest. It's not rare that Someone would hold two offices. We just saw Melchizedek. Melchizedek was a priest and a king. David was a prophet and a king Ezekiel also was a prophet and a priest. Moses was just about everything. Moses was a prophet. He was a covenant mediator. He was the redeemer. He does function as in a priestly role as he intercedes. Remember this? He interceded before God on behalf of the sinful people. What's the general point of all of these offices? Why did they exist? They existed to point forward to Christ. That's what they did. point forward to the redemptive work of Christ, who is the perfect prophet. He not only speaks the words of God that have been given to him, but he speaks as God. He's the perfect priest. He ministers not in an earthly copy of heaven. That's what the temple was. It was an earthly copy or an earthly model of God's heavenly sanctuary, but he ministers in heaven itself. Which is one of the major points of the book of Hebrews. He's the perfect king. He's the perfect king. He reigns not from an earthly throne. Over an earthly nation, but he reigns from the throne of God itself in heaven, and his reign is marked by perfect righteousness, perfect justice He's a perfect redeemer whose blood spares us from judgment. The reason we're spared from judgment, the reason we'll not come under the condemnation that we deserve naturally. is because of the blood of Christ. Jesus Christ died for us. Praise the Lord. He shed his blood for us. He's the perfect redeemer. It's not only the priest who offers the sacrifice, but he's the sacrifice that's offered, and that's how we're saved. He's the perfect mediator Better mediator than Moses. He's the mediator of a better covenant. He's the perfect mediator because he personally reconciles us to God by by his own power, by his own ability. Jesus Christ Mediates a better covenant with better promises, Hebrews 8 6. But as it is, Christ has obtained a ministry that is as much more excellent Then the old as the covenant he mediates is better, since he and since it is enacted on better promises So Christ's ministry is better, the covenant he mediates is better, and the promises of that covenant are better There were promises under the law. The the law did have promises with it. The law did promise life, but here's the catch. The law promised life Based on what? Based on your obedience. The new covenant comes with a better promise. Better promises. promises life based on Christ's obedience and Christ's free gift of righteousness. So he's a better mediator of a better covenant with better promises, and that's how we're saved. Christ, our prophet, priest, king. And covenant mediator and perfect redeemer. So why am I going into all of this? Well, because the Old Testament, the whole Old Covenant, everything in the Old Testament is for our instruction. And all of those things at the base level. exist because they point forward to Christ. So now that we're on the other side of the coming of Christ, we can look back at these things and the true and proper interpretation of those things, old covenant things Prophet, priest. The true understanding is understanding how they pointed to this great salvation that we now enjoy. So the office of priest, Levitical priest, no longer exists Um Jesus does not serve in heaven as a Levitical priest. He serves in the order of, say it if you remember, Melchizedek. Just want to get you to say that word. However, all Christians do serve a priestly function on earth. The church in general serves a priestly function on earth. The gospel serves a priestly function. It means we or do have a a mediator type role. I'll read you some passages that teach this. 1 Peter 2. 9 Peter writes to Christians, you are a chosen race and a royal priesthood. It's often called the priesthood of all believers. And Revelation 1, 6, John writes, he's made us a kingdom, priests to his God and Father. Which is said about Israel in Exodus 19, 6. A kingdom of priests. We're a kingdom of priests. And then one more Romans 15, 16. To be a minister, Paul's talking about his calling and his ministry as an apostle, to be called to be a minister of Christ Jesus to the Gentiles. Check out this phrase, in the priestly service of the gospel of God. In the priestly service of the gospel of God. Because the gospel is God's message of good news to the sinner, and the gospel enables the sinner to draw near to God through faith in Christ. So the gospel has a priestly function, therefore the church has a priestly function, therefore every Christian has a priestly function as a minister of the gospel. Jeremiah is a prophet and a priest. He's a spokesman and a mediator. Number two , from verses two and three. He ministers from a time of reformation That spirals downward to a time of desolation. Desolation is a way of summarizing God's judgment upon a people. He ministers from a time of reformation to a time of desolation. Now, we're going to look at verses 2 and 3. Let me apologize ahead of time if you don't like dates. If you don't like the historical data. But it's important to understand the context, and it really does give us a good bird's eye view of Jeremiah's ministry. and how long it was and what he had to endure. And you can see that uh the way it's written here, it's almost mapping out the final decline and the climactic idolatry of the nation of Israel, the southern kingdom to be to be exact, but at that point they were the stewards of of the covenant. Because the northern kingdom had long since been in exile. Verses two and three, from reformation to desolation. To whom the word of the Lord c the word of the Lord came In the days of Josiah, the son of Ammon, king of Judah. Okay, so in just a moment we'll look at that. In the thirteenth year of his reign. And then verse 3, it came also in the days of Jehoiakim. The son of Josiah, king of Judah. So okay, we'll look at that. That's the second marker that's given. And until the end of the eleventh year of Zedekiah Well look at that. The son of Josiah, king of Judah, until the captivity of Jerusalem in the fifth month. So, keep your ribbon in Jeremiah and turn with me to 2 Kings 22, where these things are written about. 2 Kings 22. For those of you who do like the dates, let me throw them out for you now while you're turning to 2 Kings 22. The days of Josiah, which is the first thing he mentioned, were would be 640 to 609. But it says in Jeremiah 1, verse 2, the 13th year. So 627. 627 is the first important date for Jeremiah's receiving of the word of God. The days of Josiah in the thirteenth year, so 627. And then he mentioned mentions the days of Jehoiakim. Which would have been next, 609 to 598. Then the days of Zedekiah, which would have been five ninety-seven to five ninety-six. And then the captivity of Jerusalem in the fifth month, that would have been 586. 586. The destruction of Jerusalem The destruction of the temple, the pillaging of the temple, the final that final exile of the people, which is how Second Kings ends. So the days of Josiah Were the days of reformation. In other words, good days. Good days of reform according to the Word of God Verses one and two of Second Kings twenty-two, Josiah was eight years old when he began to reign, and he reigned thirty-one years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Jed Jedida, the daughter of Adiah of Bozcath, and he did what was right in the eyes of the Lord. That's not said about too many kings. That's not said about too many people at all in uh nation of Israel, especially the kings, and he did what was right in the eyes of the Lord and walked in all the way of David his father. And he did not turn aside to the right or to the left, which is a way of saying he was a true believer and he walked in obedience. And isn't that what we want to be, even though we're not kings, true believers who walk in obedience Strive to walk in the spirit, not in the flesh. Um in his reign there were he oversaw extensive repairs to the house of God. Verse three to five. In the eighteenth year of King Josiah, the king sent Shaphan, the son of Azaliah, son of Meshulam, the secretary. to the house of the Lord, saying, Go up to Hilkai the high priest, that he may count the money that has been brought into the house of the Lord, which the keepers of the threshold have collected from the people, and let it be given into the hand of the workmen who have the oversight of the house of the Lord, and let them give it to the workmen who are at the house of the Lord, repairing the house, overseeing repairs to the house of the Lord. And then as that's going on The book of the law was found, and when the book of the law was found, it was uh embraced and it caused Uh Josiah to seek the Lord for mercy. Seek the Lord for mercy. So you're getting a window into some specific things of Jeremiah doing what's right in the eyes of the Lord. Verse 8 So 2 Kings 22, verse 8. Hilkiah the high priest said to Shaphan the secretary, I have found the book of the law in the house of the Lord. Hokiah gave the book to Shaphan and he read it. Then go down to verse ten. Then Shaphan the secretary told the king, Hilkiah the priest has given me a book. And she fan read it before the king. Now skip down to thirteen. I think you're seeing the picture. They found the book. They told the king. Verse 13 after the king after it's read to the king. Verse 13 Go inquire of the Lord for me and for the people and for all Judah concerning the words of this book that has been found. For great is the wrath of the Lord. That is kindled against us, because our fathers have not obeyed the words of this book to do according to all that is written concerning us. That's the right thing to do is to seek the Lord for mercy based on his word. I'll just give you some more highlights. Um What comes after this in Josiah's time of reform? The word was publicly read and preached He led the nation in recommitting themselves to the Lord, and he cleansed the temple and cleansed the land of idolatry. We will look at something here. 23, look to page to chapter 23, verse 4 And the king commanded Hilkai the high priest, and the priests of the second order, and the keepers of the threshold, to bring out of the Temple of the Lord, all the vessels made for Baal, for Asherah, and for all the hosts of heaven. Now that should just be shocking to us. Why are they why are those things in the temple? How does they get in there? Idolatry. Idolatry. So here's the Reformation. Here's doing what's right in the eyes of the Lord. Cleansing the temple. Get the images out. Get the false idols out of the Lord's house. You think that made him a lot of friends? He burned them outside Jerusalem in the fields of the Kidron and carried their ashes to Bethel It's good to hate idols. And he deposed the priests whom the kings of Judah had ordained to make offerings in the high places at the cities of Judah and around Jerusalem. Those also who burned incense to Baal, to the sun, to the moon, the constellations, and all the hosts of heavens, he brought out the Asherah from the house of the Lord outside Jerusalem to the brook of Kidron, and burned it at the brook of Kidron, and beat it to dust, and cast the dust of it upon the graves of the common people. Kidron And it goes on with some more of his reforms and destroying idols, which is all the other most of the other kings set up idols. Here he's destroying idols, burning idols. Scattering their ashes to the wings, get rid of the idol worship. It's a cleansing, it's a reformation. So this is a this is a good king Who's a true believer? It's just doing like you and me. He's a true believer, and he's just trying to do the best he can to obey his Lord and Savior. And part of that for his office, for his time, Josiah cleansing. Now Jehoiakim, Jehoiakim was not like that. Chapter 23, verse 37. Gives us a brief, well there's more said about him, but we'll just look at this one verse, 2337 on Jehoiakim He did what was evil in the sight of the Lord, according to all that his fathers had done, which is the opposite to all that all that David had done. In 1 and 2 Kings, if you're measured against David, whether you walk like David walked as a true believer in obedience or according to the fathers in idolatry. And then also Zedekiah. Now this is all this is going on. Jeremiah's ministry. Zedekiah 24, 19 through 20. And he did what was evil in the sight of the Lord, according to all that Jehoiakim had done. For because of the anger of the Lord it came to the point in Jerusalem and Judah that he cast them out. from his presence. Zedekiah rebelled against the king of Babylon. So he did what was wicked in the eyes of the Lord. So already you see that what happens during Jeremiah's ministry It starts with Reformation led by King Josiah, but then there's just a downward spiral, really a just a degeneration into wickedness and idolatry. Now, the last thing that had been mentioned in Jeremiah 1 2 and 3 was until the captivity of Jerusalem in the fifth month. until the captivity of Jerusalem in the fifth month. So we can look at this in chapter 25. Still 2 Kings chapter 25. This is the end of a narrative on the siege of Jerusalem and the attack of Jerusalem and all that. And then the climactic moments come in chapter 25. Verse eight, beginning in verse eight. In the fifth month of the seventh day of the month, that was the nineteenth year of King Nebuchadnezzar King of Babylon, this is 586. Okay, 586, significant date in the history of Israel. Um Nebu Zarodan The captain of the bodyguard, a servant of the king of Babylon, came to Jerusalem, and he burned the house of the Lord and the king's house. And all the houses of Jerusalem, every great house he burned down, and all the army of the Chaldeans who were with the captain of the guard broke down the walls around Jerusalem. And the rest of the people who were left in the city, and the deserters who had deserted to the king of Babylon, together with the rest of the multitude, Nebucharadan, the captain of the guard, carried into exile. But the captain of the guard left some of the poorest of the land to be vine dressers and ploughmen. Now you see on the earthly level what's happening. It's Babylon Through Nebuchadnezzar's reign, Nebuchadnezzar, but who's behind that and what is he doing? This is God bringing judgment against the covenant breakers of Israel, of Judah. Go but let's go back to Jeremiah 21. Hopefully, whether you memorize the dates or remember the dates at all Hopefully that gives us a bird's eye view of Jeremiah's ministry, what he endured, and the spiritual rebellion of that time. So, Jeremiah, prophet and a priest, he ministers from a time of reformation to a time of desolation. And number three, from verses four and five, why he ministers. Why he ministers. He was consecrated by God and he was called by God. Verses four and five back in Jeremiah one. Now the word of the Lord came to me saying, Before I formed you in the womb, I knew you And before you were born, I consecrated you. I appointed you a prophet to the nations. The decision that Jeremiah would be a prophet to the nations was made long before Jeremiah knew about that. It was made by God. Before I formed you in the womb, I knew you. That means God set his special favor on Jeremiah, and he says this, before you were born I consecrated you. What does consecrate mean? It means set apart. It means God is setting you apart for his purposes. Not for Jeremiah's purposes. Not so that he feels good about himself. Not so that he has a sense of belonging and and and um and meaning as a part because he's a part of something bigger. No, God has a purpose, and in his sovereignty, based on his wisdom, God sets certain people apart for special service. Here the office of prophet, consecrated, set apart for the purposes of God. We're all consecrated to serve the Lord. We've all been set apart. We're all saints. There's no elite class of Christians that are saints. And the rest of us are way down below. There's no special or elite class of Christians that's consecrated for service unto the Lord. We're all consecrated for service unto the Lord. And we all have different gifts and different services, but we're we're all on the same boat, we're all on the same level, we're all on the same playing field, we're sinners saved by grace. And according to his wisdom and his grace and his sovereign authority, he puts us in this place. And he puts this person in this place and this person in that place according to his wisdom. Jeremiah is no different. Jeremiah is no different. He says, I appointed you a prophet to the nations. He's consecrated and he's called. Jeremiah doesn't enter into the ministry because of his personal or subjective feelings. Subjective feelings do not determine a call to ministry. Popular vote or popular opinion does not determine a call to ministry. God determines a call Now through his through the wisdom and guidance of the Holy Spirit, led by the Word, the wisdom of the congregation, that the Spirit fills the congregation, and it's a word -centered congregation. Truly seeking the Lord's will, God will reveal who He has called to ministry. That's how God works. The first paragraph of Acts 13 is a good study for that. He's consecrated and called. And brothers and sisters, we're consecrated and called. Different office. We're not under the new covenant. We're not to the office of prophet. But we God has set us apart. And he's called us to live for him. And aren't you glad that he did? Aren't you glad that we're not left just to live for the futile things of this world that are passing away and coming to nothing. Coming to nothing. Jeremiah was called as a prophet and priest. He was called to minister from a time of reformation to a time of desolation. He saw everything. He saw it all. Jeremiah saw it all. And uh it was not an easy ministry. He ministered because he was consecrated and called. Number three. Now number four from verses six to eight. He ministered, and he had to enter his ministry even though he was immature and insecure. Verses 6 to 8. Then I said, Ah, Lord God Behold, I do not know how to speak, for I am only a youth. But the Lord said to me, Do not say, I am only a youth. For all to whom I send you, you shall go. And whatever I command you, you shall speak. Do not be afraid of them, for I am with you to deliver you, declares the Lord. You see something very good, very, very good in Jeremiah's heart here when God calls him. And what you see is humility. It's better than the opposite of thinking that he's a he's perfectly fit to represent God on earth. What arrogance that would be. You want to see humility. Not a humility that's like becomes self-absorbed and spirals in on itself and all is always just just wallows in weakness and inability, but a humility that causes us to see our weakness and look to God for strength A humility that sees that I cannot do this. I should not be doing this. I don't deserve to be doing this, but it's looking to God in his grace and mercy and always turns our eyes back to God. I do not know how to speak. That's a big deal. What's he called to be? He's about to speak. Yes, Meg. Amen. That's the calling. Speak. And he says, I'm so young, I don't know how to speak. For I'm only a youth. And, you know, uh you have to as as a preacher and as a teacher, Sunday school teachers, whatever, communicating the word of God, Bible studies, preaching, teaching publicly. Um, you do have to be able to communicate. God will provide that. We all communicate differently, we have different personalities, different styles, but you have to be able to speak sentences And you have to be able to communicate ideas. You have to be, and we grow in that. We grow in that. But there's another point here that in understanding the nature of ministry is we're not called to be public speakers. You know, we're not professional uh speakers or professional teachers or professors or philosophers. Our weakness and our insufficiencies and our imperfections will come through in our teachings. Hopefully that when when we see that in each other, it just reminds us that we're humans. We're just humans doing the best we can to serve the Lord. What we have is not ourselves. What we have is the truth of God. So we learn to communicate the truth of God and speak the truth of God. And we We should always have a humility about that. Mirror something of Jeremiah here. He knows that he can't do it on his own. He knows he can't do it on his own. But God says, now there's the promises that come. Do not say I'm only a youth. Four, here's the prom two promises. Well, actually three. All to whom I send you, you will go. That's a promise. I'm going to send you here, you're going to go. And whatever I command you, you will speak. Those are promises. And it's really a promise that has the impact of this. Brace yourself. Get yourself ready. I've called you. I've appointed you. You're going. You're speaking. It's not a committee meeting between God, the heavenly council, and Jeremiah is what he feels he's ready to do. God will be with him. God will work through his ministry just like he works through your ministry. In our ministry collectively. And then again, this promise of verse 8: do not be afraid of them, for I am with you to deliver you. It's very similar to the Great Commission. He's called him as a prophet to the nations. Well, the Great Commission is a call to go to the nations. And it's a call to speak. It's a call to command and teach That's what the that's in the Great Commission. Teach them all everything I've commanded you. And then it's a promise from God that He'll be with you as you're doing this. I'll be with you. It really does parallel in a general sense the call of the Great Commission. Bring the message, I will be with you. And it's because God is with Jeremiah. that Jeremiah's ministry will accomplish exactly, exactly, exactly what God wants it to accomplish. It may not be what Jeremiah wanted, the exact numbers. We're so worried about numbers and so worried about appearance and what people are going to think about us God will accomplish through your life and ministry exactly what he wants to accomplish through your life and ministry. And um we have to trust in him and his word. Jeremiah was immature and insecure. Not a problem for God. Not a problem for God at all. We should be encouraged. Jeremiah was called as a prophet and priest, number one. He was he ministered in a time from reformation to desolation. And uh captivity, number two, number three, he was he ministered because he was consecrated and called called, consecrated and called. Not be not because of a subjective feeling. Number four, he ministered despite despite feelings of insecurity. and literal immaturity of being young. But God is the source of the message and God is the source of the strength to deliver the message. So Jeremiah, you'll be just fine. And brother, sister, you'll be just fine. Plant your feet on the Word of God and minister for His name and glory. Number five, from verses nine and ten, he was equipped. And appointed to the office. He was equipped by God with a supernatural empowering for ministry. Verses 9 and 10 Then the Lord, well this makes me shiver when I read things like this in Scripture. Then the Lord put out his hand and touched my mouth And the Lord said to me, Behold, I've put my words in your mouth. Isn't that a wonderful thing? This is the supernatural equipping. Jeremiah and verse 10, see I set you this day over nations and over king kingdoms to pluck up, to break down, to destroy, to overthrow, to build and to plant. So there's symbolic language there and future messages we'll see, but it's basically talking about the results of Jeremiah's preaching ministry. I have set you this day. That's God appointing him. Um God touching his mouth. Some kind of theophany is happening here. God is touching his mouth a symbolic symbolically for what's actually happening and going to continue to happen in God putting his words in the words of his servant It's one of those things we study if we were to have a lecture on the nature of the inspiration of Scripture, where the words come through the human instrument, but they are God's words. God is the author of the Bible. He's the writer, and he's written this book, he's authored this book through his prophets, his apostles, through human instruments. But it's his word. A great verse for that doctrine. Alright, now the ABC, on looking at this idea of being anointed, being supernaturally empowered for ministry, letter A, Jesus was anointed with the Holy Spirit for his ministry. Jesus was anointed with the Holy Spirit for his ministry. Acts 10, 38. Acts 10, 38. Picking it up in the middle of a sentence. How God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power, alluding back to his baptism. God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power. He went about doing good and healing all who were oppressed by the devil, for God was with him. Acts 10. 38. Shocking verse. Have you ever heard that verse before? Jesus, the Son of God incarnate. was anointed by God with the Holy Spirit and with power for his ministry. And it says at the end of it, for God was with him. Jesus never did anything in isolation from the Father or from the Spirit. And it was a particular and powerful anointing of the Spirit that uh Was given to him by the Father. Let her be. Let her be. Every Christian is anointed with the Holy Spirit for ministry. Every Christian is anointed with the Holy Spirit for ministry. That happens when we're born again. We're born of the Spirit of God. First John 2 20, but you have been anointed by the Holy One, and you all have knowledge. The particular application point that John is making in that passage is the anointing we have from the Holy Spirit gives us theological discernment. It gives us discernment as to what's true and false. Per not perfect discernment. Not perfect discernment. But discernment because we have been anointed by the Holy One And we have the gospel of Jesus Christ and the Word of God implanted within our hearts that enables us to have a discernment in our lives. Same chapter, 1 John 2, but just further down in verse 27. But the anointing that you receive from him abides in you. And you have no need that anyone should teach you, but as his anointing teaches you about everything and is true and is no lie, just as it is taught you, abide in him. Jesus was anointed by the Holy Spirit for his ministry. Every Christian, every single Christian has been anointed by the Holy Spirit for ministry. Every Christian Let us see. Different Christians have different gifts from the Holy Spirit. So even though every Christian has been anointed by the Holy Spirit for ministry, we don't all have the same ministries. We have different Spiritual gifts be given to us based on God's wisdom. They're given to us based on God's wisdom, not based on our natural abilities. To do things. Sometimes we think if I have this natural ability, that's the basis, or that's the reason I have a gift. No. There may be some alignment there. God gives gifts based on His wisdom and his purpose. Jeremiah is young and doesn't know how to speak. Moses wasn't a good speaker. From an earthly perspective, from a when we talk, when we think about natural giftings, different Christians have different gifts from the Holy Spirit. And Romans 12. This actually is a little bit of a lengthy passage. This is where we're closing. Romans 12, 4 through 8 This is the point I want to close on. Looked at some of the history, that's important, some of the different things of the offices pointing forward to Christ, that's critically important. But I call this message called to ministry. Because that's what happens in this passage. Jeremiah is called to ministry. But I want us to think about our ministry, your ministry. We each have an individual ministry, but then there's the collective ministry of the church. The church has a singular ministry in the community. As ambassadors of the gospel of Jesus Christ. There's all kinds of applications here for understanding we've been called to ministry. Romans 12, 4 through 8. For as in one body We have many members, and the members do not all have the same function. So we, though many, are one body in Christ. and individually members of one another. Great verse for church membership and understanding the spiritual nature of church membership. We are united to Christ by his Spirit, therefore we're also united to each other by his Spirit. Members of each other, members of one another. Then verse 6, having gifts that differ. According to the grace given us, let us use them. If prophecy in proportion to our faith, if service in our serving, the one who teaches in his teaching. The one who exhorts in his exhortation. The w uh that has the idea of uh what we would probably call today more of s someone who's bringing counsel or counseling someone through issues in their lives. The one who contributes with generosity, the one who leads with zeal, the one who does acts of mercy with cheerfulness. Hopefully these operative phrases stood out to you in verse four. The members do not all have the same function, and then verse six. g having gifts that differ. Why do they differ according to the grace that's given us? It's not because this person is smarter than this person or the or or I'm more spiritual than someone else. According to the grace of God, we've been called, and according to the grace of God, we've been gifted, and according to the grace of God we serve. And we have a duty also not only to see to our own ministry and using our own gifts, but helping others to find opportunity and have opportunity to use their gifts. Equally important. Otherwise it just becomes all about me. My gift. What I want to do. Read the first Corinthians There's a lot of that going on in the church at Corinth. They had their gifts. They were using them in a self-serving way over against each other. Can you imagine spiritual gifts? Using them to boast over against one another. So, yes, be fired up and be overjoyed for using your spiritual gifts and having a ministry in the church. But also let's be fired up about helping other people use their gifts and finding other people opportunities, even if it means I may have to step aside. So that someone can step in. Let's pray. Father, we thank you. You've given us so much. You've done so much for us. And as weak as we are You still use us. Father, my prayer as we close this evening is that you would encourage our hearts, strengthen our hearts all the more as your servants, as your representatives. Ambassadors in this world, and I pray that you'd keep us focused that we would seek first your kingdom and your righteousness and trust you with everything else. It's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen