Well the words we'll examine tonight is the entire letter of Philemon. The letter of Philemon. The letter of Paul to Philemon would be more correct. As I mentioned, we'll study this letter throughout the rest of this year and throughout December. And each week we'll come back and we'll read the entire letter. And we're going to examine different aspects of the letter to try to understand what's going on here. Try to. See the revelation of God's word and his truth revealed in this letter. Dive into honestly one of a challenging text, especially for our culture in our time. The understanding of slavery and slave masters is is challenged and has been corrupted in so many ways, in our understanding we've seen very poor and terrible, wicked examples of slavery in our culture. And we just impose that into Scripture and then this argument of well then God can't be a good, righteous God because we have slavery in Scripture. So we need to unpack that. We'll also see what true godly Christ-like friendship looks like. And how important that is for us to examine what Christian friendship Friendship looks like. Well, finally, we'll examine what and how we are to forgive one another. So we talk about Christ's forgiveness for us. We must be reminded that we are to forgive one another as well. News flash, we offend one another. Therefore, we need to be able to forgive one another as brothers and sisters in Christ. So I pray and I hope that the the next month as we examine this letter that it's encouraging, it's beneficial to us, and that we grow and see the glory of Christ more and more. But tonight we'll be examining how everything changes. The powerful work of the gospel within our lives when we are born again. In Christ Jesus, when the Spirit brings us alive in Christ, everything changes. Everything. And as I read this letter tonight I want you to be thinking about that. What are some of the changes you see in this letter? Or could you just picture yourself and picture one of these characters that's part of this letter and how their life has changed? Since coming to faith in Christ. Picture how the world around them is changing because of the work of the gospel in their life. And then I want you to think about yourself as well. How has the gospel changed you? How has the new creature that you are in Christ changed the world around you? Or maybe the question you need to ask yourself tonight is: where have you not allowed the gospel to change? within your life. Is there something you're holding on to? Nah it can't change that. It can't change work. It can't change this relationship. It can't change this feeling I have. It just can't change that. Well I want us to see that the gospel changes So join me in the letter of Paul to Philemon, starting in verse 1. Paul, a prisoner for Christ Jesus. And Timothy our brother, to Philemon, our beloved fellow worker, and Athea, our sister, and Arcus, our fellow soldier, and the church in your house. Grace to you and peace Peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. I thank my God always when I remember you in my prayers, because I hear of your love and of the faith that you have toward the Lord Jesus. And for all the saints. And I pray that the sharing of your faith may become effective for the full knowledge of every good thing that is in us for the sake of Christ. For I've derived much joy and comfort from your love, my brother, because the hearts of the saints have been refreshed through you. Accordingly, though I am bold enough in Christ to command you to do what is required, yet for love's sake I prefer to appeal to you. I, Paul, an old man, and now a prisoner also for Christ Jesus, I appeal to you for my child, Anesimus, whose father I became in my imprisonment. Formerly he was useless to me. You, but now he is indeed useful to you and to me. I am sending him back to you, sending my very heart I would have been glad to keep him with me, in order that he might serve me on your behalf during my imprisonment for the gospel. But I preferred to do nothing without your consent, in order that your goodness might not be by compulsion but of your own accord. For this perhaps is why he was parted from you for a while, that you might have him back forever, no longer as a bondservant But more than a bondservant, as a beloved brother, especially to me. But how much more to you, both in the flesh and in the Lord? So if you consider me your partner, receive him as you would receive me. If he has wronged you at all or owes you anything, change that to my, charge that to my account. I, Paul, write this with my own hand. I will repay it. To say nothing of your owing me, even your own self. Yes, brother, I want some benefit from you in the Lord. Refresh my heart in Christ. Confident of your obedience, I write to you, knowing that you will do even more than I say. At the same time, prepare a guest room for me, for I am hoping that through your prayers I will be graciously given to you Papharis, my fellow prisoner in Christ, Jesus, sends greetings to you. And so do Mark, Aristotus, Demas, and Luke, my fellow workers. The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with you. This letter is a unique one in all of Scripture. Especially within the New Testament. We see Paul writes many letters in the New Testament. But all of his other writings are directed specifically at a church or at a pastor. Church and pastor, a church and ministry worker. There 's correction there, there's encouragement. All of his letters have the similar language there of encouragement, correction, encouragement. Foundations in the gospel, foundations in Christ. But this letter is unique in all of Scripture. The uniqueness comes from the reality that this is a very personal letter. It's not addressed to a church. It's not addressed to what theologians and historians believe is a pastor. There's no reason to believe that Philemon was the pastor of the church. There is evidence that he held a church or allowed his home to be used for a church. But here's a very personal letter. Think back to some of the letters you've written maybe back in the day now. We still write letters today. I think of in when I was in basic training for the Army, that was when I wrote and received the most amount of letters. I would be very uh scared if they were read aloud. You know, th there's some things of my spelling would be incorrect, I would There's probably things I'm talking about that I would just be ashamed of, I wouldn't want, uh, read aloud in front of the whole church. But here's this very personal letter that Paul's writing, and it's all focused on the glories of Christ, their friendship, their relationship in Christ, the love they have for one another in Christ, and even the correction that Paul is dealing here, which he is, the correction Paul is dealing with here. Is all rooted in Christ Jesus. So as we read this letter and we see, wow, God is addressing a very personal situation, a very personal issue. What should that tell us about the Word of God and about the gospel? Is that there's no boundaries. There's no boundaries. The Word of God isn't limited just to church problems and situations. Right? Oh, well that's, you know, on Sundays, of course we're going to use the Bible. That's that's the appropriate place to use the Bible that deals with church issues Or you have an issue with a pastor. Okay, of course we're going to talk about the Word of God when addressing the pastor. Right? That makes sense. We have scripture. It shows church, pastors. Of course we're going to use scripture when we're talking about the history. And especially the history of Israel and the history of the church. Of course, of course we're going to use the Bible when we're sharing the gospel and talking about Jesus. Naturally. But here, the letter of Philemon shows us that we are to use the very word of God and the gospel to address everything. Everything. Who would have ever guessed that if you have a problem at work or a problem with a slave, that you need to use the gospel to address it? Right? We don't talk that way often. We don't think about that. Oh, we have a conflict at work. Well, we should go through uh the the principles of good work ethic. You should go through the the logical system of how the organization and the business operates. You should work on personal conflict resolution. Rarely do we go to the Word of God and say, what does the Word of God tell us how we should act in these things? Situations, how we should conduct ourselves. But the letter of Philemon shows us that the gospel in God's word impacts everything. There's not categories of which it does not impact. This letter we see is written by Paul. That's there in verse 1. It says Paul, prisoner for Christ Jesus. And he also marks that he's with Timothy, the brother. And then the letter is directed to Philemon. And in this, that's still in verse 1, and then leads into verse 2. It's directed to Philemon, but Paul also addresses some other people that are with Philemon and in the church. That Philemon has in his home. And then you see at the very end of the letter, there's some other people that Paul mentions that are part of that community. But the letter is directed to Philemon. Alright, it's two Philemon. From Paul, two Philemon. And we see they have a very close friendship. This language of friendship is used a lot throughout this letter. And next week we'll talk more about godly friendship. Christian friendship, and we'll examine some of this. But just look at a few examples. Look at verse um four. I thank my God always when I remember you in my prayers. That shows some kind of love and friendship aspect there. Verse 7, for I have derived much joy and comfort from your love, my brother. Right? Sounds like a sounds like a good friend. You're not writing that to some stranger. You know, y you don't even really write that to your neighbor, you know, the person that lives across the street from you. This is a close relationship. How Paul talks in his correction is very loving and friendship-like. You notice Paul doesn't use his title of apostle. You don't see the Apostle Paul mentioned anywhere in here. Paul uses that language in other letters when he's addressing the church, when he's addressing pastors. You see this title, he's setting himself up as the authority, rightfully so, as his instruction is from an authority. But here he's not using that language He actually makes it very clear that he is not instructing Philemon as an elder, as a pastor, but as a brother. Look there in verse 8. Accordingly, though I am bold enough in Christ to command you, to do what is required. Yet for love's sake I prefer to appeal to you. Appeal. You see this compassion, this love, this friendship here. So this letter is a is a letter between two friends, two Christian friends. Friends. So uh Paul, we know who Paul is. He's the author of this language of friendships all throughout there. He says that. I'm not offending him by saying that. Paul says that himself in verse 9. Yet for love's sake I prefer to appeal to you. I, Paul, an old man. So this is later in his life. And then here it says, and now a prisoner also for Christ Jesus. There's a little debate on when this was his imprisonment, how late in his life, what time. Arguably, I believe this is probably when Paul is in Rome, imprisoned in Rome. Rome. And we see this at the very end of Acts. Paul's re or the recording is that Paul is teaching in Rome while he's in prison. So I believe this is where we see Paul, which means this is the very end of his ministry in life. I don't know how long that period before his death, but we know he dies there in Rome. So Paul's an old man, and he is a prisoner. Now if I was imprisoned, alright, if I was in prison and I was writing letters to you guys, it would be me crying and asking you to get some bail money to get me out of prison. Do all you can. Vince, come knock down the walls and get me out of here. Right? But that's not what Paul's doing. As a prisoner for Christ Jesus, he's not worried about his condition and his state Actually see, he has a lot of hope in his language. Right? What's he doing at the very end of the letter? Very common language, right? Like verse 21, confident of your obedience, I write to you, knowing that you will do even more than I ask. 22. At the same time. Prepare a guest room for me, for I'm hoping that through your prayers I will be graciously given to you. As a prisoner in Rome, this This man's mind is that, yeah, this is gonna pass. I'm not worried about this. I want to deal with the the issues in your life. I want to care for you, my beloved friend. Don't don't worry about me, I'm gonna get out of here. That's just that mindset Paul has that it's all gonna be fine. If I die, I die in Christ and I join him and I worship him. But as long as he has me here, even in prison, I'm serving him This is who Paul is. And his love and compassion for his friend is that he doesn't care one bit about being in prison. He cares about his friend. And then the other main character of this letter is Onesimus. Onesimus. We see him just pop up, but this is what the whole letter is about in verse ten. I appeal to you for my child Onesimus. Right there. And then we see that he is a bondservant. It's how the ESV translated, or servant, or slave. So just so we understand the characters here, Philemon is a very rich man. He's a very rich man, wealthy man, which is clear because he has a home that the church is able to gather in. And he has a bondservant, a slave. And Onesimus is his slave, or his bondservant. So Philemon is the slave master, Onesimus is the slave. And Onesimus as a slave has committed some crime. Historically, a lot of people would say that Onesimus ran away. That's possible. He could have ran away, and that's part of the crime. There's no reason to say that's not true. True, but the text doesn't make that evidently clear that he ran away, and that's why he's in trouble. But we do see that he's committed some offense. to Philemon, and that's what Paul is pleading on his behalf, is to take him back. Look at verse 15. He says, For this perhaps is why he has parted from you for a while. So Paul's recognizing that Onesimus has come to Paul, and he's not with Philemon, his slave master, as he probably should be. And Paul's not sure why that is, but he's recognizing that the sovereignty of God is using the separation of Philemon and Esthimus for this beneficial situation. To encourage both Philemon, Onesthemus, and Paul, to bring communication between Paul and Philemon, and so that Onethemus hears the gospel and is saved by faith in Christ. And then we see in verse 18 it says, if he has wronged you at all or owes you anything, charge that to my account. So while we don't know what the crime or the issue is between Philemon and Onesimus, the slave and the slave master, we do know that there's probably an issue and a problem. And Paul is trying to address that and deal with it. He's addressing it and dealing with it because Paul is friends with Philemon. He has now ran into a Nesimus, Philemon's slave. Alright, so that's the overarching theme and background of this letter. And now what I want us to do tonight is examine four areas that we see the gospel radically changing everything. Remember, the gospel changes. Everything changes because of the gospel. We see this language in 2 Corinthians chapter 5. Second Corinthians chapter 5, verse 17 reads, Therefore, if anyone is in Christ He is a new creation. The old has passed away. Behold, the new has come. I love that. If anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. Should be encouraging to us. Romans says a very similar thing. Romans 6. 4. Romans 6. 4 says We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death, in order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead, by the glory of the Father, we too might might walk in new newness of life. Hear that language is still the old is gone. We're buried w in the dead, but then we're Christ is raised from the dead by the the glory of the Father, that we too might walk in newness of life. life. Romans, Paul here in Romans drives us a little farther that you're not just a new creation, but you're living as a new creation. It's not like, oh, you're a Christian, you're a new creation, go back to the same old filth that you were before Christ But you're a new creation. No, what he's saying is you're a new creation, and now you're living and functioning and walking as a new creation. And then lastly, Ephesians Chapter 4, starting verse 22, says, Ephesians 4, 22, to put off your old self, which belongs to your former manner of life, and is corrupt. Through deceitful desires, and to be renewed in the spirit of your minds, and to put on the new self, created after the likeness of God in true righteousness and holiness. So you hear that language again. Putting off of the old self and putting on of the renewed self, the renewed in the spirit and created in the likeness of God. So we see that there's this old and new aspect to the gospel. There's this old and new aspect to coming to Christ. But what I want us to see and to recognize is that new and old is a radical change. And a radical shift. Just try to go back to who you were before Christ. Try to remember those days. What were you thinking about? Whatever you wanted. Whatever brought you pleasure, really. Whatever the lost of your heart was and the lost of your flesh at that moment was, that's probably what you were thinking about. What caused you to make decisions? Your pride. Who you are. Whatever you wanted was how you made decisions. What What brought you joy? Your pride, whatever was fulfilling you, whatever brought you self-glory was what brought you fulfillment. Now notice the shift as you come out of the old self and now think about who you are in Christ. What drives your thinking? Beloved, I I hope it's the Word of God. I hope it's your thinking. How do I honor God with how I treat my spouse? How do I honor God with what college I go to? How do I honor God with how I conduct myself in the workplace? How do I honor God with how I conduct myself driving on Maryland roads? Alright? We should be thinking through that. Okay, how am I honoring God with everything I'm doing? How do you seek joy in life? It's not all about yourself anymore, right? There you see the shift that now your joy is actually in your salvation in Christ. So much of your joy comes from your identity as a Christian. So we see this radical shift. But what I want us to do is see that the newness in the gospel, the newness in Christ that we have, goes deep into every single aspect of our lives. And how we're going to examine that is to examine these four areas of changes. We'll first examine Onesimus' life Alright, we're going to see the change that happened there. Then we'll examine Philemon's life and the changes that are evident there. Then we'll see and look at the relationship Paul's encouraging Philemon and Ernesimus to have. See the change happen there. And then lastly, we'll examine culture and how that changed, what happens in the culture around these figures. So let's first look at Onesimus. Look back in verse 10 with me. It says, I appeal to you for my child Ornesimus, whose father I became in my imprisonment. Formerly he was useless to you, but now he is indeed useful to you and to me. Now, Paul did not physically become the father of Onesimus. He's not biologically, there's no you can't trace the bloodline of Paul to Onesimus. What's probably being said here is that Ernestimus came to faith in Christ interacting with Paul during his imprisonment. So he's the spiritual father, right? Is that Paul shared the gospel with Onesimus? Onesimus, through the work of the Spirit, came to faith in Christ, is now born again, is a Christian. Right? This newness is right here, and Paul is recognizing that. And Paul's celebrating it. Rightfully so. Paul is celebrating that Onesimus is now a Christian. But verse 11, you see it's bracketed out there. It says, formerly he was useless to you, but now he is indeed useful to you and to me. Paul's a great author, especially when he's inspired by the Holy Spirit to write the words of God. He's a really good author. Oneshemus' name means useful. Alright, so it means useful. It's a great slave name, right? If you're going to get a slave and you want him to be beneficial, you should name him useful, Onesimus. But is your slave very useful to you if he's committing crimes? If he's stolen from you, if he's running away from you? Right? We have a problem here. What Paul is doing is he's recognizing that now that Ornesimus is a Christian, he's now going to fulfill and live out his name and his title. That's why Paul says, formerly he was useless to you, but now he is indeed useful. Paul knows the name. Paul's trying to draw out this imagery here of what has happened. Now think about this. All of us are useless outside of Christ. That hurts when we say that. But in the eternal aspect of things, we are useless outside of Christ. We're living in our flesh. We're doing whatever we want. Sure you may be a good worker, right? You you probably have built things before you were a Christian. You can get a job before you were Christian. Many of you maybe were married even before you had you were Christian and had kids. But ultimately were useless. There's no real value to who we are outside of Christ. There's not this eternal sense of belonging and eternal sense of what we're doing has a value. Now we're valuable as image bearers of God. I don't want us to start uh devaluing uh non-believers, but I want us just to recognize that in the eternal sense there's there's this useless sense to us But in Christ you have become extremely useful. And that's what Paul is driving home here. Is that now the slave who calls you problems is now going to be very beneficial to you because he He's a Christian. But Paul's not just talking about he's going to be a good worker. He's not gonna, he's gonna not be a problem for you in the workplace and as a slave anymore. But the usefulness A Philemon having a Christian working for him. Think about that. Are we useful to the workplaces as Christians? Are we a net positive to our industries and to our bosses and to our environments as Christians? I've worked in some places that the Christians are actually the problem in the workplace. The Christians often are the laziest, the most disrespectful. Always complaining, and then whenever a problem arises on Sunday, they throw in the title that they're a Christian and they can't deal with it right now. Is that the imagery we want as Christians? Or as Christians, should we be the most beneficial, the most useful, the most trustworthy within our workplaces? The most morally sound, the most accountable and dependable in what we do. When a problem arises and it's our mistake, we're honest and upfront about what we have done. Do we see that change that happens there? This slave is now a useful person to Philemon. We also must address his lawbreaking. As Christians, should we be breaking the law? No. No. We should be stealing. We shouldn't be conniving ways to get more financially or more benefits out of a program, trying to cheat the system. It's probably who Onesimus was, just trying to cheat the system, trying to get a little bit more benefits, a little bit more money, trying to always get away. But here, now that he's a Christian, now that he's being discipled by Paul, he's not that same man anymore. The conduct that he does within the civil realm, within society, has changed. Well, likewise, Christians, that's how we should be. Are Christians known? Are you known to be a lawbreaker? Are you known to be the person that's always just skirting up against the rules in the line, trying to find all the loopholes just to get a benefit out of it? If you are, don't be that person. Don't be that person. That's not God honoring. That's not wearing the image of the newness in Christ rightly. If your boss can't trust you because he's always worried that you're gonna you're gonna s have some kind of scheme to get around the system and and break the rules, that's not a good look But we see here Onesimus as a laborer, as a slave even, as a slave. He is a new creature in Christ. And how he conducts himself as a slave is completely changed. We also see this with Philemon, the second person that we'll examine the change happens. Now we don't see Philemon before Christ, or we don't get testimony of who he was before Christ. We're picking up the story. Paul's addressing his friend in Christ right here as we as we read the letter. But we must understand that Philemon is a very rich man, especially in this time if he is able to have a house big enough to hold church there. That's in verse 2, and to the church in your house. All right, so just let's just picture if we gathered this group uh right here tonight in someone's home, you'd need a pretty big house, right? You want a big area. And and especially in this time, like we live in the blessed Americas where we have nice homes Even some of the the lowest valued homes are still very nice in comparison to what many people were living. in this time during the writing of this letter. You know, a single shack or just a single room where a whole family would be living. But here, Philemon has a home that's large enough to host the church, meaning that he's a very wealthy man And he's willing to give up his wealth to the glory of God. This is part of that change that happens. Now he's thinking about his finances. it's not all about how is he going to be a rich man, how is he going to become as wealthy as possible. He's now seeing that God has blessed him with wealth and in his newness in Christ, how is he going to use his finances to the glory of God? And part of that is by hosting the church within his house. We also get some kind of language here that he has been blessing people, and Paul has heard about how Philemon has blessed people. So, has the gospel affected you so much that you think about honoring God with your finances? Right? This is that everything that changes aspect we're talking about. Before Christ, your finances is all about you getting the most money possible. So you can have the best retirement of your life. Right? That's how we think before Christ. Unfortunately, many of us are still thinking that way. But what we must do is change and see that as new creatures in Christ, we are now seeking to honor God with our finances. Wealth isn't the problem. Money's not the problem. A nice retirement's not the problem. It's our hearts and our posture towards God and how we honor Him with all of those things. The second aspect of Philemon that we see change is he's a public figure. In this time, he's not going to be wealthy enough to host a church in his home. Wealthy enough to have slaves, wealthy enough and famous enough to be known all the way out to Rome without being a known public figure. We don't know how He became popular or known at this time. But we must recognize that he is a public figure, and to be a public figure as a Christian and known as a Christian is a big deal. this time. Right? We live in America where everyone's a Christian. Just drive a little. We're in the South. from Pennsylvania. We're in the south, all right? I know we may not like that, but drive a little bit farther south to like Louisiana. Everyone's a Christian there. Even the leader of the atheist group is a Christian because he grew up in a Christian home. Like that's just the culture that we live in. But in this time, being a Christian It wasn't just kind of the norm or a popular thing to do. It didn't get you any political advantage. It didn't get you any notoriety in society. Most likely at this time, coming out as a Christian made you a weirdo, a strange person. in this society. But here's this public figure, Philemon, recognized as a Christian throughout the Roman Empire. Changes everything. Do people at your workplace know you're a Christian? Do your friends at school know you're a Christian? I think that's a very good question to ask yourself. Do people know you're a Christian that you have known for a long time? The answer is no. You must ask, well, why not? Why is that not known about you? But we see that by Lemon as a public figure was a Christian. Has change here happened? The last aspect of Faeleman that changes is his relationship as a slave master. His relationship as a slave master. We'll talk about the slave master and the cultural issues a little bit later, but we must see that he was called to be a kind, Christ-like slave master. When was the last time you heard that phrase? Kind, Christ-like slave master. But look at verse 17. So if you consider me your partner, receive him as you would receive me. This is Paul talking to his Christian friend, saying, Now receive this slave who has offended you just like you would receive me, your friend. That takes a very kind person. That's a complete different relationship, which we'll address in just a moment. That's a completely different relationship between Philemon and Ornesinus. Right? Now he's called, yes, you're still slave master. That status isn't gone. You're still slave master, but now you're called to be a Christian slave master. You're not called to be a Christian in how you treat the people that are underneath you. You're called to be a Christian in how you conduct yourself. Has that effect been in your life? Have you seen every area of life? Father, mother, child, sibling, student. boss, worker, co-worker, unemployed, whatever your status is, have you recognized that you're now called to be a Christian? in that status. Are you a Christian banker, carpenter, retiree? Are you a Christian mother, father? Are you a Christian student? Have you recognized that as your new identity in Christ and sought to live in obedience to God in whatever area you have? That's what we see five minutes. He's called to be a kind Christian master. Which then brings us to our third area that changes with when we are born again. Of Christ, of the Spirit, when we're born again, the newness of the gospel is within our relationships. Have your relationships changed because of your new identity as a Christian? Verse 16. This is where we see this laid out. No longer as a bond. So let me jump back to verse 15 first. For this perhaps is why he has parted from you for a while, that you might have him back forever, no longer as a bondservant or a slave. But more than a slave bondservant, as a beloved brother, especially to me. But how much more to you, both in the flesh and in the Lord? Paul's addressing one of the most serious relationships that could that has the most radical shift and change. that we can fathom throughout society and throughout history. You know, it's one thing if I told you, now that you're a Christian, you need to interact with your siblings in a different way. Different way, right? And that okay, yeah, that makes sense. We need to work through this. We're both Christians, we're from the same family, we're siblings. As my parents always told my brothers, like, be nice to your brother, that's the best chance of a kidney that you'll have if you need one. All right. So think about that. All right? When you're Being kind to your siblings. But yeah, that makes sense. Or, okay, now that I'm a Christian, I need to be kind with my neighbor who's nice to me. He mows my yard sometimes. He rakes some leaves. For me. That's easy in that context. But what Paul's now doing is he's saying, now in this newness in Christ, your new identity in Christ, the slave and the slave master relationship. has changed. Whoa. Whoa. That's a radical change That's not necessarily a good relationship that's just broken by the flesh. No, that's a that's a very serious relationship issue. There's natural tension there. Likewise, in our own lives, you're called to be changed relationships in the workplace between you and your boss, between you and your teachers. A radical shift that happens there. But we see here that the identity as slave and slave master, when we're born again, is gone. He says, no longer as a bondservant, but more than a bondservant. No longer as a bondservant, but more than a bondservant. What's more than a bondservant? Here it This as a beloved brother Now remember this. Oneshemus has committed crimes against Philemon. What is he saying? Allow him to come back, not as your slave bondservant, but as your beloved brother. Now I believe that that relationship is still there. I still believe that Philemon is still the the slave master and that Onesimus is still the slave when he returns. That relationship, the structure in society hasn't changed. But how they conduct themselves and how they treat one another has radically changed and shifted because of the gospel. If you just try to put yourself in Philemon's shoes. Alright? Onesimus comes back to you. He's now a Christian. Paul, your good friend, has commanded you or instructed you. He says he hasn't commanded you. But instructed you to treat him as a beloved brother and to treat him and receive him like you would your good friend. You're going to start to treat your slave differently. You should want to treat your slave differently. That's what the gospel does, is it changes our relationship. So now think about your enemies. Who's the person you have the biggest fights with, the biggest struggle with? If they come to Christ and say they're a Christian and you're a Christian, shouldn't that relationship look different? But that's hard, right? I must continue on. I must finish here with the fourth area that changes. And we will address this again later because this is a big issue. But the culture around you should be changing. Changing because of the gospel. The culture around you should be changing because of the gospel. In a few weeks I'll unpack the culture of slave and slave masters. uh at the time that Paul writes this letter. Uh because we have our American minds, our chattel slavery minds, our uh sinful slavery that was in the Americas, and that's how we think through everything this is racial slavery. It's not necessarily the case here, so we need to address that. And we'll do that in a few weeks. But what we do what we can see here Is that the gospel and lives change, new new lives, people living as Christians changes the world around them All right, if it's changing the slave master and the slave relationship, isn't that going to impact pretty much every other person that sees that relationship? Right? If you see a slave treat excuse me, if you see a slave master treating his slave as a beloved brother in Christ, you're going to start to look at that and say, what's going on in that situation? That's not what everyone else does. That's not how society operates. What's happening here? Right? And that's what we see happening. Same with our homes. When we start to uh operate and conduct ourselves in our homes, as Christian homes, as Christian husbands and wives, as Christian children, it starts to change the culture around us. It starts to change the world around us. Your neighbors start to see that. Why are they praying before a meal? Why are they not screaming and cussing at each other right now? Right? This world starts to change. As we start to conduct ourselves as Christians within the public square. As we start to call out sins of the culture and call people to repent and to turn to Christ, that starts to change what the culture thinks is right and acceptable. It starts to destroy the cultural sins that we are disgusted by. As we start to pray for our politicians and live as Christians and vote according to biblical standards and policies, we start to see that the culture and the politicians change. We must recognize that the preaching of the gospel and Christians living and recognizing that everything has changed influences the world around them and the culture around them. And we see here from this beautiful letter that Paul writes to his friend Philemon that the gospel, the gospel of Jesus Christ, is changing everything. And we should be excited about that. We should celebrate that. And we should look at our own lives and say, Amen. Praise God that He has changed these areas in my life. And continue to seek God for wisdom to say, I want Him to continue changing and making me more and more like Christ in every single area of our lives And friends, that's my prayer and my hope for us as Christians, that we look more and more like Christ because we recognize that we are new creatures. in Christ Jesus. Let's go before our Lord in prayer. Holy God, I thank you. I thank you for the newness that you have given us. That while we were sinners, when we were weak, you sent Christ to die for us, to raise from the dead, to bring new life to us. I thank you for the work of the Spirit in us to give us faith, to make us new creatures in Christ. And Lord, I now ask that you guide us, you give us the wisdom and the eyes to see how you are changing everything in our lives. Lord, any areas that we're holding on to, not wanting to give up, holding on to the old flesh, the old dead self, Lord, convict us of this. Show us how we are new creatures, how we are to live new lives in Christ. We thank you, we bless you, we honor you. In the name of Jesus we pray. Amen.