Introduction to James tonight. Let's jump immediately into one of the key verses in James 2. 26. Look at 2. 26. You know that one of my favorite kinds of Bible verses or Bible passages is The ones that have the illustration already in them. So I don't have to come up with an illustration of my own. And this is one of those illustrations, one of those verses with the illustration, and it makes a powerful Vivid point. James two, twenty-six, for as the body apart from the spirit is dead So also, faith apart from works is dead. I say one of the key verses in James because there are other verses that basically parallel that same idea. Now what is the metaphor, what is the illustration in that verse? It is a human body. I guess you could say it's another kind of body. I believe he's wanting us to think of our bodies. It's a body where the spirit has left it. And what does he say about that body? The body, apart from the spirit, is what? It's dead, it's lifeless. It cannot hear you, it cannot talk to you, it cannot get up and stand and walk and follow you. It is Lazarus in the grave, needs to be risen to newness of life. That is a clear picture of a body without the Spirit. If it was a believer, the Spirit has left a body and gone to dwell with the Lord in heaven. But now, what's the theological point? What's the practical point that James is making based on that metaphor? The body represents Faith. The body represents faith. As the body, apart from the spirit, is dead, right? If the spirit has left it, so also faith, apart from works, is Is dead. It is lifeless. It is not alive. It may look like a body, but there's no life there. It may look like Faith, but there's no life there. As the body apart from the spirit is dead, so also faith apart from works is dead Now what application is going to be throughout James is a call to faith and a call to works, not one or the other. Is it going to be for us an exhortation to faith or an exhortation to action? The answer is yes. Both of these things. That's the point. You need both of these things. A true faith expresses itself in works. Call to faith and a call to action. And as we go through James, that's not uh just uh an abstract thought for us to reflect on. But it's in any situation in life, whether we're at home or at work or in the church fellowship or out in the world, in any situation in life, God is calling us to faith. and to works, to a heart that is trusting in him, trusting in Christ alone for salvation, and a life that is striving to obey him in love, striving to obey him in holiness. striving to obey him in the way we speak in this world. Both faith in this world, both faith and action are pillars of the Christian life. It's been called the most practical book of the New Testament. And you can even see on the title that I've given this study. James, a guide book for Christian Living, and then the subtitle, Bible study, Bible Studies on Practical Christianity. That just means that its emphasis is going to be put it into practice. Put it into practice. Can you imagine uh being on a soccer team and you go to soccer practice and the coach just sits down the whole team and talks about soccer for the entire practice? for two straight hours. And then you come back two days later for the next soccer practice. And he sits down the whole team and he talks about the ideas and theories of soccer the entire time. And you're starting to get the uh the impression as a player on that team, what in the world is going on? To come to practice involves action, not just theory, not just ideas, not just thoughts. We must put Christianity into practice. True Christianity is about how we live. It must be put into practice. To say it's the most practical book in the New Testament does not mean that it's not a theological book. All theology is meant to drive the way we live. All true theology results in practice. Practice in church life. Practice in how we live at home. How we treat our spouses. How we treat our children. How we treat our co-workers. The theology of the Bible is the ground of Christian living. And true Christian living will always be based on the theology of the Bible. As the body apart from the spirit is dead. Now is that a vivid illustration, or is it just me? I mean, that's a vivid illustration. So also the faith, so also faith apart from works is dead. James Doesn't want us to add superficial religion To a dead faith. No, he wants us to have a living faith that then expresses itself in true Christian living. It's easy to just heap on religious activity without a changed heart. You you all know that. You've seen that. You've read the gospels. You've seen that in the Pharisees and other parties in the Bible. You see that in throughout the history of Israel. Very religious people. But if the heart isn't filled with true faith in Christ, it means nothing One more time, 226, says the body apart from the spirit is dead, so also faith apart from works is dead. So this is a this whole book is an exhortation. Different specific areas and situations in life. The whole book is an exhortation to both faith And works. Both of those things. Faith and works. Works and faith. You can put them in any order you please. Alright, um let's go to the booklet. And I've and uh go back to one one in James. I have two introduction points, really summarizing these points so so that we can get into the main point. of this lesson tonight, which is the nature of genuine faith and really just reiterating what we just looked at in two twenty six in the different key verses in James. Just I really want to drive home and I hope that the Spirit would drive this home into into each one of our hearts this main point of James that faith true faith results in practice. Alright uh the look at one one And we're going to talk about the author, and we're going to talk about the audience of the book of James. James, a servant of God. And of the Lord Jesus Christ, that's the author, to the twelve tribes in the dispersion, that's the audience. So I'll give you the one, two, three on your outline. The author is James, the brother of Jesus. In just a moment, we'll look at some verses from Scripture on that. Number two, he is not confused about his purpose. I wrote that point down as a way to summarize and get our eyes on the way James describes himself in verse one. He is a servant of God and he's a servant of the Lord Jesus Christ. When we think of our identity, that's where we should go. We are servants. We're servants of God. We're servants of the Lord Jesus Christ. And number three, the audience was Christians who were exiled and persecuted. Exiled and persecuted. That comes from the dispersion. We will in a moment. Look at Bible verses on what that refers to. The Bible tells us what that refers to. It's A scattering of Christians in the early church, in the first generation of the church, that was the result of persecution in Jerusalem. Specifically, these are Jewish Christians. To the twelve tribes in the dispersion. Does that mean that the this book can't be read by and can't be applied by? Uh Gentile Christians who aren't Jews? No, of course it doesn't mean that. It doesn't mean that any more than the Book of Romans is only for people who lived in Rome in the ancient world. The New Testament letters are occasional documents But they have perennial application for all Christians when you get to the truths and the doctrines in there. So do you have those blanks? Number one, the author is James, the brother of Jesus. It's not James the apostle. the brother of John. Number two, James is not confused about his purpose. What's your purpose? What's your identity, James? I'm a servant of God. I'm a servant of the Lord Jesus Christ. Number three, the audience was Christians who were exiled and Persecuted. Alright, the author, let's look at I'm gonna have you flip around to some passages now, okay? Matthew 13, 55. Matthew 13, 55, just wanting to point out that Jesus Had a brother named James. Simple point. Matthew thirteen Fifty five. And I have uh Not quite a dozen, but almost a dozen verses all said and done for these next few points together. So I don't have I won't have time to flesh out the context, alright? But you have the verse you can Expand the context in your own reading. But just to see the basic point, Matthew 13, 55 is not this the carpenter's son. Speaking of Jesus, is not his mother called Mary, and are not his brothers James and Joseph and Simon and Judas? Also turn to Galatians one eighteen. Galatians one eighteen Same point, simply that Jesus had a brother named James Galatians 1 18 and 19 also. Then after three years, this is Paul writing, after three years I went up to Jerusalem to visit Cephas. It's Peter, and remained with him for fifteen days, but I saw none of the other apostles except I did see James the Lord's brother. James the Lord's brother. Now, James the Apostle had been martyred. Turn to Acts 12, verse 1. If you're reading through Acts. If you blink, you will miss this. Acts twelve, verses one and two And most biblical scholars place the dating of this of James's martyrdom around forty-four A. D. Acts twelve, verse one and two. About that time Herod the king laid violent hands on some who had belonged to the church. He killed James, the brother of John, with the sword. And when he saw that it pleased the Jews, isn't that something you would think that they would be appalled? Right? He proceeded to arrest Peter also. So Jesus had a brother named James. James the apostle had been martyred. Third point, Jesus' brother actually became a prominent leader in the church in Jerusalem. You see this developed throughout Acts, still in Acts 12. Now in Acts chapter 2, James the Apostle is martyred. Later in that chapter, Acts 12, 17 , but motioning to them with his hand to be silent. He described to them how the Lord had brought him out of the prison, and he said, Tell these things to James and to the brothers. Then he departed and went to another place. Jesus had a brother named James, he is becomes a prominent leader in the book of Acts, and if you take that verse 1217 and look at your marginal references or your cross references and study those out. You'll see some other passages that highlight James as a leader in the church in Jerusalem. My final point about James is that James was a sinner who was saved by grace, just like you and I are sinners saved by grace. James had to be converted. James had to be saved. James had to be um captivated by the power of God to change his heart to love his brother Jesus. Not only as his brother, but as his Lord and Savior. Turn to John 7, verse 5. John seven verse 5. Our last verse on it. James as Jesus' brother At this point, John seven five, not even his brothers believed in him. Not even his brothers believed in him. And you also can study out the marginal references and cross references for that. Because there are some other passages that give some detail about Jesus' brothers or his family and how they thought about Jesus during his earthly ministry. They said he had lost his mind. They said he was crazy. James had to be saved. James had to be saved, just like any sinner needs to be saved. We've been going through the book of Daniel downstairs. Daniel had to be saved. Daniel was a sinner. He needed to be forgiven. He needed God's grace. He needed God's mercy. God intervenes. And he, God, uses Sinners. Weak, wayward sinners. He uses sinners as his instrument on earth to accomplish his purposes. It's an amazing, amazing story. So there's your first point about the author. It's James, the brother of Jesus. Secondly, he's not confused about his purpose. Let's just look at it one more time back in James 1. 1. James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ. I already made personal application for each one of us Even though we're not authors of books of the Bible, we're still servants of God. And we are servants of the Lord Jesus Christ. That means Jesus is our King He's our King. He's our Savior who forgives our sins, who died in our place on the cross, and He's our King who rules over us. We are under his authority. We are under his command. He is our king. He is our master Now look at those two phrases. Servant of God, and then also servant of the Lord Jesus Christ. Final point that I want to make on this, there could be countless points on this. This is this is the the starting block of Christianity. The final point that I want to make is that you cannot have one without the other. You can't be one. Without the other. You cannot truly be a servant of God unless you are also a servant of the Lord Jesus Christ. Actively serving Jesus Christ according to God's word. Just saying that I am a servant of God as this this sovereign declaration that I make about myself and the state of my soul for all eternity. If I'm not a servant of the Lord Jesus Christ, I'm making a false profession. Children of God are servants in the household of Jesus Christ. James , from a fleshly standpoint, the brother, the actual brother of Jesus, grew up in the same home. Isn't that interesting? Was an unbeliever was an unbeliever, an eyewitness to the earthly ministry of Christ, was an unbeliever, was saved by God's grace through the power of the gospel, and was utilized by God to write this book, and he is now a servant of God and a servant. Of the Lord Jesus Christ. Well, that's encouraging. That encourages me. I hope it encourages you. Who we were in the past and what we did in the past does not limit God for what He's going to do in our future. The audience, the audience, Jewish Christians It says twelve tribes. Now there is one uh you should be familiar that there is one line of interpretation Uh that says that this applies to Christians in general. And that's not far-fetched. I mean it lines up with beliefs that I have. There is in the New Testament Language that in the Old Testament applied to Israel, in the New Testament, you get that same language applied to the church. Because Israel was an earthly kingdom that foreshadowed the heavenly kingdom that comes to expression in the church. Classic example of that would be First Peter 2 9 for your own study, where you have phrases, concepts that were applied to Israel as a nation in the Old Testament, then applied now applied to the church and to Christians in the New Testament. But on the phrase twelve tribes, every time that's used in the New Testament, that's referring to Jewish people. That's their lineage. That's their heritage from an earthly perspective. Their their uh family The family of Abraham and his descendants. And I'll just give you these. I'll give you enough time to write them down, not to look them up. But other places where twelve tribes is used in the New Testament, it refers to Jewish people. That's why I believe this is Jewish Christians. Luke 22, 30 And then it's parallel in Matthew nineteen. Matthew nineteen twenty-eight. And then Acts twenty-six seven. And then Revelation 21, 12. It's part of a symbolic image, a symbolic prophetic imagery. But the picture, as a picture, the vision as a vision, the Twelve Tribes is referring to the Jewish heritage. So you have the earthly brother of Jesus, who had been converted, and then came to a place of leadership in the church in Jerusalem. A writing to Jewish Christians who had been scattered in the persecution. That's our final point on this introduction. Let's talk about the dispersion. It's not just to the twelve tribes that he's writing. He's writing to the twelve tribes in the dispersion. Acts 757. Now this is a passage. So if you have not been turning or flipping, I encourage you to flip to this one because it's a paragraph. Acts And it's the main one. I mean, this is a critical juncture in the New Testament narrative of the early church, Acts 7 , 57. This is um was at the stoning of Stephen, incredibly important turning point for the history of the church. Acts seven fifty-seven and I'm going to read through eight four But they cried out with a loud voice and stopped their ears and rushed together at him, at Stephen, because Stephen Was faithfully preaching the word of God. Then they cast him out of the city and stoned him, and the witnesses laid down their garments. At the feet of a young man named Saul. And as they were stoning Stephen, he called out, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit And falling to his knees, he cried out with a loud voice, Lord, do not hold this sin against him. And when he had said this, he fell asleep, which is an idiom for saying that he died. Chapter 8, verse 1. And Saul approved of his execution. And there arose on that day a great persecution against the church in Jerusalem. And they were all scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles. Devout men buried Stephen and made great lamentation over him. But Saul was ravaging the church. And this is in Jerusalem now. Still in Jerusalem. Saul is Ravaging the church and entering house after house, he dragged off men and women and committed them to prison. So Stephen is stoned. And on the day of Stephen's stoning, it's almost like that was busting open the floodgates. And giving approval to the persecution of Christians in Jerusalem. On that day, a great persecution against the church broke out. And what happened? They were scattered from Jerusalem, scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles. Scattered. I turn to uh 11, and that's the dispersion. They're dispersed because of the persecution. Still in Acts 11, 19 and 20. Just referencing that as the narrative goes on. Now those who were scattered because of the persecution, see it again there? Scattered because of persecution. Those who were scattered because of the persecution that arose over Stephen traveled as far as Phoenicia and Cyprus. And Antioch, speaking the word, the word of God, the word of the gospel, speaking the word to no one except the Jews. Now that changes as the narrative goes on. The geography is very important. Acts is very much about geography. God establishes his church. In Jerusalem. And then ever since that day, the day of Pentecost, God has been advancing his church into all the nations. To reach all tribes. All tongues, all peoples, all nations, for his glory to be servants of Christ. And he's doing that through his gospel, in the power of his Holy Spirit that was poured out on the day of Pentecost, through his church, through his servants. So you see the geographical spread, and in God's sovereignty, one of the things He uses to advance his message of salvation. is the persecution that comes from people who hate his message of salvation. Right? In his sovereignty he uses the wicked to esta to uh achieve his own purposes. You see that throughout the scripture, not just in the book of Acts. Everything's under God's sovereign authority. He will accomplish what he's purposed to accomplish. Well, hopefully that gives you a little bit of pers a little bit of a concrete perspective when you think about James. It's written by an actual guy in an actual historical situation. And he has a history. He was the the brother of Jesus. And he was an unbeliever, but he was saved. And he was a leader in the church in Jerusalem. And he's going to write to these, just particularly to Jewish Christians who have been scattered and dispersed. because of persecution. Uh not light persecution. They weren't getting made fun of on the evening news All right. They were being killed. They were being beaten. Their things were probably being confiscated. They were being thrown in prison, taken from their families. Persecuted, hated because of the word of God. Let me ask you something. Did the persecutors have victory, or did the Christians have victory? I'm not even going to give you time to get it wrong. The Christians have victory. There is victory in Christ. Persecution does not take away the blessings. The reward that we have in Jesus Christ. Nothing can take away our status as children of God. We've been forgiven of our sins. Nothing can erase that. Nothing can separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus. Does that mean we walk headlong into persecution and say, whatever will be, will be? No, no, no. There's actually a principle. Matthew eleven, twenty-three, let's turn there. Did I tell you that that um I think I might have told you that the last verse we were at was the last one in this section. But if I did, I was mistaken. Matthew 11, 23. The principle, the command, is to flee. If possible, you flee. That's the general rule. That's the general principle It's for the good of the gospel, for maintaining the witness of the gospel, the advance of the gospel on the earth. God's servant, flee. Matthew 11 Twenty three. Mm, I believe that's wrong. Is it my is it Mark? I think I wrote. Anyway, it's the reference of when he says, When you're persecuted in one town, flee to the next. And to the next. When you're persecuted in one town, you're rejected in one town, flee to Is an X Keep the word going forth. Keep the kingdom advancing. We don't fight for the kingdom of God like one army would fight us against another army. We have spiritual aims that we reach with spiritual weapons and a spiritual battle. And sometimes, sometimes The command and the call and the wise thing to do is to flee persecution for the good of the message. Did anyone find that reference? Is it Mark? Verse 16, verse 16. Oh, ten sixteen, perhaps Yeah, it's ten twenty-three. Ten twenty-three. And it's the it's the context of uh of a warning that persecution is going to come. In the context of sending them out on the mission, sending them out as missionaries. Persecution will come, and here's what he says, and thank you for finding that in ten Let's start in twenty-two. You will be hated by all for my name's sake, but the one who endures to the end will be saved. Now when they persecute you in one town, flee to the next. For truly I say to you, you will not have gone through all the towns of Israel before the Son of Man comes. The goal is to get the gospel to as many people as possible. It's not about us. It's not about us making a stand and from a worldly perspective, like puffing ourselves up in pride. No, flee. Take the gospel. Go with the gospel. There's a principle of fleeing. Of course, you know that's the wise thing to do. But sometimes we outthink ourselves spiritually. Now it's a general principle, it's a general rule, and it's important to say because who stayed, in those verses we looked at in Acts, who stayed in Jerusalem? The apostles stayed in Jerusalem. Not everybody fled. But the apostles were the exception, not the rule, in that instance. Let's get to the main point of James. So for the rest of the night we'll be on the right side of your spread. And what I'd like to do is go through this and just give you all the blanks, just so you can get all the blanks written down. And then we're going to go one by one and look at each one of these verses. All of these verses in a different way with a different emphasis makes the same point. James 2. 26, I'll read it again. For as the body apart from the spirit is dead, so also also faith apart from works is dead. Just giving you a heads up when we get to James chapter 2. Well, all of James really, but chapter 2 is like the classic James chapter. It's some really, really challenging stuff. And it's it's uh commands and demands. That falls under the category of God's law. What's the purpose of God's law? It's to spoke to expose our shortcomings. And show us our need for mercy and show us our need for grace. So as we as we get there, let's prepare our hearts ahead of time. By God's by God's grace to be able to see our sin and see our shortcomings and look to Christ as the answer, not look to our works The book of James does put an emphasis on works, but never ever does James want us to look to our works as the basis of our confidence before God. Never ever Works to be this fruit of salvation, works are never the basis of salvation. Well, Christ's work is the basis of salvation Number one, let's go through and get the blanks. Number one, genuine belief receives and also does the word of God. And some of these are gonna sound strikingly uh similar or familiar to some things Jesus says in his earthly ministry. Number two, genuine belief knows Scripture. Of course, genuine belief is based on knowledge. And also loves others. Both of those things. And if you see in parentheses with the the verses after each one of these, uh These statements that I'm giving you are just summary statements of what those verses teach. We're going to come back and look at each each of these verses. Number three, genuine belief professes faith, and also practices good works. It professes and it practices You can see the pattern. Each of these verses in a different way with a different emphasis is wanting to point out two things, the faith aspect and the obedience aspect, the inward reality of trust. And the outer or the outward reality of obedience. Both. Number four, genuine belief seeks Godly wisdom and also godly conduct. We actively, proactively steeped in prayer, steeped in dependence on the Holy Spirit, we are a people who seek after godly wisdom which comes from the Word of God, and godly conduct shaped by that wisdom wisdom. It will do me no good to have all the knowledge and proper information and doctrine on what it means. to be a Christian husband and a Christian father if I go home and treat my wife and kids like garbage or if I can't control my temper. No, wisdom Biblical wisdom, true Christian wisdom, results in conduct, the proper conduct. Now, none of us are perfect. In any of these areas, the inward or the outward, but by God's grace we strive. We strive And that's why it's so important. Oh man, it's so important that we have these works, the outward works in their proper place. They are not the foundation. of our assurance, of our uh standing with God, and they are do not supplement the work of the cross. They not it's not like the work of the cross takes care of ninety percent of our forgiveness. And then our good works take care of ten percent. No, no, no. It's a hundred percent based on the blood of Jesus Christ is why we're forgiven. And out of that We produce good works in the Holy Spirit, of course, not by our own strength. But it's so important that we understand that. Otherwise, if if we don't understand that and we're trying to be more obedient and be more obedient, it would just lead to complete despair. Complete despair, because we'll never measure up. Or it could lead to the opposite, which is self-righteousness, because you think, certainly I measure up. Oh yeah. But um Grace is the foundation. The work of Christ is the foundation. And if we're studying behavior and godly living and pra the right practice Of Christianity and good works. If we're studying that apart from a foundation of grace, it will do us only harm. No good. Number five, genuine belief knows what is right And also does what is right. Knows what is right and does what is right. Time in culture, I guess every time, and every culture is like this in one way or another, where um the world thinks It has the uh prerogative to define what's right and what's wrong. Say the world, but really all of us outside of Christ live that way. All of us outside of Christ live as if we are the king, we are the sovereign We get to determine what's good, what's bad, what's right, what's wrong. It's usually based on our feelings or opinions or whatever our selfish desires Genuine belief knows what is right and believes that that comes from Scripture and also does what is right. It strives to do what's right. To share, not be selfish, to forgive, not hold a grudge, but to give a gentle answer, not blow a gasket. These kinds of things. Um not to steal. On and on and on. Alright, those are the blanks. Now, I'm putting my away. You can leave yours out because you might want to take notes on there, but I need to look at my notes Let's go we already looked at 226. Let's back up to point number two on that outline, and we're back in James, and we're going to look at verse Chapter one, verses twenty one and twenty two. Chapter one verses twenty-one and twenty two. Therefore Put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness And receive with meekness the implanted word, which is able to save your souls. Now, two broad categories of what he says we need to do. What's the first one? Something to put away. Right. Something to put away. Put away all filthiness. That's uh ungodliness. Sexual immorality, vulgar language, anything that's contrary to God's character, right? That which is unholy, that's filthiness Something being filthy or something being dirty is the metaphor. But it's referring to a spiritual, something spiritual, that which is unholy. That which is the opposite of God's character, that which offends God, that that which is unpleasant in the sight of God and deserves wrath. Put away, put away something. Put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness. That's one thing. Now, what's the other thing he calls us to do? Not to put away something, but to what? Receive. Receive with meekness the implanted word, which is able to save your souls. It's the word of the gospel that gave them new life. The word of God, the word of the gospel, continuing to walk in humility, word meekness. To see yourselves as needing to receive the word and the power of the word to transform us. The word is already implanted within them. It's able to save their souls. Now, to be saved in Scripture is spoken about three different ways. If we're Christians, we can say that in the past we were saved. Right? We were saved. We were born again. We heard the gospel. We came to faith in Christ. We were saved. But scripture also talks about being saved as something that's Happening continues to happen for the Christians. We're being saved. There 's referring to the that we're being sanctified Right? That means we're being made holy in the likeness of Christ. And we are in the Spirit being made to persevere in the faith. So we were saved, we are being saved, but scripture talks about being saved in the third way. It talks about being saved in the future. And the final judgment. There is going to be a final judgment. Where all sin is judged. We will be saved from that judgment that's to come. If you want a book of the Bible that really emphasizes that aspect of being saved. First Peter, first and second Peter really. Um so here being saved is the present and ongoing. It's the word That it's the word of God and the power of the Spirit that will save us, that will sanctify us, and preserve us till the end, so that we'll be saved in the end. And that's why he says Receive with meekness the implanted word, but the sentence doesn't end there. That implanted word is able to save your souls. We do not come to faith based on the word and then move on from the word of God. The word of God is always the power of the Christian life. Brought to us by the Holy Spirit, by the working of the Holy Spirit in our minds and in our hearts. The Word of God is the sword of the Spirit We never move on from the Word of God as the central means of grace in our lives. It's the way we receive God's grace. Brothers and sisters, it's not just information. It is not a dead book. It is a living word that we come to with meekness and humility to receive Here he says the implanted word, that's why this I believe this is referring to the word of the gospel that has given us new life and faith in our hearts. It's the implanted word We need to continue to live in the grace of the gospel and receive with humility and meekness the implanted word. Why does he say both of these things in verse 21? That we put away all wickedness, but also receive the word. Well, if we don't receive the word, we won't be able to put away wickedness. It 's a very simple formula here. It's like if you don't put helium in the balloon, the balloon won't rise. Very simple simple formula. This is not advanced theology or advanced uh Quantum physics here. We're people of the Word. We're people who seek God through His Word and in His Word, humbly receiving the implanted Word. That will sanctify us and strengthen us and encourage us and preserve us till the end. Repentance, repentance is putting away all filthiness and rampant wickedness. Just like we never move on from the Word of God as the power source of our lives, we never move on from repentance. We move on in repentance from one stage to the next. But unless you're completely rid of sin in heart, mind, word, and deed, you're still repenting. We're repenters. By very definition, we're believers. We're repenters. We're we're humble receivers of God's word. And we never ever move on from that. Well, until we die and the Spirit goes to be with the Lord in heaven. Then we've moved on from repentance. And then we won't need the word of the Lord because we'll be in the presence. Of the Lord. But we'll still be humble receivers, in fact, more humble receivers than ever before. Of repentance, number one, a dependence on God's word, number two. Uh verse twenty uh verse twenty two be doers of the word And not hearers only deceiving yourselves. So if I hear the word and hear the word and hear the word and know the word and maybe even teach the word. And hear the word and say that I love the word, but if I don't do not do the word, what's that make me? A hypocrite? Self-deceived, hypocrite, liar. It says this. Deceiving yourself. Deceiving yourself. And these kinds of verses call for examination, self-examination. And the purpose of that is not to harm us, but to help us. It's just to get it's just to purge self-reliance from the heart. It's to get us to see our weakness, see our sin, that we may trust in Christ. In a deeper way. That's God's ultimate goal in all of this is to just point us to Christ as Savior. Point us to Christ as mediator. Point us to Christ as an ever-present help in our lives. Apart from him, we can do Amen. Nothing. The next point, uh point three on that outline. Oh no, it would be point two, technically. Genuine belief knows scripture and also loves others. That comes from 2. 8. 2. 8. If you really fulfill the royal law according to Scripture Now, John, make sure I talk about what the word fulfill means there. Don't let me forget this, okay? This is very important. If you really fulfill the world law according to Scripture, You shall love your neighbor as yourself. You are doing well. Talking about the reality of obedience. You really can obey God. You really can live a life that is holy, which is a life of love. Fulfilling the law according to Scripture. What does that look like? Love. Love your neighbor as yourself. So if you don't want your neighbor to gossip about you, don't gossip about your neighbor. And on and on and on. Siblings. If uh if you want your brother or sister to share with you, you share with them. If you want a person to be encouraging , You be encouraging the way you would be loved, you love. Love your neighbor as you would have others love you. You care for yourself. Doesn't say love your neighbor instead of yourself, right? This isn't this isn't about personal negligence and being a doormat. It's about being loving. It's about being caring. It's about treating others the way we want to be treated. Ah fulfill. First of all, uh zoom in with with me in the first Clause, the first part of verse 8. It says, if you really. So let's just stop. This is about something that you can do. The Christian can do. If you really. It's not about A theoretical point. This is a practical point. If you really, if you, if you do this, and then it says, fulfill the royal law according to scripture, fulfill the royal law. That's referring to God's law. Royal just means God is the king. Christ is the king. This is when we say God's law, what are we talking about in a general sense? God's requirements. God's requirements for people made in his image. What he commands us to do, what he forbids us from doing. This is what God requires. His commandments, his law, his holy, righteous, good, spiritual law. Of commandments, his requirements on people made in his image. Fulfill the world law. Now circle the word fulfill and just in your mind's eye shine a spotlight on this word fulfill. There's a sense in which there's one sense, and this is central to the gospel, okay, in which only Jesus fulfilled the law. And in that sense, that means perfect obedience at every point. That means bring the law to its fulfillment, bring the law to its its perfect obedience in the life of Christ. There's other ways Christ fulfilled the law too. Means perfect obedience at every point in what God requires, never doing anything that God forbids in mind, heart, word, deed. This is the life of Christ It's the perfect obedience of Christ, which is his righteousness. Now, if we're saved, and if if we're saved, we're saved by faith, we have that righteousness of Christ Credited to our account. And that's how we stand before God is innocent. Jesus died on the cross to take away our sins. He's blotted out the guilt of our sins. But he's also given us his righteousness. We're clothed in his righteousness. That's referring to his actual obedience and obeying the law perfectly at every point. That's one way fulfilling the law is used. Here it's not used that way. This is talking about something you can do. It just means obeying the law in the power of the Spirit. That's all it means Christians actually do obey God. Do we obey God perfectly? No, of course not. But we obey God truly. If you have children, You know what that means. If you're a parent, you know what the difference between a disobedient child and an obedient child. Now zoom in on the obedient child. Does that mean they're a perfect child? No, of course not. If you're a teacher, you know the difference between an unruly student and an obedient student. Does that mean that's a perfect student? No, but there is a difference A categorical difference between being disobedient and unruly and being obedient and submissive, between being arrogant and being humble. Christians Truly obey God in the power of the Holy Spirit. Not perfectly, but truly. Of course, you we know that. We know that instinctively , because if I were to ask you this question, do you love God? And you're a believer, what would you say? Are you going to say no? If you say no, then you're not a believer. Do you love God? Yes. Yes. Do you love God perfectly? No, of course not. But you love God truly. Why? Is that because of your own strength? No, it's because of the Spirit who is living and working within us. He has given us the love for God. We love him because he first loved us. And one of the results of God loving us in Christ is that we now love him in the spirit. By the power of the Spirit. We obey. And how does this summarize our obedience? Love your neighbor. Of course, that's the second greatest commandment. Which is uh going to be a result. Practically speaking, obeying the second commandment will be a result of obeying the first greatest commandment, which is what? Love God. Love the Lord your God with all of your heart, soul, mind, and strength. Love God above all things. Love God as a friend of mine and uh a preacher has said you love God most. Love God most. Love God more than money. More than stuff, more than entertainment, more than games, more than your reputation, more than your collection of this or that knick-knack. Love God most, and secondly, love others as yourself. That's what obedience looks like. That's what holiness looks like. That's what holiness looks like. Genuine belief receives but also does the word of God. Genuine belief knows Scripture and also loves others. Number three, genuine belief professes faith and also practices good works. This comes from chapter two, really the whole chapter, but we'll just look at two verses here. Chapter 2, verse 17. So also faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead. Now that's the most famous verse from James, and that's typically the overview verse that we would start with. It's so similar to 226 that I started with. I started with 226 because that illustration from 226 helps me to remember. You have a body apart from the spirit, the body's dead. So also faith apart from works is also dead. 224 is also helpful in this regard. You see that a person is justified by works and not by faith alone And we'll talk about that at length when we get to that verse as we work through James. The difference between uh our justification as us being declared righteous And then the use of the word justified here, which is a a manifestation of our faith for others to witness in the world around us. And being justified or being proven, right? The reality of our faith is proven outwardly by the presence of good works, in other words. Just like uh in a courtroom, one thing or another could be proven by presenting evidence And the evidence, which comes after whatever happened, proves what happened. Well, works is the evidence that comes after the receiving of faith and the having having a faith in Christ. Finally Well now finally two more. Number four, genuine belief seeks godly wisdom and also godly conduct. Uh chapter three You see these are not just uh bunched up in one chapter, it's throughout James. Chapter 3, verse 13 Starts with a rhetorical question, but then he does actually give the answer to it indirectly. Who is wise and understanding among you? By his good conduct, let him show his works in the meekness of wisdom. Now you can just circle the key words. We've been seeing them all evening. You know, wise and wisdom. Right, one who truly has understanding. Oh, how do you how do you know? Good conduct. Show he shows his works, and then you see this again: meekness or humility. Also chapter 3, verses 17 and 18. But the wisdom from above, that means wisdom from God, is first pure Then peaceable, uh this uh this section right here is not word for word. Uh it's a different structure than the Beatitudes of Matthew 5, but you see the concepts Basically parallel what Jesus teaches in the Beatitudes in terms of what godly living looks like. First of all, it's pure, it's peaceable, it's gentle, it's open to reason. Full of mercy and good fruits. It's impartial, which means it doesn't play favorites. And it's sincere. The harvest of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace. And then one of the Beatitudes talks is about meekness, and we've already seen this in James. It's uh it's a wisdom book, and he gets A lot of the concepts, of course, from the Holy Spirit in a heavenly perspective, but from an earthly perspective, from Jesus teaching. From what he heard Jesus teach. Finally, number five, genuine belief knows what is right and also does what is right. This comes from four seventeen. So, whoever knows the right thing to do and fails to do it, for him it is sin. So he knows the right thing to do. That's great. Give him a round of applause. Knows the right thing and fails to do it, for him it is sin. Open defiance. Ongoing open defiance to a clear command of God that you know God's calls you to do this. She refuse to do it over and over and week after week after month after month, sometimes decades. It is sin. It is sin. We know what is the right thing to do and fail to do it. It is sin. James 2. 26. As the body apart from the spirit is dead, so also faith apart from works is dead. Next week we'll begin just with James 1. Two. The first specific topic he'll talk about is enduring trials. How to endure trials properly and to grow in our faith during trials, not to be diminished in faith, not to not to get discouraged, but to grow So enduring trials is the first specific situation or first specific topic he deals with. But every single topic that he deals with, the underlying foundation is the same. We're to be a people of faith and works