Let's pray together. Father, at this time we come under your word. We come under the authority of your word. We're mindful of the inspiration of your word and its sufficiency. To do your will in our lives, Father, we thank you for your word. We pray that you will use the preaching, that each one of us would receive the preaching through faith and by your grace. I pray that you would administer your word and your grace and power to our hearts and minds, our lives, for your name and for your glory. Help us to be cheerful listeners. Father, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen Well today we're in Ephesians 3, 20 to 21. We're starting a series on Ephesians, and we're starting in a hinge passage. Sort of a middle way in Ephesians 3, 20 to 21, and we're talking about God's glory in the church. God's glory in to be precise, in the local church. Although the point could be made for the church global, but we're talking about the local church because that's the context of Ephesians. And that's the overwhelming context of the New Testament. Ephesians 3, 20 to 21, God's glory in the church. We could either live for our glory or for the glory of God. But, brethren, we don't dabble in both worlds. We give ourselves over to the glory of God. We could live for our own name and for the spread of our own name, or we can live for God's name And for the spread of his name, for the fame of his name, for the worship of his name. But we can't have a foot in both waters We give ourselves over to the name of God, to the glory of God, and to the kingdom of God. We're not here to build our own kingdom. We're here to have a part in building the kingdom of God, which is only built by his word and by his spirit. Amen? And by God's grace, he's given us a part to join him in his great work. Well, I think that's plenty of time to give you to turn to the passage. So now let's read Ephesians 3, 20 to 21, and then we'll launch into the message, God's glory in the church. Now, to him who is able to do far more abundantly than all that we ask or think, according to the power at work within us. To him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. Amen. See this phrase, verse 21, to him be glory in the church. Now that's not all that it says, but don't miss that it says that. God's glory in the church. That's what we're contemplating this morning. God's purpose is to shine forth his glory in doing good to sinners. Isn't that amazing? Now that's not the only thing that God does to bring glory to himself, but that's the central thing. That's the ultimate thing. We're sinners. We've rebelled. And we've broken God's laws. We've all, like sheep, have gone where? We've all gone astray. And isn't it amazing? That the centerpiece of God's plan is to show forth his glory in doing good to us, in doing good to sinners. God 's purpose is to shine forth his glory by doing good to sinners. Part of that is gathering those sinners into local churches. and scatter local churches all over the world so that a grand manifestation of God's glory will overcome the world Because sinners have received the goodness of God in their lives. God's purpose is his glory shone forth primarily by doing good to sinners through Jesus Christ. And then, brothers and sisters, our purpose is just to get on board with God's purpose. Our purpose is to join God in His purpose. Our purpose is to believe To believe that God has been good to us. That God has been good to us with the supreme goodness of loving us through Jesus Christ, of forgiving our sins. Of saving us, delivering us from final judgment. Can you believe it, church? He has saved us, and he's given us the gift of eternal life. Now, why? Why has God done all this? For his glory. To shine forth his glory. That's his purpose. Now the idea of glory in Scripture. That's the different aspects to it. There's different ways the word can be used. Quickly run through some of these. And first of all, it can have the idea of a weightiness or a dignity. to something or a weightiness, certain kind of dignity to a person. Imagine if a powerful world leader walked into the room with an entourage of bodyguards and attendants, there would be a certain weight to that. It's not like when I walk into the room, that's no big deal. But there's a certain weight of dignity that there would be. That's a kind of glory. The idea of glory also has the idea of praise or honor, giving glory, giving praise, giving honor, recognizing achievement. Just picture thousands of people, tens of thousands of people applauding a great championship victory. They're glorying in the team. They're glorying in the victory. They're glorying in the championship. So weightiness or dignity, praise or honor. Another aspect or another layer of glory, and this is the one we're focusing on today, is the idea of beauty or radiance. Something's glory is just the shining forth of its beauty, the shining forth of its attributes. Think of the glory of its of a radiant sunset or the glory of the starry heavens. It's just the shining forth of what's wonderful about the sunset. What's beautiful about the starry sky. It's the shining forth. It's the radiant beauty. Of God in particular. The idea of glory is central to Christianity and therefore central to Christian living. We must grasp the glory of God. And, brothers and sisters, we must love the glory of God. Think of the church as a display case or as a curio cabinet. I know some of you have curio cabinets. If you don't know what a curio cabinet is, it's just a vertical display case Like a glass case that displays your collectibles, displays your figurines, or displays some kind of fine china, or displays some kind of models that you've made or collections that you've made. And think of the glory of God as this beautiful, precious gem that needs to be put on display because if it shines forth, its beauty, its radiance, and the church, think of as the curio capital. Think of the church as the display case where God's glory resides. To him be glory, where? To him be glory, verse 21. In the church. Do not underestimate the importance of the church or the significance of the church or the privilege, the heavenly privilege of belonging to a local church To him be glory in the church. Let the church be. The church is the curio cabinet. The display case. Through which and in which God shines forth his radiant beauty in a world of corruption and defilement and darkness. Here's the church. Here's the glory of God. That's where you see it. Now, a little bit about Ephesians. Just because this is the first message in the series, I want to give a little bit of background on the book of Ephesians, about the book itself and about the historical context. So for that reason, it'll be a little bit longer until I get into really the bulk and body of the message. But I want to give a little bit of background on the book of Ephesians. So chapters 1 to 3 is a heavy emphasis on Christian teaching or Christian doctrine, and that just means things that are true. The truth about God, the truth about Christ, the truth about Christians, the truth about the church. Chapters 1 to 3, heavy emphasis on teaching and Christian doctrine. Chapters 4 to 6 is a heavy emphasis on the application of that doctrine to life. Chapters 4 to 6 is a heavy emphasis on practical application, a heavy emphasis on Christian living. In the church and out in the world. So you have teaching or doctrine, and then you have the application of that doctrine to life, living for Christ in all areas of life. Now, right in the middle is our passage. Our passage functions sort of like a hinge. It's a doxology. It's a word of praise That's the hinge. It hinges over. It bridges over from the emphasis on doctrine to the emphasis on the practical application of that doctrine And I think there's a good illustration there. I think there's a good application there for what the Christian life is all about. It's all about growing in knowledge and true doctrine And it's all about living out that doctrine, but it all centers on what? It all centers on the glory of God. It all centers on worshiping God. So you have one to three doctrine. Primarily and heavily, not exclusively, and then you have four to six primarily and heavily practical application, and in the middle you have our passage. The doxology of 320-21. Ephesus was a major city. In the Roman Empire. It was the capital of the province of Asia. Don't think the whole continent of Asia in the modern world, but the Roman Empire was broken up into provinces. And one of those provinces you'll see it in the Bible is called Asia. It's also called Asia Minor if you do some reading about that. And it's essentially modern-day Turkey. And Ephesus is the capital of that province. This was a political hub. This was a center for trade, a center for travel, a center for idolatry and pagan worship. It was a center of darkness in the Roman Empire. Now, how did a church get to a place like that? Very simple formula. Missionaries brought the gospel. The gospel saved sinners. Boom. Church. Am I allowed to say boom church in the sermon? Missionaries brought the gospel. The gospel saved the sinners. Church. And that's how you get a church, the glory of God, in a city given over to pagan worship and idolatry. Now you had some true believers already there living under the old covenant, the Jews who had already been there, but in terms of the establishment of the church, the gospel needed To come. And then Jews got saved, Gentiles got saved, they are brought together in a church, and there you have it, the church. Paul had a brief visit to Ephesus in the year 52. And his second missionary journey journey, you can read about that in Acts 18. His major planting work, though His major church planning work, missionary work in Ephesus, was on his third missionary journey. You can read about that in Acts 19. Basically the years bridging from 53 to 56. Now, he writes Ephesians when he is on house arrest in Rome. Paul was in house arrest in Rome from Right around 60 to 62. And you can read about that in Acts 28. And Paul in the book of Ephesians is writing to first generation Christians. First generation church. Can you imagine? It's hard for us to picture that. Because for us, the church has just been around. Christians have been around. It's just been a part of the world, part of the culture, part of the country, part of how we grew up. But you didn't have that at this time. You had first generation Christians, first generation church, you had Jews and Gentiles brought together. Jews were coming out of old covenant service to God. And had to adjust and change for new covenant service to God. You had Gentiles coming out of pagan worship, completely alienated from God, brought together in the church. There's a lot of issues to deal with. There's doctrinal issues, there's practical issues, so you get one to three doctrinal emphasis, you get four to six, practical emphasis, but again, it all hinges on what? The glory of God. It all hinges on the worship of God. Now, with that background out of the way Got three P's for us. Is that cool? Is that easy? Three P's. First, I want us to ponder God's glory in the church. What does it mean? Put it in a nutshell. Ponder God's glory in the church, and then we'll look in our in our passage at the idea of God's power and the idea of God's purpose. Because To rightly understand God's glory in the church. Beloved, we have to understand his power at work within us. And we have to understand his purpose in all of it. And so first ponder, and then we'll look at God's power and purpose. You like the three P's? Would you say amen if you like the three P's? There you go. There's your roadmap. First of all, let's ponder God's glory in the church. This simply means that God displays his glory for us to behold it. That's it. He shows us something. Our goal is to see it. To see it and respond the right way. Let's ponder this idea. God shining forth his glory for us to behold it and respond in the right way. Verse 21A To him be glory in the church. Now, in a nutshell , And I say this because there's multiple facets to the way God shines forth his glory in the church. There's a lot of it, but I want to just put it in a nutshell. Like what's it right at the center of it? God's glory in the church is his display of his love. Power and wisdom. Are you with me so far on this? It's his display of his love, power, and wisdom by justifying By sanctifying and by glorifying undeserving sinners That's the summary. That's the nutshell. And if that's the only thing you take away, I'll be happy. I'm already happy. You'll confirm my happiness. God shines forth his glory in the church by putting on display his love, his power, and his wisdom by justifying Sanctifying and ultimately glorifying undeserving sinners. Church, are you glad about that? Amen. Thank you, Lord. Amen. Yes, brother In Christ, you are justified. In Christ, you are justified. That means you've been declared righteous in God's eyes. Because the guilt of your sin has been erased by the blood of Christ, and the righteousness of Christ has been credited to your account. Because you've been joined to Jesus by faith. In Christ you are justified. In Christ also, you have been sanctified and you are being sanctified That means you've been set apart by God and that you're being made into the likeness of Christ. You're being made more and more like Jesus by the work of the Spirit. You are justified in Christ. And you are sanctified in Christ. You have been sanctified by the new birth, by the Holy Spirit, giving you new life in Christ. That's your salvation. That's when you were born again. You came to faith. You looked to Christ in faith, you were saved, and you were sanctified, you were set apart. And there was a definitive break with the ruling power of sin in your heart. And sin is no longer your master, but Christ is your master. And God is your master. And you are fleeing from sin and you are pursuing holiness. Why? Because in Christ you are being sanctified. Man. What's the alternative? What's the what's the what's the grotesque Vile alternative. It's just to be a slave to sin and give ourselves to the corruption of the flesh the rest of our lives, perish the thought. We're being sanctified by the living presence of Christ in our hearts. And in Christ you will one day be glorified. In Christ you will one day be glorified. You will be risen with a body like unto Christ's. You'll dwell with him forever in glory. God 's display of his love, his power, his wisdom by justifying, sanctifying, and glorifying unworthy sinners. We are not worthy of these things, church. I'm not worthy to speak about these things. But because of God's word, I know they're true. And because of God's Spirit, I rejoice in them. God in you, believer , is putting on display his incomparable love. He has sought your good The creator of the universe, whom we have all sinned against, whom you have sinned against, has sought your good and has poured out goodness and kindness upon you. That's to display his love. He loves the unlovely. I'm really, really happy about that. Ephesians 2, 4 and 5. But God being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which he loved us. Even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive, together with Christ, by grace you've been saved. Great love with which He loved us. Even when we were dead in our trespasses, He made us alive together with Christ. Being saved is not slightly improving our lives. Being saved is not adding religion and religious feelings and experience to our lives. Being saved is we're alienated from God. Because of our sin. We're guilty before God because of our sin. Being saved is Jesus reconciles us to God. Jesus forgives us of our sins. Jesus gives us hope. Because of the great love with which he loved us. We've been made alive. We were dead in our trespasses. We've been made alive together with Christ. Being saved is not even being nursed back to health, it's being brought from death to life. It's not a a ship with a hole in it or a ship with a crack in it that's sinking and needs to be patched up and saved. No, the ship sunk. The ship is going to the bottom. The ship is rotted out. God is in supernatural heavenly power that we've like we've never seen in our lives until it happens. Brings the ship back to newness of life, more glorious than it's ever been before. That's salvation. It's not an improvement project, it's a resurrection, life-giving work of God. In you, Christian, God is displaying his incomparable love. He's also displaying his immeasurable power. Ephesians 1. 19, Paul wants us to know what is the immeasurable greatness of his power. Toward us who believe according to the working of his great might. It's Ephesians 1:19. I love these phrases. Immeasurable greatness of his power. It's a good phrase, right? Immeasurable greatness of his power. And then he also says the working of his great might. It's pretty good stuff. And if you're going to read the context at the end of Ephesians 1, it's talking about God's power toward us and God's power at work within us. And it's immeasurably great. It's immeasurably great. Christian, do you know that you are the curio cabinet? Do you know that you are part of God's display case on earth? to display his love, his power, and also his incredible wisdom. Ephesians 3:10. So that through the church The manifold wisdom of God might now be made known to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly places. Believe in God's love for you. And believe that you now, as a believer, are part of his display of love in the world Trust in God's power. Pray every day and cry out for God's power. And understand and remember that you're part of God's display of power in the world. And you also are part of God's display of His wisdom in the world. God has done good to sinners. Amen? God has done good to us, church. His purpose His purpose is to shine forth his glory by doing good to sinners. Then our purpose is to see that glory and respond in praise and worship. We ponder and never stop pondering God's display of glory in our lives and in our church. And now for his power Because to understand God's glory and to understand this passage, we have to understand God's power, and this is verse 20. Verse 20 is all about God's power. Now to him who is able to do far more abundantly than all that we ask or think, according to the power at work within us. You see how the idea of power just flies off the page when you read verse 20. God's power, summing it up, makes us more like Jesus There's different aspects of that. We'll get into some of those in a little bit. But that's the God's the purpose of God's power in us is to make us more like Jesus. And to grow us in our love for Jesus. And please remember that you are not meant only to behold God's glory. Now, are you meant to behold God's glory? Hopefully you've been paying attention and hopefully you say hardy. Yes. But you're not meant only to behold God's glory. Child of God, you are meant to become glorious yourself. Amen. Indeed. You're not meant only to see the glory of Jesus Christ. You are meant to come to reflect the glory of Jesus Christ in your heart, mind, word, and life So that you are a living, breathing part of God's grand display of his glory in a fallen world. You are not meant only to behold God's glory, but you yourself to become glorious. We are not to be churchgoers with no change in our lives. God is changing us in our lives, and we also gather in the church to worship and praise Him and to seek Him for His wisdom and His strength for what He's doing in our lives. And in this verse, verse twenty , we can see through a window into God 's power making us more like Christ. First we see his profound ability. His profound ability. Verse 20 begins now to him who is able to do. That's what ability is. It's being able to do something. It's having the skill. Having the proficiency. The picture is God can do this. We can't, but God can do this. And that's why this is a doxology to him to him who is able to do things in our lives that we would never be able to do on our own. We turn from sin on our own. We are in our way into heaven on our own. We pay the penalty of our sin. on our own and then live a another day and still be able to find a way into God's presence? His profound ability. But then also his profound goodness. His profound goodness. This is the second part of verse 20. He's able to do Far more abundantly than all that we ask for or think. Now that's not the way the flesh thinks, and that's not the way the world thinks. The flesh thinks God has never given me anything close to what I want. God's not good enough. God's not generous enough. He doesn't have enough power for me. He doesn't have enough willingness to show mercy for me. That is not the God of Scripture. That is not the God we worship. We worship a God who, and I quote , Is able to do far more abundantly than all that we what? All that we ask or think. His profound ability, his profound goodness Third, his personal presence. His personal presence. When we think of thinking about the power of God to make us like Jesus. His ability to do that, his goodness to do that in ways beyond what we've what we've prayed and what we could even think. Now we have his personal presence. The end of verse 20. He does this according to the power at work within us, which is the power of the Holy Spirit. That's the power of the indwelling Savior, Jesus Christ, this power at work within us. Now it would be one thing to be standing at the foot of Mount Sinai and to see the power of God above us. Right? And it's one thing to read Scripture and look back about the power of God that came before us. But, brothers and sisters, this is talking about something different. This is talking about the power of God within us. The power of God who spoke the universe into existence. The power of God at work within you. Can we even imagine, you know, we're so distracted by trivial things? We're so caught up and so infatuated, really, with things That are lesser than God, things that have no power to help us And here's God with infinite power and infinite love , infinite compassion for weak and pathetic sinners like me. To help us and to make us like Christ. Is there anything more glorious than Jesus Christ? And God is making us like Christ. And we give him the praise. So he says to him who is able to do far more abundantly than all we ask for or think, according to the power at work within us. Challenge you to every single day. For the rest of 2026, every single day, pray for God's power at work within you. Pray for more of it. Pray for the discernment to see it. Pray for a heart of gratitude and appreciation for it. Cry out for the experience of God's power because he is able to do far more abundantly than all that you ask or I ask or you think or I think. according to the power at work within us, which is the Holy Spirit. The experience of God's power requires the possession of the Holy Spirit. But the possession of the Holy Spirit requires being born again through faith in Christ. If you've not come to Christ, maybe you've been putting it off for one reason or another I don't know. I can think back in my life and I can say the reasons why I was putting it off. I don't know why maybe you're putting it off or resisting the drawing of God, but today, based on the sacrifice of Christ, In the place of sinners, you can look to Christ. You can believe. And when you look to Christ and believe, you experience what's called the new birth. It's called being born again When you look to Christ and believe, you receive the Holy Spirit, and then the rest of your life is just His grace and His power at work in your heart to make you more like Jesus. You can believe today. The experience of God's power requires the possession of the Holy Spirit, but the possession of the Holy Spirit requires being born again through faith in Christ. You can come to Christ today. and be saved. The campsite cannot be warmed unless the fire is kindled. The cabin will not have light until the lanterns are lit. And the power of Christ will not be experienced and cannot be experienced until the life of Christ dwells in your heart. You must believe in Jesus Christ and receive the Holy Spirit. Power. We cannot understand God's glory apart from God's power at work in us. His power at work in us to rip through these quickly just to give you some concrete examples of making us more like Christ. His power doing what? His power to what end? To grow in our love for God Do you want that? Growing our love for God. His power to help us grow in our love for others. Do you want that His power to help us grow in our love for others. His power to enable us to grieve our sin rather than love our sin His power to help us run from sin instead of run towards sin, which is the natural inclination of everyone. His power to help us pursue holiness, to desire holiness Which is unnatural. That's a gift of God's grace. And then to pursue holiness and to do it, as Scripture says, by His Word, by His Spirit, and by the work of His grace. Power to walk in the fear of God. To walk with a reverent, serious, and joyful Acknowledging of God's authority, and gladly submitting to God's authority. Now, is that counter-cultural or what? God's power enables us to walk in the fear of the Lord. Tell me if this one applies to you. His power to help us overcome temptation. And not give in. Instead of saying, Yes, I'll bite We say, God help me. Get me out of here. Only God's power. Only God's power. To grow in faith and to grow in repentance, as 2 Peter 3:18 would say, to grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. God's power. This is a great good towards sinners. God's glory in the church. God's glory by doing good to sinners, justifying us, sanctifying us, one day glorifying us. And now finally, his purpose, verse 21. We pondered God's glory. We've talked about one essential aspect of his glory, his power. And now we'll talk about his purpose. Verse 21. To him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. Amen. To be praised for his glory. God doesn't want just to display his glory. He wants his glory to be seen, and he wants to be praised for his glory. That's where we come in also to be to praise God, to worship God, to sing of his glory. This idea of finding purpose is an interesting idea. Out in the world, finding your purpose, the mindset would be go out and find your purpose somewhere in the world. Maybe in a job, maybe in a relationship, maybe in a an activity or accomplishment, but go out, find your purpose. Or in the world you could have the other idea is to find your purpose, look inside. Look inside yourself, peel the layers away, find your true self, live that out. That's your purpose. You don't need to peel the layers away. I'll tell you what's there. Sin. Okay? That's what's there. Natural rebellion against God, natural corruption of the flesh. To find our purpose, we come to God. To find our purpose, We don't have to invent it or find it out in the world or find it within ourselves. We come to God. We come to His Word. God, tell us what your purpose is. Now it's interesting here, the last phrase Throughout all generations, forever and ever. Now what this is talking about is this is this um To God be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus. That's God's purpose first in all of history. That's throughout all generations. Within history, this is his purpose, but then it says forever and ever. So that's also his purpose for all of eternity after history as we know it. It's not one purpose in history and then after history a different purpose. No, the same purpose. This has always been God's purpose from eternity past. He's been accomplishing it, accomplishing it from generation to generation. God's purpose always has been, is now, and always will be a display of his glory through Jesus Christ and through redeemed sinners in Jesus Christ, and that's called the church. That's why church is such a wonderful thing. Don't believe the world. Don't believe the lies of the flesh. Don't believe the distractions of the devil. Let's pour ourselves into being the church. The church of the glory of God in a fallen world. So his purpose throughout all generations, forever and ever. Now you'll notice that in this verse, the church and Jesus go together. And if you can grasp this point, you're doing really, really well in understanding what Christianity is all about. Why the church and why Jesus go together. That's just what it says. To him be glory in what? In the church and in Christ Jesus And the reason the church and Jesus go together is because the church and Jesus are one. Believer and Jesus. You are one. You have been united to Jesus. You have been joined to Jesus. And both of those words come from Paul. United from Romans 6 and joined to from 1 Corinthians 6. One with the Lord, 1 Corinthians 6. The church is the body of Christ. The purpose, the plan of God is to display his glory through the church and her Savior, Jesus Christ. To him be glory in the church. And in Christ Jesus. You can flip back a couple pages to Ephesians 1. 23, and you'll see where the church is called His body, the fullness of him. Isn't that cool? The church is his body, the fullness of him. And this is our final point, so please bear with me. Ephesians 1. 23, the church is his body, the fullness of him. What does the fullness of him mean? Means the church is where his spirit lives and where he is personally experienced. The church is the fullness of him It's where his mercy and kindness are most fully displayed, most clearly displayed. The church is the fullness of Christ. Think of it this way: your body is the fullness of you. If you were to run, that would be your body running. If you were to feel pain, that would be your body feeling pain. If you were to accomplish something, that would be your body accomplishing something. Your body is the fullness of you. It is you. You're one with your body. You can't get closer than that. Can't have a closer relationship than that. If you are gone from this room, that means what? Your body is gone from this room. You are the fullness of your body. Now, the church is Christ's body the fullness of him. It's where he is. It's where he lives. It's where he dwells. To love the church, you love Christ. To hate the church. It's to hate Christ. 1 John is a great book to get a refresher course on this. To abandon the church is to abandon Christ. To love each other in the church, to devote ourselves to the church, is to love Christ and devote ourselves to Christ. The church is his body, the fullness of him. Christ and the church are one. The believer and Christ is one. And so that's why they both are part of God's display of his glory in doing good to sinners. Now they we display the glory of God differently. He's the savior, we're the saved. He's the giver, we're the recipient. He's the sanctifier, we're the sanctified. He's the justifier, we're the justified. He's the glorifier, we're the glorified. But the glorifier and the glorified Both have an important part in displaying the glory. An armoire displays the glory of the carpenter, but the carpenter gets all the glory. You don't applaud the inanimate object. You applaud the craftsman, the masterpiece, oil painting. is part of the display of the glory and the skill, the proficiency of the artist. But the artist gets all the glory. But both have a part in the display of the glory. That's the church and that's Christ. Believe God's goodness for you. Believe that He's purpose to do good to you. To display his goodness in your life. To display his love, to display his power, to display his wisdom By justifying you in Christ, and by sanctifying you in Christ, and by one day glorifying you in Christ. And remember, as you believe those things, it's all about his glory. Be a curio cabinet. Or I would rather say this: just believe the fact that you are the curio cabinet. Church, you are. We are the display case of God's glory. His goodness, and he gets all the glory to him who is able to do far more abundantly than all that we ask or think According to the power at work within us, to him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. Amen. It's hard to find a good church today. Some of them are giving over to entertainment and they're attracting people that way. Some of them are given over to funds and enjoyable social groups and they're trying to attract people that way. Some are given over to just shallow self-help pep talks that don't really challenge the heart and don't preach the gospel and trying to attract people that way. None of those things is even close to what the Bible puts before us as church. We're to be a magnificent, supernatural display, the glory of God through the gospel of Jesus Christ. And if we can just keep our hearts grounded in that, we'll be on the right path for doing church the right way and for coming to church with the right spirit. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for Jesus. Thank you for your work in our hearts to make us more like him. It's in his name we pray. Amen.