Alright, new series on Matthew. Tonight I'm hoping will function as an introduction to the book of Matthew, but really it's an introduction to the whole New Testament. And a summary of New Testament doctrine or New Testament theology. Jesus is the Christ of Old Testament Promise. There's lots of promises of God in the Old Testament. They all center on the promise of a Savior, the promise of a Redeemer. All these promises of God Come together in this figure of the Christ, God's anointed, who will come and save his people and deliver God's people from their enemies and establish the eternal kingdom of God. And his kingdom will have no end. And Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John describe the story of John the Baptist. Heralding the arrival of Christ and then Jesus, the Christ, and his life, death, and resurrection. And then the rest of the New Testament interprets those things And applies those things for the world, for Israel, for Gentiles, for the lost, for the saved. Here's the gospel, here's what it means, and here's how it applies to our lives. Matthew one, verse one, the book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ. Son of David, the son of Abraham. Now, Lord willing, next week we'll look at verses two through fifteen. Or two through sixteen and look at the genealogy and the significance of that. But today, I just want to start with some choice verses. So let's read verse 1 again. Tells us what the book is about. The it the book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ. He's the son of David. He's the son of Abraham. We'll talk a lot tonight about this word, Christ. I don't think we're going to get to the son of David, and I'm sure we will not get to the son of Abraham. We might touch on the son of David We might not. But I don't want to rush through the material. Skim down to verse sixteen. And Jacob, the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom Jesus was born Alright, so verse one, Jesus Christ. Verse 16, Jesus was born, who is called Christ. Then verse 17. So all the generations from Abraham to David were fourteen generations, and from David to the deportation to Babylon, fourteen generations. And from the deportation to Babylon to the Christ, fourteen generations. And then verse eighteen now the birth of Jesus Christ took place in this way. And then it tells us The story from the birth to his death, resurrection, and ascension, right before the ascension, his giving of the grace Great commission to the apostles and to the church. Over and over again you get this word, Christ. If I had to choose I don't think I have to, but if I had to choose two foundational doctrines for everything else in church, everything else that we teach, everything else that we do, the two foundational doctrines would be what is our doctrine of scripture and what is our doctrine of Jesus the Christ. These are the two foundation stones. Probably could make an argument for the the ultimate foundation of Scripture. itself because that determines what we say and what we believe about Jesus the Christ. But well, the these two doctrines go together. The authority, the inspiration, and the sufficiency of the Word of God, Scripture, and Jesus as the Christ, the Son of God, capital S, Son of God We'll never receive Scripture the way we ought to or try to apply Scripture the way we ought to unless we submit to Jesus as Christ. Right? We'll never do that Um we'll always reject it, we'll or we'll twist it or we'll misapply it. We must submit ourselves to Jesus as our Lord and as our Savior as the Christ. But we'll never submit to Jesus as Christ or Even know what that means, apart from Scripture. So these two things go together. God's Word, and then the centerpiece, chief doctrine of that word, Jesus the Christ. Letter A. Well, let's start at Roman numeral one. Read through. For those who do not come to my class often because you're in choir or for some other reason, when I know I have enough material for 18 classes I try to put it in on a sheet so that I don't take forever. This helps me go through and cover some more ground without going off on a miniature sermon about every point like I just did that Roman numeral one, the purpose of Matthew's gospel is to prove that Jesus is the promised Christ from the Old Testament and to explain what that means for both Israel and and the nations. And you'll see, and you already know the story, there's a lot of conflict between Jesus and the religious leaders, between Jesus and the apostles And the apostles against uh the mass of Jews, specifically the leaders, the Pharisees, the Sadducees, the Herodians. Um And there's a conflicting interpretation of Scripture, there's a conflicting understanding of the kingdom of God, there's a conflicting understanding of the Christ. And what we get in Matthew's gospel is proving that what the Old Testament's promised and prophesied to Christ and the kingdom He would set up is fulfilled in Christ. Not postponed. It's not a failed attempt to be the Christ or to establish the king of kingdom of God. It's not a change in God's original plan because it didn't Go quite right. Jesus comes, he is the Christ, and he establishes the kingdom of God. Letter A: Christ is not Jesus' name or his last name, but his office. It's his office. In the Old Testament, you had some who served in the office of prophet, or the office of priest, or the office of king. Um there now there's the office of pastor, the office of deacon in the nation, there's office of president, office of vice president, different offices of leadership and authority. This is what Christ is. Letter B, it means anointed. And that's just a straightforward literal meaning, anointed or anointed one. Which refers in the context of scripture that refers specifically to God 's consecrated and anointed king The Hebrew word transliterated into English would be Messiah, and the Greek word transliterated into English. would be Christ. Transliterated is it's different than a translation. A translation is anointed. It's the meaning of the word. Transliteration is just taking the letters from one language language and then transferring them into another language as best you can. Like baptism is a transliteration of the Greek word baptizzo. It's not a translation which would be to immerse. So we hear a lot about these words around Christmas time usually Messiah, Christ, anointed. Letter C That Jesus is the Christ is the basis of apostolic preaching. This is one of my favorite motifs in Acts. If you haven't read Acts lately, go go home and start reading it tonight, and I guarantee you that you would you would have forgotten the amount of rich motifs, theological motifs, um motifs of prayer, of the importance of hearing the word of God all throughout. And one of the things over and over and over again in the book of Acts. Is this burden on the Apostles' heart and the apostolic teaching ministry in general? This burden to prove to absolutely prove and persuade and publicly display that the Old Testament is fulfilled in Jesus who is the Christ. Over and over again. Here's some verses. Acts 2. 36, let all the house of Israel therefore know for certain that God has made him, both Lord and Christ, this Jesus Christ. whom you crucified. Acts three eighteen. But what God foretold by the mouth of all the prophets that his Christ would suffer, he thus fulfilled. So what was foretold from this verse? Not everything that was foretold, but from this verse, what was foretold by the mouth of all the prophets? Christ would suffer. Jesus fulfilled that. Acts 2. 34 or Acts 3. 24 is later in that same section It uh doesn't use the word Christ, but it's almost the summary statement of the theology behind it. And all the prophets who have spoken. From Samuel and those who came after him. So that involves not just the writing prophets that we have in Scripture, but just the speaking prophets before that in the earlier history of Israel All of those prophets also proclaimed these days. What days are those? Those are the church days. The days of Christ's coming to establish the kingdom. and to establish the church. The prophets foretold and proclaimed these days. Acts 92, moving later on in the book, looking at Saul Saul increased all the more in strength and confounded the Jews who lived in Damascus by proving that Jesus was the Christ. And you know Paul's MO. He persuaded and he proved from the scriptures, over and over and over again. From the scriptures. And so he's using the Old Testament scriptures to prove that Jesus is the Christ. Acts 18. 5, when Silas and Timothy arrived from Macedonia, Paul was occupied with the word, testifying to the Jews. That the Christ was Jesus. I like that when it flips the order around. You have this Christ in the Old Testament. That Christ is Jesus. And when he's preaching Jesus, this Jesus whom we're preaching is the Christ. He can go in either direction with the argument. eighteen twenty eight, where he powerfully refuted the Jews in public, showing by the scriptures that the Christ was Jesus. Is this not clear enough for you? And this is just a sample But this is how the church was started on earth. The New Testament had not been written or fully formed. As you move through the narrative in Acts, at points Paul would have already begun to write letters and send letters, but they certainly wouldn't have been circulated. But they're using the Old Testament scriptures, using the interpretive lens that they learned from Jesus Preaching the fulfillment of those things in Jesus. That these Old Testament things, Old Covenant things, are fulfilled in Him, in Christ and His completed work. There's continuity. Continuity. It's a new stage in the story, but it's not a new story. And then letter D. That Jesus is the Christ is the central confession of our faith. Of course that makes perfectly that makes perfect sense. If the basis of apostolic preaching and teaching is Jesus Jesus is the Christ, of course, the central confession of our faith will be Jesus is the Christ, or Jesus Christ is Lord. Um Romans ten nine, again just a just a sampling here. Because if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and Believe in your hearts that God raised him from the dead, you'll be saved. First Corinthians twelve, three. Therefore, I want you to understand that no one speaking in the Spirit of God ever says Jesus is a curse. Uh and no one can say Jesus is Lord except in the Holy Spirit. Second Corinthians four five for we proclaim, for what we proclaim is not ourselves, but Jesus Jesus Christ as Lord with ourselves as your servants for Jesus' sake. Go back up to Acts two thirty eight, right under letter C. Let all the house of Israel therefore know for certain that God has made him both Lord and Christ. There's uh different names and different titles for Jesus. Jesus Christ our Lord, Jesus our Lord and Savior. Just different ways you could say it. Jesus the Christ, the Son of God. We haven't even mentioned that So there's different ways you could say it. But this identity of Jesus and fulfilling the promises of God in the Old Testament, which center on the Christ. And that the point is this comes to the foreground immediately in Matthew Matthew is going to explain, not primary, not only for Jews, but primarily writing and appealing to a Jewish audience, primarily, not exclusively. Because your audience doesn't change the the meaning of the message of what you're communicating. Just maybe a l a little bit different way of how you communicate it. But he's going to explain primarily, though not exclusively, to Jews that the Messiah, the Christ they've been waiting for, has come. His name is Jesus, and here's how we know. Through through his life, death, resurrection, and ascension, proving it from Scripture. Jesus is the Messiah, he's the Jewish Messiah, the Christ Alright, now we're gonna move away from that outline to look at some things that are not on your outline about What does the Old Testament say about the Christ? Because if Jesus is the fulfillment of that, if Jesus is that, we want to know. We want to go to the Old Testament and see What does the Old Testament say? What does the Old Testament promise? Um but before that, any questions so far? Any Tom. Yeah, I I guess growing up I used to think that Christ was the last one. That was Joseph. Even though but but did they greet each other? I mean if you if if you went to the synagogue, did you greet someone as as Christ or No, was that a greeting? As Christ? I don't know. No, you teachers there that you would not Christ. No That would have been reserved. I mean for Old Testament kings, they would have been called and were called God's anointed Um but that was that they were an earthly shadow or a type of Christ's kingdom. So Um anyone else. All right. So Let's do it. Not all of them, but a sampling. Turn let's turn to 1 Samuel 210 So get your fingers warmed up. We're going to do some flipping. Keep your ribbon in Matthew. If we go back there, we'll be able to get there quickly. 1 Samuel 210 Now remember what was the apostolic teaching? All that the prophets said, all the prophets And all that the prophet said pointed to and promised the Christ and his suffering, which obviously is shorthand for his redemptive suffering. First Samuel two ten. The first use of this word in scripture The adversaries of the Lord shall be broken to pieces. Against them he will thunder in heaven. The Lord will judge the ends of the earth He will give strength to his king and exalt the horn of his anointed. The Christ is going to be the one through whom God will subdue all of his enemies and through whom God will judge the earth. That's right. First. The Christ is God's king. The Christ is God's representative king representative king over God's kingdom. He will reign on God's behalf. But Christ is the one through whom God will come and subdue all of his enemies. It's the one through whom God will judge the earth. The Christ. He reigns as king on God's behalf. And this is exactly what Jesus does. He's the one who subdues our enemies. He's the one who frees us from sin. He's the one who frees us um from death. And in the Great Commission, He's the one who who subdues His enemies by um taking the gospel and the kingdom of salvation to So this is the Christ. Simple point. Simple and central point of the Old Testament is God is king. Sometimes we forget that. It's not wrong to put the emphasis on God as Savior. That's the ultimate revelation of God. But that doesn't make sense until we first understand that God is King. God is the creator, King. Who rules over all things. It's his world. He has rights on everything, as a favorite preacher of mine and close friend of mine always says, God has rights on everything One of our great sins, or our great sin, is we act like we have rights on everything. God is the creator, king, who rules over everything. He's a lawgiver. And he's the judge. This is God. And though we've rebelled against him and violated his law and are condemned under his righteous judgment, God also comes as Savior. And he reveals himself as Savior and He saves us through Christ. But first God is King. God is King who his throne is in heaven. He reigns over all things in heaven. He reigns over all things in earth Simple point, straightforward, central point of the Old Testament. Now in the New Testament, that doesn't change but for one thing. God is still king over all things, but now his kingship or his his sovereign reign is mediated through the incarnate and ascended. Christ. This now is Christian worldview. God's still King over all things. He still has rights on everything. He's still sovereign over all nations. Israel, every nation, every tribe, every person, every government, God is sovereign, ruler, lawgiver, and judge over all things. But that reign is now mediated through the incarnate and ascended Christ who has made purification for sins, but's been seated at the right hand of God the Father. So God as King is really the story of the Bible I mean, there's more to it than that, but God is king over his creation, he's also Savior. And the Christ is the one through whom God will subdue all of his enemies and judge the earth. Now, if that's all we learn and all we remember about Christ, that'd be a really, really, really good starting point. You see what God is doing in the world to save people from darkness. That's the work of the Christ. That's God subduing his enemies. And saving sinners, snatching sinners from the kingdom of darkness, bringing them into the kingdom of Christ for his name and for his glory. He subdues his enemies, and Christ will return and judge the earth He will judge the earth in righteousness. But there's more to it because of how the story works out. Turn to 1 Samuel 10, 1 And you notice where we are in Scripture is the transition from the time of the judges to the time of the kings. And so as you get to this point in Scripture and in Israel's history, the theology of the Christ Christ the King starts to take shape. And all of God's promises of redemption come to center on the Christ, the coming Christ. Which is why the apostolic teaching centers on that. What did I say? First Samuel ten one. Then Samuel took a flask of oil and poured it on his head and kissed him and said, Has not the Lord anointed You to be prince over his people Israel, and you shall reign over the people of the Lord, and you will save them from the hand of their surrounding enemies And this will be a sign to you that the Lord has anointed you to be prince over his heritage. You see in there the idea of deliverance from enemies already? We s we said that in the first point, subduing God's enemies. Um this word anointed. Um in verse one, the Lord anointed you And then again later on, it's a huge verse. Um a sign to you that the Lord has anointed you to be prince, prince over his heritage. If you want to look up to chapter nine, verse sixteen, what Which for me it's on the same page. For you it might be the page before, 916. Tomorrow, about this time, I will send you to a man From the land of Benjamin, and you shall anoint him to be prince over my people, Israel. So the anointed one is chosen by God, set apart and consecrated by God and for God, and anointed by God. And even if we didn't have this verse, we would already know from the context that the Christ um will come from and he will begin his reign in Israel. Now this goes back to the promises to Abraham. And that's what Matthew opened up saying, uh son of David, son of Abraham. Abraham has promised lots of things, but they all can be summarized in this. Abraham has promised that from him a nation would come, and then from that nation a savior of the world would come. That's an easy framework to memorize God's promise to Abraham. Abraham, from you a great nation will come. From that nation, a great Savior will come. And then from that savior, Savior of the world, a savior of the world will come. From that savior, a multitude of true offspring, which would be believers. But the Christ Would not be a Philistine, he would not be an Ammonite, he would not be from the land of uh Egypt or Cush or Assyria or Babylon. The Christ would come from Israel and he would begin his reign in Israel. Israel. Christ, and this is what Jesus did. He established his kingdom from within Israel. He was born under the law. The old covenant law. So this is not a statement about the kind of kingdom that the Christ would set up. And you see this is maybe the heart of the conflict between Jesus and the Pharisees. They wanted to re-establish the old covenant earthly kingdom. That's not the spiritual last days kingdom that Jesus came to set up. The old covenant, earthly kingdom of Israel, which was the kingdom of God under the old covenant. was a foreshadow and was a type of the kingdom of Christ, the kingdom of redemption, the eternal kingdom of redemption. So when we say the kingdom or the Christ comes from Israel and begins his reign in Israel That's not saying it's going to be the same kind of earthly old covenant kingdom. It's a new covenant kingdom. And it's not a statement about excluding Gentiles Gentiles are grafted into the kingdom once it's established through the faithful remnant of Jews. Alright, so we have two things so far. Are you memorizing these for the test next week? The Christ is the one through whom God will subdue all of his enemies. I'm happy about that. I'm happy about God subduing his enemies. Enemies on earth. Otherwise, the world is just given over to unhinged wickedness and immorality, and we individually are just given over unto those things too, with no Savior. So God is subduing his enemies. And he'll judge the earth. He's doing that through Jesus the Christ. Um comes from and begins his reign in Israel Now I'm just gonna give you some ver some verses. There's a ton there's a ton of verses on these. I'm just gonna give you three of them. We're not going to turn to any of them or really talk about this. But these promises that were just summarized of the Christ, they're all foreshadowed and typified in the earthly kings of Israel. Israel. So first, if you want to write these down, first Samuel sixteen thirteen, sixteen, thirteen, and then first Samuel twenty-four six 1 Samuel 26, 9. And you could also from there just follow out your footnotes or your marginal notes to some other verses. But the earthly kings in Israel were shadows, types and shadows of Christ and his work, just like The Levitical priests in Israel were types and shadows of Christ and his priesthood and his truly saving ministry. Just like sacrificial lambs in Israel were types and shadows of Christ, the Passover lamb. Just like the temple was a type and shadow of Christ, the true dwelling place of God on earth, and then his church, the dwelling place of the of the Spirit of God. Christ. Now we get to probab uh John, is this my favorite point? You'll tell me. If you come on Wednesday, you know this is one of my favorite points. I think it's neglected today. I think this is neglected today in in uh just a common, everyday Christian worldview. Um The Christ will have a kingdom over all the earth. Over all the earth. His kingdom will spread over all the earth. Despite the best efforts of the kingdoms of God. And if you're in my Daniel class, you know what chapter I'm going to reference. Daniel chapter what with the stone. Jan Daniel chapter two. You have the wicked, ever sprawling kingdoms of man Babylon, Medes and Persians. Um Greeks and Romans, and but then in that in those days God will set up his kingdom that will start as uh a stone that destroys the kingdoms of man And they're scattered like dust on the wind. And then that stone that represents the kingdom of God will turn into a mountain. And then the mountain, what happens to the mountain? It grows that covers the whole earth. Think of the kingdom parables. The kingdom starts in obscurity, very tiny like a mustard seed. And then it grows to a sapling and then dies, right? No, it grows in the parable to be the largest tree in the garden. That's a parable, that's a metaphor for the kingdom of God is the dominant, ever-sprawling kingdom on earth. The church age has borne this out the spread, the unstoppable spread of the kingdom of Christ because of the power of the gospel. Certainly not because of the power of Christians. Or the power of pastors, or how good we've been, but the power of the gospel, Christ's kingdom will be over all the earth. And we know this is This is um going to be the case in Revelation when we get visions and glimpses to the completed and glorified church. You have people from every People, tribe, nation, and tongue in that church, in the completed church. So we know the kingdom of Christ in this age will continue to spread and cover the earth. And I didn't even have these verses um in the study tonight talking about the promising and prophesying that the knowledge of the glory of the Lord will cover the earth as the waters cover the sea. And I've asked this before, how do the waters cover the sea Sper uh bits and pieces here and there. Completely, completely, pervasively Psalm two. Here we go. Now let's have some fun in the one of the royal psalms. Psalm two. So I am an optimism. Not an optimist as regarding the uh the uh efforts of man in the kingdom of kingdoms of the world and the kingdom of Satan. I am an optimist as pertaining to what God is doing through Christ in his kingdom society save souls. And I believe that's biblical. And uh I'm I'm against pessimism. Uh I don't want to be like the ten spies. I want to be like Joshua and Caleb I don't want to look at the outward appearance. I want to look at what has God promised to do. And then put put My faith in that. I don't want to be like the cowering Israelites. We want to have that spirit of David. Um, David didn't believe that he was stronger than Goliath. David didn't believe he was a a better warrior than Goliath. David believed in God. And we need to believe in the power of the gospel and believe in God's promise that He is Going to grow his kingdom from a stone to a mountain that fills the earth. Psalm two. Why do the nations rage And the peoples plot in vain. The kings of the earth set themselves And the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed, saying, Let us burst their bonds apart and cast away their cords from us. So the Lord reigns and his anointed reigns. And now what are the are the leaders of the world uh excited about that? Are they ready to get on board? No, put this in your own words. Verse 3, let us burst their bonds apart and cast their cords away from us. What does that mean? in just in your own words or in our own our own our cultural expression, how what are they saying there? Let's kill 'em, let's get rid of them We must get out from their authority. This is what it's saying. Break their authority. We don't want you to have the authority over us. That's right. Get rid of God. That's the impulse of sin, right? Verse 4, He who sits in the heavens laughs, and the Lord holds them in derision. Then he will speak to them in his wrath and terrify them in his fury, saying, As for me I have set my king on Zion, my holy hill. I will tell of the decree. The Lord said to me, You are my son. Today I have begotten you. Now in the New Testament that's referenced as being fulfilled in the do you remember? Starts with an A. The ascension. That's right. And when Christ is installed. At the right hand of God. And then he says this, ask of me, it's Father talking to the Son, ask of me, and I'll make the nations your heritage. Not just Israel is heritage, the nations your heritage. They're going to belong to you. The ends of the earth your possession. You shall break them with a rod of iron, dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel. Um obviously those are metaphors , prophetic metaphors, that um he'll be the dominant power. And The kings of the earth and the rulers that try to stop the Lord and his anointed from spreading their kingdom will not be successful. Verse 10. Now therefore, O kings, be wise, be warned, O rulers of the earth. Serve the Lord with fear and rejoice with trembling. This is a call to repentance Kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and you perish in the way, for his wrath is quickly kindled. Blessed are all who take refuge in him. Now go all the way to Acts four, all the way forward to Acts four. So understanding of that psalm and how we should understand it. And when they heard it, they lifted their voices together and uh to God and said, Sovereign Lord Who made the heaven and the earth and the sea and everything in them, who through the mouth of David, our father, your servant, said by the Holy Spirit, Why did the Gentiles rage and the peoples plot in vain? The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers were gathered together against the Lord and against his anointing. So now he gives the passage, Psalm 2, 1 and 2, but notice that the sentence doesn't end. He's going to now say how that was fulfilled. For truly in this city they were gathered together against your holy servant Jesus Whom you anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, along with the Gentiles and the people of Israel, to do whatever your hand and your plan had predestined to take place. And now, Lord, look upon the their threats and grant to your servants to continue To speak your word with all boldness, while you stretch out your hand to heal, and signs and wonders are performed through the name of your holy servant. Jesus. The royal psalm of the rulers of the world, the rulers of earth, setting themselves against God and his anointed. Yet they can't stop God from setting up his kingdom. It's fulfilled in the first coming of Christ. That's not something we're waiting for to be fulfilled. That's already happened, and it continues to happen as the kingdoms of man set themselves against Christ's body, also called the church. So this is what persecution is. We see persecution in the world, we see it in our own nation. Um world leaders waging war as it were against the church, persecuting the church. They're setting themselves against God and his anointed, who now have set up their kingdom. Of redemption in the church. Psalm two, fulfilled in the first coming of Christ. Um I have two more of these Psalms. Any questions so far on this? I wanna I'm purposely going slow because I think this is an overlooked doctrine. Christ as King and his kingdom growing in this age Successfully and fully. Wanna make sure we get this. What's that? Look at the scriptures. You know, it it goes from from the beginning of God taking the issue of life says a chosen people, and then they give them the judges which gets them out of all the trouble, then they give them kings which get them out of all the trouble. And then the Jesus comes alone It's a real progression of what the world is today, I think. Over and over again. Um you mean cycles of of rebellion and and apostasy? of of rebellion, but God putting something into place and man ruins it. Yeah. Well, I I would just qualify what we mean by ruin. Like we don't stop we our blunders don't stop God from doing what The difference I would say in the church age is that this is a kingdom that will never be defeated and that its growth cannot be stopped. So this is the eschatological kingdom. So everything was lead, you're right about the progression. One era from one era leading to the next. But this is the kingdom. And it's not yet reached its full final form yet. The church has not been completed. The church has not been glorified. Christ has not returned. I'll be Obviously, but there's no other stage past this in this age. This is it. This is the kingdom of God. Show us these stages that he goes through before he gets to the right stage that's finally the the final thing. It's like, okay, so he's teaching us all of this in some way, shape, or form. And we should get it And particularly now in the entire. There's there's a different purpose, a different teaching purpose um to all those stages, absolutely. Yeah. Um anyone else? Yeah, it's a good point about interpretation that John 's bringing up. There's a progression to the story. It's a unified whole that moves from point A to point B in different stages. Psalm 18. Let's go back. We're going back and forth here. Psalm Eighteen. Pretty big psalm. There's a great title to it. The Lord is my fortress. This is my rock and my fortress. That's the added title by the translators. But I think it's a good title. The Lord is my rock and my fortress. And then look at verse 1. It's a great verse. I love you, O Lord, my strength. But we're here to look at verse forty-five through fifty. Psalm eighteen, verse forty -five through fifty Foreigners lost heart and came trembling out of their fortresses. The Lord lives, and blessed be my rock, and exalted be the God of my salvation. So here you have again God coming to save his people, subdue his enemies. Enemies save his people, subdue his enemies, bring them to judgment, and save his people, deliver his people. Yes, you exalted me above those who rose against me. You rescued me from the man of Violence. For this I will praise you, O Lord. Here you go. Listen to this. Among the nations. I keep this forty-nine and fifty. on the back burner. For this I will praise you, O Lord, among the nations, and sing to your name. Great salvation he brings to his king and shows steadfast love to his anointed, or his Christ, to David and his offspring for Alright, now quickly, Romans 15, 8 and 9. Paul writes of the fulfillment of this. Romans 15 Eight and nine. The fulfillment of this is Christ's first coming, establishing his kingdom. In in Israel to the Jew first, but then also to the Gentile, grafting in Gentiles to this great work of deliverance. Romans fifteen, verse eight, for I tell you that Christ became a servant to the circumcision. To show God's truthfulness in order to confirm the promises given to the patriarch And in order that the Gentiles might glorify God for his mercy. As it is written, therefore I will praise you among the Gentiles. And sing to your name. That's the verse from Psalm 1849. So that psalm, it's about God delivering his people from their enemies, subduing his enemies, establishing his kingdom through his Christ is fulfilled in Jesus. Specifically in Jesus, as life, death, resurrection, and ascension. And bringing salvation to the Gentiles. So promises given to Israel and they are fulfilled in and through Israel, but then Gentiles are grafted in So we're not waiting for all these promises of a Christ or of a coming kingdom. We're not waiting for them. They're not yet future because they were only given to Israel. No, they're given to Israel. Israel. They're fulfilled in Israel first, and then the mystery of the gospel, part of the mystery of the gospel, is that Gentiles are made fellow heirs, fellow heirs of these promises Um and I'll just give you for homework Psalm one ten. One and two, which is referenced quite often in the New Testament, but really all of Psalm one ten. If you have a study Bible, read out your study notes to Psalm one ten. Look at all your marginal references and you'll find this is the most quoted, the most referenced Old Testament verse in the New Testament. Testament. Psalm 110. It's another royal psalm. And and um cannot understand the uh the the work of Christ of the kingdom of Christ. Christ apart from these Psalms and apart from the New Testament interpretation of these Psalms. Alright so there's my little side study on the word Christ. As I was thinking about it and getting ready for this class, I thought, you know what, I've never I've never heard a sermon or never heard a Bible class simply on the word Christ. And that's incredible to me. It's such an important word. I mean I've heard them on other things, Savior, Son of God, different things, but never on this word, Christ. And specific promises in the Old Testament that that give the definition of what's being waited for. And I said go into the Old Testament and see these to show descriptions of the Christ and what he'll accomplish, and then I go to the New Testament and find that they're referenced and is fulfilled in Christ and his first coming and establishing of the church. It's rich, rich stuff. And it's all in It 's all in the scripture. Alright, let's get back to the sheet and let's see. I think we'll be able to get through, although you'll have more homework. Alright, Jesus' name is It's the easiest question ever. Jesus. Yeah, Joshua. Yes. Yes, and uh a Hebrew uh way of saying it would be. One of the Hebrew ways of saying it would be Joshua. Another way would be Isaiah. Uh which means Yahweh saves or Yahweh is salvation, so the Lord saves or the Lord is salvation. Later in Matthew one, we'll have a study on that. Matthew one twenty is where we find that. Go to Roman numeral three. As the Christ, Jesus is the Son of David. Okay, so we we will touch on this a little bit Son of David. Now this man is a rich, rich, rich study. Um this means that Jesus is the heir of God's covenant promised to David. Covenant promises to David. Should we review the biblical covenants, see if we can get them all? I'll give you the first one. The covenant in creation, also known as the covenant of works or the covenant Covenant, the Edenic covenant. Alright, and then Adam and Eve, faithful to that covenant or violate that covenant? Violate. What's what's the next covenant? Noah is next. Yeah. And then the Next covenant? Abram, Abraham, that's right. Um and then after that, the next one Yeah, we'll accept Moses, because he's the covenant mediator, more broadly speaking. Covenant with Israel. Yeah, Israel. Uh thank you. Um Now there's one that's often left out before we get to David. Let's see if anyone gets it. Well I'll get you a giant three foot wide gold star. It's another there's another covenant that's spoken of in scripture. I'll give you a hint, it's within the covenant to Israel. No. His covenant with Levi. Go home and do a Google search for covenant with Levi. So it's the priesthood. as a covenant. And that wasn't with all of Israel. That was with one tribe. That was with Levi. And um that came up in the sermon this past Sunday Sunday when there's a pr another priest arises. Not from that tribe, it's from the tribe of Judah, but that's good because it's a better priesthood. And a better priest than them better offering. And then we come to the covenant with David, and then obviously ultimately get ultimately we get to the new covenant. the new covenant. And also if you go to read or listen to an actual, you know, bona fide lecture on the covenants Not this little spiel that I'm giving. You'll hear something about the uh you know the eternal covenant of redemption, which is a way of talking about God's eternal purpose. And uh all these historical covenants are just God's way of working So Noah, Abraham, Israel, concludes his covenant, the Mosaic Law and his covenant with Levi, the law of the priesthood. The covenant with David. Jesus is the heir of his pro his promise, covenant promise to David. What promise? Number one, the promise to establish an eternal kingdom from within Israel Israel that will bring victory over all God's enemies. Now here's your homework. I'm just going to give you these homework number two and three. And then It's up to you if you want to study those or not. So the actual covenant itself. God's covenant promise to David is 2 Samuel 7, 8-16. Very important passage. So you can just read through there and look at the different elements of it and keep in mind there'll be a short term fulfillment in Solomon, but then a a last day's fulfillment in ultimate But in that you still get the main elements. It's gonna be an eternal kingdom and bring victory. And then after you read that, look at that covenant, you can go to the first sermon ever preached in the church era in Acts chapter 2. And it is a major, major point that Christ rose from the dead and was ascended to the right hand of God. And Peter preaches that As the fulfillment of God's promise to sit one of David's heirs on David's throne. David's throne on earth, or David's rule on earth, was a type and shadow of Christ reigning at the right hand of God. So that covenant promise that was given in type and shadow is fulfilled in the ascension of Christ. That's Peter's theology. That's not Well it is me, but I got it from Peter. We got it from the Holy Spirit. So I think we're good. So the covenant itself, the actual Davidic covenant, second Samuel seven, eight you see sixteen. And then one of the one of the passages, I think the main and clearest passage of fulfillment in Christ's first coming and establishing the church is Acts 2. And the most important pat verses would be 24 to 36. Then David's tent or David's house, you would go to Amos 9, 11, and 12 for that promise. God is going to restore and rebuild David's house. In Acts 15, James preaches that the fulfillment of that promise is the bringing in of the Gentiles The bringing of salvation to the Gentiles is the fulfillment, the historical fulfillment of God re-establishing and rebuilding David's tent or David's house. So the promise is given in the form of type and shadow, but in these last days it's fulfilled in the eternal kingdom in Christ. We don't understand how the New Testament interprets those Old Testament promises and prophecies. We'll don't want to be overly dramatic here, but we'll have the same hermit. And that's not what the f age of fulfillment looks like. the thing is. The age of fulfillment takes earthly forms and shadows and types and brings the reality that they pointed to and that they symbolized. in Christ. Christ's kingdom is not an earthly kingdom, but it is a spiritual kingdom. It's a kingdom of redemption. We are not a kingdom under law, under the administration or stewardship of the law. We're under grace. And It's a co it's a different, different kind of kingdom than what the world knows anything about. But it is the dominant power on earth. There's nothing more powerful on earth than the gospel of Jesus Christ So we don't need to be afraid of sharing it with our friends or preaching it in church or teaching it teaching it in a Bible study that you have at work or with your family. Uh it is the thing that changes the human heart too And isn't that what we want? Isn't that what we want for ourselves? To hate sin, hate our own sin more and more and love God more and more. We want that for others too. Well that's the kingdom coming. All right, let's go ahead and pray.