The words we'll examine tonight come out of John chapter twenty, verses eleven through twenty-five. My goal over the next few weeks is To take us through the time period from the resurrection of Christ to the ascension of Christ. And using this just church calendar, historical calendar of we celebrate Easter and so quickly it's easy to to move on and and to get back to you know or where we were at right before Easter Or just get back to the old way of life. But let us take a moment in the sermon series of looking at what happened from the resurrection to the ascension. Of Christ. Very common stories we probably all have heard multiple times, stories that we're familiar with, but I want us to take just special attention To them, focusing in on the life of Christ post-resurrection, and then pointing our hearts to ascension and and looking to what happened at ascension. And then looking at Pentecost. So we'll take the season of doing that. But before we begin, often when we think about the resurrection of Christ, Sir, right? It's a big celebration. And it should be for us. We should be overly joyous. We should celebrate the resurrection of Jesus Christ. I mean, we talked about it last week on Easter, how it brings us hope. It it gives us the promise of resurrection. We look to glory. We know that we will we too will be resurrected. Right? It shows that our sin is defeated. I mean there's so many beautiful truths and important things we must reflect on when we talk about the resurrection. of Jesus and the celebration of Easter. It is good that we are happy during Easter. Alright, so just hear me. I'm not saying what I'm about to say next. I'm not trying to defeat that. No, we should be overly joyous and celebrated on Easter Sunday. But let us try to remember the situation that Jesus' followers found themselves on on Easter morning. When Jesus rose from the dead, where were their minds at? What was their condition? What was happening around them? And strangely enough, we'll see in the beginning of our story, there wasn't this overly excitement when they saw that the tomb was empty. They weren't, oh yeah, this is all fulfilled. We now all understand it. It's so clear what Jesus was talking about. Rather, we see quite the opposite. We see Fear, uncertainty, sorrow. And we'll see later on in our story in the narrative that the disciples they were really afraid of the enemies That the persecution was going to continue. If they were able to take the leader of this movement, if they were able to take Jesus and kill him, well, they're absolutely going to be able to take us as well. and kill us. And this fear is is taken over them. We'll see Mary's situation. She recognizes that the tomb is empty and she's not jumping with joy, but she is very sorrowful. She's weeping. She's sad about this. Her l her her Jesus is gone. And there's this at this moment she doesn't quite understand That he has rose from the dead, she just believes that his body has been taken. It's been removed. It's been destroyed. He's being harmed, defiled. But let us see what Jesus does and receives. Response to this doubt. It's one of the things I really want us to focus in on how Jesus deals with Mary's sorrow. How Jesus deals with the disciples who are fearful. And I want us to reflect on how Jesus also deals with us. When we have the same feelings. When things feel uncertain around us, when we feel as though our souls are just darkened and we're Or sorrowful or mourning for whatever reason. When we're fearful that the enemy is overtaking us or we fear that the enemy will come and destroy us, how Jesus deals with us as well. So let us look at John 20. I'm going to break it up into two sections tonight. We'll read 11 through 18. We'll examine that story, points A and B, and then we'll come back and read verses 19 eighteen through twenty-three and examine that with points C and D. But John twenty, starting in verse eleven. But Mary stood weeping outside the tomb. And as she wept she stooped to look into the tomb. And she saw two angels in white sitting where the body of Jesus had lain, one at the head and one at the feet. They said to her, Woman, Why are you weeping? She said to them, They have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have laid him. Having said this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing. But she did not know that it was Jesus. Jesus said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? Whom are you seeking? Supposing him to be the gardener, she said to him, Sir, if you have carried him away, tell me where you have laid him, and I will take him away. Jesus said to her, Mary, she turned and said to him in Aramaic, Raboni, which means teacher Jesus said to her, Do not cling to me, for I have not yet ascended to the Father. But go to my brothers and say to them, I am ascending to the Father. Mary Magdalene went and announced to the disciples, I have seen the Lord, and that he had said these things to her Miss Paul's hearing this story. Just understand the situation. Mary's going to the tomb on the third day. She she's going there to care for the body of Jesus. She is Still mourning the loss of Jesus. She witnessed him crucified on the cross. She witnessed him pierced, dead. She knows that he has been buried. She is just in Total sorrow. Could you imagine just the last I don't know, 72 hours of Mary's life? Right? She's following Jesus. She's heard Jesus talk and teach. She's probably witnessed Jesus do miracles. And then she sees him be arrested. She sees the enemies lie about him, persecute him, she sees the courts find him guilty. She then sees him Beaten, abused, and hanging on the cross, she witnessed Jesus die on the cross, and in that moment there's a sense of it's done. This hope we had. This future victory that was promised to us, and we thought we had it as he rode into Jerusalem on a donkey, and everyone is shouting for joy, proclaiming Hosanna. I thought this was it. I thought this was the change we had been waiting for. This was the salvation that was promised, and now it's dead. And in that instant she's she's mourning. Think about that that whole day on Saturday, she's just mourning the loss of Jesus. And finally Sunday comes, she she goes to the tomb and she's still saddened by the loss of Jesus. She she's in the pain and the weeping of that moment. She's just going to kind of soothe herself by by caring for the tomb, caring for the body. But then she arrives there and the body's gone. Now her first thought wasn't, oh wait, this is what Jesus said. He was going to raise from the dead. This is what the prophets promised, that the Messiah would be victorious over the dead. No, what happens is in this moment, she believes that someone has taken the body. In this moment, her she's already saddened, she's already mourning the loss of her beloved Jesus. And now she believes someone has taken the body, defiled the body. Is it out of humiliation? Do they just want to continue? to humiliate his followers? Do this one continue to insult Jesus? Think about maybe some of the thoughts that were going through her mind. Where's the body? What are they doing to the body? Are they cutting up the body of Jesus and going to scatter it throughout the Roman Empire? To try to show how powerful they are, to try to show that no one's going to rise up and be like Jesus. Maybe she had this fear that they were taking the body and they were going to start some cultic worship of this dead Jesus. Maybe she has had this fear and said she d has no idea what the case is, but they've they've taken Jesus. The one comfort I had was that I knew that his body was laid there and that I could come to this place and remember him. And all of that is gone in an instant. Can you feel her pain? Can can you just understand why in verse eleven when she says, But but Mary stood weeping outside the tomb, and as she wept she stooped to look into the tomb She recognizes that she's lost Jesus physically in his death, and now she's lost the body of Jesus And everything just feels to be falling apart around her. Do we ever feel that way, beloved? You ever feel as though everything is just ruined. Things are just falling apart around us. You know, like, okay, yeah, Mondays are bad, but then Wednesday is so much worse than Monday, it just has piled on and then you get a phone call from the doctor and things just seemed to get worse. It wasn't the news you wanted. And then your cousin calls you and tells you that he has lost his spouse and that pain just stacks on top of pain after pain pain, sorrow after sorrow, and we just feel crushed. Can you kind of feel what Mary's going through through now. And look at this. This is so interesting to me that Mary's sorrow and pain blinds her Blinds her to the world that's around her. Look at verse 12 with me. And she saw two angels in white sitting where the body of Jesus had lain, one at the head and one at the feet. Rarely in Scripture do we see angels appear and they just kind of get overlooked. Right? Think about the angels coming to the shepherds when Jesus was born. What did the shepherds do? They fell down in fear. They were in awe of what was happening. Right, this is the normative that we see in Scripture. Angels appear, they're interacting, and people fall down before them. Now we see an instance with Abraham when angels come to him, but there's still a recognition of something unique about these men. But in this moment, in Mary's Weeping and sorrow, she doesn't even pay any attention to the angels as angels. She sees them, and all she is focused on is that the body of Jesus is gone. Where is it? Her her focus is on getting the body of Jesus back. So she says, and and and one at the head and one at the feet. Verse 13, they said to her, Woman, why are you weeping She said to them, They have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have laid him. She's so focused. on her situation, her condition. Rightfully so, right? This is how we all react. We focus in on the situation that's causing us the pain. We focus in on just the suffering that we feel. And nothing can soothe it. Have you been there? The very presence of angels aren't soothing Mary's pain. She still knows that Jesus is gone. She's still recognizing that the body is not where it's supposed to be Here's two angelic beings that can't soothe her pain. But it continues on. Verse 14, look with me. It says, having said this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing. But she did not know that it was Jesus. Her sorrow, her weeping, her mourning She's all focused in on that. That she doesn't even recognize the risen Messiah. She doesn't even recognize the Jesus that she is looking for. She's She's seeking. I think uh John does a wonderful job at kind of explaining the situation to us. Let's not be too critical of Mary. You know, it's it's probably early. It's maybe just confuse time. Maybe it's dark out. Um let's be let's be honest, she's not expecting Jesus to be alive. Last time she saw him he was dead. So why would she then expect that some man standing there is Is going to be Jesus. Right? So John just lays it out very well. It says, Jesus said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? Verse 15, whom are you seeking? Supposing him to be the gardener, she said, To him, Sir, if you have carried him away, tell me where you have laid him, and I will take him away. She still doesn't quite recognize who is standing This is what pain and sorrow does to us. It causes so much inner focus, it causes us to be so intensified on the situation that's causing the pain. It's causing the uncomfort. And this is natural. Please hear me. I'm not criticizing us for saying, oh, don't be so focused on what hurts you. Don't get so focused in on the sorrow and the pain. That's very natural. That's who we are as humans. But what happens is we get so focused in on it. The pain is so severe. The mourning is just all consuming. That there's times where we miss the very presence of God right before us. We we think, oh, there's no way God can be a part of this. There's no way that Jesus has any understanding of of my situation. this. There's no way that an all-sovereign, loving God would allow a situation like this to happen to me. Have you ever had some of those thoughts? Maybe someone's asked you about that. How can an all-loving God allow this to happen? How can there be an all-loving God and cancer happen? How can there be an all-loving God and people Die. Right? We get focused in on the pain, which is so real that we lose focus of the God around us. Let me also draw attention to why Mary is so sorrowful. And let us be like Mary in this. Her sorrow is because Jesus isn't there, and her sorrow in the absence of Jesus' body is because she loves Jesus so much. Right? She loves Jesus. She she 's recognized who Jesus is in some unique ways, not fully, obviously, as he's standing there and she believes he's the gardener. But it's because of her great love that this pain is so strong. Isn't that how it is for all of us? The reason we feel the sting of death so strongly Is because we love that person so much. Right? That's natural. That's the natural response. But here's Mary deep in sorrow, deep in pain, deep Deep in mourning of the loss of Jesus, crying out, weeping, because her love for Jesus is so deep. And she She wants to be with Jesus. She wants to have Jesus there where he's supposed to be. I think there's something honorable there that we should examine in the life of Mary. Do we love Jesus so much that if any point we feel as though there's a void of him, that he's absent, that we feel the sting? Of his absence. Do we love Jesus so much that we will seek him in all things? We will look for him everywhere. Or Are we more tempted to say, yeah, we love Jesus? I'm gonna go live my life over here, do my thing over here. When things become hard, then I'm gonna go back to Jesus Jesus. That's when I'm gonna use Jesus. That's when Jesus is that that vending machine. Once things get better, my situation's good, then I'm gonna go back and do my own Beloved, may we be like Mary who loves Jesus so much that we are looking and seeking for him. That the absence of him and the possibility of him not being there terrifies us, brings us pain. But let me draw us then to point B In Mary's pain and her sorrow, may we see the very comforting care of Jesus for Mary. If you love Jesus like Mary does, and you this this possibility of Jesus not being there draws anxiety, draws pain out of us, let me reassure you that he Is not gone. He is near. Our love for him is not even a glimmer of his love for us. Look with me at what and how Jesus cares for Mary. Verse 16. Right? Mary's still unsure. He's asked her. She's responded, I'll take him away. And then verse 16, here it is. Jesus said to her, one word, Mary. Jesus said her very name. And what happens in that moment? She turned and said to him, Her bony. In this moment she recognized him. This is Jesus expressing his love to her, calling her by name, calling her, drawing her attention out of her sorrow and onto him. But in this very uh calling, Jesus is expressing his deep love and personal care for her. It's not just the general sense. Right, look with me how the general sense was used. Right in verse 15, Jesus said to her, Woman. Now today that sounds a little insulting, right? It's If you came in and were crying to me and I said, Woman, what's wrong? My wife would be upset at me. Right? Right, there's just this generalness there. Now, Jesus wasn't insulting. He wasn't, this is how Jesus tells the story, the great storyteller. But notice in this just broad sense, she's still void of who Jesus is. But when we understand the deep personal love that Jesus has for one each and every one of us, that's what draws us. That's what opens up our eyes to who he is. That's what reveals the glory of Christ. We can preach all day, Jesus died for sinners, Jesus died for sinners, but until we recognize that we are the very sinner of which Jesus died for, that statement is meaningless. Until the Spirit enlightens us, opens up our eyes to hear that our very name cried out on that cross as Jesus died for us Died for me, Anthony. He died for me in my sins. And then he calls me his, washed in his blood. Then the Father looks at me by name And says, you are my child, because of what Christ has done. Notice that personal care of Jesus. It's not just a general universal he died for the world. Yes and amen. Thank you, Pastor Matt, for clarifying that this morning. Absolutely. He died for the world. This is a great reality, a great truth, which we We proclaim, but there's also a very personal sense of his death on the cross for you. And this shows his care for us. So while he cr he calls out Mary by name, this is what enlightens her. This is when she sees Him, and this is when she realizes who he is. But notice that Jesus is near. He's very near to her in this Instance. And we may not fully grasp this until we look at verse 17. It says, Jesus said to her, Do not cling to me, for I have not yet ascended to the Father. Well, why is he saying that, do you think? I think there's there's maybe a possibility, all right, that he's just that's just a general statement. Don't cling to me. But I think what's probably happening here is he says, Mary She turns around, sees who it is, and what does she do? She falls at his feet, holding on to him. The very Jesus who she's been looking for. And she was just looking for a dead body, is now standing before her alive. What's the natural response? It's to hold on to him. She lost him once. She doesn't want to lose him again. She clings tightly to him. And I believe there's this sense that Jesus is telling her: do not do that. Do not cling to me. Don't hold on to my physical body Why is he saying this? Well, A is because she's holding on to him, all right, physically. So there's this, don't do that. There's more to do. But also, Jesus is showing a more glorious hope to come. Yes, and amen we celebrate the resurrection of Jesus. But that's not the end of the story, is it? That's not the final hope. Oh Jesus rose from the dead, everything's solved. No, what does Jesus promise? Is that he will go to the Father and He will send the Spirit. This is where our hope is And you may not fully grasp why this is so important, but anyone in this room physically seen the resurrected Jesus in person yet? No. So what would happen if we clung to the resurrected body of Christ and that's all we had? Well, we're in trouble because he's ascended to heaven. He's at the right hand of the Father where he is supposed to be. But he promises the helper to come. He promises the spirit to descend and to come to us. And this is what he's telling Mary. Is that yes, you are you are, we celebrate, Mary is rejoicing in celebrating the resurrected, the physical body of Jesus raising from the dead, but this is not the end of the story. And this isn't her final hope in just the resurrected body, but that the promised Spirit is to come to her as well. This is the care that Jesus shows to Mary. 1 Peter 1. 3 tells us, he calls us to be born again, what to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ. So his care is that Jesus is risen from the dead, but it's bringing us, here it is, born again to living hope. It's not, oh, we just celebrate that the body of Jesus is in front of us, we celebrate it. But no, there's the celebration that he ascends to the Father as He has promised, and that He then sends the Spirit to Dwell us. It's the very dwelling place of God, is within His redeemed. This also gives us a future hope. is resurrected from the dead, his physical body then ascends to the heavens. This then gives us our future hope and a future resurrection. As well. That we too will be raised from the dead. We too will dwell in glory and eternity in the resurrected bodies. This is what 1 Corinthians 15 is all about. This is a Hope, this is a comfort. This is how God cares for our sorrows. So, beloved, when we are like Mary, when we are focused in on the pains of this world, which are very real. When the weeping and the sorrow and the mourning are really all we have in a situation, as it just feels to be laid on us more and more, heavier and heavier, and the burdens just feel to be pushing us Us down and crushing our bodies. May we recognize that God is not far off. He knows us. He died for us He rose from the dead for us. He ascended into heaven for us. He sent the Spirit for us. And we have a future hope because of his love. Love for us. This is the care that Jesus is giving to Mary, but we are also partakers of. May this be an encouragement to us. May may we look to God for hope. May we see the resurrection as a good and glorious thing. May we celebrate it, but may we also see that his ascension into heaven and the sending of the Spirit Spirit is what we need. And we see that Mary recognizes this in verse 18. She then goes back, and what's her announcement to the disciples? I have seen the Lord. And the disciples say, You're crazy. Right, that's that's essentially what happens, right? They're not, oh yeah, good, yeah, Mary finally if we thought that was the case, then what No, that's not what happens. Let us pick up in verse 19 And see how the disciples are responding the very same night that Mary came to them and announced that she had seen the Lord. So join me in verse 19 as we read this part. It says, On the evening of that day, the first day of the week, the doors being locked, where the disciples were for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood among them and said to them, Peace Peace be with you. When he had said this, he showed them his hands and his side. Then the disciples were glad when they saw the Lord. Jesus said to them again Peace be with you, as the Father has sent me, even so I am sending you. And when he had said this, he breathed on them and said Receive the Holy Spirit. If you forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven them. If you withhold forgiveness from any, it is withheld. This is such an interesting part of the story and just to see that the fear is still there. Alright, so the disciples are in a very similar situation as Mary. They saw their leader killed, persecuted, killed. They're mourning the loss of Jesus. They're fearful of what could happen, and we see in verse 19, they're locked up in a room because they fear the Jews. Why? Is because if they were able to kill Jesus, they were able to lie about Jesus who did the miracles, taught the scriptures, did no wrong. Then the Jews will be absolutely able to arrest them and persecute them as well. And this fear has just gripped the disciples. This fear ever gripped us? Yes. It grips all of us at times. We're just fearful. The enemy could get us, right? We're just anywhere we go, any corner we turn around, there's the enemy. Ready to persecute us for our faith. Ready to attack us with the sins of our past. Ready to accuse us of things we have done. And we fear this. And we're tempted, like the disciples, to just kind of lock ourselves up. Don't go into the world. There's dangers everywhere. The monsters are scary out there. Let's never go out. And even in this moment, they've heard the testimony of Mary, I have seen the Lord, and the disciples are still fearful. They've locked themselves up in that room, they still have their doubts. But what happens to them? At the end of verse 19, Jesus came and stood among them. Now, if you're afraid of the Jews coming in and harming you, so you lock yourselves up into a room, what's gonna happen when the the leader that you believe is dead appears in that room with you? There's a whole different kind of fear that's going to come out, right? Maybe I'm just weak. I'm a little scared of the dark sometimes, a little bump in the night. It causes us to fear. But then here's Jesus who was dead. Last time you saw him is now standing amongst you. That fear has got to be completely different. All of a sudden, I don't care what the enemy's going to do. They could break down these doors because here's the risen Messiah that didn't have to come through the door. He just appeared. before us. But I want I just want to draw this connection. As you saw my outline's called a roadmap because I can't hit every single piece of wonderful theology and information in this but I want to hit these highlights but I I'll take a little detour here. Just notice that there is a resurrected body of Jesus who did not have to come through the door to get there, yet still was physical. Alright? Still he showed his hands and his feet. And we actually we know with Thomas later, a few days later, Thomas feels the resurrected. Jesus. Right? So what am I just trying to draw attention there is there is a a a lie within the cults um that claim to be Christian, that Jesus doesn't have a physical body and there's not a physical ascended Jesus. into the heaven. Well scripture denies that. It is a physical resurrected body and it is a glorified body here that it can appear. Jesus, the Son of God, also now we're like, well wait, how's the metaphysics Something about metaphysics when we're talking about the resurrected Christ appearing in the room. Yes, he's completely physical, and yes, he is God and can do miraculous things like this. Detour good? Alright, let's get back onto the main road. What is Jesus' message to his disciples when he appears to them? He says it twice, peace be with you, in verse 19, and then in verse 21, peace be with you. Now we could just skim over this and say, oh, that's a nice phrase. Yeah, that's a good thing to say. Well, it's a very unique phrase for Jesus. This is where he states it after he he says it that he he promises it will come to them earlier on in the Gospel of John. Now he says it to his disciples. Now there's a lot of reasons he probably said this. One is all this fear that the disciples have, right? When you are extremely fearful, you need comfort. When you fear the world is coming after you, you need comforted. But I believe Jesus is drawing the attention to this piece. For three reasons. One is to ease the conscience of the disciples, one is the promise of the peace to the world, and the other one is to remind them of their peace. With God or to proclaim their peace with God. Let's talk about easing their conscience. Why would their conscience need to be eased? How many disciples stood with Jesus at his trial? How many disciples were there as cheerleaders for Jesus all the way to the cross? How many were very proud and shouting and proclaiming? That's my guy. That's my Jesus. As they nailed him to the cross. None. So could you imagine some of the doubts you have Oh no, Jesus, we were afraid of the Jews persecuting us. But now the Messiah who we denied that now rose from the dead is amongst us. Could you feel maybe some of their doubts that they have? But Jesus doesn't come in and start to blame them. You could have stopped it. You could have fought for me. You could have spoken up for me. He says, peace. Be with you. Jesus doesn't come in and start finding faults. Ah, you let you let Judas get He he really grew in his love for money. You guys could have stopped it. You could have dealt with that him. Uh you guys could have we could have rerouted our our trip so we didn't have to go into Jerusalem. No, Jesus isn't doing that That he says, peace be with you. He doesn't come in there and start to rebuke them. You you denied me three times. You lied about me. You you've avoided saying that you were a disciple of mine. No, he comes in and says, Peace be with you. Beloved, we need this reminder. So often we Think that yes, I'm saved. Yes, I've been redeemed by the blood of God. And there's God sitting in heaven looking at me, going, yep, there's my son Anthony. He is so messed up. He's such an idiot. He is always sinning. He's always messing everything up. He just can't get it straight. I can't believe I sent my son to die. For him. That's not how God looks at us. If you believe that, as I have been tempted many times in my life, that is a lie. Jesus comes to us and says, Peace be with you. He doesn't have to draw up your past. That's revealed. The Spirit does that. It draws it out in us and we confess it, but that's not what Jesus does. He doesn't need to draw that out of us. No, he's Peace be with you. Why? It's because he's died and rose from the dead. He doesn't come and say, you could have came to me earlier. If you just would have listened to your dad back in nineteen whatever year, you would have you could have been a Christian so much longer. No, he says, peace be with you. When we come to Christ, he doesn't say, yeah, oh man, I'm so glad you've come to me. I'm so glad you have faith in me. But man, all that stuff, all the way you lived back in college and and how you used to treat the opposite sex. No, he doesn't do that. He says Peace be with you. Because in the moment when we recognize the glorified Christ, when we see who he is, we know that we are depraved sinners in need of a Savior. We come to Him in faith, believing that He is the only way of salvation. He says to us, peace be with you. He soothes our conscience. Yes, we confess sins. Yes, we deal with past sins. Because we have to heal from them. But God isn't always pointing back to them. He's not always drawing them out. That's what the enemy does. That's what the accuser does. But he's been silenced by the cross. The second aspect of this message of peace is the peace to the world. Right? That's the second piece in verse 21. He says, Peace be with you as the Father has sent me, even so I am sending you. He's sending them into the world. This is part of the Great Commission that we see in other gospels. He's sending them into the world with this message of peace. How is this possible? It's because if we can find peace with the Creator the universe. , As Pastor Matt said this morning, the whole world can find peace with the Creator of the universe. The whole world can find peace with the creator the just judge. The whole world can find peace. While they used to be children of wrath, they can find peace in Christ Jesus. This is the message for the world. This is why the disciples don't stay in Jerusalem. This is why they don't just sit up in that locked up room for the rest of their lives. It's because this message of peace is for the whole world in Jesus' name. Sends them. And this shouldn't be a shock to us. This was promised in the Old Testament. Isaiah 9:6, one of the titles that's given there for the born Messiah, is Prince of Peace. It's a pretty high title. He's not just the casual peace giver. He's not just the guy that does peace sometimes, but he is the prince of peace. He's the ruler of peace. He issues it to the world. But not only that, we see in scripture that there's a promise of peace here on this earth. Now that's a hard one for us to believe. If we read the news ever, we see just war happening all around us. But there is a promise of an eternal peace on this earth that can only come from Christ. He is the one that brings peace. He's the one that ends wars. And this is what he t has as a message for his disciples to take to the world. This third piece of the peace message is that we have peace with The judge that sits there and finds us guilty of our sins, we have peace with him. And he no longer finds us guilty, but he finds us righteous according to Christ. This is the peace we have. Brothers and sisters, what a wonderful truth this is for the world. What a wonderful truth this is for us. The creator of the universe who we have rebelled against, we have peace with. We are no longer enemies, but we are his children. Romans 5. 1, we have peace with God through Jesus Christ. We have peace with God through Jesus. Jesus Christ. Could you imagine if tonight w we just got we when we went home, we turned on the news, we listened to the radio, and the the Next thing we hear on the news is the whole world has peace. Iran has peace with the United States. Russia has peace with Ukraine. Would we be celebrating? I hope so. I hope we would be celebrating So take that. That's human battles, human wars, which are destructive and terrible. And now take it to magnify that we are now being proclaimed, that we have peace. Yes, we pray for an end of physical human wars, but that is only a glimpse of the type of peace that we We have with Yahweh. Let us celebrate the peace we have only through Christ. This then brings us to point D. It will be my shortest point. But it's probably the one that we could unpack for a whole sermon. But what we see here is the disciples are commissioned. They're sent out on a mission. That mission is started by the peace be with you, as the Father has sent me, even so I am sending you. But then look here in verse twenty-two with me. And when he had said this, he breathed a on them and said to them, Receive the Holy Spirit. If you forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven them. If you withhold forgiveness from any, it is withheld. What we gotta see here is this transition. We went from the disciples being terrified, locked up in a room, to now being commissioned to go into the world with the proclamation of The risen Christ go into the world giving a hope of forgiveness to the very enemies that want to see them persecuted. How is this possible? Because the is it that the disciples just get it figured out? They just get really brave all of a sudden? No, the only way this is possible, the only way that the disciples are able to fulfill the commission that Jesus gave them Is that they are empowered by the Spirit. Now, this passage right here has some controversy we've gotten to talk about in the past. And that's why I kept it short. We don't have time to unpack it. But what's happening here is there's salvation of the Spirit. I believe that there's just a very unique time in history that Jesus is commissioning his disciples who will be the apostles. to establish the early church, the very infant church. They go into the world preaching the gospel. We will see at Pentecost in Acts 1, 8, Jesus promises this. At Pentecost in Acts 2, we actually See the Holy Spirit come down upon the multitudes, saving them, indwelling them. It's a very unique time in history. But here Jesus is breathing on them, telling them to receive the Holy Spirit to be communicated. Commissioned to go into the world. Right, to be commissioned to take the message. Does Jesus have to physically breathe on us for us to receive the Holy Spirit. I hope not, because that hasn't happened for all of us. So we have to recognize it's a very unique time in history. He's doing this for the disciples, and it's for commissioning to go into the world. But also hear the message that they have. It's the message of the forgiveness of sins. Now, is it then that's forgiving the sin, or is it the message that the sins can be forgiven in Christ Jesus? This should maybe logically it should be understood and should be pretty simple that it can only be the message that the forgiveness of sins has now come to the world because of the resurrected Christ. Because if it's the disciples themselves doing it, then why do we need Jesus? Right? But they're the ones taking the message because Jesus is the one that has commissioned them to take this message. into the world. But the only way they can live, the only way they can do this, the only way they can preach is if the Holy Spirit has Empowered them. 2 Peter 1:3 tells us his divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness. It's the very power of God that gives us the ability to preach the gospel. It's the very power of God that gives us the ability to live in obedience to God. God. It's the very power of God, the indwelling Holy Spirit, that gives us the ability to recognize that we are sinners and confess our sins and seek the Lord. So this is what Jesus is doing here. He's commissioning his disciples to go into the world and he's giving them the Holy Spirit that they need to be able to accomplish. Their mission. And I'll end with this: did they accomplish their mission? Well, here we are, an entire different continent that the disciples never even heard of or thought about, worshiping the is in Christ. I think God is working pretty well. I think God's advancement, his plan of the kingdom, is panning out. We would say, oh, we would do it different. We wish the timeline was there. I wish Jesus had already returned. But let us trust that God's plan and his storytelling is much better than ours. And that him sending out these few disciples that are fearful to go into the world to be persecuted has now given us the gospel here in the Americas in 2026. And we see that continuing to this day. And it's only by the empowerment of the Holy Spirit within us. This is Jesus' care for his disciples as he sends them on a very challenging mission. And we too are partakers of it. We are indwelled by the Holy Spirit. We are empowered by the same Spirit that allowed the disciples to preach the gospel. It's the same spirit that allows us to live in obedience to Christ and to proclaim that God is May we be amazed at what Jesus has done the same. in his very first day of the resurrection. May we see his comfort and care for his beloved, and may we walk in obedience as he has called us. Let's pray. Holy God, we thank you for your word. We thank you for the testimony of what Christ has accomplished, what he has done, and what he can tell. Lord, we seek you for guidance. We look to you for the strength we need, for the power of the Spirit within us to live in obedience to you. May we give you all the honor and glory and praise that is rightly yours. May we be in all of what Christ has accomplished on our behalf, and may we recognize that we are new Christians. Creatures, the work of the Spirit within us. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.