The words in which we'll examine tonight come out of Galatians chapter 1, verse 1 through 10. Galatians chapter 1, verse 1 through 10. No other gospel. No other gospel. So we examine tonight and actually throughout this entire series of looking at the book of Galatians. We must hold to this truth, that there is only one gospel. There is only one way to salvation. There is only one thing of good news that we need to be proclaiming to the world and to ourselves It's the gospel of Jesus Christ. And we'll look at that tonight, but Paul is shouting this in almost every paragraph of this letter. That Christ, Christ, Christ is our only hope. Faith in Christ is the only way to redemption. Faith in Christ is the only way to salvation. Faith in Christ is the only way to glory, and not And friends, we need to be reminded of this over and over again. As many of us came to Christ a long time ago and and and back then we said yes and amen and faith alone of uh is the gospel's faith in Christ alone But let's be honest, how we live our lives often, how we think about religion, how we faith think about our Christian lives, it often involves a lot of things other than Christ. We're often trying to pull in other things. We're trying to work something out. And this is why Paul has to remind us that there is no other gospel than Jesus Christ. So let us read Galatians chapter 1, starting in verse 1. Paul, an apostle, not from men, not from men. Excuse me, not from man, nor through man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father, who raised him from the dead, and all the brothers who are with me, to the churches of Galatia Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ, who gave Himself for our sins to deliver us from the present evil age. according to the will of our God and Father, to whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen. I am astonished that you are so quickly deserting him who called you in the grace of Christ and are turning to a different gospel. Not that there is another one. But there are some who trouble you and want to distort the gospel of Christ. But even if we or an angel from heaven should preach to you a gospel contrary to the one we preach to you, Let him be a curse. As we have said before, so now I say again, if anyone is preaching to you a gospel contrary to the one you receive, let him be a curse. For am I now seeking the approval of man or of God? Or am I trying to please man? If I were still trying to please man, I would not be a servant of Christ. I hope you heard the passion in Paul's voice there as he's writing this. Galatians is one of the most unique openings of all of Paul's letters. Paul has a pretty standard way of communicating. He starts with identifying who he is. He identifies who he's writing to, and then often, well, every time, except for Galatians. There's some kind of words of encouragement. There's words of just joy in who they are in the church that they are. Uh there's this It's just a reminder of the goodness of Christ and how he is glorious and that the church was built on him. But Galatians is unique. He dives right into it. He doesn't hold back. I mean by verse six, and I mean this is these are added on verses, but by verse six He turns immediately and goes, I am astonished that you are so quickly deserting him who called you. He's not patting him on the back right now This is a serious issue. This is a serious letter that Paul's writing. And this is the reason that I believe it's so important for us to study it now because it's such a serious issue that Paul gets right to the heart of it that there's no other gospel That there's false teachers that are trying to distract and pull you away from the truth of Christ. And friends, we must be reminded of that tonight in 2024. And I think we're going to make it into 2025 with Galatians. So even then, we need to be reminded that there's no other gospel. So let me just give a quick overview of the book of Galatians. You know, right? We want to understand what's happening here. We see that Paul is the author of this letter. Look at verse 1. Paul, an apostle, not from men, not through man. So it's from Paul, but we also see that he's also writing with others. Verse 2, and all the brothers who are with me. So there's a recognition that Paul is with others. Uh we don't have to say they are writing it themselves, but it just enforces that this isn't just Paul's like, he's just a madman off by himself, and he just came up with this grand idea that he wants to write this letter. But it's from Paul, and we actually see that at the very end of this letter. He reassures that it's his writing. But it's also from other brothers that care for this church And we see that it's to the church in Galatia, right there at the end of verse 2, to the churches of Galatia. So we see there's multiple churches. This letter was going to be sent out. and be a circuit and be passed around. So this isn't an issue in one church. And it's not like, oh, well, uh this Paul's writing this letter to North Hartford because we are all jacked up. Well he really what he's doing is he's saying there's an issue in Hartford County, if I'm using that example. In Hartford County, there's been false teachers going around, and those false teachers have gotten into multiple churches within Hartford County. So when you get this letter, North Hartford, you then pass it down the road to Connecting Church. We pass it along because we don't want these false teachers coming into any of the churches of Jesus Christ. And unfortunately, they've already polluted them. So this is going out to multiple churches in the region of Galatia. What is it all about? What is he doing here? Well, he's writing a letter. You can look at chapter 6, verse 11. It just reassures that it's actually from Paul. But he's writing a letter. Excuse me, chapter 6, verse 11. See, with that large letters, I am writing to you with my own hand. The reason he's saying this is there's many times that in this day, and even Paul, he would speak the letter and he would have someone write it down for him. A scribe would write it for him. But Paul's being very intentional to point out that he's the one writing this with his own hand. It actually intensifies the message that Paul is writing. Well, even if a scribe was writing, Paul still has passion there. Paul still loves the church that the scribe is writing to, and that's why he's giving in those words. But there's something unique that Paul took his time and with his hand wrote it out. But it's a letter to the church. And we see that it's going to the churches in Galatia. The time frame, it's after Paul's conversion, obviously, and after some of his missionary journeys, so anywhere between 48 and 55 A. D. But why is he writing this? This is the most important thing. I want you guys to remember this every week. Every Sunday evening we come back here and study Galatians as we hear Galatians preach. This is what we must remember, is chapter 2, verse 16. This is the most important thing that Paul is trying to convey in the entire letter. Chapter 2, verse 16. Yet we know that a person is not justified by works of the law, but through faith in Jesus Christ. That is the main message of this letter. That we are not justified by works of the law, but Through faith in Jesus Christ. So we also have believed in Christ Jesus in order to be justified by faith in Christ and not by works of the law, because by works of the law no one will be justified. Friends, this is the purpose of this letter. This is what Paul wants the churches in Galatia to grab a hold of. Why? Is because they're being deceived. There's a group, uh often known as the Judaizers, that are coming into the churches and saying, good, you have Christ. Good, good, good. But now, you need to go further. Christ is just the start of this new Christianity. This is what the Judaizers are saying. And now you've got to fulfill all the commandments and all the law of the Old Testament. You must hold to all the Mosaic covenant. You must hold to the circumcision and the feast. And they're saying it's Christ plus these works. Danger, danger, danger. Christ, and the moment you say anything else after that, you're starting to talk about a false gospel. If you start to say, good, to be a Christian, you must have faith in Christ and you must be baptized. Well stop. Don't add to it. We can talk about baptism, but that's a separate conversation. This isn't the way of salvation. If you say, well, to be a Christian is that you have faith in Christ and You you s you stop swearing. Stop. Stop it. Don't add to the gospel. And that's essentially what Paul is dealing with is these Judaizers that are coming in here and they're saying it's Christ plus circumcision. It's Christ plus fulfilling the law. It's Christ plus anything. And Paul is furious about it. It's a stern warning. And friends, we must hear this stern warning for ourselves. May we never be deceived by a false gospel. May we never, we, the the the the the brightest in this room here, the ones that are here every Sunday, may we not fall for the lies of the enemy Don't think this is just for someone else. Don't think, well, I can't wait to tell my mom about this because she's struggling with Christ plus something. Or I can't, ah, that that co-worker of mine. No, stop. This is for you. This is about your heart. This is about your faith in Christ. And do not allow the enemy to deceive you. So let's talk about the true gospel. Right, if we're going to be talking about the one, no other gospel, we must know what the true gospel is Many of you have heard this, I'm sure this is a common uh analogy to use, but uh when you're when you're learning how to find faulty money or fraudulent money. Right? They teach you what the correct dollar bill is to look like. So you memorize and you learn every aspect of the correct dollar. You know the shape, the size, the weight, the feel, the designs on it. And then when you get a faulty or fraudulent dollar bill in your hand, who's wasting time making fraudulent dollar bills today? You know, you've got to make this hundreds. But when you get the false one in your hand, You may not be able to say, oh, this is false because of this, but you know it because you know the true one. You know the right one. You know what what the the true dollar bill looks like and feels like and and looks and and and every aspect of it. So that when that false one gets in your hands you may not be able to pinpoint exactly the problem. but you know there's a problem. Well friends, we must do this with the gospel. May we know the gospel that we believe. May we understand it. May we understand some points of it that and so I have four points of the true gospel that I think if we we focus on these They will help us recognize when a false gospel comes in. So the first fact of the true gospel is that it is Christ-centered. It's Christ-centered. Look how Paul opens up here in verse 1. He says, Paul, an apostle, not from men nor through men, but through who? Jesus Christ and God the Father who raised him from the dead. Immediately he jumps in and recognizes that Christ is the focal point. He starts the letter off with Christ Friends, is your gospel about Christ? Is it about what Christ has done on the cross for sinners like you and I? Is it about the perfect life that Christ lived on this earth? Is it about how Christ came down from heaven and came down to take on flesh so that he could live the perfect life, so that he could be the perfect sacrifice on the cross? Is it about his death? Is it about his resurrection? Is it about his ascension? His work? Is it all about Christ? Or is it about something else? The gospel must be focused on Christ. He must be at the center of the gospel. If we're going to preach the gospel May we make Christ a sinner. May we not preach works. May we not preach anything other than Christ. We see that Paul talks about it. He says that it's through Jesus Christ, and then immediately he goes back to how the Father who raised him from the dead. He just can't get away from Jesus. And you're going to see throughout this letter that he's dealing with problems. He's dealing with issues, and immediately he's going to take it back to Christ. He's going to point out the issue and then point them right back to Jesus. He cannot get away from Christ. Christ is the center point of the gospel. Look at verse 3. Grace to you and peace from God our Father. And once again, the Lord Jesus Christ. The Lord Jesus Christ. He just keeps going. And then verse 4, who gave himself for our sins. It's all about Christ. It's all about Christ. This is really important as we get later on to this letter because we're going to see Paul start to talk about who he is and the accomplishments he has. And ultimately, he's going to point to all of that and say that is all rubbish in comparison to what Christ has done, who Christ is, and the glory of Christ. The center point of the gospel must be Christ. But it's not just the figure of Christ. It's not just the facts, okay You you have the facts. Jesus, truly man, truly God, fully man, fully God. Uh Jesus, he came, he lived. Age 33, he died on a cross. It's not just the facts of it, but it's the faith in Christ. We already read it, but chapter 2, verse 16. That by works of the law, but through faith in Jesus Christ. The central focus of the gospel is Jesus. And our faith in him. Do you believe? Do you believe? Do you actually believe it? It's not just that you could pass an exam. If I gave you a hundred questions on the gospel, could you fill in all the bubbles? But has that knowledge from your head sunk down the 12 inches into your heart? Do you actually believe that you were a sinner, that Christ died on the cross for your sins? Friends, that's the gospel we must be focused on. That's the Christ-centered gospel that we must be preaching. That Christ is the focal point of the gospel. Point number two of the true gospel, or the second mark of a true gospel, is the salvation of sinful man. Salvation of sinful man. Look with me in verse 4. We already saw this, but who gave himself for what? For our sins to deliver us from the present age. The central focus of Christ then magnifies that we are sinners, and it magnifies that He died for our sins, that He has paid for our sins. Friends, a gospel that lacks salvation of sinners, a gospel that lacks the acknowledgement of sin, is really a joyless gospel. Oh, happy days Jesus died on the cross for what? Well not for sin, I'm not a sinner. Well what are you happy for? That he died and that he defeated the grave? No, you're joyful of that. You're happy of that because you deserve that death. It's because of your sin that he died. Friends, this is the joy of the gospels that salvation has come to sinners like you and I. Look with me in Romans chapter 1 This is the theme of Paul's in many of his letters, if not all of them. Romans chapter 1, look at verse 16. For I am not ashamed of the gospel. For it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. Notice that. It is the power of God for what? Peace? No. Is it the power of God for happiness? No. It's the power of God for salvation. For there to be salvation, there must be salvation from something. And it is sin. We see later on in Romans chapter 4. He just emphasizes this point. Look at chapter 4, verse 23. Romans 4, 23. But the words it was counted to him were not written for his sake alone, but for ours also. It will be counted to us who believe in him. who raised from the dead Jesus our Lord, who was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification. If your gospel does not have the salvation of sinful man, then it is a false gospel So the first mark is that it's Christ-centered, faith in Christ. The second mark is that it is salvation of sinful man. The second mark of the true gospel Is that there is death into life. There is death into life. And we see this throughout the book of Galatians. But Paul recognizes that we were all dead in our sins. We were dead in our trespasses. We were dead rebels against the Holy God. This is Ephesians 2. We're children of wrath, dead in our trespasses. But we don't stay in that dead status. There is hope. Why? How? It's because Christ died and Christ rose from the dead. So you too, brothers and sisters. You're dead in your sins and your trespasses. You died to your old self, and you are raised alive in Christ. If your gospel is missing this, if the gospel is missing the death of the old and the life of the new, then you are missing the beauty and the true gospel. Look in verse 1. Once again, back in Galatians, verse 1. Not from man nor through man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father who raised him from the dead The resurrection of the dead is a glorious hope that we must cling to. We must not shy away from it. We must not be ashamed of it. The world will mock us. I've had it happen. One time I was I was doing street evangelism in Lancaster City and this this gentleman was up and he was a little off and I said, Is there anything I can pray for you about? And he said, Yeah, pray that the dead don't come back to life. I was like, what are you talking about? He's like, I I don't want zombies around here. And then it became clear he was mocking. This shows that he actually understood the Bible and that Christians believe that the The dead will rise and they will have new life, but he was mocking us. May we not be ashamed of it. With joy I can say, No brother, no friend. We we rejoice that the dead are coming back to life. We rejoice that our old deadness is dead and gone, and we have a new life in Christ Jesus. You can mark this down, 1 Corinthians 15. Verses 3 through 6, 1 Corinthians 15, 3 through 6. For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received, that Christ died for our sins. in accordance with the scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in accordance with the scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas Then to the twelve, then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time, most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep. Christ himself died and rose from the dead so that you and I will be dead to our old self and be alive in Christ. So the three marks of the true gospel is Christ-centered. Second mark is that there's salvation of sinful man. The third mark is that there is death and new life, or death to life. And the fourth mark. of the true gospel is that the call is for uh for entrance into the kingdom of God. The call is for the entrance into the kingdom of God. If there is no kingdom of God in your gospel, then you have a false gospel. If the the understanding that Jesus is Lord, the understanding that He is redeeming all of creation And that he reigns over all of creation, having dominion in heaven and earth. If you don't recognize that, then you're not having the full gospel. Where did I get this from? Back in Galatians chapter 1, verse 3. Grace to you and peace. Now let's pause here. Because this is the point. This is actually the fact, and this is the evidence of the kingdom within the gospel. It's that little word right there, peace. Peace. How does that talk about, how does that show anything of entrance into the kingdom? Well, friends, outside of Christ, you are a rebel and enemy against a holy God. Do you think you have much peace? Do you think that you are just filthy in your sin? And someday you'll stand before the Holy God? Do you think you have peace? That understanding? But the reality is that because of Christ, because we were sinners redeemed by Him, because we have died to ourselves and alive in Christ, we now enter into the kingdom and have peace with God. We are at peace with the King. We are called children of God. And that's why, in chapter verse 3, it continues on to say, From God who? Our Father. Our Father. Maybe you don't like the word kingdom. I like the word kingdom. I think it's powerful. But you could put house. If there's not a call to enter into the house of God, into the family of God, then it's not a true gospel. How can we call the creator of the universe the just judge father? It's because we have the righteousness of Christ. He has redeemed sinners like you and I. He once were rebels, he now calls children. In verse 4, we already read this, but we see that it's a deliverance from the present age. If we're delivered from something, the present evil age, the wicked age, what are we delivered into? Are we just delivered into good feelings? Or are we just delivered out of the evil age, but now we're just in this abstract abyss? No, we're delivered out of the evil age and into the present glorious kingdom of God. This is why Jesus, through the gospel, shouted and proclaimed and preached, the kingdom of God is near, the kingdom of God is here, entered the kingdom of God. It's because it's essential to the gospel. So the four marks of the true gospel is it's Christ-centered, salvation of sinful man, death to life, and a call to enter into the kingdom of God. Any questions about the true gospel? Alright. Now, let's recognize and see the tricks of a false gospel The tricks of a false gospel. The first trick is that a false gospel often comes from someone that is influential. A smooth talker. A real has a real bravado. Can really get a crowd worked up. Right? It comes from someone influential. Look, Paul's pointing to the issue, and he he makes it very clear that there's no other gospel, and regardless of who comes, don't fall for the lies. Verse 8, but even if we Or an angel from heaven should preach to you a gospel contrary to the one we preach to you. Let him be accursed. Why does Paul have to say this? It's because he knows that the false teachers sound really good. They sound really good. They look good. They get a crowd behind them. Right. Look up the numbers of Mormonism, Latter-day Saints in America and around the world. There must be some kind of smooth talking. Somewhat I I mean we see that that he was able, Joseph Smith was able to get people to go with him, leave their homes uh flee from the government of the United States to the point of death at times a and run away and build their own town and neighborhoods and then go and die. Why? He was peddling a false gospel is because he was a smooth talker. He knew how to pitch it. And we see it today. Turn on your television. Look at some of the biggest churches in America preaching the biggest lies of our Lord and Savior. How's that possible? They're influential. They're attractive. They draw people in. May we not fall for the lies. And notice that Paul's willing to put himself there. He 's wanting to say, if I ever preach a false gospel, contrary to the true gospel, do not fall for it. I am a curse. Why is he saying that? It's because often men that we have respected in the past Have diverted from the true gospel. They've preached the false gospel. We see it all the time, and in the last five, six years it seemed like it was magnified. Men I really respected, men I really grew from. I would listen to their sermons and their preaching, and man, I just I I remember growing as a young man, and now they're starting to preach a false gospel of some kind of social justice. Or or a false gospel of uh of something other than the gospel of Jesus Christ. That it's you gotta you gotta focus on the other uh of other things. You gotta focus on resolving racial issues. That's the focal point of the gospel. And Paul's saying, don't fall for it. While you may have respected those men at one time, don't fall for their lies. Stick to the true gospel. So the first trick of a false gospel is a false gospel often comes from someone that is influential. The second trick of a false gospel is that it diminishes God and puts man at the center. It diminishes God and puts man at the center. Look at verse 6. I am astonished that you are so quickly deserting him who called you in the grace of Christ and are turning to a different gospel. Notice Paul is saying you're deserting Christ. You're fleeing from Christ. You're running away from Christ. And I would assume that when the Galatians heard this, they would say, no, no, no, no, no. No, Paul, you don't understand. We're not fleeing from Christ. We still say you need Christ. We're just saying we're you also have to be circumcised. We're just saying you need Christ and now you have to obey these aspects of the Jewish law. And Paul's making it clear as no, the moment you do that, you're actually deserting Christ. You're diminishing him. You're taking him out of the center, and you're putting man in the center. That's what we see in chapter 2, is that there's this work of man. The trick of the false gospels is that you can accomplish something. It's that you can achieve it. The lies and the trick is that it's something you must do. And and friends, do not think this is outside of our walls. I hear it so often when I talk about I ask people, you know, tell me your story, you know What what does the Christian life look like and and and just what's your journey of of life coming from sin and death to life and it often is is all about what they've done. I think a bit of it is we just don't even know how to communicate faith. We don't know how to communicate what Christ has done. So we all we can do is kind of talk about like, well, I I prayed this prayer and I had this feeling and I walked down the aisle and I got baptized and I started going to church and I started reading the Bible. And all those things are good, but we're saying, but where is Christ? when you're sharing your testimony. It's actually not about you. It should be Christ centered. Now I do believe that many people are also f have fallen for a lie That they actually believe it was them that did it. They actually think they're the ones that have accomplished their salvation. They're the ones that have redeemed themselves. Well, friends, do not diminish God. Don't fall for those lies, but recognize that he must be at the center. The third trick of a false gospel that we see is it diminishes grace and puts a checklist into its plan. A trick of the false gospel is that it diminishes grace and puts a checklist in its place or in its plan. How's that possible? Don't we all love grace? Yeah. But let me tell you, brothers and sisters, we all love a good checklist. Tell me what to do. Right? Just tell me what to do. Just give me the steps. Give me five things I can do today that will fix my problems. 12-step program, right? We see this in society. The self-help books, the si six easy steps to accomplish whatever. What's the popular one right now? Is like uh uh the the twelve steps of being an adult and the first one is to clean your room. And we're like I you know men are drawn to that. It's because we want a checklist. I want a checklist. Could you imagine going into work and And you show up and you say, all right, this is my first day at the job. What do you want me to do? He said, Oh, I'm just so gracious to you. Do whatever you want. And we start to go, well, how are we going to accomplish this? We want the checklist. Boss, tell me what to do. And that's how we then import it into our gospels. We then import it into our lives and say, I like grace, but actually I'd rather have the checklist. I'd rather have the things that I can do. that I can accomplish, that I can just make sure that everything's in order, because obviously I'm the best and I can keep everything organized. And that's what's happening with the Judaizers. They're coming in and they're saying, good, you have Christ, but that grace isn't actually sufficient. The grace isn't enough. They're diminishing the grace, and they're saying, now you need to follow these laws. You need to follow these rules. And then you will have salvation. Then you will know what true peace is. You can just write this down or you can turn there, but Galatians 3, verses 2 through 6. Just so you know, I can't wait till we get to Galatians 3. I can't wait for it. I hope I have it. I don't know. I haven't looked at the schedule, but when I get to yell, oh foolish Galatians, I'm excited for that night. But Verse 2 of Galatians 3, let me ask you only this. Did you receive the Spirit by works of the law or by hearing with faith? Are you still foolish? Having begun by the Spirit, are you now being perfected by the flesh? Did you suffer so many things in vain? If indeed it was in vain, does he who supplot Does he who supplies the Spirit to you and works miracles among you do so by works of the law or by hearing with faith? Just as Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness. Ah, I can't wait for that night that we get to talk and preach through that. But recognize here that Paul is just driving at home. You know it's by grace. You know that there's no way that you could solve your sin problem. You know that you cannot atone for your own sins here in this lifetime. It's going to take an eternity in hell. And Paul says, you know that, so why did you fall for the lies of the false teacher? If you believed it when you came to Christ, believe it now. And friends, we must do the same. We must fight against the tricks of the false gospel. May we not diminish grace. May we not seek and want a checklist So the three false or the three tricks of the false gospel is a false gospel often comes from someone that is influential. Second point is it diminishes God and puts man at the center. And the third point is it diminishes grace and puts a checklist in its plan. Now let's hear Paul's warning against false gospels. If you haven't heard it already, if it's not evident to you already, let me just crystallize it for you here. Look for God's approval, not man's. The false gospel, like we said, it takes Christ out of the center and puts man at the center, causes you to seek man's approval and not God's. And that man could be yourself. Hear me, that man could be yourself that you're seeking your own approval in some way. Look at verse 10 with me, for am I now seeking the approval of man or of God? Or am I trying to please man? If I were still trying to please man, I would not be a servant of Christ. Paul drives home the binary factor of the gospel. Binary. There's only two options in this life. You're either of Christ, you're in Christ, you're redeemed by Christ, you're a child of God, or you're an enemy of God. This is your two options. And that's why he says, I would not be a servant of Christ. So he's saying if I was trying to please man, then that means I would not be pleasing God, and I would be his enemy. He's saying don't seek the approval of man. The false gospel will try to draw you in to appeasing man. Make the checklist. Make yourself feel good. Make yourself think that you have accomplished it. Or what about the false gospel of our society? Make sure you post the right remarks on Facebook. Make sure you support the right cultural movements. Don't talk bad about this group of people. Don't say it's a sin. You know, we could go through it. And this is the cultural gospel, just so you know, this is a social cul cultural gospel that is a lie. That's saying Fit in by going along with the culture. And you'll be saved. The culture actually promises you salvation If you obey our commandments, if you follow our rules, we're not going to bother you and we're not going to mock you. And it's an appeasement to man. But friends, we must look for God's approval. Let's be honest, whose approval do we want? Whose would we rather have In the moment, we want man 's. In the moment, we're drawn to manse. But ultimately, we look forward to that day that we stand before our Lord and our Savior and He calls us child. And he says, Welcome. And we enter into glory, worshiping our God forever, because we have his approval through Christ's work on the cross and not of any of man's approval. May we seek God's approval and not man's. The second warning that Paul emphasizes against false gospels is that the false gospel may have some truth in it. But it is not the full truth. The false gospel may have some truth in it. That maybe is one of the most important things you can hear tonight. Because you can't say it's an it's an all-or-one. Well, they said Jesus. They said Jesus, so then they must be preaching the truth. No, no, no. Well, how about this? I mean, let's be honest, we have a lot of brothers saying that they believe in the errant word and infallible word of God and they're lying to us They stand on the Word of God and then they go off and do whatever they want. They say, no, no, we actually believe the Word of God. We're good Baptists, we're good Presbyterians, we're good evangelicals, but we're now going to preach a gospel that's contrary to Christ. There's some truth in it. That's what Satan has always done. Satan has always woven in some truth. Since the garden, right? Since the garden, Satan has woven in these truths that we get a glimpse of it, we say, you know, that sounds familiar, I like it, I can agree with it, and then you're sucked in. I found this out when I lived in Italy for four years dealing with Roman Catholics. Guess what words are very common in their uh vocabulary? Faith? Repentance? Forgiveness? And so as you're talking, you're almost saying, well, wait, we're agreeing, aren't we? Aren't we agreeing? Wow, this is great. This is wonderful. Look at all these brothers in Christ I have. But then you recognize that it's all works of men. That to have faith alone in Christ is actually an anathema against the Pope and his church. If you miss a good day of going through all the checks and balances of the church, the Catholic Church, then you have problems. Oh wait, we're actually not saying the same thing. We actually have a different gospel. And you start to see that the the little bits of truth that the enemy has woven in is just a distraction from the So recognize, be warned, that the false gospel will have some pieces of truth in it. Another last point, the last warning. Or really call and challenge is fight against it and flee from the false gospel. Fight against it. Don't let it just m marinate around you. If it's in this church Fight against it. If it's in your lives, fight against it. If you're hearing it and you're starting to believe it and follow after it, fight against it Flee from it. If you move at some point and you go to a church that's preaching a false gospel, that's preaching something other than Christ, then get out of there. Flee. Sometimes we think, well, no, we're gonna stay there or we don't want to harm these guys. They're really nice. We like them. No! Flee from it. Get away from it. Fight against it. If you love God so much, you will love to fight against his enemies. You will love to run away from his enemies. And Paul just drives this home for us to see it. Verse 7, not that there is another one, but there are some who trouble you and want to distort the gospel of Christ. But even if we or an angel from heaven should preach to you a gospel contrary to the one we preach to you, let him be accursed. A curse. Good word or bad word? Bad word. It's not a good thing. It's a death sentence. They should be dead. They should be destroyed. And you think, okay, well, maybe he slipped up in his writing. Let's just read verse 9 As we have said before, so now I say again, if anyone is preaching to you a gospel contrary to the one you received, let him be accursed. Paul doesn't have a stutter there. He just wants to show how important it is that a false gospel needs to be crushed and destroyed, and you should have no parts of it. The church should have no parts of it. Let us not mingle it in and say, well, maybe we can partner with them in some good things. Oh well, you know, that that guy he preaches a false gospel, but he puts on a really good singing performance. Let's invite him into our church so that he can talk about social gospel or he can talk about a prosperity gospel. Let us not say, well, you know, we like this ministry that this missionary is doing, so let us just go along with them, even though he they're not mentioning Christ. They're not mentioning the salvation of sinners. They're not talking about death and life. They're not talking about the kingdom of God. But we like how they're making other people feel in other parts of the world and it makes us feel good. May it be accursed. May we not be so foolish to fall for those lies. May we stand with the brothers and sisters that are around the world preaching the true gospel and may we fight against the enemies that are trying to destroy and will fail, but they are trying to destroy. God's kingdom. Let's go in prayer. Heavenly Father, we rejoice in your word. We rejoice. We rejoice that it's Christ's work and not ours. Lord, if any of us have fallen for any lies, we ask that the Spirit convicts us tonight. Reveal it to us. May we not be put to shame of it, but may we see it for what it is and repent of it immediately. With grateful and joyful hearts, may we come back to you in the true gospel of Jesus. Laura, if any one of us is hearing it, give us the strength and the wisdom to fight against it and to flee from it. Lord, I just pray that you build us up. You build our confidence in your gospel. You build our confidence in Christ. You build our confidence that we have been saved. Been given new lives, and we are now your children. Lord, we give you all the glory. We give you all the praise. We ask that we go into this week. boldened by this truth, boldened by the gospel, and rejoicing in your work. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.