Well, church, let me invite you to open up your Bibles to the book of John, chapter 4. We're going to be in verses 19 through 26 this evening. John 4 verses 19 through 26. As you're turning there, I have a few questions for your consideration. Church, should we sing more of the old hymns or more modern praise songs? Should drums be a part of our accompaniment? How big should our band be, and uh and what volume should they be set, more importantly, maybe? Should our worship, our public worship, follow a set liturgy that's passed down through tradition, or should we feel the freedom to innovate? Should we dim the lights or should we uh keep them on? Oh here's here's one. What about a smoke machine? Barbara doesn't say anything about it. Should we incorporate drama or video into our worship service? Should the preacher wear a tie? For our purposes tonight, I hope the answer is no. How should we practice communion? And how often? Well, these are all questions regarding what we should do when we gather together as the people of God for worship. And to one degree or another, all of these questions matter and are worth some consideration. However , When discussing worship in the local church, we make a grave mistake if these are the first kinds of questions that we seek to answer. Because before we can enter into any meaningful conversation about any of the externals, the forms of what we do in worship, we have to actually understand biblically what worship is. What is the nature of worship? What is its purpose? What is it ultimately about? What is its essence? What we need to understand, church, is that the externals of worship are all downstream. They all flow out of an understanding of what is happening in the heart. We can have all of the proper externals And still not have true worship. Because worship, and when I talk about worship, I mean the act of seeing, of savoring, of magnifying and exalting the greatness of our God. Worship is not first and foremost about what we do outwardly, but about what happens at the level of the heart. In our text this evening, Jesus takes up this question of the nature of worship. He's in Samaria in a familiar enough scene conversing with a woman whose understanding of worship was wrapped up in this long-standing debate over external practices between Jews and Samaritans. She asks Jesus, one, which mountain should God be worships? The answer we see Jesus give, though, is that in the kingdom that he was coming to establish Proper worship was not going to be a matter of geography, but fundamentally a matter of spirit and of truth in the hearts of those who would be brought from spiritual death. To spiritual life. As we look at this text tonight, the main point we're going to see is that true worship is a spiritual matter of the heart rightly beholding. And exalting the living God. True worship, church, is a matter, a spiritual matter of the hearts of our hearts rightly beholding and exalting the living God. That's really just my way of paraphrasing what Jesus says in this passage. Which is that Jesus is, or that worship is done to be done in spirit and in truth. Let's read this text together and then we will walk through it and consider what the Lord has for us to see. John chapter 4, beginning in verse 19, the woman said to him, Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet. Our fathers worshiped on this mountain, but you say that in Jerusalem is the place where people ought to worship. Jesus said to her, Woman, believe me, the hour is coming when neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father. You worship what you do not know. We worship what we know, for salvation is from the Jews. But the hour is coming and is now here when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth. For the Father is seeking such people to worship him God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth. The woman said to him, I know that Messiah is coming, he who is called the Christ. When he comes, he will tell us all things. Jesus said to her, I who speak to you, and he. As we walk through this text and see this main point about worship being fundamentally a spiritual matter of the heart before God. We're going to see this point play out in kind of three broad points. We're going to see first a question about worship. Next, a clarification on worship. And then thirdly, a revelation of the one we worship. So if you're taking notes, those will be our three broad points, a question about worship. A clarification on worship and a revelation of the one we worship Well in verses 19 and 20 we see the woman at the well ask Jesus a question about worship. Now we're jumping here into the middle of a conversation. So we want to have at least some understanding of the context, because the power of Jesus teaching, what he teaches here about worship, is amplified by what's going on in this entire encounter. So Jesus is passing through Samaria on his way to Galilee, and he stops at Jacob's well in the afternoon And there he encounters this woman who is coming to draw water. Now significantly, she's coming at the time when you would not typically come to draw water. It's the middle of the day at the hottest point of the day. And this right off the bat tells us something about this woman's identity. She was an outcast in society. She lived a life of sin and shame right before Verse 19, Jesus has just identified that this woman has had five husbands and is currently living with a man who is not her husband. She's a sinner. She's an outcaster in her own culture, and she was caught up in a life of sin and shame and rebellion against God. So in verses 19 and 20, she brings up this question of worship, it seems, almost to change the subject. The conversation between her and Jesus had gotten just a bit too close to home. And she's trying to steer it back to safe ground. One commentator points out that she's almost attempting to hide behind a question of theological debate. Instead of being confronted by the reality of her own life of sin. Oh my, how often do we do the same thing? She's tossing out a red herring effectively. But I want you to notice there's an irony here. By steering the conversation to this question of worship, she thinks that what she is doing is steering the conversation away from herself. What she's actually doing though is shining a hyper-focused beam of light on her greatest need. Her greatest problem was that at the level of the heart, she was not a worshiper of God. Her outward sin, her outward life of rebellion was merely a symptom and not the root. We need to remember this, church, that outward manifestations of sin are always symptoms The root is always in the hearts. And therefore, the root issue of all sin is ultimately a worship issue. It's that in our heart we are exalting self and not Christ. Well she says to Jesus in the beginning of verse 19, Sir, I perceive that you're a prophet I want you to hang on to something here because it's important for what comes later, and it's important as we understand this passage in the larger flow of John's Gospel. There's this pattern all throughout the book of John of beholding and believing of people seeing Jesus, seeing his glory, and believing in him as the Christ. If you've ever read through John, just note how many times he uses the word believe. Well, at this point, this woman perceives something about Jesus. She sees and acknowledges Jesus as a prophet. Based on his perceptive insight into her own life, but she has not yet beheld him rightly. She does not yet see him as the Christ, the Son of the living God. But for true worship to take place, we must behold and believe in Christ for who He is Well, in verse 20, she asks Jesus to offer his insight into this long-standing debate over worship practices between Jews and Samaritans. She asks in verse 20, our fathers worship on this mountain, but you say that in Jerusalem is the place where people ought to worship. The Samaritans, because they rejected all but the first five books of the Old Testament, and they held to very certain specific interpretations of several passages worshipped on Mount Gerizim. While for the Jews, worship was inextricably linked to Jerusalem. It was bound to and tied to the temple That's where the sacrifices were made. That's where the Levitical priests carried out their duties. That's where God's very presence dwelt with his old covenant people in the Holy of Holies. So the woman asks Jesus, who's got worship rights? The answer that we see Jesus give, however, is that some Something entirely new is coming. Look at verse 21 and how Jesus initially responds. He says, Woman, believe me. The hour is coming when neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father. Jesus answered that in the kingdom he has come to establish, which is what we should think of when we see that language of the hour is now coming. He's referring to something that he is bringing about through his entrance into the pages of human history, his uh inauguration of the kingdom, his incarnation, in what Jesus has come to do, in the kingdom he has come to establish. Worship will no longer be bound by or defined by geography What Jesus has come to accomplish is going to make true worship possible not only in one location, not only in one physical temple, but everywhere. For God will dwell not in a temple, but in the hearts of his people. Now notice that Jesus is clear that the worship of the Samaritans was improper and was born out of ignorance He says in verse 22, you worship what you do not know. And he affirms that the worship under the old covenant for the people of Israel Was in accordance with what God had revealed. We worship what we know, for salvation is from the Jews. The law of the old covenant was from God. It was good. God had set the terms under the law of Moses for how he was to be approached in worship. And so often what Israel is called to repent of is the fact that they did not approach God on the terms that he had set, either outwardly or in the heart. But What's incredible here is that Jesus teaches that all of this, all of the worship of the temple, was merely preparatory. It was a mere shadow passing away and pointing forward to something greater. And in the coming of Jesus, the greater thing, the greater worship has arrived. Jesus is saying here that a decisive shift in redemptive history, in the history of how God relates to his people, is taking place, which was going to make the worship of the temple in Jerusalem obsolete. Now, church, we mustn't undermine the gravity of what Jesus is saying here. Jerusalem under the Old Covenant was the center of worship for people of God The temple was central to all of life and the identity of what it meant to be an Israelite. We can just think back through the Old Testament. Think of, for example, the magnificent scene of the dedication of the temple in 1 Kings chapter 8, where the cloud of God's glory was so great that the priests couldn't even stand to administer the sacrifices. Think of the Psalms of Ascent, these psalms that the people of God would sing as they journeyed toward Jerusalem in preparation and anticipation for coming up Mount Zion to worship the Lord. Think of the tragedy of how the book of Kings ends with the temple being plundered and the instruments being carried off into exile. We cannot begin to fathom the importance of temple worship under the old covenant. Jesus is saying. And we need to hear this, that something far more glorious is coming. Because Jesus has come to make true worship from the hearts possible for God's people everywhere. Jesus, we see in 1 Peter, has come to make a people who are themselves a living temple, a true and holy dwelling place for God. The geography of worship for us as the new covenant people of God saved by grace through faith is not about mountains or temples. The location of worship is fundamentally in the heart. And church, we just we have to see how glorious this is. The worship that Christ has made possible is far more glorious than anything that came before. Do we believe this? Do we believe that a group of Christians gathered together in any old church building singing only sort of on pitch? But with hearts that are spiritually alive with love for Christ, are doing a far more glorious thing than the most dramatic and wonderful and incredible scene of temple worship we see in the history of Israel? Your homework for tonight is to go read 2 Corinthians 3, verses 7 through 11, and see how Paul describes the glory of what is ours and the realities, the fulfillment of the new covenant that Christ has brought about. Through his life, death, and resurrection, and present reign as King. Jesus teaches that all the glorious things that have come before are mere shadows. But he has come to bring the substance, true spiritual worship from the heart. In Jesus' initial answer to this woman's question, we see him clarify. That true worship in God's kingdom is not defined by externals. He tells her effectively that she's asking the wrong question. It's not ultimately about mountains. And church, if we only think about our worship of God in terms of externals, in terms of what we do, then we haven't yet begun to ask the right questions. Church worship is not just about you getting to sing your favorite songs or whether or not you like the preaching style. Yes, externals matter. But they do not fundamentally define for us what worship is as followers of Jesus. To see, then, what worship is in its true essence, we must next see Jesus' clarification on worship. From a question about worship, we turn to Jesus' clarification on worship. So if it's not about mountains, what is it ultimately about? What defines worship? Well, look at verse 23. Jesus says, the hour is coming and is now here when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth. Worship of God is fundamentally a matter of spirits and a matter of truth. It's a spiritual reality of the inner man, the inner person. Seeing God rightly and responding in praise and in adoration and in exaltation of Him, fundamentally from the heart, flowing out into the life Let's take these two descriptive words, spirit and truth, in turn. When Jesus says that true worshippers will worship in spirits. He is referring to the invisible reality of the inner person, or we might say the heart. It's not merely what you do externally with your body that marks true worship. But what takes place in your hearts. One commentator says that worship arises from the deepest recesses of a person 's being. And we can see here how Jesus is establishing this contrast based on the woman's question. If you're defining worship only by mountains and only by external realities, you're missing it. Because it's fundamentally an invisible spiritual reality of our hearts before God. Well, all of Scripture is so clear that what we do and say flows out of our hearts And so worship, the act of exalting God, giving him the glory and the praise and the adoration that he deserves, fundamentally is a matter of the heart, a matter of the inner person. A matter of the spirit. Worship is a spiritual reality of the heart, and it takes place by the heart. Seeing and savoring God rightly. This is what Jesus means when he says that worship is in truth. That is, it is according to the truth of how God has revealed himself in his word and in the person and work of his son. By defining worship as fundamentally spiritual, Jesus is not just introducing kind of a free-for-all, where anything that you feel is spiritual is what you should do in worship. He's not defining worship as this mirrorly vague notion of looking inside yourself and thinking about what makes you feel spiritually and then going and doing that as if To say that something is spiritual means it is about your feelings. That's not fundamentally what it means to say that something is spiritual. No. It's not for us to chase a spiritual feeling, however we might define that. No, our spiritual worship is fundamentally a matter of our hearts seeing God in truth. Beholding him for who he is, how he is revealed to himself, and coming to him on the basis of his self-revelation, of what he has made known about himself, and on the terms that he sets. It's also, and we need to understand this, not merely externally agreeing with or giving assent to truths. Worship is not just you looking at a list of propositions about God and saying, yes, I agree, God is holy. Yes, God is all powerful. Yes, God is eternal. Okay, I've worshiped, we're good. No, it's an inner Rejoicing in the truth of who God is. It's, as the psalmist says, tasting and seeing that the Lord is good. It's genuinely and earnestly desiring to see God's glory magnified and made glorious above all else. One of my favorite verses for uh thinking about defining worship is Psalm 29, verse 2, which calls on The people of God to ascribe to the Lord, that is to give to the Lord the glory due his name. Well let me ask you an easy question. How much glory is due, is owed to the name of God? All of it. We can't even begin to fathom the glories of who God is. So worship is looking, seeing God rightly, and agreeing from the hearts that He is worthy of all praise. God should be supremely magnified above all things. And worship is the reality fundamentally of our heart saying amen and joining in that task. It's the true inner person seeing God and exalting him. Well, here we come to something of attention that the Bible presents to us. Because if we know anything about what the Bible says about our hearts this side of Eden, we know that we are hopelessly dead in sin. disordered in our affections. We worship self instead of God. And we are utterly incapable in the deadness of our sin, we are utterly incapable of responding to God rightly. On our own merits. In fact, the blindness of our sin is such that we can be confronted with the reality of who God is, and we can reject it in the deadness of our hearts. Those in darkness hate the light. If that's the case, and if that's true of every single person who has ever been born, that we have inherited a sin nature and we are dead in sin. Well the question is, how can there be any true worshipers? How can there be any true spiritual heart-level worship? Well, it's at this point of tension that we see another glorious truth in this text, which is that true worship, church, is a matter of God's gracious initiation. Look at the second half of verse 23. Jesus says that the Father is seeking such people to worship him. God Himself must be the one who initiates true worship. He is the one who does the seeking. He is the one who draws the loss to himself. This is another theme we can see all throughout the book of John. Places like John chapter 6, verse 44, where Jesus says that no one can come to him unless the Father first draws him. People dead in sin will never praise God on their own. But it's only by an act of God on our behalf, awakening our hearts, bringing us from spiritual death to spiritual life that true spiritual worship can take place. In this text, in verses 23 and 24, the word spirit, when it refers to worship, I believe refers to the human spirit, the inner person. But it is only by an act of the Holy Spirit of God that true worship in our spirit and in truth can take place. It's only through being brought from spiritual death to spiritual life by our eyes being open to the reality of who Christ is and crying out to him in faith. That true spiritual worship can take place. It is only by an act of God's grace that we can rightly behold and exalt the living God And praise God that he has worked, and that he has acted, that he has intervened to open our eyes to the reality of who he is. Well such worship that as Jesus defines it here rightly corresponds with who God is. We see that in verse 24. God is spirit. That is, God is invisible. He is not a physical being. His presence is not bound to one location. He doesn't dwell in temples made with hands. Therefore, true worship of God will not be bound to one specific location, but in the kingdom that Christ is coming to establish will take place everywhere his people are. everywhere that hearts by an act of his initiation behold him in truth and magnify his glory from the heart. Notice also that this is a command in verse 24. Those who worship Him, those who come to God to exalt and glorify and magnify Him, must worship in spirit and in truth. Jesus isn't offering one method in a list of many others for how you can worship. These are the terms that God sets for his people. So then here's the question for us. How does God initiate this true worship of himself? Well the answer we see, gloriously, by God's grace, is that it is through the person and work of his Son, Jesus Christ. This brings us to point number three. So we've seen a question about worship, Jesus clarification that worship is a matter of the heart seeing and beholding and exalting God rightly. Thirdly, we see a revelation of the one we worship. We come back now to Jesus and the woman at the well. In verse 25, she doesn't quite seem to grasp what Jesus has said. But she holds on to some kind of vague notion that one day the Messiah would come and would settle the disputes. I know that Messiah is coming, she says, He who is called Christ. When he comes, he will tell us all things. She holds out to some kind of vague hope that eventually the Messiah will come and everything will be clear about How worship should take place. Well, ironically, in this very moment, that is what is happening It is here that Jesus declares to her with full force in verse 26, I who speak to you am He. Jesus tells her that the Messiah has come and he is standing right in front of her. And it's here In beholding Jesus Christ for who he truly is, the true worship begins not only for this woman, but for all who will come to him by faith. I mentioned earlier that there's this pattern in the book of John of beholding and believing, of seeing Christ and then responding in faith, responding with belief. You can see this pattern from the very outset of John's Gospel in chapter 1, verse 14. We're told that the word became flesh and dwelt among us. And then John says, and we have seen or we beheld his glory. From the very outset of the Gospel of John, John is captivated with, concerned with. proclaiming that Christ's glory has been revealed through his incarnation. And that continues all the way through the end of the book, where in chapter 20, verse 31, we read that these things are written. so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. This record account of Jesus' life and teachings has been set before you so that you will believe that he is who he claimed to be. And so often throughout the narratives and the accounts of John's gospel we see this pattern where Jesus manifests his glory either through miraculous works or through his teaching. And those around him believe in him. There's more and more clarity as the narrative moves forward and ramps up. Well, this is also the pattern that we see in this narrative. Look down at verse 28. So the woman left her water jar and went away into town and said to the people, Come see a man who told me all that I ever did. Can this be the Christ? Look down further at verse 39. Many Samaritans from that town believed in him because of the woman's testimony. He told me all that I ever did. And then down in verse 42, they said to the woman, It is no longer because of what you said that we believe. For we have heard for ourselves and we know that this indeed is the Savior of the world. The woman in this narrative and many of other Samaritans surrounding and who were told by the woman of what Jesus had said and done beheld the person of Jesus. Their eyes were open to see that he is the Christ. They believed in him and proclaimed then he is the Savior of the world. That is, they became worshipers. Well, it's this pattern of beholding and believing in Christ Church that makes true worship possible. We need to see that this narrative of these Samaritans coming to believe that Jesus is the Savior of the world is deeply connected to what Jesus is teaching here about worship. He is here actually doing the work that he says the Father is doing of seeking true worshipers who behold his glory rightly And from the heart believe in him and exalt his name. Thus we need to understand, church. That true spiritual worship is always, always a matter of gospel proclamation and a matter of gospel transformation. Apart from God's work in Christ, bringing us out of death into life. Apart from our sins being taken upon Christ, the wrath of God being born for them, apart from us being united to Christ by faith, we can never worship rightly. Apart from Christ, we cannot come to God because we are dead in sin and because we stand before Him condemned Apart from seeing Christ for who he is and looking to him by faith, trusting in him, true worship cannot take place. Apart from him, apart from true heart level faith in Christ, all of the externals of worship, no matter how sincere And no matter how emotional they may look outwardly, are filthy rags in the sight of God. You must understand this That true worship for God's new covenant people is a call to behold the Lord Jesus Christ for all that he is. To see him as Savior, as king, as atoning lamb, as covenant mediator, as our merciful and gracious high priest, as our reigning Lord, who is right now seated at the right hand of the Father, who is right now advancing his kingdom through the proclamation of the gospel in local churches. It's a call to see Jesus for all that he is, to believe in him, to look to him by faith, and then to from that give expression to that belief. By praising Him, beginning in the heart and then flowing outwardly in our singing, in our praying, in our hearing of God's word, and in our living. We need to see, Church, that this is exactly what God intends to take place each week as we gather for worship and as we live our entire lives as an act of worship unto God. Romans chapter 12, verse 1 defines all of life lived under the Lordship of Jesus Christ as an act of spiritual worship. That is, from the heart we are called to live under Christ's authority, abide by all that He has called us to do. As an act of our hearts seeing and exalting Christ, saying that he should and is Lord of the universe. And therefore he must be Lord and King over our lives. Each week as we gather, we must see Christ by faith. We must savor him, and we must exalt him. We have to see that this is fundamentally a worship or fundamentally always a matter of the heart. Such worship as Christ defines it here, and as all of God's word defines it, cannot be conjured up by externals. It's only by God's Spirit at work among his people that we can look to Christ and see Him and exalt Him. We cannot do the Holy Spirit's work for him. We cannot create just the right emotional setting to make worship happen. This is God's Spirit at work. causing our hearts to see God rightly through the proclamation of His Word. We must also see, Church, that it is only through what Christ has accomplished for us at the cross And through his present work as our mediator, that our worship happens. True spiritual worship is Initiated by, it is mediated through, and it is focused on the person and work of Jesus Christ. It's by his shed blood that we have confidence to enter into the very throne room of God. And exalt his name. It is by his work as our high priest that our worship is acceptable to God, though we are wretchedly sinful. And it is to him that our praise is directed, both now and for all eternity. If you look forward to Revelation chapters 5 and chapter 7, and you see what we Sing about it. What we will sing about for eternity, it is the Lamb of God who is slain. It is the risen, exalted Christ. Worship that is in spirit and in truth is fundamentally centered on the person and work of Jesus Christ. Well, as we conclude, I know that a sermon like this can be, in some ways, utterly unsatisfying, because I haven't touched on so many of the specifics that I teased at the very beginning You might be thinking, well this is all great, but what about the drum set? What do we do about that? Well let me first say that any of the healthy and necessary Good faith, in-house discussions and debates about the outward forms of our worship must be completely saturated with a biblical vision of the true spiritual reality of new covenant worship as followers of Jesus Christ. If we don't have this, and if we don't continually come back to this, then ultimately we have nothing. And if we are clear on this and continually circling back to what worship truly is as God defines it, then inevitably we will focus on something else. We will treat something peripheral or external as though it were the main thing, and we do that to our own peril. Nevertheless, I do believe that this biblical vision for worship as a spiritual reality of our hearts seeing Believing and exalting the living God does have practical implications for how we think about worship in Christ Church. So as we close, let me offer you five semi-practical applications. First, if worship is in spirit, that is, it is from the inner recesses of our hearts. We must prioritize examining our own hearts and praying for the hearts of others as we gather each week to worship. Christian, do you prepare your hearts to gather together with God's people? Do you seek to live a life of worship the other six days of the week? Do you think about your brothers and sisters throughout the week and do you pray for them and for their hearts to look to Christ in all circumstances, to trust that their identity is in him? We must examine our own hearts. We must pray for the hearts of others. Oh yes, we should pray that they will be safe on the roads and get here safely, but we must pray that their hearts would rightly See God as His word is preached, as we sing to Him, as we pray for one another, as we experience the fellowship that's only possible through Christ's death and resurrection. Oh, we must pray for our hearts and for the hearts of those around us. Secondly, if worship is a matter of truth, we must prioritize a steady diet of expositional, Christ-centered preaching from the Word of God. And praise God that this is a church with an appetite for that. Praise God that that's not something that we have to newly implement. And may we grow in that all the more. May we grow in a hunger and a desire and a fervent longing. To drink deeply from the well of God's Word. Thirdly, we should be committed to singing biblically faithful, Christ-centered, doctrinally rich songs. that center our hearts and capture our affections with the truth. I want you to understand as your music Leader, I don't approach selecting songs fundamentally as a matter of hymns versus modern songs or fast songs versus slow songs. No, I want you to sing rich gospel truths With music that is fitting, that that fits the truths that we're proclaiming to God, about God, and to one another. We must be committed to this. We must grow in an appetite for this, for biblically saturated, Christ-centered, gospel-rich music. Maybe that's not always in our favorite style, but that causes our hearts to look to Christ. Third, fourthly, if worship is a matter of our hearts, rightly beholding and exalting the Lord. Then our focus must be on the gathered worshipers, not on the production. This must not be a performance, Church What happens on the stage when we gather together for worship is not the most important thing taking place. You at no point in the gathering of God's people are an audience. You may only open your mouth and say something when we are singing together. But when God's word is preached, there is a call for you to listen and to hear and to respond to God's word inwardly. You are just as much a participator as you listen to God's word being preached as you are when you stand to sing. And we should stand and sing loudly. I I I Deeply want us to grow and to be a vibrant, joyful, singing church. We must also be a vibrant, joyful church in hearing the word of God preached and in praying and in fellowship. We must focus on the gathered worshipers, not on the production. If those of us who are involved in putting the service together are more concerned with the the practicalities of all of the pieces moving correctly and not on heart seeing God then we've missed it. Well finally, if worship is a matter of truth, then the goal must always be clarity. We must ask, does what we do in worship, the prayers, the singing, the preaching, the fellowship, what you discuss in your Sunday school classes, does it give us a clearer vision of who God is? Are we struck with the weightiness of his glory? Do we see how worthy he is of praise? Do we say specific things about his character, about his nature, and about his work? In every age there's a trend among some toward obscurity in songwriting The more vague the metaphor, the more churches will sing your song, and the more money you can make through CCLI, I suppose. We must strive for biblical clarity. If a Jew or a Muslim or a deist could sit in our worship service and find nothing objectionable, then something is deeply, deeply wrong. And I hope that it's clear by now that the reason for that is because worship is all about beholding, believing, and from the heart exalting our risen Savior, Jesus. Christ. Let's pray together. Oh Father, we thank you that you have shown yourself to us through the person and work. Jesus Christ, we thank you that the gospel has penetrated our hearts. And we pray, God, that you would drive us as a church deeper and deeper into our gospel identity. Oh God, would you help us to see you and fundamentally from the heart exalt you? Oh God, would you grow us as a church? Grow in us a desire to see your glory, to savor you, and to compel and call on those around us to See and to worship the living God by coming to Christ in faith. We trust that this is your work. We trust that you do this by your Spirit, and we pray that you would increase this in us all the more. Jesus name I pray. Amen.