The words we will examine this evening come out of 1 Peter chapter 1, verses 1 and 2. 1 Peter chapter 1. Verses one and two. We're starting a new series in the first letter of Peter. And as I been preparing and planning this out. My normal way of doing is trying to plan out the entire letter, the entire preaching series, mark out uh which verses we'll cover. and uh the entirety of how long it will take and then put it onto the calendar. But as I've got into First Peter as I've attempted to try to uh parse it out and put uh sections on what we will talk through and examine each week, uh it became an endless journey for me. If you're familiar with 1 Peter, it is a dense, dense book, deep theological topics and uh application within it. I I envision it similar to uh Mary Poffins in her bag, right? Every time she reached in that bag Something else was coming out. I it was like third grade the last time I saw that movie, but I think there was maybe a lamp she pulled out at one time and and she just kept bringing more and more out of it. Well that's how I feel with First Peter. Every time I reach into it Just more and more. So tonight we're only going to do two verses. And I'd like to promise that this is, we won't do two verses every week, but I can't make that promise because where the Spirit leads, we may do one word each night. That'll be interesting. One of my favorite pastors, preachers, Martin Lloyd Jones, he has about six hours on Romans 1-1. And about three of them are on the first word of Romans 1-1. So I won't as stand up to that reputation, but let's dive in and as we Go through, especially tonight, but through this book, I want us to see what the purpose of the book is, but even more what the purpose is for our lives. That's how Peter's writing. He's writing the letter for the everyday Christian. For the church, and he wants them to hear this. And before we read it, let me just put in your mind what the purpose is for both the letter and for our lives. It's simply this: to know God. And to humbly respond in every aspect of our lives. To know God and to humbly respond in every aspect of our lives. You wanna know what your purpose is? I don't we don't need to write chapter books on it, so people have We don't need to have seminars. This is it. We want to know God. This is what John 17, 3 says. This is eternal life. What is it? What is eternal life? To know God, that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom you have sent. Philippians 3. 10 says a very similar thing. Our purpose, Christians, the purpose of this letter, the purpose of this book is that we know God and we respond. We live rightly according to his law, according to what he has said. And that's what we'll see tonight. That's what we'll see through this entire letter that Peter has written. So join me as we read. 1 Peter chapter 1, starting in verse 1. Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who are elect exiles of the dispersion, in Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, Abithynia according to the foreknowledge of God the Father and the sanctification of the Spirit for obedience to Jesus Christ And for sprink sprinkling with his blood. May grace and peace be multiplied to you. And such few words, such deep and meaningful theology is laid out here. It should be no surprise to us that a man like Peter would write such deep theology. I'm sure many of you know his story and his life. He was one of the twelve disciples of Christ. He he walked this earth with Jesus and He has quite an interesting journey and story. Many times Peter said the perfect things. Right? Peter was like he he was the the number one student. Jesus would ask a question and Peter would have the answer. And then almost in the same breath, Peter would say something really foolish. And I Peter's kind of my spirit at all in a lot of ways Maybe not on the right answers, but saying something really foolish and being fired up, excited, but not controlling and understanding where his passion and his zeal is Mark one, we see Jesus calling Peter. He's on a boat. He's fishing. Jesus calls him. And the language used there is not that Peter had to think about it. He had to make sure the logistics were in order. He had to go home and talk to his family about this. What it says is that he immediately followed. Jesus called, and Peter responded. Jesus called him, come follow me. What did Peter do? He gave up everything he had and went and followed Jesus. And we s we could examine Peter's life throughout the Gospels and we know that he has these highs and lows, but there's a specific time when in Matthew sixteen, specifically in eighteen Where Jesus is talking and he looks to Peter and he says, on this rock I will build my church. I'm sure at that time Peter had no idea what that could possibly mean. But then jump forward in Acts 2. Who preaches at Pentecost? Peter, in this moment, well well the the world seems to be turned upside down, this these young This young church, these Christians, they don't know what's going on. Their Savior, their Messiah has has uh left them and he said, I'm gonna send the helper and It's going to be miraculous and the church is going to explode and the gospel is going to go around the world, and here they are sitting in Jerusalem, terrified. What does Peter do? He gets up and by the working of the Spirit he starts to preach, and we know the story in Acts 2 that thousands, three thousands hear the gospel and are transformed in that moment. This is the building of the church that Jesus promised back in Matthew 16 through the preaching that Peter has done. Not because Peter is extra special, but because of the empowerment that God has given to Peter. And then we saw that Paul comes in, he starts to persecute the church, they scatter. But then we see in Acts 10. Acts 10 is an interesting story with Peter. Anyone remember what that event is? Cornelius, it's a great name. We have a son, top three names for a son. Okay, now I I was told no, so that's off the list. But we know Cornelius. Yeah, that's no He is a Roman leader within the military. He is a military leader, and here he comes to Peter, and Peter preaches the gospel to him. Now read that story because I oversaw. Simplified it, but we see for the first time the gospel going and transforming the world outside of the Jewish realm in Israel. And this is where we see that the gospel and Christ's church, his bride, starts to expand and expand and expand. And brothers and sisters, as we sit here in the year 2025 in the big city of Jarretttsville, we are standing on the shoulders of some of the preaching which Peter did 2,000 years ago. Now, it's not Peter's work, but God used Peter to advance the gospel. God used Peter to build the church. And likewise, he used Peter to write this letter. So we shouldn't be surprised as we dive into this letter, and it's so packed full of theology and meaning. We should not be surprised because this man that is writing this walked with Jesus. Witness Jesus doing the miracles. Witness Jesus die and resurrect. Witness Jesus ascended into heaven. Witness the Holy Spirit transforming the souls of sinful men, and witness the church explode and expand. So as we read this, recognize the depth of it, recognize the value of this letter. And may we enjoy this and see the goodness and the purpose of our lives. To know God and to humbly respond in every aspect of our lives. So that's who wrote it, Peter, an apostle. Notice how quick that is. It's just a quick identifier. It's Peter writing it. He's identifying Tim, and that he's the he's the apostle of Christ. So the authority coming from his writing. But then he points out who this letter is to. He uses this line here that we see a similar line in the letter that James writes. He says, To those who are what? Elect exiles. Elect exiles. We'll get to that language there, but what we must see is that these people are scattered throughout the region. Essentially, they're scattered throughout the known world at the time, or what was considered the Roman world. If you were a good Roman, that was the ends of the earth. And they're scattered throughout there. And we saw and read in Acts chapter 8 that the reason they're scattered throughout the world is due to the persecution. persecution of Saul, Paul, he persecutes them and the Jewish leaders at the time. This is what sends the disciples in the early church. To go back to their homelands, and then we see Peter preaching to Cornelius, and that now takes the gospel into Rome, the capital city, and within the governmental structure and the leadership there. So he's writing this, and this is a very general letter. This letter was sent out to probably multiple churches. Essentially, this was a letter for the everyday Christian. It's a bit unique for us. And some of the letters we have in Scripture, like I think of 1 Corinthians, that's a particular letter to a particular group of Christians. Right? I mean start to read First Corinthians and you see they're dealing with some drama and some problems within the church that don't apply to us. Now, if if someone was sleeping with a relative, we would be dealing with it, right? But how common is that problem for us today? Well, no, that was a specific letter. It's called a particular letter to a particular church or group of people. Where this letter here, 1 Peter, is not that way. It's particularly that it's to Christians. It's to the believers. What Peter wants to do here is he wants to strengthen us. He wants to grow us. He wants the Christian to recognize who God is. See the beauty and the wonder of who God is and what he has done through his son. and the working of the Spirit within the church and the individual. And then he wants them to respond accordingly. Know God and respond. Know God. Come to see who He is. Come to believe and have faith. Come to be born again and now go and live. Go and live. Live as a Christian. Live in this reality as you know God, not just the head knowledge, but down deep into your heart. As you know God, he wants us to go and live rightly. What would this cause us to do if we know God? If we know him. Our souls have been gripped by it. Brothers and sisters, we have to live differently than the world. And Peter is just laying this out. It's very similar to Ephesians. Ephesians, Paul is writing about the glory of God. And then the let the first three chapters, the deep theology, who God is, and then chapters four through six is now go and live. And here's some practical ways that you should be living. And we see this to Peter, or from Peter. This language exile should also be an encouragement to us. This isn't a letter to those in the thrones or the civil realms or the powerhouse. Those that have everything, their lives are perfect, they have all the riches of the world, they're happy in everything that they do, there's no problems, there's no trials. Now you can go and live for Christ. No, he's writing to the Christian that is experiencing and facing exile. Those that feel lost in this world Those that feel as though the world around them is so foreign now that they have been transformed by the Spirit. Those that are facing physical danger in their life. There's persecution from the Jewish religion and from the civil government. But here, Peter's telling them to know God and to live it out. To know him and to live it out. The regents he lists in this letter is important to the original here, and for us, essentially this was kind of the saying like the four corners of the realm, the Roman Empire. You know, if you would these were the four main states. It would be like if we would list all 50 states. If if we're saying I'm writing this letter to, and then we started lift listing the fifty states, which I we cannot do That this would be going essentially he's saying everybody, everywhere, Christians, wherever you're at, wherever you're at in the world, I'm writing to you. It should be an encouragement. I'm sure when the early church was receiving this letter and they were receiving the words of an apostle, one that had walked with Jesus These Christians and these churches that were facing trials and suffering and were being persecuted, what joy it was when they received this letter from Peter. It gave them hope. It lifted their heads. It pointed them to Christ and his glory. It made the the reality of the persecution is not that great compared to the glory. of our Lord and Savior. So think about receiving this letter as you're being persecuted and the joy it would have been for them. Now let's get to verse 2. So this is the theological depth of what we'll study tonight. And you'll see in your outline, I've Maybe it's oversimplified, but I want you to see it's it's a progression chart. I hope that's clear. Took me I was gonna say ten hours that Not true, not even close. It took me like five minutes and then Jen corrected me, but to make those arrows on there. And I hope you see that you can't get to the end without first starting in the beginning. That's that's what I'm trying to point out here. So if you want to get down, just quickly glance down to the end of chapter 2 where it says, for the obedience, for obedience to Jesus Christ and for sprinkling with his blood. If you want to get there, you first have to start in the foreknowledge of God the Father. And then we're going to go through the sanctification of the Spirit. Likewise, Christians, if you want to understand the knowledge the purpose of our lives is to know God and to humbly respond in every aspect of our lives, many of us right now just want to get to the nuts and bolts of it. Right? Just tell me how to live. Tell me what to say to my boss tomorrow. Tell me how to love my wife tonight. Tell me how to interact with my children. Tell me how to share the gospel. That's what we want. But friends, we must sit and dive deep into the understanding of the sovereignty of our God, the sanctification of us Through the Spirit, the walking in obedience and the forgiveness we have in Christ, before we can get to the now do this We must know God to then live it out. This is what we dealt with in Galatians. They were trying to reverse it, right? They wanted you to do all the works. Get your hands dirty, get get working hard, and then you will be made righteous, but we're st we're reversing it because the Bible reverses it Religion, the world's religion is all about man, as Pastor Matt taught this morning, but here, Christianity, the gospel, is about the transformation of our heart to then outwardly be experienced. So let's first look at this is according to the Father's will. It's according to the Father's will. Verse 2 says, according to the foreknowledge of God the Father. I also want to tie in in that first verse to those who are elect. Election and foreknowledge of God are We cannot separate them. They are combined together. We'll also hear language throughout scripture of predestined. And immediately we get all tense and nervous and think we're having a debate that doesn't need to happen. What we need to rest and see is that everything in this earth, everything within our salvation, is according to the will of our Father. What does that do for us immediately? It should immediately put God at the center of our worship. It's not about man. It's not about our feelings. It's not about what we think is right or how we feel it should be or what we would do. It puts God at the right place. It sets him on his throne. And on his throne we turn and worship him. So many of us in the the the Christian world and in the American church are self centered. We profess with our mouth that Jesus is Lord and then we look to ourselves and say, What about me? What about how I feel? What what what can the church do for me? What songs can we sing to make me feel good? What can the pastor say to make me feel important? What can I do so that I feel good about myself and feel accomplished? Well, brothers and sisters, Peter is telling us that that is foolish. And the starting point, the starting point of everything is that our Lord is sovereign. He's in control. His election, his foreknowledge, his predestination, all of which sets him in his domain, his throne room, having dominion over all things. And we see this worked out throughout Scripture. Ephesians 1. I would like you to turn there because it's the reason I selected that as our first reading. It's because it echoes What Peter is saying. Friends, we must recognize that our salvation, our identity as Christians, that we have been adopted as God's children Is according to the plan of the Father. His will. The reason that Jesus came to this earth and died on the cross is because the Father's plan said so. And the Son submits to the Father and comes. And out of his love, out of his love, we see him going to the cross and dying for our sins. But look with me at Ephesians chapter 1 verses 4 through 6. It says, even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before Him. In love He predestined us for adoption to Himself. as sons through Jesus Christ, according to the purpose of His will, to the praise of His glorious grace, with which He has blessed us in the Beloved. And then look quickly at verse 11. In him we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will. So that we who were the first to hope in Christ might be to the praise of his glory. Brothers and sisters, I hope you see This this push and pull that Paul writes here. What he's doing is he's talking about how it's God's plan. Our salvation is God's plan. Us being redeemed is God's plan. It's his purpose. And then we go, well, why? Why did God choose us? Isn't that the most common, famous question? Why am I saved? Why would such a sinner, wretched man like me, be redeemed by the blood of Christ? What does Paul tell us? For the glory of God. It's to his glory. It's to the praise, look at six, to the praise of his glorious grace, with which he has blessed us in the blood Brothers and sisters, if you're questioning, well why, why does God do this? Why is it God's will We can start to apply a lot of uh life situations. Why, why, why? Why, God? Why is this happening? Why why such trials and temptation or trials and suffering and persecution? Or why did you save me? Why haven't my friends and my family come to salvation? We just point to Christ. So we point to God. We recognize it's to his glory. It's to his praise. It is his purpose. His plan. What are we as broken vessels to question the potter which made us? Who are we to challenge and say, why did you make me this way, or why have you saved me? What we should be doing, this is what Peter is telling us, is to recognize this all according to the Father's will, as the broken vessels, we should be looking at the Father and saying, how great you are. That you have redeemed a sinner like me. The question of why have you done this should be, while I don't understand it, I worship you, Father. Well, it makes no sense to me. While I did not deserve it, your grace abounds. Your mercy is poured out. Friends, it is the will of the Father. It's the His plan. It's His purpose. It's His choosing to save you and I. This should humble us. When we recognize that the Father before the foundations of the world, verse 4 in Ephesians, even as he chose us to him before the foundations of the world. Meaning, before Adam and Eve sinned, before you sinned, God's mercy and his grace was laid out. That plan was laid out to save sinners like you and I. Should humble us. We come before him with empty hands. There's nothing we can bring to the table. There's nothing we can do to achieve this. There's nothing we can do to appease him. Is all through his plan and the salvation brought to us through his son. Romans 8, you don't have to turn there, but 29 through 30 echo a very similar thing. Also known as the golden chain of redemption. It reads, He foreknew , He predestined to be conformed to His image, He called, He justified, and He glorified. I encourage you to read that section there to get the full wording, but we must recognize that this is all his plan. It's all his plan. It's all his working. It's all his will. His election, his foreknowledge, his choosing, his predestination is all to his glory. And saints, we now bow before him humbly That is what this is all about. It's why Peter grounds us right there. Before he says another word in this deep letter. Before he starts to talk about the love and the mercy and the grace, before he starts to talk about how we are to walk holy and righteous, before he starts to talk to us about how we are to submit. What does he do? Is he puts God at his righteous seat in our worship, at the center point. It's all according to his will. It should be a comfort to us, brothers and sisters. But it continues on, so it's according to the will the Father's will. For what? What is according to it? And he says here, in the sanctification of the Spirit. So it's according to the Father's will. In the sanctification, we're being sanctified by the Spirit. Sanctification by the Spirit. We're not even at the purpose yet. But we have to walk through these steps. So it's the will of the Father, his plan. Now what happens to us? We're Sanctified by the Spirit. How is this possible? How can sinners like you and I be sanctified by the Spirit? Well, simply put, it's because we've been born again. Now, simply put, yes. But the majesty of this, the mystery of this reality, the wonder of it, the miracle that it is. Yeah, this is what draws us to the Father and all. That we are no longer sinners rebels against the holy God, but we are children, saints. The Father looks at us and says, You are mine, and that you are righteous before me. And now the question is, how we start to live this out. You know, we're knowing God, and our purpose is to live this out, humbly respond, to live it out. How are we to do this is by being sanctified by the Spirit, realizing that we are indwelled by the Holy Spirit, and if we are a new creation, which you are if you're in Christ, you're a new creation, you've been indwelled by the Holy Spirit, now you are being Renewed, made new, made into the image of Christ. There's twofold here. One is that you start to look more like Christ You start to walk in righteousness. You start to love the law of God, seek it, to know it, and you start to become holy like He is holy. Just look a little bit further into 1 Peter chapter 1. Now Pastor Matt stole this section from me. Alright, he preached on the section a few weeks ago. Yep, so and we're not gonna skip it. You don't think oh he covered it. No he didn't. We need to dive into it more. No, it's good for us to hear it again, but if you remember, was that two, three weeks ago, that w we are holy because he is holy. This is part of the sanctification of our lives. Look with me at verse 13, chapter 1, 13 in 1 Peter. It says, therefore, preparing your minds for action. Ooh, that's what we want, right? We want the action. Well, how are we going to get there? Preparing our minds for action and being sober-minded. Set your hope fully on the grace that will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance. But as he who called you is holy, you also be holy in all your conduct How are we to be holy? How is this even possible? It's because we have been made new by the Holy Spirit. We're being sanctified in the Holy Spirit So when we get to it, and we will, don't worry, that we are to what for obedience to Jesus Christ and for sprinkling with his blood, before we get there, how's this going to happen? It's because we are being sanctified by the Holy Spirit. Oh, this is another humbling moment for us, Saint, is we recognize that whilst the Father's will and his plan for our salvation, It's also his plan to give us the Holy Spirit to make us new. And it's his plan and the Holy Spirit's work within us that we are now new and we get to live in this. It 's not our doing. It's not our efforts. It's not our passions. It's the new ones that we have been given by the Holy Spirit. 1 Thessalonians 4. Hear this, that's while we are made holy like Christ, as we become holy like our Savior, we come become like his image, we also get rid of the old dead passions that we once had. The sins of the world that entangle us, that we want to hold on to so much. Recognize that through the sanctification of the Spirit, you are getting rid of your sins. You are killing off your sins. 1 Thessalonians 4, verse 3 through 8 says, For this is the will of God. Interesting, right? Back to that will. This is the will of God. What? Your sanctification. That you abstain from sexual immorality, that each one of you know how to control his own body and holiness and honor, not in the passions of lust, like the Gentiles who do not know God That no one transgresses and wrongs his brother in this manner. Because the Lord is an avenger in all these things. As we told you beforehand and solemnly warned you, for God has not called us for impurity, but in holiness Therefore, whoever disregards this disregards not man, but God, who gives his Holy Spirit to you. So this call to righteous living, this call to holiness, we should in our human minds we should panic slightly and go, I can't do it I can't do it. How am I to be holy? I can't do it. How am I to get rid of these sins of my life? How am I to not wrong my brother? How am I not-I I can't do it! You're right, but through the Spirit working in you has given you new passions, new loves, new hatreds. Giving you the ability to fight against your sin, to love your neighbor, to love God, to walk in obedience, to love and cherish his law and his word. Friends, this is our identity. When you face that trial, when in your mind you're saying it's impossible, I can't, this should cause us to lean into our Lord and Savior more. To draw us to the cross of Christ more. It should renew and bring a hope and joy and zeal within our lives that we are a new creation. The Holy Spirit has brought us new life. Friends, as the you will face these challenges. It will be a ch uh a hard time for you if you think you're going to do this on your own. This holy living, this righteous living on your own. But when we recognize it's the work of God, it's the work of the Spirit within us, through the will of the Father, through the accomplishment of the Son on the cross, oh, what hope we have in this life. Amen. So we see this is according to the Father's will in the sanctification of the Spirit. But what is this? What Peter just tell us. What are you talking about? Really, you're saying, Anthony, you're the one making this longer than what Peter said. Yes. What is he talking about? It's for the obedience to Jesus Christ and for sprinkling with his blood. It's for a life of obedience to Christ and forgiveness in him. A life of obedience and forgiveness. Christian, this is the two legs you stand on. Walking in obedience or walking in faith. And then at the exact same time, taking a step of confessing of our sins, repenting of our sins, walking to Christ, and then stepping out in faith and obedience. Every day of our lives, this is how we walk as Christians. Obedience to Christ and forgiveness in him. This righteous living is what Peter's end of his letter is all about. 1 Peter from chapter 2, like verse 13, almost through the end of the letter, is all about how we are then to live. If we know God, we know that we have been saved through grace and faith in Christ Jesus. How then shall we live? What is the Holy Spirit doing within us? How should we react to it? And that's what he's talking all about. So I won't draw too much time on there because we will get to it. But I must point out. That it's not an option of Christian living. It's not like a switch, or the Holy Spirit indwells you, and you have this light switch that you get to turn on and off. Like, alright, today I'm not gonna I'm not gonna walk in obedience to God. I'm gonna turn that switch off. No, it's it's who the Spirit is. It's what the will of the Father has done to us. It's the newness we had is that we walk in obedience. Are we perfect in it? No. But are you seeking it? Are you desiring it? Do you even know what the will of the Father is? Do you even know what it would look like to walk in obedience? Often that's where we have to start. What does obedience even mean? We must trust the working of the Spirit, the sanctification of the Spirit, is bringing us into a life of obedience. This isn't a swear word or a bad word. Obedience. Modern culture wants to say that this is bad. This is what Christianity is all about. They just want to tell you what to do and not to do. That's not what we're doing here. The word of God's not doing that. Well, the word of God is saying this is who God is, this is what it means to know God, who he is, how he is the creator of all. He's the just judge of all, and we will one day stand before him, and because we have forgiveness in Jesus Christ, because we are sanctified by the Spirit, we now should live this way. I'm not standing up here with a list of do's and don'ts. What I'm standing up here is saying: look to your Lord and Savior. Recognize who God is. Look to his word and see what he has called his saints to do. And what you flee from. Not because he hates you, not because he wants you to be miserable, but because he loves you. He wants you to enjoy and have the pleasures of this world that he has created. Not the world in the fleshly sense, but his design for it. So the walking in obedience is a good thing, and we're going to examine a lot of that throughout this uh examination of this letter. The second part is to uh the forgiveness in him. And it's hanging on this language right here for sprinkling with his blood. Now if you were good Baptists, you would stand up right now and say, no, it's through the immersion, the dunking in his blood, right? Okay, that was lame. Baptist joke, I guess. Thank you, Denise, for giving me a hint of joy there. No, no, this isn't this w let's let's not mix up our categories here of this is a debate on baptism by no means. What this is pointing to is that we are forgiven in Christ Jesus. It's actually pointing backwards to the Old Testament and showing how God has set up the the religious worship within Israel. And this is that was all a shadow or a sign pointing to what Christ has fulfilled on the cross. So we see in Leviticus, you can mark this down, Leviticus four, would give the example of the atonement for sin. So a sinner would come in, lay their hands on uh the the animal, the the most times the goat uh and that would in uh in imagery transform transfer their sins onto that animal, that animal would then be put To death, the blood would be spilt, and the blood would be sprinkled uh or uh smeared onto the horns of the animal or onto the altar. Gruesome. Gruesome. God intended it to be gruesome. It it should have sickened the person when they did that to recognize that this is what their sin is doing, is that their sin is causing blood to be poured out and shed through. for them. That animal wasn't saving them. That animal was pointing to the perfect lamb that would hang on the cross The true and eternal blood that would bring true and eternal forgiveness to us. So when we see this language that it is for the sprinkling with his blood, we should recognize that this is telling us that we are forgiven in Christ Jesus. Because of what he has done on the cross, for his blood was shed for our sins. And this is the reality that we walk in. It's according to the will of the Father. He sent his son to redeem sinners like you and I, that we would be sanctified and dwelled by the Holy Spirit, being transformed so that we could live in a life of obedience and forgiveness in Him. Notice that it's the continued action. While obedience is not a one-time deal. You all are obedient tonight, you can go live your life however you want. No, no, no. It's a continual thing. Likewise, the forgiveness in Christ, while it was accomplished on the cross, we walk in the reality of this day in and day out. We confess our sins because we know that they have been paid for on the cross. Friends, may with joy we go before our Father. Whenever we find that we have sinned, we confess our sins before Him with joy, knowing that we're forgiven. No, what happens when we walk in obedience and forgiveness in this life? A is that we have uh a life of righteousness walking in obedience. We actually see the advancement of the kingdom of God as we walk in obedience to Him. We see that God uses us, uses His church, His people here on this earth to do wonders. It transforms individuals and families. It rids of the filth and devastation of sin within this world. It's the walking in obedience. But what about the walking in forgiveness? Christian, what happens when we walk in forgiveness in this world? You know what happens? We live a life that is unashamed. Unashamed. Some of us can't grasp that or we think, well, no, that's not a problem. But when we have unconfessed sin, unrepentant sin. That we know about. It's gripping our hearts. It's tearing us apart. We walk in this world as though we are ashamed of who we are. We are ashamed to proclaim the gospel. We are ashamed to talk about the goodness of our Lord and Savior. Why? It's because we have allowed this infection of sin to go undealt with within our hearts. But when we confess it, when we repent of it, when we go to Christ, what can the world accuse us of? Of? What can Satan accuse us of? We have forgiveness in Christ. When we confess our sins, when we are children of God, walking in obedience and forgiveness, meaning we're confessing our sins. This imagery. I'm walking back and forth here. Walking in obedience, walking and confessing our sins. There's no sin. There's no guilt that the world and Satan can bring against us. What bold lives we will live. What bold lives we will live. We're not ashamed of anything. What would we be ashamed of? That that the Creator looks at us and calls us his children? What are we ashamed of? Some some sin from the past that the world and the enemy wants to bring up and remind us, either trying to embarrass us or the enemy brings it to our mind as we lay in bed. I can't believe I did this. Five, ten, fifteen years ago, oh, I should have dealt with my children this way, and now they're forty, fifty, and this is how it No, stop Stop. Confess your sin and know that you are forgiven. There's forgiveness in Christ. We don't need to be tangled up. In past sins. We don't need to be tangled up in this fear of this accusation of the enemy to come out and be na be made public. We should be confessing our sin and repenting of it This is one of the best tools the enemy has is unconfessed sin. Brothers and sisters, if you have unconfessed sin in your life, the enemy will use it against you. Because he knows. He knows that it it it brings shame upon the saint. He knows that it weakens the saint. He knows that it it causes the saint to be cautious in his words and not bold in the proclamation of the gospel. You know what? That's a really weak tool of the enemy when we recognize that we have forgiveness in Christ. Brothers and sisters, this life that we are called to to walk in is through the Holy Spirit, and it is a life of obedience. And forgiveness in Christ Jesus. May we rejoice in this. May this be the proclamation of the gospel that we say We preach to the world. Pastor Matt said it to us this morning. If you have been redeemed by the blood of Christ, if you have faith in Christ, you are equipped to go and proclaim the good news of Christ. You are equipped to be preachers of the gospel. You are equipped to go and proclaim the good news to the world. If it is a reality in you, then go and do it. How is this possible? It's by the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. We're walking in obedience and we're walking recognizing that we are forgiven in Christ Jesus. Do not allow sin to hold us back. Run to the cross of Christ. Run to the forgiveness of our Father. Now, why does Peter lay out all of this? Why is this his starting point? Because everything else that flows out of this letter must be based on these truths. It is by the will of the Father, according to the foreknowledge of God the Father. This is his plan. It's his purpose. It's his will. And we are sanctified by the Spirit to walk in obedience and forgiveness in Christ Jesus. And he starts it off like this. May grace and peace be multiplied to you. What Peter knows is that when saints Realize, when they know who God is, when they know that the Father has a plan and a will for their lives, when they recognize that it is the Father's will that they have been saved, when they recognize that through this will they have been sanctified. Or being sanctified by the Spirit. And if they're walking in obedience and walking in the forgiveness of Christ, what's going to happen? Grace and peace is multiplied to them The grace of God. As we walk in obedience and forgiveness in Christ, we are in all, every day, every moment to recognize that God has poured out his grace upon us. Why is that? Is because we have lots of sins we need to confess and deal with. But we know that God has a lot more grace to pour out on us. We know that his grace is multiplied when we realize who we are in him, when we recognize who God is, and we start to live accordingly. And peace is multiplied. With the grace of God, His mercy upon us, His gift to us being poured out, so our peace is multiplied. As we fight against our sin, as we confess it. We start to set in and rest in our identity as children of God. We start to enjoy the sweet presence of God. starts to see and recognize that we are his children and we are forgiven and no longer do we rage war against the creator of the universe But we are his. And Peter says, may grace and peace be multiplied to you. Saints, is this our lives? Has the grace of God and the peace of God been multiplied in your life? If yes, praise God. Right now, this is the moment that you just praise God. In your heart, you go, thank you, Lord. Thank you. Thank you that you've given me grace. Thank you that you've given me peace between me, a sinner, and a holy God. But if you're sitting here and you go, you know, Anthony, that's not where I'm at. I don't have that. I've had seasons of it, but it's not right now. Go to him. Seek him. Seek his word. Examine your heart. What is holding you back from that? What is your thoughts of who God is that's actually limiting your ability to recognize the grace and peace you have within? Friends, it is necessary, a requirement of our lives that we know God, so that we then live accordingly. It's the purpose. You want to know your purpose is to know God and to humbly respond in every aspect of our lives. As we study this letter, this is what we'll see. It's going to take us through a lot of different paths. We're going to deal with a lot of different issues. Uh we are going to have to examine our own lives and our own ways of living and recognize that there's times we are not walking in obedience We're walking in our own desires, and we must turn to him. So may with joy we examine this letter. With excitement, may we seek to know our Lord more and more. And with passion may we walk in obedience and forgiveness because we've been indwelled by the Holy Spirit. Let's go before our Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that you have since before the beginning of time, before you created anything , Your grace and your mercy was planned out for us. The work of your Son was set up. Our forgiveness, our salvation was planned. You've called us. You've made us yours. It's your will, your knowledge, that we live in this reality. We thank you for the Holy Spirit that has made us new. May we recognize His work in our lives. And Lord, may we grow in our understanding of how to walk in obedience and may we rejoice. And the forgiveness we have in Christ Jesus. We pray all of this in his name. Amen.