But you, beloved, building yourselves up in your most holy faith and praying in the Holy Spirit, keep yourselves in the love of God, waiting for the mercy of our Lord. Jesus Christ that leads to eternal life. We're waiting, we're putting our hope in, we're trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ, the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ. That leads to eternal life. And one more, verses 24 to 25, a magnificent doxology, which just means a word of praise. Now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling. Oh now, aren't you happy about that? Say amen, church, if you heard that. He's able to keep you from stumbling. And to present you blameless before the presence of his glory with great joy to the only God, our Savior, through Jesus Christ our Lord. Be glory and majesty and dominion and authority before all time and now and forever. Amen. How'd that salvation come to us? Through Jesus Christ our Lord. Verse 25. Keep yourselves in the love of God, waiting for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ. Verse 21. Verse 1, servant of Jesus Christ. And also verse 1, beloved in God the Father, and kept for Jesus Christ. And verse 4, our only Master and Lord Jesus Christ. So before we get to the particular purpose, what is the topic? What is the central concern? Brothers and sisters, it is always the Lord Jesus Christ. Always. Just the different details and different applications. Now we'll get to the outline. Point number one just says purpose. This comes from verse three. The purpose is to urge Christians to contend for biblical truth. In a time of widespread error in the church. And that was the context. Widespread error in the church. The purpose of Jude is to urge Christians to contend for biblical truth in that context. Verse 3 is where we get that from. Jude writes, Beloved, although I was very eager to write you about our common salvation. I found it necessary to write appealing to you to contend for the faith that was once for all delivered to the saints. Contend for the faith. Contend. It means stand up for, like standing up to bullies. Standing up for others against bullies. Stand up for, contend. It means to strive after something, or to strive on behalf of something. Also, it could mean to struggle, to struggle for or to struggle towards something, to push on, to contend, to stand up for, strive after. Such a silly illustration, but the first illustration that came to mind as I was trying to come up with an illustration for that There could be countless ones, was the mama bear, the way a mama bear will contend for her cubs when a predator is near A Mamavare does not sit idly by. Mama Bear will not wander off, but she'll be purposed. She'll be focused. She'll be energetic. She'll be on it to contend for her cubs. When danger is close by. And that's the picture here. Contend. Contend for the faith. Strive together on behalf of the faith. Now, three things to notice. First, notice, though, notice what was pressing on Jude's heart. Notice what was pressing on his heart. The very beginning of verse 3. Beloved, although I was Very eager to write to you about our common salvation. What's pressing on his heart as first and foremost is the salvation that he shares with other Christians. And that should always be pressing on our hearts because that's the thing that brings us together That's the thing that makes us the family of God. That's the thing that makes us brothers and sisters, bound together forever by the Holy Spirit that's within us. He was very eager, it was pressing on his heart to write to them about their common salvation. And if you sat under my preaching, you know that that's like a constant temptation for me, whatever passage I'm in, whatever the particular topic or application I always have this temptation, I just want to run off on a tangent and just talk about our great common salvation that we have in Christ. And the Spirit's got to say, no, reel it in, reel it in, reel it in, deal with the text, deal with the text. But the but those kinds of rants and those kinds of rabbit trails just to just to come aside and join our hearts in faith and glory in this great common salvation that we have in Christ, that's a crucial part of the body life. We have a common salvation. We have a common savior. We have a common spirit. We have a common forgiveness. We have a common king who lives in heaven. We have a common destiny in heaven. A common Ultimate destiny, resurrection bodies in the new heaven and the new earth. For if we just go off and glory in our common salvation, that's not a bad day. But, but, in the midst of it all, there's always the particular issue to be addressed. And so, despite what's pressing on his heart, also notice the priority issue. Notice the priority issue. This is the second thing he says in verse 3. He says, I found it necessary to write, appealing to you, to contend for the faith. We can just end right there for this point. I found it necessary. So this was a priority issue. This is a practical need. It's necessary to write to appeal to them to contend for the faith. It's an exhortation. It's a strong encouragement. It's an argument. It's a pleading. It's a pleading. I'm appealing to you to contend for the faith. It's always a temptation to not contend for the faith. We don't want to Upset others. We don't want to look like we're narrow-minded. There's all kinds of reasons, all kinds of temptations, while we would be negligent in contending for the faith. Especially in such a relativistic era and a relativistic culture and society that we live in. But we must contend for the faith Um just to cheat forward to a future sermon and give a little bit of preview. The number one Way we contend for the faith. Not the only way, not the only aspect, but the number one way we contend for our faith is seen in verse twenty and twenty-one. Because if you don't do this, nothing else No, there will be no other fruit if we don't do this. Verse 20 and 21. But you, beloved, building yourselves up in your most holy faith. Well, otherwise, how can you contend for it if we're not built up in it? So, building yourselves up in your most holy faith and praying in the Holy Spirit, are we going to be able to contend for the faith apart from a fruitful prayer life? And then he says 21, keep yourselves in the love of God. Right, because if we walk away from God, there's no longer any faith for us to contend for. So you see the MO is first and foremost the spiritual. The strategy is personal. The strategy is spiritual. This is not just putting arguments together. This is about spiritual growth Spiritual growth. You beloved, building yourselves up in the most holy faith and praying in the Holy Spirit, keep yourselves in the love of God, waiting for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ that leads to eternal life. That means living in light of the hope that we have in Christ rather than just being materialists like the culture around us. Amen indeed. Amen indeed. I mean I daily need the spirit's work so that I don't just wander off into materialism. Or just even just get distracted by all the worldly concerns that are always there. But to live daily in light of the hope that I have in Christ. To be diligent in seeing to my own responsibility and duty, to be built up in the most holy faith, to be praying in the Holy Spirit, keeping yourselves in the love of God. Verse 21 That means abiding in Christ. That means walking in daily fellowship with Christ. Don't you want that, church? Walking in daily communion with Christ, through his word, through his through prayer. So there's 20 And 21 on the how, but you notice the priority issue, despite that pressing what's pressing on us hard. I want to talk about salvation, but I've got to talk about this. You've got to contend for that faith. Contend for the faith. Now, third little note on underneath purpose. Notice the practical foundation The practical foundation. And I mean the practical that that means the uh the foundation or the basis for godly practice. That's what practical foundation means. And I mean practical foundation for the audience of Jude, and I mean the practical foundation for us as a church. I mean the practical foundation for me as I write any sermon or do anything The practical foundation is the end of verse three Where he says, the faith that was once for all delivered to the saints. Once for all delivered to the saints. You see, the faith, the truth of the gospel, the truth of Christianity came from God To the church. It did not come from within man. It did not come from within the church, but it was delivered to the church. The gospel was, I know you've heard this, revealed to the church. The church has received the faith. The church has received the truth of God. We've received The promises of the gospel. God delivered the truth to the church through the apostles, through the prophets, in our context, through the New Testament, we've received the truth that God has delivered to us And we're to take our stand on the truth of God as He delivered it. Not to change it. Not to try to improve it. That'd be absurd. God has spoken to us the perfect word. Now here I come over here, I'm going to improve on God's word. How insane is that? Not to neglect it. Not just to chop it off and take little bits and pieces of it. We are a people who are to be humble and glad recipients of God's truth. God gave his truth. God revealed his truth. The Bible and the teachings of the Bible and the writings of the Bible did not originate from man. It's delivered from God. That's the foundation. If that domino falls, everything else will fall. It's just a matter of time. The Bible as the inspired word of God delivered to the church, a trustworthy inerrant word, a sufficient word for Christian living and for the body, life, and ministry of the church. That's the practical foundation. Once for all, once for all, the faith that was once for all delivered to the saints. And you can contrast that mindset with the mindset of the false teachers in verse eight And he's talking about the false teachers who've crept into the church, which we'll get to in a few minutes. He says in verse 8, yet in like manner, these people relying on their what? Relying on their dreams. Defile the flesh and they reject authority. So obviously they're going to reject the authority of the apostles, which is an issue in the New Testament. And they're rejecting, when they do that, they're rejecting the authority of Christ. Because Christ spoke through his apostles. They rely on their dreams. Well, that's easy. Anybody could do that and seem spiritual and feel spiritual because you could just give a subjective interpretation on any dream. And call it spiritual. But you see, God's truth is an objective truth. It's an absolute truth. It's the unchanging truth of God that's revealed to us. So we we do not We do not um base our teachings as much as God's grace will allow us, we do not base our teachings on dreams, speculations. Man-made traditions, but rather we're to base our teachings and brothers and sisters, our practice on God's Word. On God's word. That's practical foundation. That's the basis of obedience. The purpose, the purpose of Jude is to urge Christians to contend for, and that's why I call this point Biblical truth, because that's what God has once for all delivered to the church. Biblical truth in a time of widespread error in the church. Now, secondly, the author, verse one. First word, Jude. Jude is the author. Verse 1 says, Jude, a servant of Jesus Christ and brother of James. Jude is the brother of James and also the brother of Jesus. Galatians 119, Paul writes, but I saw none of the other apostles, except I did see James, the Lord's brother. So James the Lord's brother. That's the James who wrote the book of James. James the Apostle had been martyred before that. So James, the book of James, was written by James, the Lord's brother. Matthew 13, 55 Is this, is not this the carpenter's son? Is not his mother called Mary? And they're not his brothers James? And Joseph, and Simon, and Judas. And Judas is just another spelling of Jude. Judas was also Jude. So like you could either call me Matthew or, which most of you call me, Matt. Jesus had four brothers, James, Joseph, Simon, and Judas, also called Jude. By the way, he also had sisters, Matthew 13, 56. And are not all his sisters with us? Now I'll hear this and you'll hear this because call him ha call them half-brothers. I understand where that comes from, because they had the same mom, but obviously different. biological father. Jesus didn't have an earthly biological father. He was supernaturally conceived in Mary's womb by the power of the Holy Spirit. But I don't like the language of half brothers and half sisters. I'll give you my reasons. Number one, Scripture doesn't use that language. Listen to this in Luke 2, 27. When he came in the Spirit into the temple and went And when the parents brought in the child Jesus to do for him according to the custom of the law, Scripture refers to Mary and Joseph as Jesus' parents. Luke 2, 33, and his father, and his mother marveled at what was said about him. Joseph is called Jesus' father. That's because he was his adoptive father. I have two adopted sisters. I've got two biological brothers, one biological sister, and two adopted sisters. They are not half-sisters. They're sisters. The only difference is they got to be sisters in a different way You can become a child by adoption, or you can become a child biologically. Joseph was Jesus' adoptive father. Scripture calls Joseph Jesus' father, and he was earthly speaking. That doesn't take anything away from the eternal divine sonship of Christ. It's just talking about the incarn level of incarnation, Jesus' earthly Father. Joseph is called his father. Joseph and Mary are called his parents multiple times, called his parents, and if you didn't catch it in those other in the other verse from Matthew 13. His brothers are simply called his brothers, and his sisters are simply called his sisters. They were a family If you want to use half brothers and half-sisters, I won't be mad at you at all because I know what you're saying. They had a different biological father, and if you want to emphasize that, I'm all good with that. But that's not how Scripture speaks, and plus Joseph was the adoptive father of Jesus. In other words, Jesus was the son of Mary and Joseph. Now, how does Jude see himself? What does he see as the center of his identity or the core of id his identity? Should be the same way we see as the center or core of our identity. He says A servant of Jesus Christ. It's the first thing he says. He's a servant of Jesus Christ. Now that's what's in Jude's heart. That's how he sees himself. He's a person who's Come under submission to the authority of Christ. I'm living my life not for me, for Christ. I'm living my life not for things, for Christ. I'm living my life not for the approval of the world, but for Chr Church, isn't that where our hearts should be? We're servants of Christ And we don't get the privilege and the grace and the glory of writing a book of the Bible, but we can be servants for Christ. That's the author, Jude, the brother of James, and the brother of Jesus. Third, the occasion. The occasion. False teachers have smuggled in heresy and blatant immorality into the professing church. False teachers have smuggled in heresy and blatant immorality into the professing church. This comes from verse 4. Still happens today. I mean our minds are on the the original context of Jude, yes. But also let's make application. This still happens today. That's why we still need to contend for the faith today. Verse 4. For certain people have crept in unnoticed, who long ago were designated for this condemnation. In other words, this was prophesied. Um this is part of God's plan in God's wisdom. He saw all this. He's he's actually mapped everything out, God has. Certain people have crept in unnoticed who long ago were designated for this condemnation Ungodly people who pervert the grace of our God into sensuality and deny our only Master and Lord Jesus Christ. But you don't get worse than that You don't get where that's that's not a technical detail disagreement on whether you say half brothers or brothers. I mean this is everything right there Pervert the grace of God into sensuality. That means you take the message of grace and you make it into a license for sin. You use grace as an excuse for indulging in sexual immorality. That's exactly what that is. Since I'm forgiven by grace and God will forgive all of my sins no matter what, let me go and live in sexual deviancy and indulge myself in immorality till the cows come home. That is The mindset of an unregenerate sinner, not the mindset of a born-again believer in Jesus Christ. Look at the language here. Crept in. Unnoticed. Crept in. It means, it literally means to enter in Secretly. The NIV translates, secretly slipped in. It's a picture of the wicked Spiritually infiltrating the people of God for selfish satanic purposes. The stealth Mission of the devil to infiltrate the church and to bring harm and disgrace upon the church. Crept in. You know, con artists, how do they operate? Well, they pretend to want to help you. And they act, some of the best actors in the world. They act as if they're for your best interest. And they do those things for the conscious purpose Of stealing from you. Act like they're your friend. Act like they want to help you, all the while consciously aware that their true motive is to harm you And to take advantage of you. That's how false teachers operate. They operate like con artists. Satan disguises himself as an angel of, say it , light. And fierce, ravenous wolves who want to do harm in the church wear the costumes of harmless sheep. Wolves come in sheep's clothing. Satan comes as an angel of light. You know, sometimes people will pretend to be your friend and buddy up to you when they really just want something from you. That's why you've got to have wisdom, not fall for that flattery and be taken advantage of. And on a bigger level, on a spiritual level, in the church, we've got to be aware that this is the Mo of false teachers. To dress themselves up as angels of light, to dress themselves up as innocent, harmless sheep, to be con artists, to act like they have your your and our and God's best interest in mind When really underneath they're about themselves and their own glory and their own opinions, not the truth of God, not the glory of God, not the good of the church, but their own following. That's the Antichrist spirit. crept in. And do notice, please, that the issue of this situation, of this occasion, is not error outside the church. That's not what this is about. Is that an issue to talk about? Is it dealt with in other places? Yeah. That's not what this is about. This is not about the church contending against error out in the world. This is about church contending against error in the church. Because they have crept in. They have snuck in. They have infiltrated the professing body of believers. And look, that's in verse 4, crept in unnoticed. But also, look at verse 12. Also look at verse 12. These are hidden reefs. A hidden reef is something that's dangerous. Step on it, slice your foot, or something like that. Or uh It's hidden, but it's dangerous. These are hidden reefs at Whose Love Feasts. What does it say? Yeah, your A fellowship meal. Think early fellowship meal. Where there's singing and there's feasting and there's Christian fellowship and there's mutual encouragement in the church, a love. It's a feast. We're feasting and we're celebrating the love we have for each other and we're celebrating the love that God has for us. It's a love feast. These are hidden reefs that your love feast. You see, they've snuck in. And they're dangerous. They've infiltrated. This is contending for the faith inside the church. Not the church against the world, but the church against error that's trying to sneak in. Also, look at verse 16. Verse 16, these are grumblers, malcontents, following their own sinful desires, their loudmouth boasters, showing favoritism to gain advantage. There's that flattery. There's that flattery. There's that manipulation. Showing favoritism to gain advantage. But they're grumblers. They're malcontents. They're following their own sinful desires. Now why would you even point that out about people outside the world? I mean that's all of us when we're outside of Christ. That's just the way of the world. But these have snuck in. These have crept in unnoticed. One more here, verse 19, just to highlight that this is inside the church. Verse 19, it is these who cause divisions, worldly people devoid of the spirit. That's where you get divisions in the church, when you have this the Antichrist spirit, the self-absorbed spirit, the proud spirit. The satanic spirit infiltrating, causing divisions in the church. So this is not error outside, although there's lots of error outside, but this is error sneaking in and creeping in. You also notice that this is not a surprise. Not a surprise to God, not a surprise to Jude. Verse 4. He says, long ago designated for this condemnation And just for your own notes, you can look at verse 14. You can look at verse 17 and 18. Jude says this again. This is the fulfillment of prophecy. You knew this was coming. Don't be surprised. God's not surprised. And again, this is not a side issue. Before we move on from this point, the occasion, just I I've we've got to highlight this is not a side issue. Look at the end of verse 4 again. Look at what's at stake. They pervert the grace of our God into sensuality and deny our only Master and Lord Jesus Christ. It 's interesting, you could summarize the topic of the whole Bible as the grace of our God. That's the theme of the Bible. God's grace. And look what these people are doing. They're perverting it. They're perverting the central topic of the Bible, which means every other topic will also be perverted. And they deny our only Master and Lord Jesus Christ. The implication is they're not worried about obedience. They're not worried about submitting to Christ as Master. They're not worried about submitting to Christ as Lord They want to do what they want to do, say what they want to say, live how they want to live, and they're perverting the grace of God into sensuality, and they're denying Christ. Brothers and sisters, it does not get Bigger than that issue right there. And so yeah, he he's going to plead with them to contend for the faith. Now, number four, date and historical setting Date and historical setting. Now obviously the date's not giving given in the book, but most biblical scholars place this in the mid to late sixties. The mid to late sixties. This was uh a time of Roman hostility toward both Jew and Christian. Roman hostility toward the Jews that ultimately would lead to war starting in the year 66 and culminate in the destruction of the temple in the year 70. This also was a time of horrific Roman persecution against Christians under Nero. Also was a time of ongoing Jewish persecution against Christians, which is a major theme of the New Testament in the ancient church, from the birth of the church early in Acts all the way through. So this is a time of severe suffering, a time of severe hardship. In some areas, it would have been a strong temptation to revert to Judaism. To avoid persecution. And the book of Hebrews addresses that. Now in other areas it would have been a strong temptation to stop confessing Christ as Lord and Savior, and rather confess Nero as Lord and Savior. That's addressed by the book of Revelation. This also was a time not only of suffering and persecution from multiple fronts. Also was a time of a lot of false teachers and troublemakers infiltrating the church and seeking to draw away people for their own ends. It's easy to see Satan's MO in all of this, to sneak in, gain a following, and take people away from what God is doing. That's how Satan puts himself sets himself against God's kingdom And Jesus said it best in John 10. 10, you probably can finish this verse with me as soon as I start reading it, the thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. Paul warns the elders in Ephesus in Acts 20, 29 to 30. He says to the elders, aka the pastors in the church of Ephesus, he says I know that after my departure, fierce wolves will come in among you. Come in among you, not sparing the flock. And even from among your own selves will arise men speaking twisted things to draw away disciples after themselves. That's what false teachers want to do. They want to build their own following. They want to draw disciples to themselves. But what we need to be about, and what we should, and we should die to be about this, is making disciples of Christ. Making and equipping and teaching and encouraging disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now finally on the original audience. The original audience. This will come from verses one to two as far as what I'll flesh out. But just in terms of the historical setting. Most biblical scholars will say that the original audience of this little book Jude was either Jewish Christians Or it could have been Gentile Christians who were really, really learned in Jewish tradition and in the Old Testament scriptures And as you read through the book, you'll see exactly where that view comes from, because it's just illustration after illustration after story after story from Jewish tradition. and from Old Testament scriptures. And so we think, okay, this would have made the most sense and been most appropriate to Jewish Christians, not Gentile Christians. um for whom those arguments in that background may not have been as much of a help or as clear to them, but let's not preclude The reality that there were Gentile Christians who were who were learned about Jewish tradition and about the Old Testament scriptures. But what I want to finish on is not you know what comes from scholars based on you know the kind of arguments that Jude puts forth, although that is important and I do agree with that view. But I want to end with a point of exegesis on identity Because this original audience, who is it written to? That's an identity question. And there's a whole lot in verses at the end of verse 1 and then in verse 2 about the original audience. In fact, I wanted to take this first message and do this whole first message just on the end of verse 1 and verse 2 Because listen to the end of verse 1 that summarizes not only their identity, but brothers and sisters, it summarizes our identity. End of verse 1. To those who are called Beloved in God the Father and kept for Jesus Christ. Called, beloved, and kept. The original audience is called. Beloved and kept. You and I are called, beloved, and kept. We are called by the grace of God. Saved by the power of the gospel, called children of God. Praise the Lord. But we also are beloved in God the Father. He has bestowed his love upon us. He has bestowed his infinite, immeasurable, wondrous, redemptive love upon us. We are called and we are beloved. And we are kept, kept for Jesus Christ. We're kept by Jesus Christ. We're kept in Jesus Christ. And we're kept for Jesus Christ. What does that mean? It means something very simple. It means sustained to the end. It means preserved to the end. It means you will receive the inheritance that God has promised you in the gospel. You are going to heaven. You will be risen on the last day. The meek will inherit the earth. You will inherit and inhabit the new heavens and the new earth in the presence of God and the risen Lamb forever Because you are not keeping yourself, but rather you are being kept for Jesus Christ. Which means all that keeping and all that inheritance and all that inhabiting the new earth is all about his glory, not ours. It's all one big manifestation of the glory of Jesus Christ. And the power and the wisdom and the great mercy of Jesus Christ. Aren't you happy to be in on it, church? And if you're not in on it, get in on it by faith. Look to Christ in faith And along with us and along with the audience, be called and be beloved and be kept for the glory of God. And then verse 2. I mentioned this at the very beginning. In all honesty, I can't believe we made it this far in my outline. What we need God to multiply to us Weekly, daily, we need God to multiply to us, to keep giving and keep giving and keep pouring and keep pouring and keep answering our prayers And keep blessing us with repentance in our hearts. Keep giving us the comfort. What we need multiplied to us. Verse 2: mercy and peace and love be multiplied to you. Let's pray. Father, we pray that you would multiply unto us your mercy This grace and love and compassion that you've put forth in Christ. Fill our hearts with it. We pray that you would multiply to us your peace. All the struggles and the sufferings of living in this sin cursed world are ongoing, and they are treacherous, treacherous, and the temptations And the passions of the flesh that wage war against our soul. God, we need your peace. Fill us with a joy, fill us with a contentment, supernaturally so. And Father, multiply to us your love. The love of your son and the fellowship of the Spirit. Father for the lost, I pray, they would look to Christ this morning and believe. And having believed, becoming called. And beloved and kept for your glory. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen Then Church, let me invite you to stand as we sing in response hymn number two seventy-seven. Hymn number two seventy-seven, The Church's One Foundation. The church is one foundation Is Jesus Christ the Lord? She is his new creation By water and the word from having Sword To be his holy bride with his own blood he bought her And for life, elect from every nation Yet one all year, a charter of salvation One Lord, one faith, wonder, one holy name speech Partakes one whole before and to one host depression With every racing, mid soil and triculation And to most of the consumation of peace. Forever deal with the visit Her longing eyes are blessed, and the great church makes Shall be the church at rest, yet she honor half union With God three in one, and it takes we communion With those whose rest is one, oh happy ones and holy Lord give us grace that we like them dummy can only On how makes well witness Remember basketball camp volunteers. There's a meeting right after church downstairs in room one. Join us tonight for evening worship if you can at 6. 30. Anthony will be continuing our preaching series through King David and all that God did in and through King David and how that ultimately points to the salvation we have in Christ. Um give an invitation for you to respond to the preaching of the word. And I usually say you can come talk to me or Pastor Anthony if you've come to faith. Or if you have questions about obeying the Lord in baptism, or if you have questions about joining the church here, placing membership at the church. And that's the same thing I'll say this morning. So if you have if you have come by the way, responding in faith to the gospel, you don't have to come talk to me or Pastor Anthony or anyone else, you respond to the gospel in your heart first. When you come to us, you're just telling us you all you come to faith You're coming, you're coming and saying, God has saved me, I'm a believer in Jesus Christ. Our job is to walk you through the next steps of discipleship according to Scripture, which will be baptism. and church membership. So come talk to us and we'll help you as much as the Lord allows us to help you. Uh I'll I'll finish this off with a reading from 2 John verse 3, where John writes, Grace Mercy and peace be with us from God the Father and from Jesus Christ the Father's Son in truth and in love. You are dismissed.