Let's take our Bibles and let's turn to Galatians chapter 3 verses 10 through 14 this morning. We'll be taking a break from the book of 1 John for the summer to deal with some things that my heart is really, really burdened with and some of the sensual things of Christianity. The first one on the list of most central things to Christianity is the gospel of Jesus Christ. So that's today's message. Galatians 3, 10 through 14, the gospel of Jesus Christ. Gospel means good news. It is the good news of God's grace in Christ. It's the good news of God's redemption. There's different aspects of the gospel, so you can summarize it in different ways. But it's news, not advice. When the gospel is being preached, it's not good advice. Advice is about something you should do or you can do in the future moving forward. News is different News is about something that's already happened. News is about something that's already been done. It's already completed. It's an announcement of news, not the giving of advice for your life moving forward. The gospel does have ramifications, or how you hear the gospel has ramifications for your life in the future. But the message The nature of the message is news, the good news of Jesus Christ. Let's read Galatians 3, 10 through 14. For all who rely on works of the law are under a curse. For it is written Cursed be everyone who does not abide by all things written in the book of the law, and do them. Now, it is evident that no one is justified before God by the law, for the righteous shall live by faith But the law is not of faith. Rather, the one who does them shall live by them. Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us. For it is written, Cursed is everyone who is hanged on a tree, so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles So that we might receive the promised Spirit through faith. Let's pray. Father, we are weak, but you are strong. We are unable, but you are able. We are foolish, but you are wise. We are sinful, but you are holy. We're prone to go our own way. But by your word and by your spirits and by your love, you've brought us back. And we know the only way preaching can have an impact in our hearts and lives is if you mercifully bless the preaching and mercifully bless the hearing For your name and glory. So God, that's our prayer. As we come to your word, humble us, teach us, help us, encourage us, correct us. For those who need saving, save them. Reach forth your hand of power this morning and change the sinner's heart. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I want to zoom us in immediately to the key phrase at the beginning of verse 13. Christ Redeemed. The subject of the sentence is Christ. The verb is redeemed. Christ redeemed. Now about the specific details of how Christ has redeemed us that are in this passage, then I'll have to wait until later in the message. Right now I just want this Christ redeemed to simmer a little bit in our hearts. We're talking about redemption. Redemption means being rescued from bondage to slave uh or slavery. Redemption means rescue. Redemption means purchase out of slavery. God Redeemed Israel from bondage to Pharaoh. God redeemed Israel He took them out of slavery. He made them his own. He overthrew their old master. God redeemed Israel. From slavery, from bondage. That's redemption. He freed them. He loved them and cared for them and made them his own. Likewise, Christ redeems sinners from bondage to sin and death Christ redeems sinners from bondage or from slavery to sin and death. That's why I said the details of what this passage is saying will have to wait, because in verse thirteen it does not say Christ redeemed us. from bondage to sin and death. What does it say? It says Christ redeemed us from what? The curse of the law. Now the law of God is a good thing. That's just his requirements. His requ his commandments. His requirements on for creatures made in his image. God's holy commandments. What he forbids in our hearts and lives, what he requires in our hearts and lives. That's a good thing. That's not a bad thing. God's holy law is not bad. We can have bad laws in our society, in our government, amen. We can have bad laws, but God's laws and God's commandments are right and pure and holy. So why is that a curse? Well, the law is like a curse to us because we are sinful, because we are slaves to sin. We are in a bondage apart from Christ. We are in bondage to sin and death, and therefore God's holy commandment is like unto a curse for us. Apart from God's grace, we are all locked away in the prison house of sin in the deepest Darkest dungeon of the prison house of sin, apart from God's grace. And in this prison house, pride is our master, and we need to be humbled. In this prison house, in our heart of hearts, we see that we see and we think that God is unrighteous and that we are righteous, that man is righteous. Well, you know this is true. This is true about ourselves apart from God's grace. It's true about the fallen culture apart from God's grace. That's why in the world people call evil good and call good evil. You see something that's good in God's eyes, and the fallen culture will say, No, that's wicked, and something that's wicked in God's eyes, the culture will celebrate. In the prison house of sin, we're blinded to the problem that we're in the prison house of sin. Are you with me, church? If you remember the days of darkness, you also remember the blinders that you had on. I remember the blinders. God needs to give us new eyes. You know it's even worse than that. With pride is our master, and we think that God is unrighteous and that we are righteous, and we're blinded to that problem. What could be worse than that? Well if it's worse than that. Because we're utterly incapable of helping ourselves We are utterly powerless to remedy the situation when we're locked away in the prison house of sin. We're in bondage to sin and death. So we need redemption. The illustration would not be that we're lost in the woods. The illustration is we're dead in the woods and need resurrection life The illustration is it would not be appropriate if we only said the ship is heading in the wrong direction. No, the ship is sunk and at the bottom of the ocean and rotting and needs a supernatural miracle of life. From God redemption cross reference Romans eight seven And eight, the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God It does not submit to God's law. Indeed, it cannot. Those who are in the flesh cannot please God. Christ must redeem us because we're in bondage to sin and death, the way Israel was in bondage to Pharaoh. Some of you might be thinking, I thought he opened this message by saying it was good news. Right. That's not the good news. That's why in the passage it's called the curse. This is the curse of the law. Uh the message is not that there's no way out. The message is there is a way out. Christ is the way out. He's the one who redeems us to contemplate this great redemption. Redemption in Christ from the bondage of sin and death. To contemplate this great redemption, we're going to talk about three things. Are you ready for them? Alright, one person is ready. You ready for these? I'm gonna map out the message for you. This this helps the mind receive this the preached word. Do you want to hear these three things? Okay We're going to talk about the shackles of the law. We're going to talk about the key of faith. The key of faith. It's what can get us out of those shackles. You could con contrast that with uh works, uh good works. cannot get us out of the shackles. Only the key of faith. So the shackles of the law, the key of faith, and Christ who turns the key. The only reason there's a key of faith that exists for us to get us out of bondage is because there's a Savior who's made a way. Christ frees us. Brothers and sisters, the gospel call or the essence of Christianity, is not that we make ourselves better and then present ourselves to Christ. That would be the way of works. That is not the way of salvation. The the message of the gospel is we cannot improve ourselves. We cannot make ourselves holy. We cannot make ourselves good. We simply come to Christ as undeserving sinners. We come to Christ with nothing Except a conviction in our hearts that we've sinned against God, we desperately need a Savior, and we throw ourselves down at the foot of the cross of Jesus Christ, and we're saved. And that happens in the heart. Like you can't see that in someone's life. It's invisible when you come to faith in Christ. And that can happen in your heart this morning. If you humble yourself and throw yourself upon Christ who turns the key. The shackles of the law, the key of faith, and Christ who turns the key. First of all, the shackles of the law. This comes from verses Ten and the first part of eleven. I'm calling it the shackles of the law. The passage calls it the curse of the law. For all who rely, this is verse 10. For all who rely on works of the law, that would be saying something like this: all who rely on their own obedience. That's what that 's what that means. All who rely on works of the law are under a curse So just neon sign, right? If if you're here this morning and you're relying upon your obedience to make you right in God's eyes, you're under a curse That's the opposite of Christianity. That's the opposite of the gospel. We do not rely upon our goodness or our obedience or our external performance of religion in any sense. All who rely on works of the law are under a curse, for it's written, cursed is everyone who does not abide in all things. You could circle all things. Written in the book of the law and do them. Now it is evident that no one is justified before God by the law. To be justified would be to be able to stand before God. Approved to stand before God and to have God make the judgment innocent, righteous in his eyes That would be justified before God. Now it says, cursed be everyone who does not abide in all things. So we're all in that category. We're all in that category. If you could abide in God's law, what he requires from you and what he forbids from you If you could hope you I hope you already have flagged that this is a hypothetical, if you could abide by God's law perfectly In theory, you'd be justified in his eyes. Well, you know that's not the case, and you know that cannot be the case The curse of the law, the shackles of the law. The law is a curse unto sinners because, friends, it provides no way of redemption God's commandments tell us what holiness looks like, but it provides no way of redemption. The law has no provision Of forgiveness. The law has nothing that can reconcile us to God. The law has nothing that can bestow upon us the gift of eternal life. It's not that the law is bad. God's commandments are not bad, but they're not designed, they're not purposed to do those things for us. The law does not save. It's a curse. Unto sinners. It's like an MRI. The law of God. His holy commandments are like an MRI. They show you what is the problem. They show you what needs to be addressed inside your body, but the MRI cannot do what the surgeon can do. And the law is like the MRI. It exposes that we rebelled against God. And it shows us what's inside of us that we cannot see, like an MRI, just in a spiritual way. It shows us our sinful nature, that it's not only forgiveness that we need, but it's a new heart that we need. The law shows the problem and shows what needs to be remedied. But it's a curse unto sinners because it puts forth no remedy. You can find those things in life. You can find forgiveness. You can find reconciliation to God. You can find and you can receive and you can enjoy the gifts of eternal life, but not through the law, not through obedience. Romans 3, 20 through 21. By works of the law no human being will be justified in his sight. Since through the law comes knowledge of sin, right? Through the law comes knowledge of sin. But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law. So there is a way to be justified in God's sight. But it's apart from the law, it's separate from the law. That phrase really shakes me to the core. Through the law comes knowledge of sin. Can you imagine life? Your life, not just life in general, not philosophers. We're Christians trying to do the best we can to grow in grace. So imagine your life if God never intervened with his word to show you that you were a sinner who needed a savior. I tremble. At that thought. I know where my road was headed. And brothers and sisters, you should know where your road was headed. But God In his righteous and holy commandments has pulled back the blinders and showed us that we're sinners. Showed us that we've rebelled against him. The curse of the law. You can think of the law like a key that doesn't fit the lock. It's not even the right kind of key. It can't work, it won't work, it doesn't even fit into the hole The principle of works is the problem. The law operates on a principle of works. To understand what a principle is, just think mathematics. There's a principle of addition. So when you see uh an addition problem, you know immediately what principle that you're working with. You take what you have on this side and you've got to add to it what's on this side. That's the principle of addition. Now what if you try to apply that same principle to a subtraction problem? You will not get the right answer. It's a different principle, different equations, different principle, a different key. To solve the problem. The principle of works is the principle that the law works on. Here's that principle. If you like to take notes and write things down, here you go. The law promises you the reward of life based on your obedience. That's part of it I'll let you get that down. The law, this is the principle of works. The law promises you the reward of life based on your obedience, based on your conformity to what God has laid out. That's the promise of the law. Obedience-based reward of life. That's only one side of it. The law also threatens penalty of death upon disobedience. The law threatens penalty of death based on disobedience. It should be coming clearer and clearer why the law is a curse. If we are under the law as sinners, follow it out logically. Our future with God, under the law, our future, our destiny, our relationship with God rests. solely on our obedience and faithfulness to him. That's the boat we're in. Under the law, brothers and sisters, we only get what we deserve. That's the curse of the law. Do you want to hear about the key of faith? If you don't understand the shackles , the spiritual bondage that we're in apart from Christ, we will never appreciate God's remedy. The key of faith, verses 11, the second part, through verse 12. Now it is evident That no one is justified before God by the law. That's the first part of verse 11. Now, listen to this: at the middle of verse 11, for the righteous shall live by faith. But the law is not of faith. Rather, the one who does them shall live by them. Fix your eyes on the beginning of verse twelve. The law is not of faith. In other words, it works on a different principle. The law is not of faith, is similar to saying subtraction is not of addition Or addition is not of multiplication. There's different principles that they operate on. The law is not of faith. Now, fix your eyes on this last phrase of verse 11: The righteous shall live by faith. That 's the principle of redemption. We receive life by faith. We receive spiritual life by faith The righteous shall live by faith. The message that we have for each other and for the community is not that a sinner can never be made righteous in God's eyes. That's not our message at all. We believe horrible, pathetic sinners like this preacher can be made right in God's sight. And the message is through faith in Christ. By faith we live. By faith we receive Christ, and in Christ we've received life, eternal life. By faith. That's why I've called it the key of faith. The saving faith that we're talking about here is trusting in Christ alone for salvation. Trusting in Christ alone as a redeemer who will liberate you from these shackles of bondage to sin and death. Faith Relies on another. By its essence, faith does not look inward. By its essence, faith looks outward. Faith relies on another Faith depends on the strength of another. I can remember back in grade school learning architecture, learning um about flying buttresses. These uh massive uh supporting structures that come up on the side of a cathedral and then come in and hold everything up. The building is resting on the buttresses Faith rests on the strength of another. Faith looks outward. Faith looks up. Faith looks to Christ and trusts in Christ alone for forgiveness and for the gift of eternal life. Faith abandons all hope in anything else to make us right with God. Faith is an act of abandoning. Faith is the heart's act of abandoning hope in anything else as a source of redemption. And forgiveness. Faith falls down, helpless at the foot of the cross because the cross of Jesus Christ is the only fountain source of eternal life. This is what faith is. It's not a feeling It's not a general spiritual feeling that you can experience at an at a an emotionally moving song or a heart tugging illustration in the sermon. Faith is an action that your heart can take by trusting in Christ as Savior. And if you would do that in your heart, you're saved for all eternity, and nothing can overturn that verdict. This is our great, great Savior, Jesus Christ. The principle of works was That the law promises life based on obedience and threatens death based on disobedience. The opposite principle That goes along with faith is the principle of grace. Just like I gave you the principle of works, I'm going to give you the principle of grace. The principle of grace is that it gives life as a free gift And it's better than promised life on the basis of obedience, right? If you're with me, if you're awake, say amen, wave a hand, say something. That's better. That's far superior Than having to earn life by your own goodness. Now we know our hearts at all. We know that's not an option. But grace, oh, the grace of God. The grace of God. You know, without this grace, we wouldn't be able to gather and truly worship God. And we could pretend we could invent a religion. Give ourselves some false superficial sense of purpose and belonging. But to truly know God, and to truly render worship to God, to truly see God and know his love, he must show us this grace. Grace gives life as a free gift and saves from death as an undeserved mercy. Grace, the grace of the gospel. This is the good news in case you haven't called on, so this is the good news part. This is the good news You see how it's news, not advice, because it's something Jesus already accomplished. The work is already done. All the earning is already done. Jesus earned this gift of eternal life for you, for us, for the sinner. Jesus earned it. He won the prize. And his grace of redemption is simply sharing his prize with us. Grace gives life as a free gift and saves from death as an undeserved mercy. Would you turn with me to Romans three? Romans 3 verse 22. Now, we already took a brief look at Romans 3, 20 and 21 that said, by works of the law, no one can be justified in the sight of God. But then in the beginning of verse 21, Paul did allude to a righteousness that has been made known for us, that's apart from the law. We can be justified in God's eyes. Romans three twenty two he explains the source Or the way of how sinners can be made right in God's eyes. And here's what he says: the righteousness of God Through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. So if you thought I was a little bit crazy making such a big deal about faith and its importance, well, here's why. Brothers and sisters, friends, neighbors, it's the only way you can be right with God is through faith. The righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe, where there's no distinction. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and are justified by His grace as a gift. Boy, if you're ever going to commit a part of the human language to memory, it would be this point about the nature of God's salvation By his grace as a gift. By his grace as a gift. This is the principle of grace. Life is bestowed upon us as a free gift by his grace as a gift through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. And that's what we're talking about. Redemption in Christ Jesus. The shackles of bondage to sin and death. And then redemption being set free by Jesus Christ. Let's keep going. Verse 25. Tells us the central thing Jesus did to make this possible Whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood to be received by faith. It's talking about what Jesus accomplished on the cross. It's talking about what Jesus did for you and for me. and for sinners by shedding his blood on a Roman cross. What did he do? He made propitiation. A propitiation is don't don't get distracted because it's a word you never heard before. It's too many syllables. Stop. Stop that It's a sacrifice that turns away the wrath of God. That's what propitiation is. As sinners, we're under the judgment of God, and we rightly deserve his wrath. Like murderers rightly deserve the penalty and the wrath of the federal government. They should be punished. Rapists should be punished. Arsonists should be punished. And sinners should be punished. Here we go. I'm officially off on a tangent. The great lie of mankind, not just our culture, I know often I say our culture. The great lie of mankind is that we're not accountable to God. We forget that this is his world. We're accountable to God because God made the world. You make a world, people who live, and you make people to live in that world, then those people are accountable to you. So go make a world. If that's the situation that we want, we just go do that. We can't do that. We live in God's world as if it's ours, not his. This is the impulse of sin. We live in God's world as if he's accountable to us and he has to prove himself to us rather than the truth, which is we are accountable to him and under his wrath, and righteously so. Brothers and sisters, church, I hope you believe that God is righteous. I hope when you see penalties for sin in Scripture, penalties for lawlessness in Scripture, I hope you don't think that God is mean or unrighteous. God is righteous. God is holy. And his judgments are always right. And his judgments are always just. Thank God that he's merciful as well. And gracious as well. Can you imagine if God were not patient with sinners? I know God is merciful because every day I continue to draw breath. Every moment he allows this sinner to exist in his world, it's an act of mercy. And rant, officially over. We are accountable to God. We are accountable to God and under his wrath. And all that is just to really hopefully start to draw home in the heart the relevance and the practical importance of words like propitiation Because we are, apart from Christ, we are rightly under the wrath of God. And apart from Jesus shedding his blood on the cross, there's no other source of propitiation. He died as a substitute for sinners. I'm getting ahead of myself on the outline. The shackles, the shackles of the law, the curse of the law, the key of faith. We trust in Christ alone. And we're break free from the shackles of sin and death to serve a new master, Christ. Our destiny with God rests on the obedience and the accomplishments of another. Are you happy about it, church? Number three, Christ. Christ who turns the key. Look at verses thir back in Galatians. Christ uh Christ who turns the key verses thirteen and fourteen. Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse. For us. For it is written, Cursed is everyone who is hanged on a tree. I'm not going to take us back to that reference, but it's a verse in the Old Testament about the death penalty for violating God's law. So when Christ is the picture is Christ dying on a cross receiving the death penalty that we've deserved. See the phrase in there? For us. For us. He's a substitute sacrifice for us. He became a curse for us. For it is written, cursed is everyone who has hanged on a tree. Verse 14, so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles. Um we don't have time to go up, but later today read the first uh part of this chapter that we're in, chapter four. The blessing of Abraham is the blessing of justification by faith. The blessing of Abraham is the blessing of being made right in God's eyes by faith. Blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles so that we might receive the promised Spirit through faith. Christ redeemed. Beginning of verse 13. Christ redeemed. Has he redeemed you? Have you come to Christ to be redeemed? He welcomes sinners. If you come and bow down before Christ in a humility and a desperate faith Wanting to be saved from your sin. He's not going to kick you in the face and run you off because you've lived as a rebel and wicked sinner. That's exactly the kind of person he came for, wicked sinners, and that's exactly the thing that he wants. It's the path to salvation to come and throw yourself helpless before Jesus. That's different than us, right? Someone says one slightly offensive thing to us or about us, we'll hold a grudge for 18 years. He's merciful. He welcomes. Can you imagine? He warmly welcomes those who've lived their life in blatant opposition to him. What grace is this? What love is this? The love of God manifest in Christ. And hopefully you can see that phrase also, not the very beginning of verse 14, but near the beginning of verse 14. In Christ. In Christ. It's the Bible's most common way of talking about a relationship with Jesus. It means to be spiritually united to Christ. Now you know that has to be by faith because you are on earth and Christ is in heaven. Christ redeemed and in Christ Jesus. Now let me give because I do s contrary to what you're thinking, I do see the clock. Let me give you a miniature sermon from within verse thirteen and fourteen. We see what Jesus did, we see how Jesus did it, and we see why he did it. The what, the how, the why. What he did, how he did it, why he did it. What he did was redeem us. From the curse of the law. That horrible bad news point, the first major point of the sermon of the shackles of the law Christ redeems us from those shackles. He redeems us from bondage to sin and death. He redeems us from a situ. Are you awake? Raise your hand Christ redeems us from a situation where our eternal destiny rests upon our obedience to a holy God. Can you imagine? Imagine if God were not gracious. He redeemed us from the curse of law. That's what Jesus did. How did he do it? He made himself a substitute on our behalf. He made himself a substitute sacrifice on our behalf. We already looked at that phrase. The very middle of verse thirteen by becoming a curse for us For it is written, Cursed is everyone who is hanged on a tree. He made himself a substitute to receive the death penalty that we deserved. What did he do? He redeemed us from the curse of the law. How did he do it? He made himself a substitute on our behalf. And uh Let me ask you, church. Give me a give me a yes and amen if you believe that God is just. Do you believe God is just? All right. So if he punished your sin in the body of Christ on a cross, can you ever receive punishment for your sin? No. Now that should be and is the root of your assurance. Do you struggle with assurance? Do you struggle with confidence? I want to tell you. Today, what time is it? 1152? The the key, the remedy, the solution for this lack of assurance is to remember God is just. Because I Almost everyone I've talked to struggles with assurance, who struggles with confidence. Um I asked him, Do you believe that Jesus died for your sin? Yes, yes, right away. Believe that The next question is, well, do you believe that God is just? Because if he if Jesus fully took the penalty for your sin, there's no more penalty for your sin. Now we're sinners and we're weak and there's not one aspect of the Christian faith that we're perfected in. But we can grow in these different aspects. And if you want to grow in your confidence and you want to grow in your assurance, look to the justice of God. He is just. Brothers and sisters, if you put your faith in Christ, there is no way in the world you could ever receive the judgment and wrath of God. No way in the world. It's impossible. It's literally impossible. For you to come under penalty for your sin. He's the redeemer, he's the substitute, he's the life giver. This is the why. The what, the how, and the why. He did it so that we could have life Verse 14 So that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles, which is justification by faith. But then he says The purpose of this, so that we might receive the promised Spirit through faith How do you receive the full blessing of the Holy Spirit that God has promised? That says here through faith. You don't become a Christian and are saved and then start praying to receive the Spirit. I mean, jumble and crumble that up, throw it in the cast a trash bin, and burn it You cannot be saved without receiving the Holy Spirit. Receive the promised Spirit through faith. This is why the clarion call, the trumpet call is put your faith in Christ. And you'll be saved. The promised spirit. Is he ever going to finish this sermon? Yes. In about 20 seconds. You know, all that's going on in the world and all that we struggle with in life, I'm not going to rush through the word of God. Brothers and sisters, we need the word of God. Spirit, the spirit we receive is the Holy Spirit of God That's given to us by the exalted Christ. I just want to close on this image of the incarnate Crucified in the past, but exalted Christ, reigning at the right hand of God, gives us the Holy Spirit in our hearts. How does he do that? Through faith. Let's pray. Father, I pray for the unbeliever that you would grant belief. I pray for the unrepentant that you would grant repentance I pray for the apathetic that you would grant spiritual energy. I pray for those who lack assurance and confidence that you would Fill their hearts richly with knowledge of your justice and faithfulness. I pray for each one of us that The rest of our days, the rest of our moments on this earth, we would live for your name and for your glory and joyful, duty-bound service to the Lord. Jesus Christ. And it's in his name that we join our hearts and lift this prayer. Amen.