I invite you, church, to open up with me to the book of First Corinthians, chapter one. We're going to be in 1 Corinthians chapter 1, verses 18 through 25, and I am noticing that my water is missing, so I am going to get the backup water. Oh my goodness. As the senior pastor you have the authority and purview to do that. That would have been bad if I had tried to go through preaching without water. So we will restart. 1 Corinthians chapter 1 verses eighteen through twenty-five. We're gonna be actually beginning this evening a series on biblical wisdom on Sunday evenings. We'll be uh looking at some specific specific passages and understanding kind of a fully orbed picture of wisdom from God's Word. Well I hope and I certainly believe that if I were to ask any one of you here tonight Do you want to be wise? Would you like to be a wise person? Your answer would be a resounding yes. And in fact, I think that if you were to go out into the world and you were to ask most people this question, they would probably say yes. Plenty of people live their lives in foolish ways. We see that every day, but most people don't want to knowingly be fools, or at least be considered fools. Most people, I think, like the idea of being considered a wise person. But here's the all-important question for us. What is wisdom? Where is wisdom found? And who determines what it means to be a wise person? Because if you look out into the world today, or in any day, in any era, You will find countless definitions of wisdom, countless kind of competing visions for what it means to be a wise person, what it means to live the good life, to live wisely. For some people in the world, wisdom is all about maximizing your own personal happiness. You see this kind of wisdom and this kind of mindset in advertising constantly, don't you? You deserve to be happy, the logic goes And so therefore, for you to live a wise life is all about you maximizing your own personal happiness on your own terms, no matter what those terms are. For others, wisdom is all about being as successful as you can possibly be. You can see this kind of business or this kind of thinking in the business world. You gotta get results. Your life has to matter, and for your life to matter, and for you to live a wise life, you need to maximize your productivity and your output. Unfortunately, sometimes that mindset can seep its way into the church as well. For others, wisdom is all about the pursuit of virtue, of being the best person that you can be. Thank you so much. Apparently the backup water was not good enough. But God is gracious, and he is gracious to me in the form of a wise wife. But for some, the wisdom is all about the pursuit of virtue, of being a good person, and the wise life is all about Aligning yourself with some understanding of what it means to be a good person, which can be defined in numbers of different ways. As we come to this text in 1 Corinthians, though, and as we think about a fully formed vision for biblical wisdom, what we're going to be confronted with is that all of those definitions, in and of themselves, fall woefully short. Because what we're going to see in the text is that the true substance of wisdom Is fundamentally defined by and revealed in the person and work of Jesus Christ. Any vision or any system of wisdom, therefore, that doesn't have Christ at the center will miss the mark entirely, even if at times they can make some correct observations about the world. See, wisdom biblically is all about how we are called to live well in God's world as his covenant children, as his people And if we as followers of Jesus Christ build our lives upon worldly systems of wisdom that don't regard God in Christ , And that aren't founded upon the fundamental truth of the person and work of Jesus Christ, we'll quickly find ourselves out of step with God's intentions for us. This was exactly the case in the situation for the church in Corinth. They were a church with many problems, many deep-seated sin issues, and Paul is writing this letter to the Corinthians to address These issues of disunity and of unrepentant sin. One of the ways that we could summarize the struggles in Corinth is that they were seeking to live in Christ's kingdom. According to the world's wisdom. They were members of Christ's body. They had been brought into union with Christ, but their disunity and their forming of factions around these different teachers, which is the issue Paul is specifically addressing in chapter one, revealed that they were actually living according to the wisdom of the world. And Paul writes here to correct them and to remind them that the path of true wisdom begins at the cross. And that's a path that looks utterly foolish, we're going to see, to a world in darkness. But the good news, Church, and I hope you know this well, is that to those who have been called out of darkness To those whose eyes have been opened by the power of the Spirit of God, the cross of Christ is the powerful and dramatic and glorious revelation of God's wisdom. And it opens up to us the pathway of pursuing true wisdom founded upon Christ. That's the main point that we're going to see in the text this evening, that the cross of Christ is the central revelation of God's wisdom. And it's the means by which we receive and walk in God's wisdom. Well let's look at the text together. 1 Corinthians chapter 1, beginning in verse 18. For the word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing, but to those who are being saved it is the power of God. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and the discernment of the discerning I will thwart. Where is the one who is wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the debater of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? For since in the wisdom of God the world did not know God through wisdom, It pleased God through the folly of what we preach to save those who believe. For Jews demand signs, and Greeks seek wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified. A stumbling block to Jews, and folly to Gentiles. But to those who are called both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God and the wisdom of God For the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. As we walk through this text together this evening, I have four points that I want us to see from the text. Really two kind of propositions and two applications of those propositions. First, we're going to see that the cross reveals the power of God's wisdom. The cross reveals the power of God's wisdom. Second, we're going to see that the cross judges worldly wisdom. The cross pronounces a judgment, a condemnation upon worldly systems of wisdom And then therefore, flowing out of those two realities, two things, the cross is our central proclamation to the world and to ourselves. And the cross is our central foundation for all of life. So the cross reveals God's wisdom, it judges worldly wisdom. Therefore, the cross is our central proclamation and our central foundation. Well we see first that the cross of Jesus Christ reveals the power of God's wisdom. Paul begins in verse 18 by presenting these two fundamentally opposite ways in which the word of the cross is received. To those who are perishing, it's seen as foolishness. But to those who are being saved, he says, it is the power of God. From the outset, we want to be clear about what the word of the cross actually is. If the main point we're meant to see is that the cross of Christ is the central revelation of God's wisdom, we need to know. And be abundantly clear about what the word of the cross actually is. Even though I hope as a body we know this well. The Word of the Cross, quite simply, is the message of salvation by grace alone, through faith alone, in the substitutionary death of Jesus Christ for sinners. It's the declaration that we are desperate sinners and that we are worthy of eternal condemnation before God. And the only way, Church, that we are made right with God is by looking to Christ in faith. By Trusting in his work alone for the forgiveness of our sins, not 99% his work and 1% ours. Believing that he is the Lamb who is slain for sin. And that he is the risen King who now reigns over all. And that the call of the gospel is for us to look to Christ in faith and to receive new hearts that are submitted to his lordship. The word of the cross, quite simply, is the message of the gospel. And Paul says that this word of the cross is seen as foolishness. To those who are perishing. That is, those who are dead in their sin look at the message of the cross and left to their own devices. Apart from a marvelous intervention and work of God, they reject it as absurd Systems and patterns of worldly wisdom see the gospel, see the message of the cross, and believe that it is foolish. This whole idea that there is a God who is infinitely holy and just and glorious, and that all men have violated his law. And that the only remedy for this problem of deserving his eternal punishment is to look in faith upon the public experience. Of a Jewish carpenter in some remote corner of Palestine two thousand years ago, believing that his death was the central event of all of history, that it was the sin-bearing sacrifice that makes us right before God To those who are dead in sin, to those who are perishing, that seems absurd. And church, if it were not true, it would be absurd. It cannot merely be a good rousing story. Either it is total foolishness, or it is the central truth of all reality. We ought to ask the question, why? Why is the word of the cross seen as folly to those who are perishing? It's quite simply because those who are dead in their sin are blind to the truth. That is right in front of them. Sin blinds the minds of unbelievers. Paul says in this same letter in First Corinthians chapter two, verse fourteen, just a little bit down in your Bibles, that the natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, their foolishness to him. The person in the natural state of sin is blind to the truth and is living in darkness Paul makes the same point to the Corinthians in 2 Corinthians 4, verse 4. He says that the gospel is veiled to those who are perishing. That the God of this world, Satan, has blinded their eyes so they cannot see the light of the glory of Christ. This is the natural state of every person born under the curse of sin. They are under the veil and the grip of darkness, and this grip is powerful. It's convincing and persuasive in its logic. Gone this far in my preaching, six sermons or so, without uh referencing C. S. Lewis, but uh all good things must come to an end here. Because Lewis in one of his Narnia books has I think a great illustration of how this delusion and this veil of darkness looks. In his fourth book in the Narnia series, The Silver Chair, which by the way you should read all seven, not just the first one, there's this harrowing scene where our our company of heroes is sent on this rescue mission underground. They're they go into what's called the underland. And it's this world that's completely shrouded in darkness and ruled by this evil witch, the queen of underland. And she seeks to hold the heroes captive in her world by ensnaring them in this spell. And what she seeks to do is to convince them. That her world, the world of darkness, the world underground, is the only true world She seeks to delude them and to convince them that there is no Narnia, there is no sun, there is no Aslan. In fact, the world of darkness, the world of the underworld, is all that there truly is or ever will be. And this is how the darkness of sin holds captive those who are perishing. It holds sinners under this delusion that this world is all that there is. Convincing us that this world and the wisdom of man is all there is and all there ever will be. The fool says in his heart that there is no God, there's no accountability, there's no eternity. So it just doesn't matter. Well that spell of sin and darkness is broken by the true light of the gospel. Because to those who are perishing, the cross is seen as foolish. But Paul next says that to those who are being saved, it is the power of God. To those whose eyes are opened by the power of the Spirit of God, this weak and foolish message reveals the immeasurable glory of God's true wisdom. And God's true power. It says that to those who are being saved, the cross is the power of God. That it is, it reveals God 's power to actually save sinners. To bring a true and lasting reconciliation between infinitely holy God and desperately weak, sinful man. God actually accomplishes this through the gospel. I hope we haven't heard this enough that it does not amaze us. And the amazing thing is that this reconciliation comes not through some outward display of might. It doesn't come through a military conquest like the Jews were expecting. But rather God demonstrates his power to save sinners through the weakness of a bleeding savior hung upon a Roman cross. And it's through this savior, through this supposed weakness, that God's upside-down wisdom is actually revealed in power. It's not what the wise of this world expected, but it's God's eternal plan to save sinners and to magnify his own Glory. The cross of Jesus Christ reveals the power of God's wisdom. And it overcomes the power of sin. It overcomes the delusion that our hearts are naturally born into to think that this message is foolishness. God saves us out of that. by the power of his gospel. Well not only does the cross display the true, powerful wisdom of God , It also pronounces a judgment on so-called wisdom in this world. We turn next to this reality. We see secondly that the cross judges worldly wisdom. We see this so clearly and in many different ways in verses 19 through 21. As the cross reveals the true wisdom and power of God, it also pronounces judgment against sinful, man-centered, worldly wisdom. When I use that term worldly wisdom, I'm referring to any system, any understanding of the world, any attempt to define ultimate truth. Apart from the reality of Christ. Any attempt to understand the world in which we live while ignoring the most fundamental reality about the world in which we live. Well, we see this pronouncement of judgment first in verse 19. Paul quotes here from Isaiah 29, verse 14, where it says, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise. And the discernment of the discerning I will thwart. In that context, the Lord was indicting the leaders of Israel, whose hearts were actually far from him. And who were leading God's people according to man -centered wisdom that disregarded the authority of Yahweh But Isaiah was prophesying of a day when the Lord Himself was going to come in power and was going to bring judgment upon these leaders and upon their deficient and godless wisdom. And Paul is saying that in the cross of Christ, this great coming of the Lord has arrived, and the wisdom of this world has come under the righteous judgment of God. We ask next, how is the world's wisdom judged in the cross? Three ways for you, three ways in which the cross pronounces a judgment against the world's wisdom. First and foremost, we see that the cross reveals the world's wisdom for what it truly is: foolishness. We see this in verse 20. Paul asks these rhetorical questions, where is the one who is wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the debater of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? We should see here this pattern of reversal. See the the worldly wise look at the cross and believe that it is foolishness. But what the cross actually accomplishes in power is to show true wisdom and therefore reveal false wisdom, reveal the foolishness of worldly wisdom. See, systems of worldly man-centered sin -soaked wisdom can appear very plausible. They can dazzle people with their complexity. They can delude and bring in many followers. They can even make some true observations about the world and the common grace of God. But all of them miss the most fundamental, central truth and question of reality. How can sinful man be reconciled to holy God? They all reject God's righteousness revealed in the cross. They reject the most important central truth of all reality. I think a helpful text for understanding this idea is Colossians chapter 1, verses 15 through 20, which Pastor Matt preached from last week. There we're presented with this just glorious vision of all of the universe, from creation all the way to new creation, being all about the supremacy of Jesus Christ. All things being held together in Christ. Well, if worldly wisdom rejects the very truth, upon which all of reality is founded and held together at this very moment, then of course it's going to be foolish. It would be like trying to become an expert in flying, but not believing in gravity At some point there's going to be a clash between what you believe and reality. Well, the cross reveals the foolishness of attempting to understand ultimate truth. Apart from God's revelation of Himself in Christ. Secondly, the cross pronounces judgment on worldly wisdom by reveal revealing to us the ultimate end of worldly wisdom, the ultimate uh thing to which it leads, which is death. When we look to the cross, when we see Christ Jesus as the sin-bearing sacrifice who took upon himself God's wrath. for sinners. We see what our sinful allegiance to the kingdom of darkness and to its wisdom merits. We see the death that we should have died. We all are deserving of eternal death and judgment for our rebellion against God We see Christ crucified, and we see that this death, this judgment, this pouring out of the wrath of God, which we would have to face for eternity. Is where the world's wisdom leads us if it's the basis upon which we build our lives. And that's true even if we can't see it naturally Even if we see worldly wise people succeeding in life now, it will not be so in eternity. Don't look to what is just seen right in front of you. Well finally, and related to those two previous points, the cross pronounces judgment on worldly wisdom by revealing that worldly, man-centered wisdom does not get us to God. Look at the beginning of verse 21. Paul writes, For since in the wisdom of God the world did not know God Through wisdom. Man -centered wisdom does not lead to knowing God Take any supposed system for wise living that you want. It might give you some sense of psychological peace. It might make your life practically better in some ways. Might make you successful by the world's standards, but it will not lead you to a saving knowledge of God. Only the message of Christ crucified can do that. And there's this important trajectory for us to see here. It's not as though we get to God through wisdom. We pursue wisdom in order to get to God. No, the trajectory of God's kingdom is actually that we come to God in Christ. And through Christ, God's wisdom is revealed, and we receive the wisdom of God. We are brought into the path of living wisely in God's world as we come under His Lordship. We don't get to God through wisdom. Rather, we come to Christ by faith. And in coming to Christ, we receive true. Wisdom. So the cross of Christ reveals to us God's powerful wisdom. It pronounces a decisive judgment on the foolishness of worldly wisdom. We can think about so many implications and applications of those two realities for our lives. Two broad points of application, though, that we see from the text is that the cross is to be our central proclamation. to the world and to ourselves, and that the cross is to be our central foundation for all of life. First we see that the cross, therefore, is to be our central proclamation. This is clear in verses twenty-two and twenty-three. First look at verse twenty-two. We see here that these systems of worldly wisdom Here illustrated by the Jews and the Greeks, they all reject the cross and seek to kind of apply their own grid of understanding or grid of interpretation. They're trying to require that God's revelation fit into their expectations. These powerful Manifestations or proofs of the truth of Christ, all the while missing the ultimate sign of his death and resurrection. The Greeks sought after wisdom. They were looking at these ideas of eloquent wisdom that they could debate and scrutinize with their logic. But Paul here says that as ministers of the gospel, we don't play by the rules that they set forth. We don't force the message of the cross to fit into the expectations of the world. We're set free from needing to adopt systems of worldly wisdom. Rather, what we do is we preach Christ crucified. That's what he says so clearly in verse 23. So Jews demand signs, Greeks seek wisdom, but what do we do? We preach Christ crucified. Should be our heartbeat as a body And we must understand this, church. Oh, we must understand this and think about practically what this looks like. Because apart from the cross of Jesus Christ, we have absolutely nothing to offer. We cannot afford, church, to offer mere moralism or some helpful principles about how to live a good life. Everything that we proclaim to the world and to ourselves must be rooted in the reality of the gospel. There are many specific moral issues in our day about which I know that you and I are rightly concerned. Think about issues of abortion, LGBTQ issues, questions of racial justice and reconciliation, and we are called, church, to speak with biblical clarity and biblical truth on all of these issues. But it is so vital that we never do so in a way that is disconnected from the cross of Christ. Because otherwise we become mere legalists. We must proclaim Christ crucified. Our public witness on every question of morality must always come back to the central reality of Christ crucified. Because that's the way that sinners actually come to know God. That's the way sinners who are lost actually experience real transformation. We cannot afford to merely prescribe moralism even if what we are saying is true. We must preach Christ crucified. I want us to think practically about this for just a moment because I think it's an important thing for us to have clarity on. So let's take just one example, the example of LGBTQ issues and identities in our culture which manifests itself in so many different ways and is something that we deal with in lots of areas of life It's a massive issue in our day, and it's one that I know we are rightly concerned about. Well, a cross-centered response needs to recognize That any particular expression of that identity within a person is merely a symptom of the issue, not the root. Because the root problem is a heart that is dead in sin, that has rejected God's rightful authority over his world, and has sought to define one sense of who they are and what's good for them. On their own terms. And so we need to speak clearly to that. We need to speak clearly to the fact that any attempt to define right and wrong, good and evil, on our own terms. Whether it's through one's so-called gender identity or just through being a selfish person condemns us before God. But the good news of the gospel is that in his abundant mercy God has judged his son in our place, and that we can look to him in faith and in repentance. And be forgiven of our sins and receive new hearts that acknowledge Christ as Lord and that allow Him to define what is good and what is true and what is beautiful. In our lives and in his world. See, the cross at all times at once shows us the severity of our sin before God, but it also shows the magnitude of God's love for sinners, and we must proclaim both. Clearly. That's what a world in darkness needs to hear, Church. Church, I know it is easy to be frustrated. by so many of the ways in which we see our world turning. But I hope you don't merely want people to Become straight. I hope you don't merely want to wind back the cultural clock to some imagined past where things were better and people weren't sinners. I hope that you want to see sinners come to faith in Jesus Christ. May God shape our desires for that. May we speak with urgency and with compassion and with conviction and confidence on the gospel. And as we preach Christ crucified, we ought to expect this message to be rejected by many. We see that reality in verse 23. Christ crucified is a stumbling block to Jews, and folly to Gentiles. The Jews expected their Messiah to be some sort of military deliverer, not a man who came in weakness and became a curse by being hung on a tree. And the Gentiles see the message of the cross and reject it as this just unsophisticated nonsense. Rejection should not surprise us, church. But the good news is that to those who are called, this weak, foolish message is the wisdom and power of God. God. It actually truly saves sinners and brings about true repentance. So the cross is our central proclamation, and then finally the cross is our central foundation for all of life. Look again at verses twenty-four through twenty-five. Paul says, But to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God, and the wisdom of God Wisdom of God. For the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. Notice this contrast here with verse 22. That's what Paul is doing. So the Jews were looking for these powerful signs. And the Greeks sought after what they thought of as compelling wisdom. And in the blindness of sin, both rejected the cross as foolishness. But to those who are called and whose eyes are opened by the Holy Spirit, Christ Jesus is the true power of God. That is, he is the true sign. And he is the true wisdom of God. Christ crucified powerfully answers the objections of both the Jews and the Greeks, Paul is saying. And the main idea for us to see from these verses is that the foundation of the cross is the means by which we personally come to see And to experience God's power and God's wisdom. The cross is not just a theoretical proposition out there. It's not just power and wisdom in the abstract to be kind of seen and affirmed and thought about from a distance. No, it's God's power and God's wisdom that personally saves, that brings us out of the kingdom of darkness. And into the kingdom of Christ, that actually clothes us in the righteousness of Christ, and that actually molds us continually into the likeness of Jesus. that actually gives us new desires to live our lives submitted to King Jesus. I love how Charles Hodge, a great uh theologian of the nineteenth century, summarizes it in his commentary on these verses. I can't really say it better than he did. He writes, In his person and work there is the highest possible manifestation, both of divine power and of the divine wisdom. And those who are called not only see, but experience this. The doctrine of Christ crucified produces effects on them which nothing short of divine power can accomplish. And it reveals and imparts to them the true wisdom. It makes them divinely wise. It makes them holy. It makes them righteous and it makes them blessed. It does infinitely more than human wisdom could ever conceive, much less accomplish. Friends, all these things Christ's righteousness received as a gift, eternal life, a true, truly new, transformed heart that is alive to the things of God. These are all gospel benefits that we We receive in Christ. They're not things we can try to cultivate apart from Him. They're not things that we can try to build up on our own. No, these are accomplished by the seemingly foolish message of the gospel. And that's Paul's point in verse twenty-five. He's saying that God accomplishes in something that the world seems foolish, something that is far greater, infinitely greater, infinitely more powerful. Than whatever the greatest wisdom of this world could possibly come up with and could possibly accomplish. The world's best attempts at wisdom and strength Is infinitely less than the greatest weakness and foolishness of God, which is actually truly eternal, abiding wisdom and power. And so as we think in the coming weeks about how we are called to walk in biblical wisdom, what we need to see is that the cross is the central foundation. Whereby we receive and interpret and apply and live in light of all of God's wisdom for daily living. The cross is the way that we come into knowing and receiving and pursuing God's wisdom. The cross is the means by which we receive by our new birth. An actual real desire to live in accordance with God's wisdom, to know and to submit to it, and to pursue gospel obedience. Receiving and living under God's wisdom is all about how we As blood-bought new creations in Christ learn to live for King Jesus in every area of life, from the utterly profound. To the utterly mundane. All of life lived under the wisdom of God is an arena where we are called to exalt the glory of Christ. And so as we look in the coming weeks at some of the wisdom literature of scripture and as we think about a vision for biblical wisdom, much of which, when we read through Proverbs, is intensely practical and deals with the minutiae of life. We must stand upon the foundation of the cross. We must see that the cross is how wisdom, the wisdom of God is centrally revealed to us. And it's the way that we receive and are empowered and equipped and made new to walk in God 's wisdom. Your practical, everyday, mundane living Christian is to be cross-centered wisdom. Living. The gospel of Jesus Christ transforms everything from how you interact with your spouse and co-workers to your attitude when you have to do the dishes. It's all transformed by this message that, again, according to the world's wisdom, according to the world's standards, appears utterly ludicrous. But in the glorious eternal plan of God, this foolish message of the cross is the means by which God creates a people for himself who will walk according to his wisdom. Let's pray together. Oh God, we thank you. That you your wisdom has come to us in power through the cross of Christ. We thank you, God, that you actually Have brought about a true reconciliation where we who were desperate sinners have been made new And we pray, God, as a church body, that you would cultivate in us a desire to live upon the foundation of your wisdom. Through the cross of Christ. We pray, God, that the cross would be our proclamation to the world, God, that it would not be unknown what we are about and what we believe and what we hold. to be dear and precious, that all of our public witness would come back to the reality of the cross. Oh God, equip us to be faithful. And may we be a church body in our context, in our community that seeks to shine forth the light of Christ for your glory. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.