Well, let's go ahead and take our Bibles and turn to Matthew chapter one. I know I've began a Genesis series and we will pick that up. in 2025. But I've decided to do three Christmas-themed messages. And today is Matthew 1, verses 18 to 25 on the birth of Jesus Christ. Matthew 1, 18 to 25, on the birth of Jesus Christ, but of course, not just the fact that he was born born, but the uniqueness of his birth and the historical significance of his birth. And brothers and sisters, the personal relevance of his birth for every one of us sitting in this room, the birth of Jesus Christ. the Is there something in life that you are waiting for? Maybe you've been waiting for it for years, maybe decades. You're just dying for one particular prayer to be addressed, or one particular piece of wisdom. That you've just been waiting and praying for clarity on. Or one issue. Maybe it's a family issue. Maybe it's a work issue. Something you've been waiting for, something you are praying for. Well, one thing you do not have to wait for, and one thing you do not have to pray for, is for God to send a Savior into the world. Amen. God has sent a savior. You put your trust in the Savior, Jesus Christ. That's the resolution that you need. Matthew one verses eighteen to twenty-five and on this first time through there's just One key word I want you to be looking for, and that when we read past this word, I hope you see it in flashing neon lights right into your heart. Save. Save. Alright. Verse 18. Now the birth of Jesus Christ took place in this way When his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph, before they came together, she was found to be with child from the Holy Spirit. And her husband Joseph, being a just man, and unwilling to put her to shame, resolved to divorce her quietly. But as he considered these things, behold, An angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not fear to take Mary as your wife, for that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. All this took place to fulfill what the Lord has spoken by the prophet Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel. Which means God with us. And when Joseph woke from sleep, he did as the angel of the Lord commanded him He took his wife, but knew her not until she had given birth to a son, and he called his name Jesus. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for saving us. We thank you for being with us We thank you for sending Jesus and for bringing us into a relationship with Jesus. We magnify his name this morning. We speak highly of Jesus. I pray that you would With a renewed light and a renewed energy, open our hearts to the wonder of knowing Jesus Christ. Give us a peace and a contentment and a security that can only come from Him and not from the things of this world. Open our hearts to Jesus. Humble us under your word. Change us by your Holy Spirit, we pray in Jesus' name Amen. Brothers and sisters, it's good news. It's great news that God sent a Savior. Amen. I mean, where would we be without a Savior? Lost in the corruption of sin. With nothing to look forward to except for the wrath of God. But God sent a Savior. And anyone who puts their faith in Jesus Christ on the basis of his life, on the basis of his sacrificial death. On the basis of his glorious resurrection, if you put your trust in Jesus Christ, you are saved. Jesus means the Lord is salvation. Or it could also properly be translated, the Lord saves. That's his name because that's who he is, and that's what he does. Jesus is the Lord, and Jesus saves. Put your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and be saved. And have the guilt of your sins, as we'll see If we get there, I'm not sure I'll be able to make it. But if we get there, you'll see from Scripture, God blots out sins. Isn't that a powerful picture? He blots out our sin, the record of our sin against him. Well, I got to be able to read my notes this morning. So let me get myself situated. Talking about the birth of Jesus Christ. Just as an introduction, the conception and birth of Jesus shine taken together. The conception and birth of Jesus shine as a central and world-changing miracle of history. Now, if the Lord allows, we're going to get deep into some theology of the biblical teaching. So at the outset I want to do a flyover just to keep it simple, just to map this out as simply as I know how. Before we plunge into the depths, if the Lord allows. Really, just three things we're talking about this morning. Jesus. The salvation that he gives, and then how you receive it. That's pretty simple, right? Jesus, the person who is both God and man. And therefore, the only mediator between God and man, Jesus. And then secondly, the salvation that he gives, the forgiveness of sins. The gift of eternal life saving us from the judgment of God. So first, Jesus. Second, the salvation that he gives. And then third, what was the third one? How to receive it. How to receive it. Which is by repentance and faith. Repentance and faith. Turning and believing in the Lord Jesus Christ. So there's your flyover. Now, on the birth, that's the topic, that's the theme, and you can see this if you look at verse 18. That's how the passage begins. Now the birth of Jesus Christ took place in this way. But also you could look at verse 21. She will bear a son. That's birth Also, verse 23, um bear a son. That's birth. And then verse 25 uh knew her not until she had given Birth to a son. So this is not just some nostalgic tradition that we make a big deal about the birth of Jesus Christ this this time of year. It might be for some. But that's what the passage is about. We should make a big deal about this every day of our lives. That Jesus the Savior was born. He came. But you can't have birth unless you have conception. conception and birth. So look at the end of verse 18. Before they came together, she was found to be with child from the Holy Spirit. That's conception. And then verse 20: Do not fear to take Mary as your wife, for that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. What is that? That's conception. And then verse 23 in that prophecy that the readings alluded to, behold the virgin shall conceive And bare. So the conception and the birth of Jesus, this world-changing miracle of history And for you, believer, this is a life-changing, you personally life-changing, destiny-changing. Miracle. All it does is change history, but then me personally don't receive the blessing of it through faith. It does me no benefit For me to share in this benefit, I must be united to Jesus. And for you to receive the bl the benefit, to receive the blessing, to be a partaker of the blessing. You must be joined to Jesus through faith. Because we need more than just the intellectual knowledge that there's a world-changing miracle Salvation is available for people out there. We need it in our hearts, beloved. Our neighbors need it in their hearts. Our families need it in their hearts. This is the greatest need of the world. It's the greatest need of every individual person. Salvation. But you understand none of this could happen unless you have conception. And birth. Because now the Savior is in the world. And now the Savior can accomplish his task. He can accomplish salvation. And then share Share that salvation with sinners on earth. What is the world like? Why does it need this miracle? What's the big deal? Well, you could tell me about the world. But since God put me up here, I'll try to summarize about the world for you. The world is a place of pride and selfishness. I mean you will fit right in so long as you have the mindset, I'm getting mine, I'm doing my thing. This is the proud spirit of the culture, yes? The world also is a haven for crime and for abuse and for robbery and for all manner of violence. Sexual deviancy, uncontrolled addiction, and oppression, the problems, the ills of society In addition to the proud spirit of the culture, the world also is a place of war It's a place of forced slavery. I was reading Judges this past week and Um that was really the first major sin that Israel fell into. The different tribes and sections of Israel fell into after the conquest when they stopped gaining ground in the promised land and ra and they put the Canaanites to forced labor, which is a violation of God's law. You read the law of Moses. In Exodus. Forced slavery, forced labor is against God's law. But this is the world. A place of war, forced slavery. You know what the world is? It's a place of ongoing effort to break down what God has built. Like marriages. And families, and a moral fabric, and accountability and responsibility, not only before fellow man, but before the Lord Himself Now, if all we have is the world, brothers and sisters, that's a bleak picture. That is darkness, moral darkness, like midnight on a starless night. If That's the key word. If all we have is the world. So that's the relevance. That's the why of Jesus coming. That this is not all there is. This is not all we have. A Savior has come into the world, and now He's advancing His kingdom of salvation slowly, gradually, powerfully, into all nations, turning hearts From the pride and selfishness and vile immoralities of the world. And giving us new hearts. Are you not delighted that God has given you a new heart? So, this is why the world needed the conception and the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. And the world still needs Jesus as he ever lives in heaven With the power of salvation, a living source of hope for sinners on earth. I said this was a history. Jesus first coming was a world-changing, just complex of miracles, a matrix. Of supernatural work of God to change things on earth. Before Jesus came, the whole world outside of Israel, though really outside the southern kingdom. The northern kingdom was gone by the time of the coming of Christ. But the restored southern kingdom, the whole world outside of that, was under the reign of Satan. 100%. And this was God's historical judgment on the sinful nations. Under the reign of Satan with no message of salvation. And therefore, with no hope for time or eternity. That's the world by and large before the coming of Christ. But now on this side of the coming of Christ The message of salvation has gone and continues to go into the world, transferring people out of the kingdom of Satan into the kingdom of God's beloved Son. Amen? Since the coming of Jesus, the message of salvation is going forth. Therefore, hope For time and hope for eternity is going forth and continues to go forth for the glory of God. Jesus is the light of the world And believers also are called the light of the world. The gospel is the light of the world. And it gives people hope. The world is full of counterfeit hopes, isn't it? It's full of lies. But God gives the truth and God gives true hope. Again, why is this possible? When did this begin? When was the dawn of this? The conception and the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. Brothers and sisters, don't ever lose sight of this. That the Savior came. So let's talk about this hope. By the way, it reminds us of our purpose as a church. Yes? This reminds us as Our purpose as a church, the missions arm, the evangelism arm of what God has called us to do is really join him in his work God is doing the work of missions. God is doing the work of evangelizing and discipling the nations. And by his grace and by his spirit, he enables us to get in on it with him. God 's the one saving sinners. And in his grace, he enables us to join him in his work. That's the purpose, the missions arm, evangelism arm purpose of the church. Well, you'll see on your outline a one, two, and a three. Just one word on each point. Incarnation, number one. Salvation, number two, and then repentance, number three. Incarnation. Salvation, and then repentance. Incarnation is the word that you need to know. And the definition is the eternal Son of God. Came to earth as a man. That's incarnation. I try to get these definitions as concise, as reader's digest version as I can, as concise and clear and easy to grasp. The eternal Son of God came to earth as a man in the flesh. That's incarnation. And we have a supernatural conception that we see in our passage. It's the basis of this, a supernatural conception, verses 18 through 20. Now the birth of Jesus Christ took place in this way. When his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph before they came together, she was found to be with child. From the Holy Spirit. Catch that? From the Holy Spirit. And her husband Joseph, being a just man and unwilling to put her to shame, resolved to divorce her quietly. Now And why would he even have that thought in the first place? Because he thought she was unfaithful. It appeared as if from earthly appearances this was All you would know if you didn't have the divine truth behind it was she was unfaithful. But as he considered these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not fear to take Mary as your wife, for that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. twice from the Holy Spirit, a supernatural conception. You and I were not conceived this way. We were conceived naturally Jesus was not conceived naturally. He was conceived supernaturally by the work of the Holy Spirit. This is unique This is miracle of miracles. The eternal Son of God come to earth as a man, which began with his conception in the womb of Mary by the work of the Holy Spirit. To understand the life and ministry of Jesus, we have to understand the role of the Holy Spirit. We see it here at His conception, but later we see it as His at His baptism. The Holy Spirit descends in the form of a dove. But in the book of Acts, Acts chapter 10, verse 38, we read this. God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power. That's alluding to Jesus' baptism. He was anointed with the Holy Spirit, anointed with power. And that leads into his ministry. But you also see the work of the Holy Spirit again at the resurrection, taking from Acts 2. 33 Being therefore exalted at the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, has poured out this that you yourselves are seeing and hearing. Isn't that amazing? Jesus, who died on the cross as a substitute offering for sin was risen from the grave, and here's what Peter preaches in Acts 2. 33, received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit And then he poured out that Holy Spirit to establish his church on earth. And by the way, that's the Holy Spirit you have if you've put your faith in Jesus Christ. There's not a new Holy Spirit from the one you read about in Acts chapter 2 And that's the Spirit that joins you to Christ and joins you to God forever and ever. So you see the work of the Holy Spirit at His conception, at His baptism, at His resurrection and ascension. And then from that time forward. Jesus isn't endlessly playing games on an iPad in heaven. He's not sitting there binge watching Netflix or some other kind of entertainment. Jesus is ever living, always working to save sinners on earth To sanctify his people on earth, to advance his gospel, to advance his kingdom on earth, to build up and purify and sanctify his church on earth. To hear your prayers every day that you say while you are on earth, to intercede before the Father on your behalf Jesus is very busy. Jesus is ministering in heaven to save sinners. To God, bring them out of that horrible, horrific, vile kingdom of Satan, bringing them into the wonderful, freeing, destiny-changing kingdom of Christ And then sanctifying us. But the point of this section is all of that Jesus is doing through the work of the Holy Spirit on earth. Through the work of the Holy Spirit. Supernatural conception. And that leads to the second point under incarnation is this supernatural person Supernatural person. Verse 23. The virgins shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel. And then in parentheses, you see, what do you see? You see the interpretation. And what does it mean? What does Emmanuel mean? Just say it out loud. Don't be ashamed. God with us. God on earth. Now you you've read scripture. You know that God manifests Himself and reveals Himself in the past and many times in many ways, Hebrews chapter 1. But this is unique. In these last days he's spoken to us by His Son. God has come to earth in a unique way here, Emmanuel. God with us. I am one person with one nature. Think turn your thinking caps up. You are one person with one nature. We have a created human nature. Now you are unique Your body is your body. There'll never be another person with your body. Your soul is your soul. There'll never be another person with your soul. That's pretty incredible to think about We are all like each other in that we're all created. We're all humans. We all have a human nature. So all the things that are common to a human nature we all share in. But you are you. There will never be another you You're one person with one nature. But Jesus is one person, the Son of God, with two natures. He has a created human nature, which is what we read about here, the conception. A created human nature. And he also has an uncreated divine nature. God, that's uncreated, divine nature, with us. But we you read the passage, specifically with us, how? As a person conceived in the womb of Mary. One person with two natures, you can take dirt and combine it with water, and what do you have? You got mud. It's it's not still a hundred percent water and a hundred percent dirt. It's now a new thing. It's a third thing. It's mud But you see, that natural level, that natural illustration, nothing in this or this created order can be really a fitting metaphor for the incarnation. Because you have one person who's not half half of one thing and half of another. He's a hundred percent Human and a hundred percent God. He's one person in two natures. John 1-1, in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God. And the word was God. And then down in verse 14, and the word became flesh and dwelt among us. That's the incarnation The eternal word of God is another title, another name for the eternal Son of God who became flesh and dwelt among us. And by the way, he dwelt among us for what reason? To save us from our Sin. Another one, Hebrews one, verse two and three. In these last days He has spoken to us by his son, whom he has appointed the heir of all things, through whom he created the world He's the radiance of the glory of God, the exact imprint of his nature, and he upholds the universe by the word of his power. After making purification for sin , He sat down at the right hand of the majesty on high. He's divine. He's God He was there in creation. He's the radiance of the glory of God. He's the exact imprint of his nature. But then it that's Hebrews 1, 2, and 3. And then Hebrews 2, 14. Since therefore the children share in flesh and blood He himself likewise partook of the same things. Again, God the eternal Son, God the Eternal Word. became man. He took on flesh and blood in order to save those who are flesh and blood. And it's just not that Jesus is unique among humans. Certainly he is. Because he's human and he's God. But also within the persons of the Godhead. God the Father is one person with one nature. There's nothing wrong with that. God the Father is glorious. This all started with God the Father's plan and command and faithfulness and promises and purpose But God the Father is one person with one nature. God the Holy Spirit is one person with one nature. The Father didn't take on flesh. The Spirit didn't take on flesh. The Spirit didn't die on the cross. Only the second person of the Trinity. Only the Son. Only the Word took on flesh to be the Savior. For the world. And that's what Scripture calls Jesus the Savior of the world. This power, this miracle is not only astounding, and I hope it's astounding to you. But it's also necessary for our salvation. Jesus is uniquely qualified to be the mediator, capital M, the go-between, the bridge, the one who bridges the gap. He stands the gap, stands in the gap and enables sinners to come into a relationship with God. He's the only one who truly represents God To us, and he's the only one who has the ability to do what only God can do. One of the clearest teachings in all the Bible is that only God saves Only God saves. Why are you going so deep into this? Why are you making such a big deal that one person, two natures? Because only God saves. And if you believe that Jesus is not God, he does not save. But Jesus saves because he truly represents humans. If he's not a human, he doesn't represent you before God. If he doesn't partake of the same things, the flesh and blood, he doesn't qualify to represent those of flesh and blood before God. This is what qualifies Jesus to do his work and to die in our place and to represent us before the throne of God. That he has two natures, that he is God and He is man. And he is the mediator. And going back to the opening section, brothers and sisters, this is why we can have hope in the world. Because of this. Because of incarnation, because of the conception and birth of Jesus Christ, the eternal Son of God who became man. This is why we don't put our hope in wealth. This is why we don't put our health and our our hope rather in fame or being popular. Or reputation. And this is why we do not put our hope in the pleasures of the flesh or the pleasures of this world. You see, when Jesus is your hope, that dethrones every other false hope, doesn't it? And when he's number one, it disqualifies everything else from being number one. That's why we put our hope in Jesus, not in earthly achievements and earthly accomplishments. That's why we put our hope in Jesus personally who lives in heaven, not putting our hope in outward religion or our participation in the outward things of church. Our hope is in Jesus. Incarnation makes this possible. The eternal Son of God came to earth as a man, Emmanuel. Emmanuel, praise God. Emmanuel, God with us. Number two, salvation. What does salvation mean? Salvation is God's delivering sinners from the guilt, power, and penalty of sin. Try to get you that reader's digest. Hopefully you appreciate that. But that's not easy to do. That's what I labor over more than anything in these sermons is Shrink it down. Make it digestible. That's what salvation is. It's God delivering sinners from the guilt. And from the power and from the penalty of sin. So if God takes the guilt of sin away from you, and he takes the power of sin out of your heart, and he takes the penalty of sin off the table, you're saved. That's what salvation is. God sparing you, delivering you from that Oh man, my notes on this are extensive. But you know what? I'm just gonna put my seatbelt on and start working through them This is the thing churches don't want to talk about, but I mean if you really want to grow a super duper exciting Big church that the world just loves and flocks to. Just don't talk about sin. Don't talk about the nature of sin, maybe just superficially. Don't talk about the true, horrific, grotesque nature of what sin is. And where it leaves us as sinners. But this is the thing that brings us to conviction and helps us to see our need for Jesus. So we're gonna talk about sin because that's what it says here, verse twenty-one. Bear son, she will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save. his people from their sins. So save that's salvation from their sins. Salvation doesn't make any sense if we don't know what sin is And the more we understand sin, the greater appreciation we'll have for the cross of Jesus Christ. Amen? And we'll go deeper in our love for God, deeper in our gratitude to God. That's what we want. Amen? To grow in our love for God, grow in our appreciation, have a bigger and bigger, bigger view of God, and a bigger view of His grace, and a higher, higher, deeper view of the cross of Jesus Christ. A B C D E. A. Sin is legal. Sin is legal. It is literally the breaking of God's moral law. It's God's earth. God is the standard of purities, the standard of perfection, and our lives come from God, and despite all what the world says, despite all what our pride inside us says, we are accountable. before God. We owe it to God to obey Him and love Him and serve Him and worship Him. God deserves it. Every human being owes it to obey God. It's God's world. And our lives came from God. And Anthony makes fun of me when I give this illustration. I've used it before. If you make a world, you can run that world the way you choose. And I came up with this illustration because my kids They still do it actually. They used to build these Lego Worlds. They have we have a room in our house. It's Lego World. And you know who's in charge of Lego World? They are They are they build what they want to build. There's the characters where they want the characters. They name them what they want to name them. They work out this little story, the story that they want to work out. If I make a world or if you make a world, we get to determine. Right and wrong and accountability in that world. God made this world. Sometimes we forget this. Sometimes we forget this. God made this world. God made every human being and every human being. Is accountable before God. Sin is legal. Violation of God's law. The good news of the gospel is forgiveness. Forgiveness. Forgiven is legal. Forgiveness is a change. In our legal status before God, no longer guilty before him, but praise the Lord, innocent, righteous before him. So sin is legal. That's why the gospel must also be legal. And that's what forgiveness is. Letter B, sin is internal. Internal. Think of the natural pride. The selfishness that naturally rules our hearts, unless the grace of God changes it. Sin is external legal disobedience, but it's also an internal darkness It's more than just an empty space. It's not just an empty space. I've heard this from a preacher before. Say, think of it more of a space filled with darkness that's in rebellion against God. It's not just an empty space that needs to be filled. It's a dark space of corruption that needs to be cleansed and renewed, taken out, and a new heart put in. The Holy Spirit put in, a new love for God put in. That's what we lack. When we're unbelievers. We don't love God in the way that God deserves to be loved. We need a new heart. So the good news is not only legal, but the good news Is also internal, also transformational. We receive new hearts by the Holy Spirit. Let us see. Sin has eternal consequences It's legal, it's internal, and has eternal consequences. Looming judgment. That's why part of the good news has to do with the future. Part of the good news ha has to do with the future and when that final judgment comes, you'll be spared. You'll be saved. You'll be delivered from that final judgment when it comes on the last day. Sin is legal Therefore, the good news is legal. Forgiveness. Sin is internal. Therefore, the good news is internal. We receive new hearts Sin has eternal consequences. Therefore, the good news has an eternal consequence too. You'll be with God forever in his glory. Sin also is relational. It's relational. It separates us from God. Think of just being an outcast Being sent away, being a wanderer. It separates us from God. That's what Isaiah 59. 2 says. Your iniquities have made a separation between you and your God. And your sins have hidden his face from you, so that he does not hear you. You know, man, the worst thing in the world is to be separated from that which blesses. To be separated from that which blesses. Imagine being taken away from your family, your friends, your loved ones, completely taken away and exiled. You have no interaction with them for the rest of your life. Well, that would be horrible, wouldn't it? That would just be horrible. When you're taken away, when you're separated from that which blesses, it's the worst feeling. If you are separated from food, if you are separated from water, if you are separated from the freedoms we enjoy. When you're separated from that which blesses, it brings torments. You're separated from air. Separated from that which blesses. Now, what's the supreme blessedness? Well supremely, what is that which blesses? It's God Himself. All blessing comes from God. All the earthly blessings we have here is just to teach us that God blesses. It's just a reflection, it's just a pointer, it's just signposts. God is one who blesses. Be separated from God is the worst thing ever. Sin is relational, separates us from God. Therefore the gospel is relational. The gospel reconciles us to God. The gospel reconciles us to God. Sin is personal. This is the last one, E. Sin is personal. So sin is legal. Sin is internal. Sin is eternal. Sin is sin is sin has an eternal consequence rather. Sin is relational, it separates us from God. Finally, sin is personal. It's personal rejection, personal rebellion against God. And it stirs up his holy and righteous anger. Think of how a parent feels if their child spits in their face and curses them. You read scriptures, that's a picture of sin. In fact, the prophets of the Old Testament are far more graphic and far more disturbing than that illustration. Trust me. Think of how a child feels if their parent constantly belittles them or Abuses them or is negligent or abandons them. It's more than just a breaking of rules. This is personal expression of hatred Personal rejection, personal rebellion. Think of how a spouse feels at unfaithfulness or of abuse. Think of how your best friend. would feel. Think how think how you would feel if your so-called best friend was gossiping and slandering about you, defaming your name in the world. That's what sin It seeks to defame God's name. So the good news is also personal. God's anger That's a proper response to our rejection and hatred of Him. God's anger is replaced with an incomparable love and mercy. And that's John 3:16. God so loved the world. Now I'm pretty sure all everyone, at least almost everyone, when I said those things about the world early in this sermon. My crime and war and sin and the darkness of the world. Just about everyone was nodding their heads, agreeing with that Now and we know that God hates sin, and we've seen what sin is, and yet God loved the world. You see, the grace of the gospel cannot be explained by human logic. The mercy of God for us, let's not just say sinners, make it theoretical, let's make it personal. Us, the mercy of God for us is inexplicable. It's incomparable. It's incredible. We don't deserve for God to love us, to show us grace. He has a proper and righteous holy anger against our sin But the promise of the gospel is God has a love for you, an infinite love that you don't have to work for, and you don't have to earn and you don't have to clean yourself up first. You come to God with all of the guilt, all of the corruption, all of the rejection, all of the rebellion, all of the hatred, sin heaped upon sin heaped upon rebellion and disobedience. We come before Jesus Christ and He saves us from our sin. He saves us. He takes away the guilt of our sin. He takes away the reigning power of sin in our hearts. Now we still sin, but praise God in Christ. Sin is not our Lord. Sin is not our master. We're not shackled to the reigning power tyranny of sin anymore. Jesus has saved us from the guilt of sin. He saved us from the power of sin. And he saves us from the penalty of sin. That's why he shed his blood. That's what communion's about. This the symbolic meal, this visible meal, this visible interactive experience to remind us that Jesus gave his body Jesus shed his blood on a Roman cross. Why? To save us. If you're here today, no matter how you came into this room, No matter where you come from, no matter what you have done, no matter what your background is, if you put your faith in Jesus, you are, say it with me, saved. Saved for all eternity. In your heart would you turn and believe? Turn and be saved. Save yourself from this perverse generation. Flee to the Lord Jesus Christ. I beg you, be saved. You're not promised tomorrow. There should be a proper urgency. If only by God He can stir our hearts awake to eternity. And stir our hearts awake to the reality of the human soul, to the reality of accountability before God. To see our need, it's called conviction, isn't it? Conviction? When I start to, by God's grace and by the working of God's Spirit. What in the world is stirring up inside my heart that I see my sin and I see my guilt and I know I need a Savior? That's conviction. And what God, the reason God brings us under conviction is to get us to Christ. That we would look to Christ and be saved. And I put all that, that was all section three. I just forgot to give you the heading. So we'll backtrack that. That's all section three, repentance. Acknowledge your sin before God. See that you need to be saved, and based on his sacrifice The only thing that should be in your mind's eye right now is Jesus Christ dying bloody on a Roman cross. And if you could see him dying for your sin and believe you are saved. But have that cross in your mind's eye, and based on his sacrifice, for your sins in your place, believe in Jesus and be saved. Close on John 3:16. For God so loved the world that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. Let's pray. Father, thank you for sending a Savior. Thank you for your love and for your mercy and for turning away your wrath for turning away your anger, for blotting out our sin, for turning, completely erasing your judgment upon us. And rather showering us with favor and kindness and promise and hope. And Father, I pray for every single person in here that you would give rest and hope through faith in Jesus. And it's in his name we lift this prayer. Amen.