Let's take our Bibles and turn to Ephesians chapter 1. Taking a break from Genesis, I'm going to do a summer series. And the name of the series is actually the same name as this first message. It says Blessings in Christ, or you can just think of the blessings of Christ. As you're turning to Ephesians 1, verses 3 and 4, just think about this concept of the blessings of Christ, blessings of God that are found in Jesus Christ. For illustration, you can think of the blessings of modern medicine. Cures for illness. um the ability to kill certain infections, all kinds of technologies, all kinds of surgeries, doctors facilities, all of the blessings of modern medicine. You can think of the various blessings of a conservative local church. A straightforward biblical teaching and preaching, a true, encouraging, spirit-filled fellowship, and true Substantial godly counsel from your brothers and sisters in the church, the faithful observance of the Lord's Supper. There's all kinds of various blessings of modern medicine, various blessings of a biblical local church What the series is about are the various blessings of Jesus Christ. Well, starting today with Ephesians 1, verses 3 and 4. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ. With every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places, even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world. That we should be holy and blameless before Him in love And then the next verses, we'll finish that thought and finish that sentence. But this morning is just verses 3 and 4, starting our summer series on the blessings of Christ. Or you can think of it this way: the blessings of God that are found in Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Father, we need your help. We are weak. We are sinful. We're always being distracted By things of this world, we're always being tempted by the evil one and by our own corrupt flesh We need your help to have this powerful word of yours preached in the Spirit and received in the Spirit That it would be preached in faith, trusting in you, and that it would be received in faith, trusting in you. We are asking you in prayer that by your word and by your spirit, Almighty God, you would minister to our hearts this morning It's in Jesus we ask. Amen. This is the first in a series of messages on the blessings of Christ because there are many blessings in Christ. And I don't want to just race right over them in a superficial manner, but I want us to dive into them. Think of going to a museum. You cannot fully Appreciate all that's in a museum or see all that's in a museum in 35 to 42 minutes. Or going to an aquarium or going to a zoo. You cannot see everything. You cannot appreciate anything in a span of 35 to 42 minutes. And if you know my preaching, you're like It's there's no span of thirty five to forty-two minutes. It's it's it's forty forty-two to forty-four minutes. It's right what we aim for But we're more about the content and our and uh and our souls, the benefit for our souls and not the exact time frame. Amen? But this is uh this is the center of the Bible's teaching, is the way that God has blessed us in Jesus. Yes? This is it. This is what it's all about. This is the heart of our worship. This is the heart of our sanctification, of our discipleship, this is the heart of our message to the world. God has put biblical churches, he's put Christians in the world so that we would glory in Christ and not the things of the world. And so a series on the blessings of Christ. Now, why? What is the point? What is the practical application of such a topic? And I believe it's printed on your outline at the top. Grasping the blessings of Christ fuels our worship of Christ. Grasping, which means seeing and understanding and appreciating the blessings of God in Christ, will in our hearts will fuel our worship of the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's God's ultimate purpose in all things and for all things, is so that His Son, Jesus Christ, would be worshipped. Amen? That's what it's all about From before the foundation of the world into eternity future, the worship of Jesus Christ for the glory of God Grasping the blessings of Christ will fuel our worship as the wax of a candle is to the flame, as the gas. In a car is to the engine fuel that keeps it burning, fuel that keeps it going, keeps it revving. Seeing Christ in faith fuels worship in our hearts. Toward God Almighty. You can see that in the actually the very first phrase of the first verse in this passage Blessed be the God and Father. This whole paragraph is a doxology It's a word of blessing, God. It's a word of praise unto God. And as you go through it, it just moves from the Blessing God the Father for His work in salvation and God the Son for His work in salvation and God the Holy Spirit for His work of salvation just peering into just seeing all the aspects of the blessings of God in Christ, but it's all going back, it's all framed out, if you will. As a word of praise unto God. Blessed be God. Praise be unto God. And then it opens up The blessings of salvation. Grasping the blessings of Christ fuels our worship of Christ. There's many different aspects of this. I'll rip through some of them just so that that's not a theoretical thing, but more of a concrete practical thing. of how seeing Christ, seeing the blessings of Christ fuels worship. I don't want that just to be theory. I want that to connect with our hearts in everyday life So seeing Christ and what he's done for us will stir up in our hearts a love and appreciation for him. That's a practical thing. So we see what he's done. You see a good deed that somebody does something for you that stirs up a love and appreciation and a gratitude for that person. That's the same thing. It's the same mechanism. We see what Christ has done. It stirs up adoration, affection. It creates and cultivates gratitude in our hearts. God is like this gardener who's growing Rows and rows and rows of gratitude and love in our hearts. And how does he do that? With the water of the gospel. So this is practical. It will strengthen us in our faith. Seeing Christ, it will strengthen us in our faith Seeing Christ will grow us in assurance. There's lots of believers who really struggle with their assurance. Am I saved? Am I not saved? Am I doing enough? Am I doing it the right way? Am I sinning too much? Maybe I lost my salvation. You need to look at Christ as your assurance. We need to grow in that, brethren. Strengthen us in our faith. Solidify our assurance. Solidify our hope so that we don't. To sink into the despair of the world around us, seeing Christ will strengthen us, solidify us in our hope. And it will comfort us in times of suffering with an eternal comfort, with a true and lasting comfort. So there's many subpoints, there's many little practical bullet points underneath when we say Fuels our hearts for worship. There's all kinds of things God's doing in our hearts, but it all centers on this worship, this worship and praise. And as we go through these two verses, verses three and four. You see I have a nice and neat, simple, three-point outline for everybody. So here's our roadmap. First, we'll talk about the source. Of blessings in Christ. After we talk about the source of these blessings of Christ, we'll talk about the location of the blessings of Christ. Hopefully I've already given that one away. The location of the blessings of Christ. Well the name gives it away, doesn't it? What good are these blessings if I don't know where to find them? Where can I access them? Where do they come from? The source of a blessing. Where do I find them? The location of the blessings. And then third and finally, what are they like? So we'll look at the nature of these blessings. The nature of these blessings. First, on the source. The source of the blessings of Christ is God the Father. Yes, that will be on the final exam. Neil, that's on the final exam. He has my TA, so he needs to know. He'll be making up the study guide when it comes time. You need to know this. God the Father from before the foundation of the world from eternity past planned this out He planned that all of these blessings in Christ would come to you. He's the origin. He's the alpha point where it all begins. He's the source. This comes from verse 3. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ. See where that comes from? Brothers and sisters, this is an exegetical point. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ. God has blessed us. God the Father has blessed us in Christ. And apart from His blessing, That's come to us in Christ. We would have no forgiveness. We would have no Holy Spirit. We would have no love for the Word. We would have nothing of each other in the spirit bonded fellowship of a local church It all starts with God the Father. Praise be. Glory be to God the Father. God the Father is the fountain of every good thing. That means it all comes from Him. Without the goodness, without the generosity of the Father, brothers and sisters, we would have no good thing. Do you believe that? Do you believe that? Apart from the goodness and generosity of God the Father, you would have no good thing. John the Baptist Got this right and said it in the perfect way. It cannot be improved upon. John the Baptist said this in John 3. 27 Where John the Baptist answers, a person cannot receive even one thing unless it is given him from heaven. You can't receive anything, any good thing, can't come to us unless it comes to us from heaven. John the Baptist said that in Scripture. Many pictures of God, many metaphors of God the Father in Scripture. One metaphor of God the Father is a wealthy landowner who hosts a great banquet. And he invites the poor and the lowly. I like that picture. Because that's the only way I get invited to the great banquet feast of God the Father. In Luke 14, 21, go out quickly to the streets and the lanes of the city, and bring in the poor, and bring in the crippled, and bring in the blind, and bring in the lame. That's our Father God, who invites the poor, he invites the lowly, he invites the outcast to his grand banquet. Are you happy about that, Church? Would you say amen That's the only way we get invited. Another picture of God the Father in Scripture is the picture of a king who hosts a wedding feast for his. Many of you know this for his King who hosts a wedding feast, think the parables of parables that are in Matthew, for his son. Yes. And he invites Toward the end of this parable, he invites the common people. Would you think about this? Are we getting invited to wedding feasts at the White House? Are we getting invited to wedding feasts, even birthday parties, at the homes and the estates and the mansions of dignitaries? No, but the God who reigns in heaven above has invited us, the common folk, the regular people. People out in the country in Harford County, Maryland, God of heaven has invited us to the wedding feast of his beloved son. Amen? That's God the Father, Matthew 22, 9 and 10. Go therefore to the main roads and invite to the wedding feast as many as you can find. And those servants went out into the roads, and they gathered all whom they found, both bad and good. So the wedding hall was filled with guests You know, I really like that part about the bad and the good being invited because I was bad. I was a sinner. I was enslaved to sin. And God invited me to the wedding feast of Christ. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord indeed. Another picture of the Father in heaven is a just a fountain of light. It's a fountain. He's a fountain. He's a source of life. He's a source of all good things. Psalm 36:9, for with you is the fountain of life. And in your light, do we see light? He's a fountain of life. Now there's many of these. I'm just going to give one more for this morning. Another picture of God, the Father, in Scripture is He's the unchanging giver of good gifts to his children. He's the unchanging giver of good gifts to his children. And that unchanging word, don't just hop over that like it's unimportant. Because what if he's a giver of good gifts to his children, but there's the possibility that he can get mad at us and then change and no longer give us good gifts. He's the unchanging giver of good gifts to his children. I hope that you remember that in prayer. I hope that you remember that God, your heavenly Father, has a heart, a generous, giving heart to give you good things. This is from James 1:17. Every good gift. And every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of Lights With whom there is no variation or shadow due to change. Did you hear that, church? So today God is the giver of good and perfect gifts from above. But he doesn't change. So tomorrow, God will be the giver of good and perfect gifts from above And next week, God will be the giver of good and perfect gifts from above. And next year, and next decade, and next century, and any day you wake up. You can go before the throne of God in faith and you can trust, brothers and sisters, you can trust. God, your heavenly Father, is a giver of good and perfect gifts from above. And for your own studies, Matthew 6, 31 to 33 will put a huge exclamation point on this concept. And then after Matthew 6, 31 to 33, and go right to the next chapter, Matthew 7, verses 7 to 11. And we'll take this point that now has an exclamation point and transform it into a flashing neon light sign of the goodness, the generosity of God Almighty. Well, that's the source of the blessings of God in Christ. That's a good source. That's a source you can rely on. It doesn't come from the church. It doesn't come from the pastor. Certainly doesn't come from the world. It doesn't come from our own imaginations. Christianity is not just a figment of your imagination. Christianity is the one true living God who reigns in heaven over all things, who gives good gifts to sinners in Christ. The source, God the Father, blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us. And now the location. Are you still awake this morning? Would you say amen? The location, the locations of the blessings of God in Christ, surprise, surprise, are in Christ. In Christ. The exalted Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. This is in verse 3. Verse 3: the phrase, the ex of Jesus, in Christ. So, verse 3, who has blessed us? In Christ with every spiritual blessing. Where do you have to go to get these spiritual blessings? Christ. You have to be in Christ. And then verse 4, you'll see the phrase, very similar. It's a parallel phrase, but instead of saying in Christ, it says in him. In him, even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world. My mind is too puny to grasp that That's bigger than Pastor Matt. That's bigger than what I can grasp. Before the foundation of the world, God, the subject. Chose the verb, me and you, all believers everywhere, to be in Christ by his own free grace. By his own free grace. The point we're highlighting here is Christ as the location of these blessings. In Christ, and then verse 4, verse 3, in Christ, and then verse 4, in him, chose us in him. To be in Christ is a spiritual location. So when we said location, don't think geographical location Don't think spatial location in this created, in this visible realm It's not spatial, but it's it's covenantal. It's covenantal location. And all that means is you're standing before God. That's what we're talking about Our relationship with Almighty God, our status as we stand before the throne of God, our covenantal relationship. To God. Are we under his wrath and judgment? Or are we under his grace and salvation in Christ? That's what this means. That's what location is. To be in Christ, which is one of the most important prepositional phrases in all of Scripture, in Christ. Another one will be through Christ. But here we're on in in Christ or in him. What that means is to be spiritually united to Jesus. Now when you pull we're gonna pause here, and I don't like camping. A lot of you like camping, but I'm gonna want to camp out here for a few seconds to be spiritually united to the exalted Lord Jesus Christ That's your salvation. That's how you're saved. That's how we come into a right relationship with God. Salvation is not merely receiving something from Jesus. On your birthday, people will come and give you gifts. And you receive the gift from the person. That's good. That's a A show of love. That's an act of love and generosity. But receiving salvation from Jesus is more than that. He is the gift You're not just receiving things out of his hand. You're receiving him. The two are made one You're joined unto Christ. You're brought into fellowship with Christ. You become one in spirit with Christ. Scripture says this very thing in 1 Corinthians 6, 17. He Who is joined to the Lord becomes one spirit with him. And that's talking about Christians and the exalted Lord Jesus Christ. I didn't write that. That's God's word. He who is joined to the Lord becomes one spirit with him. Beloved, there can be no closer bond than the bond between God and his children in Christ who've been united to Jesus Christ. How can you get right with God? How can you gain entrance into heaven? Well, all you need to do is two things. Now pay attention You need to do two things to become right with God and to gain entrance into heaven. The first thing you need to do is pay the penalty for all of your sins. Pay the penalty for all of your sins, which is an infinite debt, because our sins are against an infinite God of perfect holiness. And after after you're done paying the penalty for all your sins, From that point forward, live a perfect life in every way. That's it. That's all you need to do. To become right with God and gain entrance into heaven. Pay the penalty for all your sins, and then in heart, mind, will, word, deed, everything, attitude, everything for the rest of your life, live a perfectly holy and obedient life. Do both of those things. Or be spiritually united to the one who's already done both of those things on your behalf. And that's what the gospel is. Jesus lived a perfect life that we could never live. Jesus died on the cross, paying the penalty for all of our sins, but we could never do that. And survive. The only way to do that is by going to hell and paying the eternal penalty for our sins and offenses against the Holy God. Thank you, Jesus. Amen. He did all that's required to reconcile us to God, to gain us entrance into heaven. And that's what we need. Brothers and sisters, that's what the nation needs. That's what the world needs. That's what everybody needs. That's what our homes need. That's what our friends need. It's a little easy to say this is what so-and-so needs. We can think about it on different levels though, can't we? We can think about our homes and how this is what our homes need. We can think about our own hearts and how this is what our own hearts need. And it's not wrong to think about this is what the nation needs. If there's ever going to be moral improvement, ethical reform in the society and culture, there needs to be a spiritual awakening based on the power of this gospel. This is the only thing that changes people's hearts and sets us in the direction of God's will. This gospel is what the nation needs. Isaiah 53, 5 and 6. He was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us Peace, and with his wounds we are healed. All we, like sheep, have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way. And the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. Isn't that the perfect picture of our lives before Christ? Of our lives outside of Christ, just like sheep who've gone astray, we're just going all over the place. We've left the flock, we've left the shepherd, we're going wherever we want. We're just going all over the place. We're all like sheep going astray. And only in Christ does God bring us back. It's the perfect picture. It's the perfect metaphor of our lives. And how did he bring us back? He died on a cross for our sins. He lived a righteous life on our behalf. He died a sacrificial death on our behalf. He was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and with his wounds we are healed. And so, yes. Jesus, who lives in heaven, is not just an idea. He's not just a philosophy. He's not just a topic. He 's the living Son of God, living and reigning at the right hand of God. He is the only location of the blessings of God for salvation. A lot of people have the impression that it's by good works that we earn salvation. Or it's by and through religion that we can make our way to salvation. Or simply by good intentions and sincere effort. That we can gain salvation and be reconciled to God and have the hope of heaven. And none of that's true. You know how you gain entrance into heaven and a right relationship with God? It's by being united to a person. Think about it. You need one thing, a one person, Jesus. That's it. That's all you need is a relationship with Jesus. So if you've come in here this morning and you were outside of Jesus because you hadn't turned and put your faith in him yet This very morning, this very moment, in your heart, you can turn and believe in Jesus Christ and be saved. And you can do it right now. You don't have to wait, you don't have to wait to do anything. You don't have to wait for me to ask you to come up here. You don't have we don't we're not going to have any kind of ritual to put you through, hoop to jump through in your heart, believe in Jesus. And you're saved. Amen? That's the gospel we preach. Salvation by grace through faith in Christ alone. Be saved this morning. Everyone who turns and believes in Jesus is spiritually united to him. And they are in Christ. Blessed. In Christ chose us in him. And everyone who is in Christ receives all the benefits and all the blessings that he accomplished, which is what the series will work through: the different blessings. Today's just laying groundwork, where they come from, where they're found, and their nature. On the cross. On the cross. So get Jesus dying on a cross in your mind's eye on that great whiteboard in your mind. Or if you're an overhead projector in your mind. Or the felt board in your mind. And even older. Do you remember this? The white sheet outline pre-written on a white sheet hanging up. That's real throwback. But whatever it is in your mind's eye, picture Jesus Christ dying on a cross so we can grasp what was happening there on the cross, our guilt became his guilt. So that now in him his righteousness becomes our righteousness. On the cross, our judgment Became his judgment. So that now in him, his eternal life that he won, that he earned, would be our eternal life in him On the cross, our sin became his sin. So that now in him, his spirit fills our hearts and gives us hope. A few verses on this, and then we'll move on to the last point. 2 Corinthians 5. 21 is a classic verse. 2 Corinthians 5. 21, for our sake, he, that's God the Father, for our sake, he Made him to be sin who knew no sin, that's Jesus on the cross, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. You see that? See that? 2 Corinthians 5. 21. He made him to be sin who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. And it is good news that in him we become the righteousness of God. Because that's the only way we can stand in God's holy court. That's the only way we can stand before the throne of God and be counted righteous is if were counted righteous in Christ based on what he did. We could never earn that on our own. 1 Corinthians 1, 30 and 31, because of him Again, that's God the Father. You see this pattern over and over again. Jeremiah actually touched on a nice overlap, brother. He touched on this a lot in our Sunday school Um, this pattern of God the Father sending Christ, it's it's through Christ and in the Spirit that we come to the Father and receive salvation. 1 Corinthians 1, 30 and 31, because of him you're in Christ Jesus. Has that prepositional phrase captured your heart yet this morning? In Christ Jesus. Who became to us wisdom from God, righteousness, and sanctification and redemption So that as it is written, let the one who boasts boast in the Lord. Absolutely. We don't boast in ourselves. God, would you please put to death any self-boasting that exists within us? Only God can kill that within us, so that we'd boast in Christ. The source Of the blessing is God the Father. The location of the blessings is God the Son, and now the nature of the blessings. The nature of the blessings is heavenly and spiritual. Alright, heavenly and spiritual. Again, this comes from verse 3. Verse 3, the very end, blessed us in Christ with every what kind of blessing? Spiritual blessing in the heavenly places, literally in the heavenlies. Spiritual and heavenly. Heavenly and spiritual. This is the nature of the blessings that we're talking about Heavenly means not from earth. It means not part of this temporal created order. A heavenly blessing is a blessing that comes from heaven. A heavenly blessing is a blessing that makes you a citizen of heaven. A heavenly blessing is a blessing that grants you entrance into heaven. Jesus is in heaven. And so if these blessings are found in Jesus, they have to be heavenly blessings. But they also are brought to us by the power of the Spirit And so they are spiritual blessings. And that's what Paul calls them, blessed us with, blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing. It's not natural. These are not natural to us. We can't conjure these up. They're not certainly not carnal. They're not carnal. They're not visible. They're not tangible. They're spiritual blessings. Bless this in Christ with every spiritual blessing. Spiritual blessing is the blessing that's brought into your life by the direct work of the Holy Spirit. Yes If God the Father is the source, God the Son is the location, he accomplished this whole thing, and the Holy Spirit brings it to your doorstep. Closer than your doorstep. He brings it over the threshold, into your mind, into your heart, transforms your life, transforms your destiny Spiritual blessings brought to us by the Holy Spirit. A spiritual blessing is a blessing that fills our heart with the Holy Spirit. So it's not the Spirit Bringing us the blessings of salvation is not like the Amazon truck with the Amazon van. What does the delivery driver do? Comes your house. Drops off the package and leaves. That's not what the Holy Spirit does. The Holy Spirit comes to your house Comes into your house, goes into your heart, and takes up residence there, and lives there forever. A spiritual blessing. Spiritual bless blessing. And therefore, one more point about the spiritual blessing. First, it's brought to us by the Holy Spirit. Second, it fills our heart with the Holy Spirit. And third, therefore Spiritual blessings, you're going to be happy about this one. Spiritual blessings enable us to walk and live in the Holy Spirit. Which means to walk and live under the guidance of the Holy Spirit. To walk and live under the influence of the Holy Spirit. To walk and live in accordance with the character of the Holy Spirit, which is the character of God, because the Holy Spirit is God. The third person of the Trinity. Spiritual blessings. Natural blessings help the body and praise God for natural blessings. Food Clothing, water, shelter, medicine, doctors, surgery, government, the fact that we have a government And armed forces to protect us and freedoms. All these common grace, natural, physical blessings are good for the body and good for life on earth But only spiritual blessings can help the soul and help the spirit. Natural blessings will feed and protect or strengthen the body, but only spiritual blessings. It can help feed and protect and strengthen the soul and the spirit and the heart and turn the heart to God and fill the heart with a love for God. That's what we need. Hearts that love God. It's the greatest commandment it always will be. Spiritual blessings. Matthew 11, 29, Jesus says, take my yoke upon you and learn from me. For I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. You become a disciple of Jesus, a follower of Jesus through faith. He promises that you'll have rest for your soul. We don't always have rest for our bodies, do we? We suffer in the body. There's weakness in the body. We ache We pain and things break and rip and tear and age. These bodies ultimately will decay. What we need is salvation for our souls. We need rest for our souls. That's a spiritual blessing. James 1 21 Therefore put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness and receive with meekness the implanted word which is able to save your souls. Able to save your souls. Ultimately, top two things we're about. And we need to strive to be about, continue to strive to be about. Top two things. Number one is the glory and praise of God. And number two, the salvation of souls. Glory and praise of God, number one. Number two, the salvation of souls. Romans 8. 10. If Christ is in you, although the body is dead because of sin, the spirit is alive because of righteousness. So the Spirit within us, the Spirit of Christ within us, the Holy Spirit within us, the principle of life, the principle of spiritual life, the reality of spiritual life. Heaven Blessings? Spiritual blessings. When we come to church, it's first and foremost, always, everywhere, the center point, the motive, the goal, our heart's desire is that God will minister to our souls. That God would minister to our hearts. That God would meet our spiritual needs with spiritual blessings. And grow us up in spiritual things. That's what the local church is about. Brothers and sisters, God has sanctified us in the world. He's consecrated us in the world to be about his will, to be about spiritual things, to be about the word of God. So let's not get distracted by side issues. And let's not get distracted by logistics of external ministry. Let's come for the physician of our souls, the great physician of our souls. to minister to us spiritually with spiritual blessings by his word and spirit. And where we'll pick up in the next message is where this actually this verse gives us two examples of specific spiritual blessings that are found in Christ. Verse 3 or verse 4 again, the end of verse 4. That we should be holy and blameless before him. Holy and blameless. We'll get into that in the next message. I'm still fighting the temptation to give you some more technical words for that. But let's just leave it there. Holy in Christ, blameless in Christ. Christ, holy and blameless, before God in Christ. Very, very, very quickly. Conclusions for practical application. Number three. I'll just give them to you and let them sit, let them simmer in your heart. Like a hamburger helper. Just get them in your heart and just let them simmer. Let them thicken up until it's ready to apply. Come to church for the right reason. Number one, come to church for the right reason. I implore you, I exhort you, and I exhort myself, I encourage myself. Come to church for the right reason, which is to see Christ and all that is in him. To see Christ and all that is in him. Everything else will flow from that. Number two, remember daily the good gifts that have come into your life from your Heavenly Father. Remember daily. The good gifts that have come into your life from God, your Heavenly Father. If you do that, you'll never be at a loss for something to say Thank you, God. Your heart will never be void of thanksgiving. Your lips will never be silent in thanksgiving. If we can just, oh God, help us remember daily the good things that have come into our lives. From your goodness. And number three, and finally, strive. Oh, this is so difficult. Man, it's impossible without the word and the spirit. But number three. Strive to prioritize the spiritual and the heavenly over the natural and earthly. That's so difficult Because there's so much stuff going on in our lives. Amen? I mean, there's just so many things to attend to. And there's so many good things, proper things that we need, responsibilities. And then there's then you don't have these distractions, these black holes of distractions all around us. We must strive in prayer, be faithful in worship, crying out to God that He would enable us. To prioritize the spiritual and the heavenly over the natural and over the earthly. Come to church for the right reason that we may see Christ. And in seeing Christ He would further conform us to his likeness for the glory of God. And remember daily God's goodness and his good gifts, that we may be a people who always have thanksgiving upon our lips to the glory of God. And let us strive. Let us make every effort to prioritize the spiritual and the heavenly over the natural and the earthly. And don't be looking for a loophole as I say that to where now you can be negligence, you'll be the super spiritual person who's done negligent in your earthly duties. Don't go there We're saying it's a matter of priority, a matter of first concern. Put the heavenly, put the spiritual in Christ over everything else, and then God will take care of everything else. Let's pray. God, thank you for Christ and all that is in him. I pray more and more as the days, weeks, months go on, you tune our hearts to be focused on Christ. And that you would grow in us, just grow, grow, grow, like that mountain in Daniel chapter 2, that it would just grow, grow, grow, the affection and love that we have for Christ. Help us to grow in brotherly love and practical care for one another. Help us to shine like lights in this current evil age. It's in Christ we ask. Amen.