Well the words in which we'll examine tonight come out of 1 Samuel chapter 16 verses 1 through 13. 1 Samuel Chapter 16, 1 through 13. Some of you maybe have been turning to Joel before I said that. Got so used to it. It's like a good horse if you're ever in Lancaster late on Sunday night. You see some horses crossing the street, most likely their driver is asleep. That horse knows where to go. Doesn't know how to read stop signs though, so be careful. But We ended our series in Joel. We saw the work of God throughout history and how he has disciplined the sinner that gave them a promise. Of Eternal Hope with Seeing Christ. And tonight we're starting a new series on the life of David We're going to be examining the life of David. We're going to take different narratives of his his life and we're going to unpack them and see the glory of God. Unfortunately, uh, or maybe fortunately for you, we will not be going Verse by verse through all of 1 Samuel and all of 2 Samuel. We're going to be taking overarching stories and themes and looking at them And tonight we're going to see the future king. We're going to see David as a young boy being anointed and called to be king. And as we do this tonight, I want us to see that David is just a type. He's just pointing to the true king. He's just pointing to Christ. And I'm starting here, A, because this is really the start of David's story in a lot of ways. But also I want us to be rooted in this mindset as we study the life of David. Often we can study David and and other characters in the Bible, and they become the focal point. And their story is amazing and we read it and we we study it and and we're in awe. You know, we're gonna read about David defeating Goliath and This is really cool. We're gonna see David winning battles. We're gonna see David fleeing. We're even gonna see David sin. And and we see this and sometimes David becomes the focal point or whatever uh character we're reading in that story. But what we must see is that all of scripture, all of scripture is pointing to Christ. When David sins, we see the brokenness of even a good leader, our need for a savior. When David defeats Goliath, we see that he's standing in confidence that he serves the victorious Lord. As David rules as a good king and many times, he's just showing us a glimpse of what the perfect, eternal, heavenly king really is So as we study this, as we study the life of David, may we not become so engulfed in David's story, but may we see how he is proclaiming the glory He's taking the hopes of the people and pointing them to God. And we know, many of us know the story of Jesus and his birth and the nativity and how he is from the line of David It's all pointing to Jesus. And tonight we're going to see how as David gets anointed as king, ultimately he's just pointing to the true eternal king. Jesus. And we should celebrate and rejoice in that. That our King is perfect. Our King is powerful. Our King is victorious. Our King will never fail. Our King has never made a mistake. His timing is perfect David had a lot of good qualities, but perfect was not one of them. Our King is. So may we see the hope we have in King Jesus. tonight. So reading 1 Samuel chapter 16, starting in verse 1. The Lord said to Samuel, How long will you grieve over Saul, since I have rejected him from being king over Israel? Fill your horn with oil and go. I will send you to Jesse the Bethlehemite, for I have provided for myself a king among his sons. And Samuel said, How can I go? If Saul hears it, he will kill me. And the Lord said, Take a heifer with you, and say, I have come to sacrifice to the Lord, and invite Jesse to the sacrifice And I will show you what you shall do, and you shall anoint for me him whom I declare to you. Samuel did what the Lord commanded and came to Bethlehem The elders of the city came to meet him trembling and said, Do you come peaceful peaceably? And he said, Peaceably I have come to sacrifice to the Lord. Consecrate yourselves and come with me to the sacrifice. He consecrated Jesse and his sons and invited them to the sacrifice. When they came, he looked on Eliad and thought, surely the Lord's anointed is before him. For the Lord said to Samuel, Do not look on his appearance, on the height of his stature, because I have rejected him. For the Lord sees not as man sees. Man looks on the outward appearance, but the Lord looks on the heart. Then Jesse called Abednab and made him pass before Samuel, and he said, Neither has the Lord chosen this one. Then Jesse made Shemak pass by. And he said, Neither has the Lord chosen this one. And Jesse made seven of his sons pass before Samuel. And Samuel said to Jesse, The Lord has not chosen these. Then Samuel said to Jesse, Are all your sons here? And he said, There remains yet the youngest, but behold, he is keeping the sheep. And Samuel said to Jesse, send and get him, for we will not sit down till he comes here. And he sent and brought him in. Now he was ruddy, and had beautiful eyes, and was handsome And the Lord said, Arise, anoint him, for this is he. Then Samuel took the horn of oil and anointed him in the midst of his brothers. And the Spirit of the Lord rushed upon David from that day forward, and Samuel rose up and went to Rama. We see the story. It's quite amazing as we see Samuel being used to call David and anoint him as king. For the reason that Samuel sent to anoint David is because things aren't going very well. We saw in in 1 Samuel chapter 8 in our original reading is that Israel cried out for a king. They want to be like the other nations. They want to be like everyone else and have a king rule over them. And God says, sure, let them have it, but it's not going to be good for them. And if you read the rest of of 1 Samuel chapter 8, you see that God promises that this king that you're calling for will not be a just and kind king. Uh he talks about how how the king will take their sons and draft them into the military and force them to fight his wars Uh he he talks about how the king will take the young women and force them to work for his kingdom and not for the family And and and Samuel lays out and God does through Samuel, he lays out the idea that the king is not going to be good. You're not going to be happy under the rule of the king. And what do the people do after they hear this warning? Give us the king. We want the king. We don't care. We want the king. We want to be like all the other nations. And sure enough, they get the king, but things do not go well. Right away, the king rejects God's rule and reign. Saul is the king. And we see actually in chapter 15, verse 10, says the word of the Lord came to Samuel. This is what the Lord says. I regret that I have made Saul king. Why? Because he has turned back from following me and has not performed my commandments. So now God It's frustrated with Saul. And we know this is this is the case, and we're going to see this story of Saul and his just mess of a life and the mess of his uh rulership unfold over the next few weeks. But the king that that the people wanted, and God promised the king would not be good, has now rejected and gone against the Lord. And in Chapter 15, verse 34, we see this a similar echo of what the Lord says. Then Samuel went to Rama. And Saul went up to his house and Gilbach of Saul. And Samuel did not see Saul again until the day of his death. But Samuel grieved over Saul, and the Lord regretted that he had made Saul king over Israel. Notice that Saul is not a good leader. What about this one in chapter 16 what we just read was when when Samuel went To anoint k uh David, the people were fearful that he was coming in violence. They were asking, Do you come in peace? Are you coming in peace? Well, why is that? It's because they knew that Samuel and Saul had some kind of close relationship and things weren't good. So they've been under such oppression, they've been under such poor leadership that they were worried that maybe Samuel was coming to cause them harm. Because that's what the leadership was known for at that time. But we see that's not what he was coming to do. He was actually coming in peace. And all this sets the stage for the anointing of David. Israel's under an oppressive leader with a really bad leader that rejects the word of God. That's terrible leadership, right? Yeah. Yeah, we're all living that right now. We're under leaders that don't care about the people and are rejecting the word of God We should cry out to the Lord. We should want something better and different. That's what Israel's under. We should really connect to Israel at this time. And here's what God promises. He has something better. He has something perfect for them. Now he's using David to point to Jesus as we talked about. But let us look at how David is pointing us to Jesus. How David's anointing to be king is pointing us to Jesus' anointing to be king. So the first thing we see is that the king liberates the oppressed. The king liberates the oppressed. Look with me back in chapter 16, verse 1. The Lord said to Samuel, How long will you grieve over Saul? Samuel is right to be crying over this, to be grieving, to be mourning for this. But look what happens. Since I have rejected him from being king over Israel, fill your horn with oil and go. The king, the good king, the righteous king, is a king that liberates the oppressed. It's the whole purpose of why David is being anointed to be king, because the people of Israel need a good king. The people of Israel are oppressed and are being destroyed. We saw this in Joel, right? That they're they're under oppression, they're being uh advanced in by the enemy, the enemy's destroying them, the destruction of the fields is happening, they're oppressed, and God provides, liberates them We see this in Egypt, in Exodus. Israel's under the authority of an oppressive king, Pharaoh. What does God do? He liberates them. Gives them freedom, brings them out. This is who our God is. Our God is all about liberation. Our God is all about redeeming the oppressed, saving them, and then bringing them into a good kingdom. And that's what he's using David for. God has a plan with David. It's to liberate the people. Take away the oppression of a bad ruler. Is that not what our King Jesus has done? Look with me in Colossians. Colossians 1. We see a very similar language here. What has Jesus done for us? Has he come to liberate the oppressed? Has he come to bring hope for the downparted? Has he come to give salvation to those that were lost without hope? Absolutely. Look in Colossians 1, verse 13. He, this is Jesus, he has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son. Excuse me, the Father has done this in the Son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. He has delivered us from the domain of darkness. The domain of darkness. That's the oppressive state we were under. In our sin, in our rebellion against God. Ephesians 2. We were uh children of wrath, following after our desires and our flesh. We were dead in our trespasses. But we don't stay there, not by our own work, but because of Christ. He has come to liberate us. He has come to take us out of our oppression. He has come to take us out of our slavery and bring us into a good and righteous kingdom. He's transferred us, this is back in Colossians, and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son. I don't know if anyone in here has ever had to change nationalities. Uh but when we lived in Italy, we never actually became Italians A is because we didn't know how to do it, because of bureaucracy. But B was because it wasn't just welcomed. Not anyone just became an Italian. Dorothy was born in Italy and has no right to be an Italian citizen It it's this foreign concept that just because you would be there when you're born, that you become a citizen. And and here we see it's a foreign concept that you would be in one kingdom, the kingdom of darkness, and you would just magically show up in the kingdom of light. That's not how it works. Or really you can't even fight your way out. Like we could you could you don't just show up in Italy and that automatically become uh a a a part of their kingdom or part of the nation of of Italy. They you have to go through a process and pay money and have lawyers and go through this whole rigom row that would take about five years and we'd have to learn the language. But that's not how the kingdom of God works, is it? We're in the kingdom of darkness before Christ. We're in that kingdom. The oppression's on us. We have the bad ruler. He's over us. He's oppressing us. We're pushed down. We're following after our sins and our passions And then on the cross the king rifts us out of there and sets us into his kingdom through faith. This this really is the magic that we think of. Is it magic? No, it's the work of God. But we couldn't pay enough money to get out of the kingdom of darkness. We couldn't work hard enough. We couldn't bribe enough leaders to get us out of the kingdom of darkness. Because the King Jesus. Because the King Jesus said we have any way of getting out of the oppressive rule of Satan and into the kingdom of God. And we see that happening here with David as well. Israel has no way of defeating Saul. They have no way of overcoming the bad leadership of Saul. They can't vote in a new king. He's king. They can't rise up against him. He has a powerful army that will support him. There's no way they can reject him except through the work of God. God anointing a special king to be over them. And that should be pointing our hearts and our minds to King Jesus So the king liberates the oppressed. Also, point number two, God is the one who establishes the king. God is the one who establishes the king. Look with me back in 1 Samuel 16, verse 1. The Lord said to Samuel, How long will you grieve over Saul, since I have rejected him from being king over Israel? And here's his anointing. For your horn, fill your horn with oil and go. I will send you to Jesse the Bethlehemite, for I have provided for myself a king among his sons. Who has provided the king? The Lord. He says, I have provided for myself a king among his sons. But not only that, look at verse 3. He reassures us that this is his anointing. He is choosing the king. Verse three, and invite Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show you what you shall do. And you shall anoint for me him whom I declare to you. Notice and recognize that the Lord is the one that establishes the king. He's the one that anoint anoints David. But we need to back up a little bit and recognize that the Lord is the one that establishes Saul in his kingship as well. It's a disciplinary action upon Israel. They've rejected the lordship of God, and they've cried out for a king, so God says, I'm going to give you what you want, a king. But it's going to be a discipline upon you. You're going to see the pain that that is. And stalls a wicked leader. He rejects God. He oppresses the people. And then we see that God shows compassion and mercy upon the people, and that he's going to anoint David. He's going to establish him as king to bring hope. Bring hope to the people. God is the one that establishes it. Why is this reassuring for us? Well, A, may we be reminded that God is in control. Even in the tough and bad times, God is in control. I think we need to be reminded of that. God is in control. Uh wonderfully preached this morning, Jason pointed up this. Are we looking and trusting that the God that makes the flowers come up, feeds the birds, can also take care of you? Can we actually believe it? Not just think it, not just say that we believe it, but do we actually believe that God really is in control? Let's get there. He's the one that establishes the rulers, and he's establishing David. Not only that, he also establishes Jesus Eternal King. Turn with me to Hebrews chapter 1. The Lord is in control. He's the one that establishes the king. Hebrews chapter 1, starting in verse 5, see this beautiful imagery of how the supremacy of who Jesus is. For to which of the angels did God ever say, You are my son, today I've begotten you. Or again I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me And again, when he brings the firstborn into the world, he says, Let all God's angels worship him. Of the angels he says, he makes his angels wins. And his minister is a flame of fire. But of the Son he says, Your throne, O King, is forever and ever. The scepter of uprighteousness is the scepter of your kingdom. You have loved righteousness and hated wickedness. Therefore, God your God has anointed you with the oil of gladness beyond your companions. And You, Lord, laid the foundation of the earth in the beginning. The heavens are the work of your hands that will perish, but you remain They will all wear out like a garment. Like a robe you will roll them up. Like a garment, they will be changed. But you are the same, and your years will have no end. To which of the angels has he ever said, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet? Are they not all ministering spirits sent out to serve for the sake of those who are to inherit salvation? Notice this language here is all about how great Christ is and how Jesus is the one that the Father has established to rule. Jesus is the one that the Father has established to be the King, to rule over all the nations, to rule with righteousness, to defeat the enemies, to put the enemies under his feet. Father is the one that has established Jesus. Why is this good news for us? Why do we need to be reminded of this? It's right there in verse 10 in Hebrews. You, Lord, laid the foundations of the earth in the beginning. If the Lord is the one that establishes all things and he is in control, can we trust him? Sure hope so. There's not a better option out there. It's not we shouldn't follow after the one that can't create anything on his own. We shouldn't follow after the one that is all constantly changing their their mood and their opinion You should follow after the one that has created all and controls all. He's sovereign. But not only that, it continues. These foundations of the earth in the beginning, and the heavens are the work of your hands. They will perish. But you remain. You remain. The Lord remains. They will all wear out like a garment. Like a robe you will roll them up. Like a garment they will be changed. But you are the same, and your years will have no end. This is the Lord we worship. The never-changing Lord. The one who rules, who created all things. All things are destroyed and perish. He remains. This is the Lord we worship. This is only recognized. We can only live in certainty. We can only have hope because the Father has established Jesus to be this king. To rule with righteousness. We should take joy that we can look before us and trust that the king that God has established will defeat the enemies. We should take hope and assurance that the king that God has established loves us and has called us his. We should take hope that the king that God has established has has broken and defeated the king of oppression and has liberated the people and brought them into his kingship. May we just get a glimpse of that in the life of David. May we just see the hope that there is a good king Even in David's failures and mistakes, he still has some understanding of righteousness because he's following after the Lord. He has some understanding of how to rule as a good king and lead his people well, but he is just giving us a glimpse of Jesus and his glory and his goodness upon us. The third thing that we see happening here is that the king comes from humble beginnings. The king comes from humble beginnings. Look back in 1 Samuel 16, verse 4. Samuel did what the Lord commanded and came to Bethlehem. The elders of the city came to meet him trembling and said, Do you come peacefully? And then we see a little bit later that as as Samuel goes through all of the sons, just these sons, thank goodness I didn't have to read all the names. Amen. Okay. So and that David's a good, easy name to say. We see that when he says, Well, well, do you have anyone else? In verse 11, are all your sons here? He says, Well, there remains yet the youngest. The youngest, but but behold, he's keeping the sheep. Humble beginnings. The king comes from humble beginnings In this day and age, if if you would go to pick out who was going to take over the kingdom, you would not pick the youngest. Especially not if there's there's a lineage of of men to pick from. You would start the oldest. That's why we see him starting at the the oldest. And we even see that he's he's quite impressed. Samuel's quite impressed with what stands before him as the oldest son That's not through the Lord has poor. Also, you would pick someone that had noble status, someone that had a profession that was appealing, that would sell well. We see this in our own day. When was the last time that you saw a school teacher become president? Oh no. I think Abe Lincoln maybe was a school teacher at some point. Johnson, there we go. We've got a history box. Or blacksmith. Who was the last blacksmith that became governor of Maryland? Well, hey, who knows a blacksmith at all anymore? But we see that there's these noble professions that lead you into leadership. But that's not how our God establishes his teeth. He doesn't look at their professions and their background. He doesn't look at at how good uh their status is within the community. He doesn't look and say, well according to the history and tradition, I must pick the oldest and firstborn male. Well he starts in humble beginnings. He goes to Bethlehem. And the only reason that we know anything about Bethlehem before Jesus is because David came from that. Bethlehem is is not known to be a great city. There's no reason to for anyone to think that Bethlehem was like the the place to be. It wasn't uh the Las Vegas or the New York City of the time. No, no, it was Bethlehem. It's just a small village. Look in Luke with me and we can see this echoed a little bit. Luke chapter 2 Verse 1 through 7. In those days the decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be registered This was the first registration when Cornelius was governor of Syria, and all went to be registered, each to his own town. And Joseph also went up from Galilee from the town of Nazareth. to Judea, to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and the lineage of David, to be registered with Mary his betroth. who was with child. And while they were there, the time came for her to give birth. And she gave birth to her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swallowing cloths, and laid him in a manger, because there was no place for him in the inn. In the Gospels, what is Bethlehem known for? David from it. Why is this important for us? It's because once again we're reassured that our God is in control. Once again, we're reassured that our status, our working things out, our our identity as Christians is not based off off of our strength, our Our power, our might, off of our family, bloodline. It's not based off of any of that. It's based off of God's power. He establishes King David out of a small town of Bethlehem, and we see his promise that Jesus, the Messiah, will come from the lineage of David, and so we see at Christmas time we go back to Bethlehem. Not because Bethlehem's special, but because David was called from there. And God promises to call Jesus. from there as well. Write this down, you can look it up. Micah 5. 2 reassures us that Bethlehem was of no value or status other than David being from there. It's because when God looks at his people, he's not basing it off of their status. He's not basing it all for their professions, their wealth. The power of their might. He's basing it off of what's internal. And we're going to see that with David throughout this journey. We're going to see how it's his heart It's his heart that is drawn to the Lord to be obedient to God. It's his heart, his confidence and hope in the Lord that gives him the strength to face the enemy. It's his heart, his confidence. And it and the Lord that gives him the ability to confess and repent of his sin. It's his heart that that gives him the hope and the ability to follow after the commandments of the Lord. It's his heart. It's not his status. It's not his identity according to man. And we're going to look at that a little bit more. But the king is called from humble beginnings. It's one of the issues that the Pharisees had with Jesus. Because he wasn't from the noble families. He wasn't from the right brutes. He wasn't leading a big powerful army or militia. He was just this humbled man that walked around and taught the law of God. The fourth thing we see that David connects to us and how God is using David to point us to Jesus is that God does not use human standards. God does not use human standards. That uh bullet point has a whole bunch of misspellings, and I apologize. But Isaiah 53, 1 through 3 gives us a little more insight to that. Just as though the king comes from humble beginnings, he's also not judged according to human standards. We want a leader and a ruler that has a good posture when he's speaking, does well in talking, can lay out some good policies for us to vote on. We want a ruler or a leader that has some authority behind them, some other important rich people like him and will give their blessing upon him. We want a ruler that that has some some strength and some some power when he speaks. We want a ruler that has a powerful army that he can dispatch to any parts of the world. That's not how God judges who his king's going to be. He doesn't base it off of human standards. Well what he does do, as we've talked about, is he looks at the heart. Look with me at verse 7 back in 1 Samuel. Verse 7 says, But the Lord said to Samuel, Do not look on his appearance, on the height of his stature, because I have rejected him. For the Lord sees not as a man sees. Man looks on the outward appearance, but the Lord looks on the heart. The Lord looks on the heart. It doesn't matter if Elihab is 6'4, 200 pounds, well built, muscular man. Doesn't matter. It doesn't matter if you had nice flowing hair, well-shaped. None of that is what God was looking at. God was looking at the heart. See the same thing. We don't have to turn there. Just listen from Isaiah 53, verses 1 through 3. Isaiah 53, we see that Jesus, the Messiah, is not based off of how he looks. His hair. It's not based off of his stature. It's actually much deeper than that. Who has believed what he has heard from us? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? For those he grew up before him like a young plant, like a root out of a dry ground, he had no form or majesty that we should look at him. And no beauty that he would desire him. He was despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. And as one from whom men hid their faces, who is despised, and we esteemed him not. He 's talking about our future Messiah at this time, Jesus But Isaiah is prophesying that the Messiah is not going to be of beauty. The Messiah is not going to be of someone that people are just naturally attracted to without actually hearing and seeing who he is. Don't just follow him based off of his looks. Messiah is one that has the heart Follow the Father. The Messiah is the one that has the heart to go to the cross and die for wicked men and women like you and I. This is what God calls David to do. Well God calls Samuel to anoint David, not based off of the appearance of the man, but based off of the heart of David. Heart of David is what God sees. What about ourselves? When God looks at us, our salvation is based off of our appearance. to base off of what we have done or accomplished in our lives, what our family lineage is, what what our attendance at church is Is it based off of our heart and our posture towards him? Is it based off of the truth and the fact that we have faith in the work of Christ and Him alone? That's where salvation comes from. It's not on anything else. It's not that you walk down the aisle. It's a response of your heart. It's not the based off of the fact that you've been baptized. That's a response of your heart. It's not based off of your attendance at church. This is a response of your heart. Mission trips, whatever, your giving, your tithing, these are all things of a response of your heart. God is looking at your heart. Seeking faith in Christ alone. See that God does not use human standards, all this book. And lastly, the king is empowered by the The king is empowered by the Spirit. We see as w while Samuel calls David to be king, he anoints him. Look at verse thirteen. Back in 1 Samuel 16, verse 13. Then Samuel took the horn of oil and anointed him in the midst of his brothers. What happened? The Spirit of the Lord rushed upon David from that day forward. And Samuel rose up and went to line. The Spirit of the Lord rushed upon David from that day forward. And we see this, that there was no hope of David being a good and righteous king unless the Spirit of the Lord was poured out. There is no hope that David is going to be any better than the wicked King Saul unless the Spirit of the Lord has poured out upon him. We actually see the reverse happening in 1 Samuel a little bit earlier and then later on in chapter 16, that the Spirit of the Lord was removed from Saul. And there's actually a wicked spirit that oppresses Saul because of his rejection of the law of God. So as we look at David 's, we look at the the the wonderful works that David has done in his his rule as king. And his defeating of the enemies and all that he does, may we not look at David and go, Well, I wish I could be like David, but may we look at him and go, Wow, what an amazing God we have that poured out his spirit to empower David to be such a Great king. And ultimately he's just pointing us to King Jesus. John 1 29 through 34 is the baptism of Jesus where it's clear and evident. That the Holy Spirit has poured out upon Jesus. But I want us to turn to Acts 10. Acts 10 shows us and reassures us that Jesus, in his earthly ministry And his going to the cross and his dying on the cross, paying for our sins, was because he was empowered by the Holy Spirit. The Father has Since the Son, the Son has been obedient to the Father, and he is empowered by the Spirit. And here in this moment, really it's the whole life of Jesus, we see the Trinity at work in perfect unity. That we don't fully comprehend and understand, but we see that Jesus is empowered by the Holy Spirit. Look at verse 38, Acts 10, 38. How God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power. He went about doing good and healing all who are oppressed by the devil, for God was with him. So we see that our King is anointed by the Holy Spirit. At his baptism, we see the Holy Spirit coming down like a dove and resting upon him. And then we see in his ministry, him ministering and caring and healing and going to the cross and liberating the oppressed because the Holy Spirit is upon him, is empowered by the Holy Spirit. The king is empowered by the spirit, and this is good news for us, brothers and sisters. Because if you have faith in Christ, you too are empowered by the Spirit. You too. We don't need to look at David and say, wow, how great he is. I wish I was like David. You were empowered by the same spirit that David was empowered by. You look to the same God that David's following after. You too. Have courage and strength and power to fight the enemies before you Just like David does. You too have power and strength to resist the temptations of the enemy, just like we'll see David do. You too have the same spirit and empowerment to confess and repent of your sin. Just like David does. You have the power of the Spirit to lead your families well, to care for your children's well. You have the power of the Spirit to be a leader within your workplace, your schools, your communities. We do not need to look and say, I wish I was like David so I can do what David does. We need to look at God and trust the power of the Spirit. The same Spirit that He gave David to empower him to do great works is the same Spirit that He has empowered you. to do great works in his kingdom. We should look to our Lord and see that the the walking, the life of Christ is empowered by the same spirit that we are empowered by. We don't need to be tempted to say, well, that was Jesus, so of course he did righteousness. That was Jesus, so of course he resisted temptation. No, we need to look at him and say the same spirit that empowered Jesus is the spirit that empowers us. So may we walk in the sameness of Christ. This is how we are sanctified. This is how we become more like Christ each day. This is good news for us. Brothers and sisters, throughout this series, I hope we see the life of David points us to Christ. I hope we see that the good king that David is in many instances is just giving us a glimpse of the great King, Jesus. There's a quote here by J. C. Rao I want to read, but what he's doing is he's pointing us to show us the contrast between things. The wicked kings that rule the earth according to their own laws and according to their own wills, compared to a righteous king in Christ. I want to conclude on this quote so that we think about this in the life and example of David, it reminds us of the glorious king Jesus. JCE writes, when we look on the life of our Lord, how unlike it is to the conquerors who have shaken the world. Run your mind over the long lists. Caesar, Alexander, Napoleon. The list goes on. What marks their victories? Think about Napoleon. What marks all of his victories? This is what J. C. tells us. Death? Wounds? Poverty? Sorrow? Ruin? Then turn to the life of that King of kings and the Lord of Lords. See the amazing contrast. He brought life and immorality to light. He opened up to men hopes for the present and for the future. The way of peace between God and man. Whenever he went, he brought blessing with him. That's the King of Father. That's the king we have hope in. That's the king that has brought us salvation. Through this series, may we place our confidence and our hope in Him Jesus. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the Lordship of Christ. We thank you That you sent your son to die on the cross, buried in the grave, but resurrect from death, defeating it Ascending onto his throne. Lord over all. Father, I ask that you reveal this to us. We don't recognize it. Father, I ask that trust and actually believe that Jesus is King over all. Dispersal and to follow and live in his king. That's in his name, right now.