I want to do two things for this first message. I do have a passage for us to look at, but we're going to do that second. I'll give it to you now so you can put a marker there. It'll be John 6, verse 60. Just so you can be there ahead of time. Well, before we get into my passage and my specific topic, I want to introduce The conference topic, do an overview or do a little roadmap of where we're going. The ultimate goal. Is for this conference to build each one of us up, to strengthen each one of us, to have a hundred percent trust in God for a hundred percent Of salvation. Alright. A hundred percent trusting God for a hundred percent of salvation. In this spirit, once I get done this overarching You know, introduction to the topic. Um this session will be about the power of the Word and Spirit of God. All right, the power of the Word and Spirit of God. In the second session Pastor Sam will be preaching on the convicting power of the law. The convicting power of the law, talking about how God uses his commandments. He uses this holy law to show us that we're sinners, that we're guilty, that we need a Savior. And then his second message will be the converting power of the gospel. Brother, I'm pumped about your messages, man. You got the good ones. Who came up with this? The power of the gospel to give rest to the soul. and the power of the gospel to reconcile us to God. And then in my final session, which I'm hoping to get some really good questions for the QA, I'm hoping my final session Well the teaching part of it will be more of a seven to twelve minute devotional on the power of the Father to draw the sinner to himself. And that comes also from John chapter six. I'm all about the John chapter six today, which is a long chapter. It's a rich chapter. You probably could preach a fifteen part series on John chapter six So that's the overview of the messages and where we're headed. What I want to do is now talk about the general topic of the conference as a whole, which I believe it is the greatest topic in the world. It's the power of God in salvation. The power of God in salvation. I want to start with a question just to get your wheels turning. I definitely want you to answer in your heart, but don't answer out loud. That will be distracting to everybody. But when you hear the phrase power of God and salvation, what or who do you think of? What or who do you think of when you hear the power of God in salvation? Who needs the power of God in salvation? Who do you pray would experience the power of God in salvation? Who is it? What is it that you think of when you hear that phrase? The power of God in salvation. First of all, let's define some terms. Power, the ability to do something something or the might or the strength to accomplish something. By the way, Pastor Sam, you're really challenging my uh toggle skills for during preaching because you're supposed to make eye contact with everybody. You are at a cold straight line angle. Going to have a stiff neck in about ten minutes here. But I don't want to exclude you, brother. You need to hear this too. Power, ability to do something, the might or strength to accomplish something. Also you can have the idea of authority, authority or dominion. or the or the command over something, the power. And then we talk about salvation, which is being delivered from sin, death, and judgment. Alright, that's what salvation is, being delivered, being rescued, being spared from the ravages of sin and death and the judgment of God, to be saved, to be delivered from sin 's enslaving power in our hearts. Are you happy to be saved? And delivered from sin's mastery over your soul, and also to be delivered from the blinding effects of sin in our minds. That's what sin does to us. It blinds us. It blinds us. We can't see see we don't see things the right way. We don't see ourselves the right way. We don't definitely certainly don't see God or the world in the right way. To be saved from the enslaving power of sin, from the blinding effect of sin. To be saved from this is a good one. Well, I guess they're all good. This is a great one. To be saved, to be delivered from the guilt of sin. To have the guilt of our sin erased. To have the guilt of our sin. blotted out before the throne of God. Because we will stand before God in judgment. Everybody's going to stand before God in judgment one day And we have to have the guilt of our sin erased before that happens. And we're saved from the power of sin, the blinding effect of sin, the guilt of sin, and we also are saved from the The eternal penalty of sin, which is the second death, which is hell, which is complete and utter separation from the favor and goodness of God To be saved from that eternal penalty and ultimately to be saved from the presence of sin altogether, to be fully sanctified, to be fully glorified, and to have no sin. And And to be completely free from the sinful flesh and from all the lusts and greed and envy and selfishness that come along with the sinful flesh. Uh only God has this power, only God has this ability, only God has this authority to deliver. Deliver us from sin and death and the fear of death now, so that we can live in hope and from the judgment of God. 2 Corinthians 6:2. For he says, In a favorable time I listened to you, and in a day of salvation I have helped you. Behold, now is the favorable time. Behold, now is the day of salvation. It's the day of Christ had come and accomplished salvation through his righteous life, sacrificial death, glorious resurrection, heavenly ascension, and then wonderful pouring out the Holy Spirit To bring salvation to Israel and then to the nations. Today is the day of salvation, the day where God is spreading his salvation to the ends of the earth for the glory of his name, building his church, advancing His kingdom, saving sinners for his very own glory. The day of salvation I have helped you. Behold, now is the favorable time. Behold, now is the day of salvation. So The power of God in salvation. Hopefully that's a, I know that's quick, but hopefully that's a really good summary just to get our minds thinking on what we're talking about here. 100% of the power to save comes from God. 0 % of the power to save comes from people. I was trying to write that in the clearest way I possibly could so that we wouldn't be confused about this. A hundred percent of the power to save comes from God, and zero percent comes from from people. It's not 80-20, 95 and 5. It's not 99. 1, and then the rest man Takes care of. God applies his power to save sinners through his word and by his spirit, which will be the emphasis at the end of this first session. Through his word and through his spirit. We'll talk about the instrumentality of the word, and we'll talk about the agency of the spirit, which is really the only two lessons, the only two words I want us to remember and get across. At the end of this is the instrumentality of the word and the agency of the Spirit and understanding and believing that. But we do not contribute to the work of salvation. We receive salvation by grace through faith. So we are involved in it. Of course. Obviously salvation is something to be Experienced. It's something to be received, but it's not accomplished by us. It's received as a free gift. On your birthday You receive gifts. You didn't buy them, you didn't package them, you didn't wrap them, and you didn't bring them to the party, but you receive it as a gift. And that's what salvation is like. It's like eating a pie that you did not bake. That sounds good, right? It's like breathing in air that you did not create. Salvation is not teamwork. Amen? Salvation is not a group project. Remember in school how frustrating group projects were? Maybe some some of you in the workplace, I can relate to that. Where's Pastor Anthony? Just kidding. Just kidding. He gets me from up here. Salvation is a hundred percent God 's work. Ephesians 2:8, for by grace you've been saved through faith, and this is not your own doing. It is the any guesses? Gift. It's the gift of God. Jonah 2. 9. Salvation belongs to the Lord. Salvation belongs to the Lord. It's his. It's his work. It's his plan. It's his po Our salvation belongs to the Lord. So we have salvation, we know this, He gave it to us Because it belongs to him. Salvation belongs to the Lord. Psalm 62, 7, which should uh resonate in our hearts every single day. On God rests my salvation and my glory. My mighty rock, my refuge is God God. Can you say amen to that? On God rests my salvation and my glory, my mighty rock, my refuge is God. Now I want to come back to our question. I want to come back to our question. I think I've given you ample time. When you hear the power of God's salvation, who did you think of? Who did you think of? Like who who needs this? Who do we pray for? What do we think of when we hear the power of God and salvation? Now, if I'm guessing, most of us thought of other people. People not here, people out there in the world. We thought of the lost, maybe thought of the world in general. Um people who've never been to church, or m maybe you thought something e everybody needs salvation, something very general, or the lost needs salvation, something very general. Maybe some of us thought of ourselves in the past. I was saved in the past. God saved me. I experienced the power of God in salvation. But I'm wondering how many thought of ourselves now needing the power of God? of in salvation in our lives. I wonder how many looked around the room and looked at our brothers and sisters in Christ and thought, us, we need the power of God in salvation. We all need it this morning, today, tomorrow. I have an ongoing need of the power of God and salvation in my life. And you have an ongoing need, the power of God and salvation in your life. Do we wake up each morning mindful of our desperate need for the ongoing grace and the ongoing power of God? To sanctify us into the likeness of Christ. We all need the power of God in salvation. Are we crying out for God's power? In our lives. Are we crying out? Are we desperate calling upon the name of the Lord for His transformative work in our minds and in our hearts and in our words? And in our lives in general. Many believers today have forgotten something about salvation. They've forgotten not everything about salvation, but practically many have forgotten one thing about salvation. They've forgotten one aspect of salvation and is this, that it is an ongoing reality in our lives. And hopefully in the space of the next ninety seconds, I'll prove that to you from Scripture beyond a shadow of a doubt. But the problem Of forgetting that aspect of salvation, that it's an ongoing reality, is we don't feel our need for Christ. We don't feel our need for Christ, we don't sense our need for his ongoing grace, power, transform transformation in our lives. We don't sense it This is because we've forgotten this ongoing aspect. Acts 2. 47. The Lord added to their number day by day those who were being saved. Those who were being saved. An ongoing present tense. 1 Corinthians 1:18, for the word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved. It is the power of God. Those who are being saved, it is the power of God. Ongoing, present tense. 1 Corinthians 15, 1 and 2. Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I preach to you, which you received, in which you stand, and by which you are being saved. Remind me of the gospel by which you are being saved. And I'll finish verse 2. If you hold fast to the word I preach to you, unless you believed in vain. It's talking about the aspect of our salvation called sanctification. Three times. Being saved. Being saved. Our being saved. We've forgotten that when Scripture talks about salvation from sin, death, and judgment, talks about it in three different ways. We were saved in the past. Yes, absolutely. We were born again. We were plucked out of the kingdom of darkness, brought into the kingdom of Christ. We were forgiven our sins. We received the Holy Spirit. We were saved past tense. And also, Scripture talks about salvation in the future tense. Christ is going to return. There's going to be a final judgment. On that day of final judgment in the future, who will be saved if you are in Christ through faith? You can be certain you will be saved. Future tense. You have been saved. You will be saved. But brothers and sisters, we are being saved. Ongoing, present tense, being saved. And I start by putting an emphasis on this so that we can take this conference and the messages of this conference and apply it to our own hearts and to our own lives. And we do want you and we do want to think about the lost. We do want to think about what it's going to take for the lost to be saved. Because we want to think about evangelism and we want to think about missions But we want to think about practical discipleship too. We want to think about living life in communion with the Lord Jesus Christ, those who are being saved and understanding How God uses His Word to sanctify us and fulfill this aspect of His salvation. And also coming back to that first point of a hundred percent trust in God for a hundred percent of salvation, well sanctification and Being saved in the ongoing present falls under that category. We are not trusting in ourselves to become more holy. We are not to trust in ourselves to put sin to death. We are not to trust in ourselves to have victory over temptation. We're to trust in Christ. We're to look to Christ. It's the gospel that had the power to give us new life, and it's the gospel that has the power to sanctify us into the likeness of Christ. And even for the convicting voice of the law, that still has a place in the Christian's life as we are being saved. Sanctification. Being saved from the ongoing presence of sin and to conform us to the likeness of Christ. This is so practical. It's so everyday life. This is for all of us. To be saved, to be delivered from the influence of sin in our minds, from the causes of sin in our hearts, from the effects of sin, from the assaults of sin We have to be desperate for Christ if we're going to be sanctified, because sanctification only comes from Christ. So I guess if I were to boil down my number one encouragement or my number one exhortation I'm not sure which one, I guess both. It'll be an encouragement and an exhortation. For this morning is To remember, you need the saving power of God by the Word and by the Spirit every single day. That's what I hope to get across to my own heart and to everyone else Now what does that look like? Put some put some details on that. Put some put some meat, put some flesh on that skeleton of the ongoing Present salvation in our sanctification, conforming us to the likeness of Christ. I've alluded to some of these already, but It would be the power of God to put sin to death. Now, if you're in Christ and you love God, you want That right you really want that badly, madly, you want sin to To be slaughtered in your heart. And we need the power of God and salvation to put sin to death. And also the other side of that coin: we need the power of God and salvation to bring holiness to life. This is something else. If we're in Christ, if we love God, man, we really, really want this. Now, obviously, you'll hope I don't know if this is obvious. Maybe it's not obvious to you. We in the flesh, in In this life, in these mortal bodies, we don't want the things that we should want perfectly. Alright, we're not perfected yet. But we do want them truly, because of the Holy Spirit within us. God has caused us to love what he loves and to hate what he hates, and to seek what he seeks. To desire what he desires. And so we want to put sin to death. So we need the power of God's salvation and salvation for that. We want to bring holiness to life. It's the power of God in salvation that's going to do that. The Word and the Spirit bringing water and sunlight to love and to joy and to peace and to all the fruit of the Spirit. The power of God, the power of God in the ongoing present to comfort the soul that's in anguish. You need to go to Christ for that comfort. The power of God in the ongoing present to strengthen the weary and the discouraged. And you need to go to God for that strength. The power of God and the ongoing present to guide the confused mind , to be a guide, to be a shepherd to the confused or the distressed. And we need to go to God for that guidance. The power of God and the ongoing presence to restore the wandering sheep. The power of God to infuse the love of God into a cold heart. The power of God to equip us for victory over temptation. The power of God to strengthen us. To encourage us in our war against Satan. Are you in a war against sin? Are you in a war against Satan and his lies and his schemes and his traps and his deceptions In your life and also in the church. Well, we need to go to God to be equipped, fully equipped, and ready for victory. In temptation and our war against and we can you could go on and on in these too. Once you start thinking about it, you can come up with so many examples of if I just said, how do you need God? In what way do you need God's power at work in your life? You could come up with examples, I'm sure. I'll just give you one more. The power of God in the ongoing presence to give us the patience we need. to endure trials. To endure trials in faith, to endure trials and grow from them, not grow bitter, but grow in the faith, we need to go to God for that power to give us Patience. Living for God is a string of tasks that we cannot do on our own That's what it means to live for God. Only God can do the things that we need to do to be pleasing. But he has that power and he has that desire and he's faithful to his promise. He's faithful to work in our lives. Ability to do something, the might or strength to accomplish something, the authority or command over something, power, power of God and salvation. including the ongoing present need of his children to be sanctified, to put sin to death, and to grow in holiness Now, this conference is meant to solidify our grasp on how God reaches and saves the lost, the power of God in salvation. But not exclusively. It's not exclusively about that. Brothers and sisters, it's about the power of God in salvation. It's an ongoing present reality in our lives. If you haven't picked up one yet, you can put that just one word, Pastor, sanctification. And we all need it. We were saved, we will be saved, we are being saved. And once we grasp this ongoing need Of the power of God and salvation. And then once we understand how God administers that power to our lives, we'll we'll start growing more and more hungry for his word We'll start growing more and more hungry for time in prayer. We'll start growing more and more hungry for congregational worship and just being around the church, being around the fellowship, being around Christians who will encourage and support and help because they're trying to do the same things that you're trying to do. We'll become more aware. We'll sense, we'll feel our need, our daily need for Christ's ministry to us and in us. And that's the most important ministry for all of us. My most important ministry is not preaching and teaching and being a pastor. The most important ministry in my life is Christ's ministry inside my heart. If you take that away, I have nothing. Nothing but sin and weakness. Just a pathetic little immature boy who's made a mess of life apart from the power, love, grace, spirit, and word of God in my heart. That's the number one ministry that every child of God needs to be concerned about. First and foremost is God's ministry in us and to us my heart. for his name, for his glory. And then after that, now we can, okay, now how are we serving the Lord? What ministry are you going to serve? But that second, and brothers and sisters, It has got to be second. It is always second. The power of God and salvation. The power of God and salvation. 100 % trust in Him. For 100% trust Of salvation, delivering us from sin, death, the judgment of God in in the past, future, and ongoing present. And now will go to the power of God in the Word and Spirit. Which really is, honestly, as Sam and I mapped out these messages, I envisioned, if you're not there already, turn to John 6. As we mapped out these messages and just kind of the logical flow of the day, this really is the background. He's getting into two, the two most important specific details. concrete application, what this looks like, rubber meets the road, but I'm giving the background. And what we're saying is behind everything that Sam is going to preach and apply, behind all of it is the word. And the Spirit of God is doing the things that he'll be talking about. And even that last one, the Father drawing sinners. So the passage is John 6, 60 to 69. The power of the Word and Spirit of God. And I'm going to read this whole passage. What I'd like you to do is just see if you can pinpoint the central verse that I want us to zero in on. So I'm going to read this whole passage, 60 to 69. There's one central verse that then we're going to pluck out and really zero in. See if you can pick out which one it is. Alright, here we go. As soon as I wet my whistle. John 60 or John 6. That'd be something if John were 60 chapters. There you go. That'd be actually that'd be pretty cool. Which would have been easy. He said, if all the things were written about Jesus, there wouldn't be enough room in the world for all those books. John 6, verse 60, when many of his disciples heard it, they said, This is a hard teaching. Who can listen to it? But Jesus Knowing in himself that his disciples were grumbling about this, said to them, Do you take offense at this? Then what if you were to see the Son of Man ascending to where he was before? It is the Spirit who gives life. The flesh is no help at all. The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life. But there are some of you who do not believe. For Jesus knew from the beginning who those were who did not believe, and who it was who would betray him. And he said, This is why I told you that no one can come to me unless it is granted him by the Father. After this, many of his disciples turned back and no longer walked with him. So Jesus said to the twelve, Do you want to go away as well? Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life. And we have believed and have come to know that you are the Holy One of God. Jesus answered them, Did I not choose you, the twelve? Yet one of you is a devil. He spoke of Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot, for he, one of the twelve, was going. To betray him. I know I went a little bit longer, but as I was reading and I'm I said to myself, uh I can't stop before the end of this paragraph. Let me round It out. Because that end there where you talk to Judas, it alludes back to something earlier in the passage, so it really does round it out. You have lots of disciples, but a portion of those disciples are Uh, unbelievers. They're externally disciples, but not true disciples. And you have that in John multiple times. You have those who believed, but it wasn't a true belief, it wasn't a sincere belief. And you have disciples who are following and interested, but they're not true disciples. They're not born again. And they're not willing to live for Jesus They'd rather live for themselves. Any guesses on the one central verse, one key verse when thinking about our topic, the power of the Word and Spirit of God. Any guesses on what the one verse I want to zoom in on is? 63. 63. Alright. Great. You got it. 63. It is the spirit who gives life. The flesh is no help at all We'll just look at the first half of that verse right now. It's a spirit who gives life, the flesh is no help at all. You know, there's lots of passages in scripture that um take Some contemplation, they maybe take some study, it kind of can be confusing. You read the commentary, there's like eight different views, different interpretations. This is pretty straightforward, isn't it? It's the Spirit, which is referring to the Holy Spirit, the third person of the Trinity, who gives life. In the Gospel of John, if you heard any sermon series, if you've done any reading, on John, any study of the Gospel of John, you know that life is for the most part shorthand for eternal life. It's shorthand for spiritual life. Life means life in communion. Life. Life in communion with God that comes to the dead sinner by the grace and power of God. It's the Spirit who gives that life. The flesh is no help at all. The flesh, the the this body with the sin nature That's inherent to these bodies is no help at all. And I love how that's worded because it's giving you that hundred percent spirit, zero percent Man, no help, no help at all. Not a group project, not a team effort, not a joint effort. It's the spirit who gives life. But Now look at the second half of that verse. The words I have spoken to you are spirit and life. It's through the words, through the instrumentality of the words. It's through the words that the Spirit came. It's through the words that life was given It's through the words, the word of Christ, that the Spirit of God implants life in spiritually dead sinners. It's the spirit who gives life. The flesh is no help at all. The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life. the instrumentality of the word. Now, in the context, and you'll have to look at this on your own, The whole chapter, but if you don't have that much time, just start at verse 41 and then read forward. In the context, Jesus had just taught something that upset and drove away. Many professing disciples. Actually there's there's at least two, probably three things that Jesus taught in this context That was upsetting, caused grumbling, and as you saw, caused many professing disciples to turn away and no longer follow him. Which, if that verse stood out to you, that's one of those tragic verses. But that's the context. Jesus is teaching some things that are upsetting to natural man, that are offensive to natural man, that are irrational to rational man. uh it's a natural man and that caused natural man to not want to follow Jesus, therefore they need the Spirit. They need the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit gives life through the word. The flesh of the person does not contribute anything. I mean, I think just in terms of mindset, there's some really good application here for the way we Think about outreach and evangelism. We're not trusting people to save themselves. They don't have the power within them. We're not trusting ourselves. To save people. We don't have that power. We're not sovereign over salvation. Salvation is not of the church. Salvation is of the Lord. Salvation is not of the evangelist. Salvation is of the Lord We're not trusting our outreach methods, although we're a big fan of outreach. We're not trusting in our good deeds, although we agree with the Bible that we should be, quote, rich in good deeds. And um we're not trusting in religious experience like providing or manufacturing some kind of experience in the religious setting for people. We're not trusting in that. We're not going for that, we're not aiming for that, we're not trusting in our niceness and our friendliness, although we should be huge fans of being friendly and manifesting the love of Christ and compassion and patience of Christ, but we're trusting in God alone. through his word by the Spirit. And that's what I want to close on, these two words, instrument and agent. The word is the instrument of salvation. The word is the instrument of eternal life. It's the vehicle. It's the tool. It's what God uses to save And to sanctify the instrumentality of the word. God uses the word as his tool, his conduit, his vehicle, as his instrument. To save and to sanctify sinners. Instrumentality of the word and agency of the Spirit. The Spirit is the agent. An agent is w somebody you do something through. Like we have all kinds of agents in the world. You have to you want to do something specific, you do it through the agent. You'll use a real estate agent. You go through the real estate agent, you use them. An insurance agent. For insurance, you go through the agent. You use the agent to get this thing. There's a travel agencies. You set up your trip through the travel agent. You may have a talent agent. You may have a literary agent. You get contracts, you get gigs, you get jobs, you go through your agent. You may have a sports agent. The one through whom you do something. And the one through whom God saves and sanctifies is the Holy Spirit. You also could say, Jesus, that's a whole nother conference that we could have. the uh the functional identity of Christ and the Spirit in the work of salvation. And we put the emphasis on Christ and we put the emphasis on the Spirit. Right now we're putting the emphasis on on the work of the Holy Spirit. He's the agent of salvation, not the sports agent, not the insurance agent. He's the salvation agent. instrumentality of the word, agency of the Spirit, that's the only one anyone ever, ever, in any sense, gets saved and gets sanctified So this is the background. The Word and the Spirit. The convicting power of the law is coming. The converting power of the gospel is coming. The drawing power of the Father is coming. But all of that presupposes that God is using his word as his instrument, and he's using the Holy Spirit as his personal agent. The Holy Spirit The third person of the Trinity, the Holy Spirit is God. And he brings salvation and he brings sanctification into the personal experience of sinners on earth Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word. Thank you for your spirit. Bless our fellowship today. Give us a rich, encouraging Christian fellowship in the love of Christ, the encouragement of Christ, the upbuilding of the Spirit. And we pray that you'll deliver your word into our hearts and minds in a powerful way. That daily, daily we'd be hungry for Christ and hungry and desperate for your word and spirit. in this ongoing work of sanctification in our lives. It's in Christ we ask. Amen.