It always takes a little bit more time when we introduce a series. There's always a little bit more to cover in a sermon when it's the first sermon of a series. And that's what we have today. We're starting a new series on three books, 2nd and 3 John, and the book of Jude. Alright, so the three books right before the book of Revelation. Second and third John and Jude calling it the beautiful adornments of the bride of Christ. Think of a bride and her adornments. She picks a dress to accentuate her beauty, to highlight her beauty. She doesn't pick a dress that makes her look horrible. But the way her hair is done and her jewelry, the dress, the train, it all the adornments of the bride are meant to accentuate and to shine forth the beauty of the bride Well, just to get us started in this series, the beautiful adornments of the Bride of Christ, let's just say that the church is the Bride of Christ. And that Christ works to adorn his bride. Now the Bible teaches both of those things. The church is the bride of Christ. That's you, Church. Collectively, you are the bride of Christ, and Christ works to adorn his bride with godly adornments, not the adornments of the world, but with holiness. And with truth, and with love, which are the two we focus on today, and With mercy. These are the kind of adornments with which Christ is adorning his bride as a manifestation of his grace and power. Now just some passages to launch us into this world of the adornments of the bride of Christ, that the church is the bride of Christ. And that Christ is working to adorn his bride. You don't have to turn to these. You can if you'd like, of course. But you also could just let the language, let the imagery It'll become clear to you in your heart. Ephesians 5, 25 to 27. Husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church. And gave himself up for her, that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word. So that he might present the church to himself in splendor, without spot, or wrinkle, or any such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish. Now right away it should become clear these two things, that the church is the bride of Christ and that Christ is making his bride beautiful. He is adorning his bride. Brothers and sisters, that's God's great work in the world. Bringing salvation to the ends of the earth. What does that look like? What's the outward manifestation of that? Very simple. Sinners saved by grace, gathered into churches which are the bride of Christ, and Christ is adorning his bride. With things that God says are beautiful. He's sanctifying her. He's making her holy. He's cleansed her That's the story of our lives as disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ is working in us and through us. Things that are truly beautiful. Ephesians 5, 29 to 30, in the same paragraph, the same context, for no one ever hated his own flesh. But nourishes and cherishes it, just as Christ does the church, because we are members of his body. Same context. When a husband takes a bride, the two become a one. And husbands, you're to love your brides as you love yourself. Don't care about your needs first, you care about wife wife's needs. That's the context. That's why in the context of The church is the bride of Christ, Ephesians 5. Paul writes, No one ever hated his own flesh. What are you talking about, own flesh? I thought you were talking about husband and wife. Yes, husband and wife become one. Christ has bound himself to his church Christ is the head of the church. The church is the bride of Christ. And because of that, the church is the body of Christ. Because in marriage, the two become one. Husbands, love your wives, as Christ loved the church, his bride. Now a couple more here, Revelation 19, 7-8. Let us rejoice and exalt. Exalt. Do you know that word? E-X-U-L-T. Basically it means leap for joy. That's what the exalt means It means to rejoice greatly. It means to exult. It means take part in this triumphant celebration. Do cartwheels if you have to. Rejoice and exult, and give him the glory, for the marriage of the Lamb has come. And his bride has made herself ready. It was granted unto her to clothe herself with fine linen, bright and pure. For the fine linen is the righteous deeds of the saints. You see it again. The church is the bride of Christ, and Christ is working to adorn his bride. And one more here, Revelation 21, 2. And I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, not the old Jerusalem under the law, but the new Jerusalem in Christ. I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, Coming down out of heaven from God prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. Well which is it, John? Is it a city or is it a bride? It's both. The city represents the people. The people is the church. The church is the bride of Christ. So what's symbolized in the vision, represented in the vision as a city is the bride of Christ. And I love this phrase. That's where I got the title. For the series from Revelation 21, 2. Prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. If we're going to understand God's grace in our lives. And brothers and sisters, if we're going to understand God's calling upon our lives, we have to understand that the church is the bride of Christ That you are the bride of Christ, and Christ is mightily, and Christ is mercifully working to adorn his bride. in the splendor , glory of that which is pleasing to God. I hope that as we're moving into 2024, that we're all aware of our greatest Need. You may need additional financial provision in 2024, but that's not your greatest need. You may need improved health or improved fitness in 2024. Legitimately so on both of those things, but still, that's not your greatest need. You may need the the situation at work to improve. A dysfunctional workplace is a horrible place to be. We've probably all been there at one time in one way or another. You may need the situation at work to improve, but that's not your greatest need. You may need better friends in 2024. You may need a lot better friends in 2024, but still that's not your greatest need. My greatest need and your greatest need in 2024 is the same it's always been. The grace and power of God in our lives. God's transforming grace. God's power through the Holy Spirit is always and everywhere our greatest need. How else in the world, how in the world else are we going to endure the hardships we'll face this year? And how else not only to endure hardships that we'll face this year, But endure them in the proper way, drawing nearer to God, not becoming bitter and resentful, growing in the faith, not weakening in the faith. The grace and power of God. Brothers and sisters, friends How else will we have victory over temptation this coming year without the grace and power of God? How else will we grow in holiness without the grace and power of God? How else will we repent from those sins we've been so stiff-necked to repent of without the grace? And without the power of God. How else, Church? How in the world else will we be faithful and steadfast? And setting a good example for the watching world without the grace and power of God. How else, church, will we not only maintain our unity as a church? But grow evermore in that unity. Grow evermore in our brotherly love. Bro grow evermore in caring for one another in practical ways without the grace and power of God. The grace and power of God is the theme of all things. It's the theme of history. It's the theme of the universe. It's the theme of scripture, Old Testament and New. It better be It better be the theme of my life, and it should be it better be the theme of your life, the grace and power of God. And why do we get into that? Well, because it's by his grace and by his power that Christ creates his bride, and it's by his grace and by his power that Christ adorns his bride. with holiness and truth and love. That's our message for today. Well hopefully that's at least gets you into the mindset for this new series. the beautiful adornments of the bride of Christ. And each week we'll just look at different different adornments, different things. Christ is working in his bride to make her beautiful in the eyes of God. The church is the bride of Christ, and Christ is working to adorn his bride. Now, today's message is from 2 John verses 1 Truth and love. 2 John 1 to 3, truth and love. Now that we're getting into today's particular message, I'd like to take this time and pray with you. Father, we ask that you would continue to manifest your grace and power in our lives. Father, I pray that that would indeed be the theme of our lives, each and every one of us, this year. Please don't let this ever become outward religion for any of us. Please don't ever let this become intellectual learning for any of us. The Father take our lives and make them yours more and more. Deepen our love for Jesus Deepen our sense of need for the Holy Spirit. Deepen and strengthen and widen our hunger for your word as a word of grace and power. That brings you to our doorstep even further into our very minds and hearts. Father, as we come to your word now, I pray that you would instruct us, each one of us, as we need it. That you would humble us, that you would fill us with comfort. Rest. Rest in Christ is what we're asking for. Fix our eyes on Him. Father, we pray in his name. In the name of Jesus, we pray. Amen. All right, 2 John 1 to 3. The elder To the elect lady and her children, whom I love in the truth, and not only I, but also all who know the truth. Because of the truth that abides in us and will be with us forever. Grace, mercy, and peace. Will be with us from God the Father and from Jesus Christ, the Father's Son, in truth and love. Well, did the key words pop out to you? Truth and love? Verse 1, I love in the truth. End of verse 1, who know the truth. Verse 2, the truth that abides in us. And the end of verse 3, in truth. and love. A biblical church is a church that's not only grounded, but also a church that's growing in the truth of God and in the love of God. There's your theme for this message. Biblical church, which means a church that's filled with the Spirit, a church that's walking in obedience, is a church that's not only grounded in, but also growing in, growing in, flourishing in. Both the love of God and the truth of God. Now, what good would it be to say, well, we agree with the truth, but then we're not living out the love of Christ one to another. What good would it be to say, well, we teach the truth, but we're not manifesting and setting an example of the love of God to the watching world. A biblical church, a spirit-filled church, is a church that's grounded and growing in both the love of God and the truth of God. Now you can flip it around as well. Now what good is it to say we believe the truth and we teach the truth, but we're not a people of love? You can flip it around as well and say, well, we just want to love people. We just want to love each other. But then we preach and teach that which contradicts the Word of God. That's no good either. You can't have a biblical truth without a biblical love, and you can't have a spirit-filled love without a spirit-filled devotion to the truth. True love is based on the truth. The truth of God creates love within us. Amen. So we plant our right foot on the truth of God and our left foot on the love of God. Look at this imagery in um verses four and five. of 2 John. Didn't make it into the passage today. Felt like that would be too big of a passage what with trying to introduce the series and all, but You get this imagery of walking. Walking. Verse 4. I rejoiced greatly to find some of your children walking in the truth. just as we were commanded by the Father, and now I ask you, dear lady, not as though I were writing you a new commandment But the one we have heard from the beginning, that we love one another. Well, what are they doing? Are they walking in the truth or are they walking in love? The answer, obviously, is both. The way you walk in truth is to walk in love. The way you walk in love, the way we'll grow in walking in love. is to k continue to be transformed by the truth of God's word. You have this love and this truth almost as the right foot and the left foot of walking in God's word, walking in God's will, rather, walking in accordance with God's will for our lives, is to walk in truth and walk in love. Love is seeking the good of another. Now there's a lot we can say about biblical love. I know that. Well, just as a summary definition, that's what love is. Seeking the good of another. It's the opposite of selfishness. Selfishness seek my own good. Love, seek your good. Selfish husband only cares about his own good. Loving husband seeks his wife's good. Selfish parents only worried about what they want to do. Only worried about the rest that they need. Only worried about the break that they need. Loving parents, sacrifice and sacrifice and sacrifice for the good of the children. For the good of others. That's what love is, for the good of others What's the difference between a selfish coworker and a co-worker that has a love and a charity for others? Well, Christians should be that example in the workplace. Amen? You bring the love of Christ out into the world. What's the difference between a selfish, self-absorbed church member and on the one hand, and then a loving, caring, selfless church member on the other hand now what kind of church do you want to be a part of that's filled with w filled with example A or filled with example B walking in love We should all be striving, striving to be the leading example of love one to another. That's what we've been called to. Love is seeking the good of another. We want to be loving husbands and loving wives And loving fathers and loving mothers and loving children and loving siblings and loving friends and loving co-workers. This love should define our example. And truth, a commitment to truth, should define our example. Now, if love is seeking the good of another Truth or statements, ideas, and information. Did you get those three? Vince, you get those three? Statements, ideas, you don't have to recite them. St talk about putting on the spot. Statements, ideas, and information that aligns with reality. That's what truth is. A statement you make, if it aligns with reality, it's the truth. If it contradicts reality, it's a lie. It's false. Ideas. Some ideas, some philosophy, some teaching, some teaching from the pulpit. If it aligns with reality, if it aligns with reality as pictured and presented in God's Word, Truth, if it contradicts God's word, it's not in alignment with reality, lie, error, and information Well, we're just on information overload in society and culture right now. Good grief. Can you imagine if all we had was information? From the secular culture, from the society around us, and not information from God and His Word? No standard of truth? No objective truth No objective morality? No objective reality that we could be sure this is what the world is like, this is what humanity is like. Think of the importance of truth. Think of the importance of truth. God says if you put your faith in Jesus, all your sins are for forgiven, and you have hope for all eternity. Right? This is as God's word teaches. If you have faith in Jesus, all your sins are forgiven, and you have hope for all eternity. Well, what if that's not true? What if that's not true? Work out the implications in your own mind. That because all of this is a farce, if that's not true, think of the importance of truth. God says this is right, this is wrong. Well what if what if that's not true? We need truth. God says It's his top commandment to love him and to love others, and then God teaches us what love is. What if that's not true? We wouldn't know what to do. Love is seeking the good of another. And biblical churches are grounded in this and growing in this. So I challenge myself in my heart. You challenge yourself in your heart. Is this the default setting? Is this the setting that we're on? To seek the good of another? To put others before myself? Not always be worried about what I get to do or what I want. Or I didn't get my way and my ministry and my thing the way I wanted it, my style, but I like this and I like that and I wanted this But if we're all just growing and growing and growing in our hearts and minds, self-consciously growing, I'm just going to seek the good of others for the glory of God, for the glory of God, as a manifestation of the grace of Jesus in my life, walking in the Spirit, the good of others. What do others need? How can I serve others? How can I help others? How can I encourage others? How can I build up others? Church Churches, biblical churches , are the little locations, the little places on earth where people should be able to visit and see the most selflessness they've ever seen. The least selfishness they've ever seen, and the most selflessness they've ever seen And, and, biblical churches are not only grounded in growing in love, seeking the good of each other, seeking the good of others, but also grounded in the truth Committed, committed to statements, ideas, and information that align with reality, that comes from God's word. That comes from God's word. We're not here on a speculation train, brothers and sisters We're not here on the religious tradition train. We're not here on the human philosophy train. We're people devoted to God's truth. Everything that we are, everything that we have, everything that we We do preach, teach, whatever, pray for is based on the truth of God's word. Without God's word, we have nothing. Without God's word, we wouldn't even know God. Without God's word, we wouldn't even What are we? Who are we? What's humanity? Who am I? What's my future? What's the world like? What's happening? What's the purpose of history? We wouldn't know anything. Rightly. Apart from God's word, God's truth Can I get fired up on? This is why churches exist in the world To be ambassadors of God's truth for the lost and dying world, to exemplify God's love in the midst of a selfish, self-serving world. We're not here to provide religious themed entertainment. I'm not a storyteller. I'm not a jokester. I know I'm goofy sometimes. I can be funny sometimes. That's not planned out. We're here to preach God's word. God 's word is the thing that transforms life and lives on earth So, biblical churches, all that to say, the beautiful adornments of the bride of Christ, and the first two we're beginning with is truth and love. Christ has adorned his bride with truth. And love. And a biblical church. A biblical church. And now you know if this main this main point for this sermon helps us know one way we should always be praying, if nothing else. The Spirit-Filled Biblical Church is a church that's not only grounded in, but growing in, both the truth of God and the love of God. If you're with me, would you say amen? Now, your three Roman numerals. The setting, the gemstones, and the lights. Uh a beautiful diamond ring is what I was envisioning when I mapped this out. For those of you who don't know this yet, you've never had to shop for a ring, maybe You don't know that the the the ring, this little these little prongs that come up, it's called the setting. It'll be the setting of the stone. The stone sits in the setting. The setting, listen, the setting only exists to display and put forth the beauty of the stone. So you have the setting. The setting will be the local church of the risen Lord. That's your Roman number one. And we'll come back to this and flesh out some details underneath them, but I want to give them to you first so we can get this picture. The setting is the local church or localized church of the risen Lord. We're not the only church. But we are the church localized here on Old Federal Hill Road in Jarretttsville. The setting is the local church But that setting only exists to display the grace and power and wisdom and on and on and on of God. in Christ. So the gemstones, and the particular gemstones we're looking at is the radiant beauty of truth and love. Now biblically, um when we talk about the glory of God all the time, right? Beauty is just another word for glory. God's glory is God's shining forth of all that He is. So you also could say beauty. In fact, it's translated at least one time in the Old Testament. The word for glory is translated Beauty. You'll see the king in his beauty in Isaiah. We exist as a spirit enabled manifestation. Of God's truth and of God's love. Now the light. The light, because what good is a diamond if you're in a room with no light? Let me ask you, when there's no light at all, can you observe and enjoy and sing the praises of the beauty of that diamond? No. You can't see it. You can't enjoy the radiant beauty of a diamond unless there's light shining into it. radiating and reflecting all within it and through it. That's the beauty that's the way you observe the beauty of that diamond. Now there's no beauty without the light of God's presence. Brothers and sisters, I hope that we remember that the thing that makes the church the church is God's presence with the church. Without God's presence, we're just playing church. Are you awake? The thing that makes us the church. Is God's presence in us and with us? God working through us. God's the light of God's presence First John chapter one. God is light. Without the light of God's presence, and the light of God's power and the light of God's wisdom, the light of God's holiness. And on and on, the light of God's grace, the light of God's mercy, the light of God shining forth in all different ways, but he's got to be with us. He's got to be with us. So this is the light that shines through us. God with us. Jesus promised the church he'll be with us to the end of the age. Even to the end of the age, he'll be with us As those who believe in Jesus, those who have faith in Jesus, we don't ever have to doubt God's presence within us. As though as a collective body of believers who have faith in Jesus Christ, Born of the Holy Spirit, faith in Jesus Christ, we never have to doubt that the Spirit of God fills the church. We never have to doubt that God is with us. Because God promises to be with us. God says, God tells us. Here's the importance of truth again. God says that His Spirit fills the believer. God says that His Spirit fills the church. And that is true. For believers, we never have to doubt God's presence. It is delight. And now we walk by faith. But one day, brothers and sisters, take hearts. One day we'll walk by sight. One day all your troubles will be behind you. Doesn't that make you happy? One day all your battles against sin will be behind you. Does that make you happy? One day the aging and the weakening and the sickness and the procedures. They call them procedures to maybe it makes it sound a little bit better. If it's cutting your body, it's surgery Won't it be nice for it to have it all behind you to be out of this realm under the curse of sin and death? Out of this realm, out of these bodies that are under the curse of sin and death, and in the presence of God Almighty, in the perfection of His presence, in the fullness of His glory. The eradication of any sinful impulse within us. Won't it be a great day? The eradication of selfishness within Matt. The eradication of pride within Matt. The eradication of all this impatience. The eradication of all sinful impulses, sinful impulses within us, the eradication of all of that, you step into the glory of God, you walk by sight, no longer by faith in terms of Seeing God through faith. We'll always have faith in terms of trusting God and relying upon Him. But there's a difference. There's a difference between the way we walk by faith now and how we'll walk by sight in the age to come. And I will get on to flushing these points out. I'm not sure. Maybe I will. But I want to say one more thing on that point, relating it to our purpose as a church. We're here. Centrally, primarily, ultimately, help me with the right adjective, Jason. However you want to say it, supremely For spiritual matters, for matters of the soul, for matters of eternity So that people, when they die, they'll go to heaven and not to hell for all eternity. That's what we're here for. For matters of eternity, matters of the soul, matters of Accountability before God Almighty. Matters of the body does not last forever. Treasures on earth, pleasures on earth do not last forever. And the soul will depart from the body one day and go before God as judge because God is judged because God is king, and God is king because God made the world. If I make a world, I'll rule over that world the way I see fit, and everything in that world will be accountable to me. But if God made this world, And we are accountable to God. And it's right that we're accountable to God. Just like it's right that your children are accountable to you. It's right that players are accountable to a coach. It's right that people in the library are accountable to the librarian. You can't just blast your music and be talking. People are trying to read. It's right that citizens are accountable to police officers. It's right to be accountable to authority. And all of that exists in every single sphere and realm in human society, accountability exists to teach us something about the universe, that we are accountable to God. Because it's God's world. And with all of our hearts, with all of our prayers and passions and strivings, we must be ever focused, ever more focused On spiritual matters, not externals, not personal preferences, not styles, spiritual matters, the soul Eternity. God and man and Jesus Christ as the great Redeemer of man back to God. That's what we're about. That's the song that we have been called to sing in the world for the masses to hear, the song of salvation. Now the setting. The setting is the local church of the risen Lord. Look at one, verse one, the first two words. The elder. John was an apostle. But he also came to serve as an elder in the church. Same with Peter. Peter was an apostle. Peter calls himself a fellow elder in a different passage. Elder is the leadership role in the church, and there's three main ways elders are referred to in the New Testament. Elders, pastors, the pastors the same as shepherds. Elders, pastors, overseers The letter is from an elder in the church. And this is John. John is the elder. And now the letter is to Who 's the stage two in verse one? The elect lady and her children. The elect lady and her and her children. Now if you were to read a commentary on this, or maybe even a good study Bible, it tells you some of the different views on this. And one major view is that this is too an actual lady in the church, and the other is that it's a metaphor for the church itself. In other words, the lady The elect lady is a particular congregation. Says to the elect lady and her children. I think it's some kind of combination of those. I it's a letter to the church, but it is addressed to the elect lady. I believe it's uh to a lady who hosts a church in her house, which is a very common thing. You see that at the end of the book of Romans, different places in the New Testament, churches met in homes A church needed to have a host or a hostess or a host and a hostess. Priscilla and Aquila hosted a church in their house, the church that meets in their house I think this is the lady who hosts a church. So it's the lady and her children. Those that's the church. Um It's meeting in her house. Now it's not detailed specifically in the passage or anywhere else in Scripture, so you'll have to study that out. And make a decision for yourself. But either way, it's a letter in the New Testament. Ultimately, ultimately, it does come to the church. That's why it ended up in the New Testament. Because it's a letter to the church, for the church, for perpetuity until the Lord returns. It's part of God's way of building us up and teaching us who we need to be. So it's from an elder to the lady and her children. It's a letter to God's elect. Uh the elect lady, not just the lady, but the elect lady, which is one of the ways the Bible d describes the fact that God has poured out his Saving grace upon us. God has poured out an infinite love upon us, a love that we did not deserve. A love that we would never have sought after on our own. Just think about ever think about that. If God only left us to our own devices, we would never seek out the saving grace of God. If all if the only power at work within us was only and always the sinful flesh, we would never seek out the grace of God. Letter or elect is a positive word in Scripture. 1 Peter 1. 1, Christians are called elect. 1 Peter 2. 9, Christians are called chosen. Titus 1-1, Christians are called God's elect. Good word, not bad word. Happy word, not sad word, rejoicing word, not sour word. Colossians 3. 12, Christians are called God's chosen ones. 2 Timothy 2. 10, Paul writes, Therefore I endure everything for the sake of the elect, that they also may obtain the salvation that is in Christ Jesus. With eternal glory. The setting of John 's letter, the setting of this, what he's we're about to talk a little bit more about, truth and love. It's the local church. Local churches are God's way of organizing his kingdom in the world Local churches are God's way of advancing his kingdom in the world. Local churches are God's design, not man's design. They're God's plan. Not my plan, not your plan. God is the one who set this whole thing up. He's organized his kingdom, and he advances his kingdom through local churches. And that's why it's so important that we do things God's way, according to God's word. Not our way, according to our word. We belong to God. We are God's church. That's a possessive apostrophe. S. God 's church. We belong to God. This is the setting, the localized church of the risen Lord. Now, Roman 2, the gemstones, and we're looking particularly the radiant beauty of truth and love. We talked a good deal about this earlier in the message. Love is seeking the good of another. Truth or statements, ideas, information, teaching, opinions, whatever that aligns with reality, that conforms with reality. And I have an A, B, C, and D on this. Letter A, our unity rests on God's truth. Our church, our unity rests on God's truth. There's all kinds of calls for unity in society. They unite around this cause, or unite around this movement, or unite around this belief, or unite around this whatever you want to call it, this philosophy, this ideology, this political party, or this political party, or this view of legislation, or that view of legislation There's all kinds of calls to unity. Unity is the answer. The only true unity, the only unity I want to be concerned with is unity based on the truth of God. That's biblical unity. It's not just a good feeling that we all have, a sense of purpose that we all have because we're doing something together. Yeah, what are we doing? True unity, spirit-filled unity is unity based on the truth of God. The second part of verse 1, whom I love In the truth. And not only I, but also all who know the truth. So it's not just John the elder, but all those who've committed themselves to the truth of God, based on that, love. I love you in the truth. And hopefully you love me in the truth. And we love other Christians based on the truth. Biblical love is based on the truth of God. Biblical unity is based on the truth of God. It binds us together. It's the foundation. Our unity rests on God's truth. Just think about that in a practical way. If I started teaching error. Immediately. Immediately. There's no delay. I start preaching error, or someone in their Sunday school starts preaching and teaching error, heresy. Immediately the unity of the church is at stake. Immediately there's a problem with the unity. Because true unity is based on truth. And true unity is preserved by the truth. We want to grow in our unity. It's only going to be a growth based on truth. Let it be our knowledge depends on God's truth. Now I've been hammering away at that. Our knowledge depends on God's truth. The end of verse uh one once again. All who know the truth. All who know the truth. It's a really big theme in John's three epistles, 1 John, 2nd John, 3rd John. It's a really big theme of Knowledge. Knowledge. There were false teachers who had infiltrated the church. False teachers starting their own movements in the church. Claiming to have knowledge, claiming to have the truth. And John is addressing that from a pastor's perspective. So that the true believers, the true church of God knows how to respond to that and knows how to deal with that. Knowledge, true knowledge, depends on God's truth. Think about how how much changed in the way we think about the world From when we were lost to when we were saved. Our way of looking at everything has changed. We have a new lens that we're looking through when we when we look at the world, when we think about God, when we think about ourselves Our unity rests on God's truth. You want to help the church grow in unity. Devote yourself more to the truth of God. Our knowledge depends on God's truth. You want to uh grow deeper in knowledge Knowledge of the world, knowledge of yourself, knowledge of the future of the world, knowledge of God, knowledge of Scripture, knowledge of the church, knowledge of anything. Devote yo Himself more to the truth of God's word. Let us see Our spirituality comes from God's truth. This is verse two. I love verse two. Verse two is probably my favorite little statement in this tiny pass. It's not saying much, it's three verses, right? But of these three short verses Verse 2 is my favorite. Because truth now in verse 2, I need to see if you're still awake. I know it's 1145 on the dot. He's still awake, would you say amen In verse 2, truth is pictured as something that lives within us. Isn't that something Truth is used to as it's described as something that lives within us, as parallel to the Spirit of Christ living in us, the truth abiding in us. And here's verse 2. Because of the truth that abides in us and will be with us forever. There's God's presence again. Well, here you have the truth of God as the basis of spirituality. Holy Spirit. Spirit capital S. What is it that makes you spiritual? Is it feeling good when I do good deeds? Is it feeling excited when I'm with the church? No. I mean those things may be hap- may happen and that may be good depending on the context and depending on the motives. But the thing that makes you spiritual, and the thing that makes me spiritual, if we're spiritual at all, is the presence of the Holy Spirit of Christ living within us. The truth that abides in us and will be with us is parallel, it's synonymous with Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior. Do you want to be spiritual? Do you want to walk in the spirit? You must devote yourself to God's truth. Because it's the truth that abides in us and will be with us forever. And letter D, God, is your blank on letter D, God. God ministers to us in truth and love. That's why we come to church. It's why you read the Bible on the weekdays. This is why you go to Bible studies, Sunday school. Because, brothers and sisters, we need God to minister to us. We need God to administer his truth to our hearts and to our minds. We need God through his spirit to administer, to minister his grace. And mercy in our lives, to our hearts. We need the transforming grace of God. We need the comforting grace of God. We need the reassuring grace of God. We need the sanctifying grace of God. We need the preserving gra Save ga We need the grace of God. We need the grace and power of God in our lives. And if you were to forget every single syllable that I said this morning. But you were to remember one thing. This would be it. I need the grace and power of God. I need the grace and power of God. I hope that's what I remember. I hope that's what I walk away with. So of course that's what I hope you remember, and that's what you walk away with. I need the grace and power of God in my life, and that comes to me through faith in Jesus Christ, who died for my sins. yet was risen and reigns at the right hand of God, as my priest, as your priest, as my king, as your king, as king over the world. The great high priest over the people of God. The King of Kings. The Lord of Lords. I need him in my life daily. I need his grace. I need his mercy. I need his truth. I need his love. All good things that we'll experience in 2024, in one way or another, will come from Jesus. All good things come from God Jesus now, our representative, the incarnate Son of God, reigning on the throne of God. The setting, the gemstones. Of truth and love and delight. We need God's presence. We've already fleshed that out. But just looking at what's said in this verse Verse 3, Grace, mercy, and peace will be with us. And they'll be from God the Father, and they'll be from Jesus Christ, the Father's Son. And the way they'll be with us is in truth and love. In other words, if we want to give ourselves to something other than truth and love, those things will not be multiplied to us. You see, it's grace and mercy and peace. Will be with us. Those things come from God the Father, and they come from Jesus Christ the Father's Son. Those come to us in truth and love. God's truth and God's love is the way He ministers to us. There's no beauty. Without the light of God's presence with us. We need his grace. We need his mercy. And we need peace. He also says peace there. You'll need peace. You need peace in life. You need peace with God, but then you need the peace of God, the peace of Christ in the heart to endure hardships, to endure trials, and to keep going, and to keep going. I guess my closing exhortation would be this for all of us for the year 2024. Seek the Lord with a renewed zeal. Seek the Lord. Go after him. Look for the Lord. Cry out to the Lord. Seek the Lord with a newfound zeal. That he might administer his grace, mercy, and peace to your heart. Continuing his work of adorning his bride with truth and love. Seek the Lord with a renewed zeal this year. I pray. And let's pray. Father, we thank you for Jesus. Thank you for the Spirit. Thank you for your word. Thank you for your grace that planned all of this out. It's in Jesus Christ we lift this prayer. Amen.