Let's take our Bibles and turn to Isaiah 6. Today we're looking at Isaiah 6, verses 1 through 7, the holiness of God. Isaiah 6, 1 through 7, the holiness of God. If you're ready for the definition of holiness, would you say amen to raise your hand? Is anyone interested in holiness? Is anyone interested in the holiness of God? All right. The holiness of God is that which sets him apart from everything else The holiness of God, His highness, His majestic Highness, His purity And his perfections. He's perfect in all of his ways. He's perfect in all of his attributes. His highness, his purity, his perfection. That which sets God apart from everything else The holiness of God. Beloved brothers and sisters in Christ, if anything should get our attention, if anything should wake us up, it's the holiness of God It is the holiness of God, who He is, in His highness, purity, and perfection, that which sets God apart. And we know from Scripture that the only way we'll care about the holiness of God, the only way we'll want to see and learn about the holiness of God is as a result of God's grace in our hearts. We can't do that on our own. We can't muster that up in the flesh. God has to intervene. We are natural born sinners. Apart from the grace of God, all we will want to pursue, all that will get us excited, is wickedness and evil But praise God that he is gracious. And praise God that he sent a Savior. And praise God that his word came into our lives. And praise God that His Holy Spirit came into our hearts. And as a result of that grace, we should be stirred up and hungry. for the holiness of God. So let me ask you again, if you are ready for the definition of God's holiness, would you say amen to raise your hand? Let's not be bashful about the things of God. Make a joyful noise unto the Lord. Interact with the Word of God. His holiness is that which sets God apart. If there's anything we need to see, it's God's holiness. We see all kinds of stuff, all kinds of sludge all week. Yes? All week we're bombarded by garbage and that which is unholy. Let's give our hearts, let's give our minds, let's be passionate, let's be zealous about seeing the holiness of God. The reason we do not grieve our sin as we ought in the Spirit, there's going to be some grieving of sin, but we don't do that to perfection. The reason we do not grieve our sin to the degree that we ought. The reason we do not cry out daily for mercy. to the degree that we ought. The reason we do not hunger for Christ more and more, week after week, to the degree that we ought, is because we do not see, understand, and love God's holiness to the degree. What we need is to see God. What we need is to see God's holiness. Let's read this passage in Isaiah 6:1 to 7, then we'll get in deeper into the message. Isaiah 6, beginning in verse 1, in the year that King Uzziah died, I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne. High and lifted up, and the train of his robe filled the temple. Above him stood the Seraphim. Each had six wings. With two he covered his face , with two he covered his feet, and with two he flew. And one called to another and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory And the foundations of the thresholds shook at the voice of him who called. And the house was filled with smoke. And I said, Woe is me, for I am lost! For I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, for my eyes have seen the king, the Lord of hosts. Then one of the Seraphim flew to me, having in his hand a burning coal that he had taken with tongs from the altar. And he touched my mouth and said, Behold , this has touched your lips. Your guilt is taken away, and your sin is atoned for. Let's pray. Father, I pray. I pray that each one of us would remember that For the good of our souls, you have given us your word. And for the good of our souls. And for the glory of your name, your spirit is at work in us by your word and through your word. Help us to remember the power of your word and help us to desire it. Help us to be desperate for it. Would you show us Christ in such a way that changes us? Show us your glory. Show us your holiness and convict us of the sin that lingers within us. And convince us of the sufficiency of the blood of Christ. The reality of the forgiveness of sins by his blood and his completed work that a hundred percent earns our salvation. Earns our redemption and grants us access into your throne room forever. It's in Christ we are asking you for help this morning Open our hearts and minds to your to your holy and living and perfect and inspired word. It's in Christ we ask. Amen. There is practical application that I want to get right into. God's holiness. Seeing God's holiness according to Scripture should humble us. And should convict us of our sin. Now that's real easy. Rubber meets the road, practical application, a sight of God's holiness. Should work to slay the pride that lives within us. And the sight of God's holiness according to Scripture. And Beloved, only the Spirit can work these things in our hearts, you understand. A sight of God's holiness, according to Scripture, will convict us of our sin And remember the purpose of being convicted of our sin is not just so that we feel horrible about ourselves and just live live life always feeling guilty. We're not saved by guilt, we're saved by faith. We're not sanctified by guilt, we're sanctified by faith. The purpose of conviction is to turn us to Christ, to look upon Christ for mercy and grace and sanctification. And it look to Christ for a slaying of the pride that lingers in our hearts That's what we all should want as children of God. We all should want God to humble us. We all should want God in His Word to convict us of our sin and drive us to look to Christ afresh as a living Savior, a living source of Life and sanctification and practical discipleship. And what I'm telling you is a sight of God's holiness will get the ball rolling A sight of God's holiness will get the ball rolling and humbling us and convicting us of our sin. God-given humility is the only solution to human pride. It's the only remedy. It's the only fix. It's the only solution. A God given, a spirit wrought humility. is the only fix to human pride. It's like if you have an infection, really bad infection, and the only thing that's going to help you is a what? Is an antibiotic, and you're on your way to the doctors and you're just praying and you're just hoping. I hope they give me an antibiotic. Please do not send me home and tell me it's an allergy, I have an infection, I need an antibiotic, it's the only fix. What I'm saying is God-given humility is the only fix, the only antibiotic to human pride. And so If you want pride to continue to be put to death in your heart, mind, and life, what you need to be crying out for, and what I need to be crying out for if I want that, is God. To give me humility by the work of his Spirit. In pride, we go our own way. In pride, we reject the morals of God. But God can help us. In pride, we excuse our sinful lusts and rationalize them, don't we? And even the sinful lusts we don't uh live out practically in public, we often live out practically in secret. And only God can help us. In pride, we seek our own good. In pride we seek our own preferences at the expense of others, and that which I like, and that which makes me comfortable Only God can help us. Only God can put pride to death. Proverbs 8:13, the fear of the Lord is the hatred of evil. Pride and arrogance and the way of evil and perverted speech I hate. That's uh Lady Wisdom speaking. It's that section of Proverbs. You have the personification of wisdom. Lady wisdom. The fear of the Lord, the hatred of that which is evil. And then he gives some she gives Lady Wisdom gives some examples, pride and arrogance. Pride and arrogance, and the way of evil and perverted speech I hate. Proverbs sixteen five. Listen to this one. Everyone who is arrogant in heart is an abomination to the Lord Everyone who is arrogant in heart is an abomination to the Lord. That's me a hundred percent filled to the brim, flowing over, apart from Jesus Christ I am an abomination to the Lord. Nothing but pride, nothing but arrogance, nothing but rebellion, nothing but sin, but for the gospel But for the blood of Christ, but for the Holy Spirit, the mercy of God, the grace of God, the love of God, the kindness of God, the transformative power of God. And brothers and sisters, That's true for all of us. I wonder if you believe that about yourself. I wonder if you believe the biblical doctrine of sin applies to you. What I'm telling you is we all need God. We all need God. We all need God to come into our lives over and over and over again and humble us. And convict us of our sin. And just God, we just need God like a mighty warrior to come in with a spear and kill the selfish pride that lives within us. Be tracking with me this morning. Am I gonna run you out of here? Will you still be my friend if I tell you the truth? This is what the world needs to hear. It's what we need to hear. It's what I need to hear. Now, working through the outline, the first thing we see is a vision of God. Alright, a vision of God, verses 1 and 2 Isaiah sees the vision of God and the vision of God's heavenly majesty in the temple. Alright? We're not told how Isaiah ends up in the temple. There's other examples in Scripture where, in conjunction with the supernatural vision, the prophet is spiritually transported to a particular place. It happens in Revelation with John. It could be the case of what's happening here with Jerem with Isaiah, not Jeremiah. Just looked at Jer our Jeremiah. That's why I died. Then I go Jeremiah. No, Jeremiah, you were not trans transported to the temple back in time It looks like Isaiah probably is supernaturally raptured or transported in this visionary experience to the temple to see a vision of God and a vision of God's heavenly majesty. Verses 1 and 2. In the year that King Uzziah died, I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne, high and lifted up. Mark that phrase Engrave that phrase in your mind's eye, high and lifted up High and lifted up. God is high and lifted up. And the train of his robe, which is a sign of his authority, a show of his authority, filled the whole temple. Above him stood Seraphim, which is these high-ranking, extremely glorious angels. There's no angels that are not extremely glorious, but you do have these. different tiers of angelic beings in scripture and the the seraphim or the top they're the highest they're closest to God closest to God Above him stood the seraphim, each had six wings. With two he covered his face, so that they're not blinded by this direct and close sight of the glory of God. Two, he covered his feet out of respect for the presence of God, because where they are is holy ground. And with two He flew. Two, they like they hover, they're hovering around the Almighty. A vision of God and his heavenly majesty is a it's an insight, a vision. That's peeling back the barrier between the visible realm and the invisible realm. It's God coming down. It's a theophany. God showing Isaiah, giving Isaiah a glimpse into his heavenly throne room. But what's really cool about this is it's happening in the earthly symbol of God's heavenly throne room. Which is the temple. That's what the temple was. The holy place, the most holy place. It was an earthly model, it was an earthly representation of God's heavenly throne room And so Isaiah is having a vision of God on his throne inside the temple, which is a symbol of God's heavenly throne, and it was a symbol to Israel that God was with them, and God was their king. In the year King Uzziah died. Most scholars put this at 740 BC. So that's where this is occurring, 740 B. C. In Jerusalem, in the temple, Isaiah seeing a vision of God and his heavenly majesty. Now, at this very second, we don't have that vision of God and His Heavenly Majesty by sight. We don't have that by sight, but we certainly have it by faith. You have by faith a sight into heaven. I'll give you an example. You have by sight Or by faith, rather. You have you will one day by sight, but let's not get ahead of the game. You have, by faith A true knowledge that your Savior Jesus Christ reigns at the right hand of God in heaven You, by faith, you know that when you pray, you know that your prayers ascend to God in heaven. You know about heaven. You see by faith. You see the reality of God's throne in heaven. Isaiah is seeing this, he's getting a glimpse by sight. So in 740, around 740 BC, in the year King Uzziah died in Jerusalem, In that context, God comes to Isaiah. Now, I want us to read a little Bit of scripture to give us a taste of what life was like in Jerusalem and in Judah This is the southern kingdom of Israel. The northern kingdom had split off, and you have the southern kingdom. of Judah and the capital is Jerusalem and the temple is in Jerusalem. Let's look backward, let's work backward, flip, well you might not even have to flip. It may be on the same page to Isaiah 5. Twenty to twenty-three. Isaiah five twenty to twenty-three Because Isaiah is uh he prophesies judgment, he prophesies coming judgment, but then he also on the other side of that prophesies the coming restoration And then on the other side of that coming restoration, he prophesies ultimate restoration and the coming of Christ, the coming of the Savior. But first is the prophecies of judgment. Isaiah 5, 20 to 23. Woe to those who call evil good and good evil. Who put darkness for light and light for darkness? Who put bitter for sweet and sweet for bitter. So that should sound familiar to you. That's like our culture. That's like our society. That's the morals of our day. There's nothing new, brothers and sisters. That's the concept. That's the cultural context. That's the historical situation of people, and especially the leaders, who by and large call evil things good and admirable, and let's go a parade And they call good things evil, wicked, hateful, oppressive. That's where they live. And they call things of darkness. Things of light that are good. And they call things of light darkness. Last thing we want. Verse 21. Woe to those who are wise in their own eyes and shrewd in their own sight. You see, it's a culture of pride. It's a culture that's just become overrun and dominated and defined by human pride that puts the the opinions and the thoughts And the desires of man at the center of the universe as the point, as the reference point for that which is good, instead of God as the reference point. Does that make sense? Woe to those who are heroes that drinking wine, it's a drunken culture. It's a culture given to drunkenness and indulgence. And debauchery. Woe to those who are heroes at drinking wine and valiant men in mixing strong drink, who acquit the guilty for a bribe and deprive the innocent of his right. It's a corrupt. Culture. It's a corrupt society. Leaders who are twisted and wicked and they take bribes and they violate justice and they violate mercy, they violate the law of God, they deprive the innocent of his right. Verse 24, this should not be a surprise. Therefore, as the tongue of fire devours the stubble. And as dry grass sinks down in the flame, so their root will be as rottenness, and their blossom go up like dust. For they have rejected the law of the Lord of hosts and have despised the word of the Holy One of Israel. Go back to chapter 5, verse 11 and 12. Woe to those who rise early in the morning that they may run after strong drink. who tarry late into the evening, as wine inflames them. They have lyre and harp, tambourine and flute, and wine at their feasts, but they do not regard the deeds of the Lord, or see the work of his hands. It's a prosperous people, earthly speaking. And they have lots of resources, lots of time for partying. And for entertainment. But what's the problem? Well, the problem is that's not what God's called them to. Look at the end of verse 12. They do not regard the deeds of the Lord. Or see the work of his hands. Brothers and sisters, that's the worst thing ever. To give no regard to what God has done To be blind to the work of God's hands. One more. Chapter 1, go all the way back to chapter 1, verses 2 to 4. Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth, for the Lord has spoken. Children I have reared and brought up, but they have rebelled against me. The ox knows its owner And the donkey, its master's crib, but Israel does not know. My people do not understand Ah sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity Offspring of evildoers, children who deal corruptly, they have forsaken the Lord, they have despised the Holy One of Israel, they are utterly estranged. I don't need to give you an illustration for that. You know what kind of nation that is. You live in that kind of nation. It's verse four of Isaiah chapter one is one of the most tragic sentences Ever written down by a human being. God created Israel. By his love. And he redeemed Israel by his incredible grace. And he manifested to Israel Unmatched power and faithfulness and kindness and provision And he called them to be a what kind of nation? A holy nation. The whole first major section of our Bible is about this. God creating Israel to be a holy nation. Redeeming them to be a holy nation, a set-apart nation, a nation that loves him in the midst of nations that hate God. You love God. In the midst of nations that worship false gods, you worship the true God. In the midst of a world covered in disobedience, you, Israel, obey God. And then you get to things like this: oh, sinful nation! A people laden with iniquity. Offspring of evildoers, children who deal corruptly, in our flesh Apart from the gospel, apart from the grace of God, apart from the intervening and saving grace of God, we're exactly the same way. So praise God that He has saved us. You know, when we gather every week for worship, really what we're doing is celebrating salvation. We're celebrating salvation. We are rejoicing in our salvation. Because apart from salvation, all that we are and all that we want is sin. But then here comes God with free grace. That's what the Bible is about. Free grace. Free grace. Love that's not worked for. Love that's not earned Why am I making such a big deal about this? Because that's the historical context. In that context, God reveals his glory Reveals his heavenly majesty to Isaiah. And God is going to send Isaiah out into that context. To be a faithful preacher of God's word, of God's message, which will include warnings of coming judgment and the promise and certainty of restoration and salvation. Now we're not in the same setting Historically speaking, we're not in the same setting. There's not a one-to-one correspondence here. But the gist of it, the general idea of it, that's how a local church should function in the world. Faithfully communicating God's word. Faithfully communicating God's word, which, beloved, don't forget, it does include warning of coming judgment. There is going to be a final judgment. That day is going to happen. And it has to be part of our message because God has made it part of our message. And only in the light of that does salvation even make sense at all. What's salvation? Salvation is being delivered from the consequences in that final judgment. A vision of God, a vision of God and His Heavenly Majesty in the midst in the historical context. of a sin laden, sin loving nation Number two, after this vision of God, what we see is the worship of God. It's so cool. It's not simply a vision of God sitting on a throne It's a vision of God sitting on a throne being worshipped. I like that. That reminds me of why I was made. That reminds me of where we are all heading. To be brought into this heavenly worship of God, that again we already are a part of it by faith. The worship of God in verses 3 and 4, back to Isaiah 6. Verses three and four. Above him stood I'm sorry, that's verse two. Verse three. And one called to another and said, Alright, so we're we're back at the temple, back in this vision, the seraphim Surrounding God. And one called to another and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory, and the foundations of the thresholds shook at the voice of him who called, and the house was filled with smoke. There's there's lots of details here that seem small that are quite significant. We don't have time to get into all of them. But one that I want to talk about is the temple shaking. This was a huge, massive monumental building. This was not like a little uh wood-framed house. That that you could eat you could understand shaking. This would have taken a lot of power and it would have been terrifying. I forget what year it was. We had a small earthquake that we felt in South Jersey and Philadelphia area. And I remember where I was. This was Oh man, 10, 12 years ago? I really forget. I didn't look it up. But I remember where I was when it happened in the second floor of a library. and it wa a lot of windows in it and I remember on the the background of the trees what were on the other side of the windows I remember you could literally see the building swaying And I'm alone in the room in a little conference table seeing the building and feeling the building and hearing the building shake. And it was just tiny relatively speaking. And I was terrified. And then I ran into the hallway and everybody was coming out of their offices. And then once it stopped and we just Called our family, called our friends, whatever, just to make sure everybody was okay and just to see how far it was felt. This ex this visionary experience is a whole lot more than just God sitting on his throne. It's really the power of heaven, the power of heaven, the worship of heaven, the glory of heaven, the majesty of heaven coming to bear like Piercing into this realm so that Isaiah can get a taste, a taste, a glimpse, and feel in his body, in all of his senses, the majesty of God. The worship of God. Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. The whole earth is full of God's glory. Everywhere you go on planet Earth, what you'll see in one way or another is part of God's creation That is that is shining forth the wisdom and power of God because it would not exist apart from the wisdom and power of God. It could not be sustained apart from the power and wisdom of God. So whether you're out in the ocean, top of a mountain, in the middle of a desert, middle of a forest, wherever you are, you are seeing God's creation that is living Proof, living illustration of the wisdom and power of God Almighty. The whole earth is full of his glory. The problem is, as sinners, we don't see it as such. We look at it with the wrong lens, and that's why we need scripture to modify the lens, give us the right prescription, the right spiritual prescription, so we can see the world the right way and say, God made this. God is all powerful. God is holding this together. Apart from God who would all just vanish. It's God's world, brothers and sisters. This is God's world. The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. It's God's world. The worship of God. Natural man. Natural mat. Not just natural man. Natural Matt, natural you, despises God's holiness. Because what does natural Matt want to do? What does natural Matt want to live for? The lust of the flesh. The pride of life. Lust of the flesh, lust of the eyes, and the pride of life. That's it. I wouldn't run after sin, run away from God. But, but, in the spirit, in the spirit, we begin to love God's holiness. We begin to cherish God's holiness. We become more and more like these angels where we see God's holiness and we love it. And we see God's holiness and we start singing about it. Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty. And we become more like these angels because in the flesh we ran away from it. We didn't want it because it held us accountable. But now in the spirit, we're running toward it. We want to see more of it. We want to sing more of it. Christians have been set apart in this world to sing more of God's holiness, to sing of God's greatness, to sing of God's wonderful and mighty deeds in the world. Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty. Would you sing it with me? Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty. You see, he's different than what's around us in the world. You understand? That's why the vein is popping out of my forehead. I know that happens when I preach. He's different. His holiness is that which sets him apart. You see, he's the standard of moral perfection. Humans are not the standard. Our natural desires are not the standard of morality. God is the standard. You see, he's highly exalted, highly exalted in majesty So many churches or so-called churches have brought God so far down that their so-called worship is nothing more than religious-themed entertainment. That's not what we need for our souls. Hey, listen, we've got plenty of entertainment. We've got entertainment coming out of our ears. When we come to church, we need to hear of the holiness of God Almighty. We need a sight of the holy, holy, holy Lord God Almighty, the maker of heaven and earth. the standard of moral purity, highly exalted, highly exalted in majesty, perfect in all of his attributes. We can't get that on earth. There's nothing like that on earth. He's other. He's different. He's set apart. He's holy. His highness, his purity, his perfection. That's why the angels worship him And that's why that's the summary of their worship. They know. You see, they're in heaven. And their hearts are not filled with sin. And they don't have a wrong interpretation of the world. They're not selfish beings. They're angels, and they're completely given over to looking upon God. And responding in worship and humbly obeying whatever God commands them to do. Go to earth and do this. The angel does it. They love God. Holiness is that which sets God apart. And then you also see in scripture the idea of holiness and holy being used in a secondary sense Things can be holy to the Lord. Places can be holy to the Lord. People can be holy to the Lord. Israel as a nation was to be holy to the Lord. The church Is to be holy to the Lord, things, people, places that God sets apart to be different. That which is set apart by God. That which is set apart for God Is holy. That's the secondary sense. The primary sense is God Himself, categorically different than everything else Infinitely superior to everything else. You do not worship a small God. You do not worship a boring God. You do not worship a God who condones wickedness. You worship a God who is highly exalted, who is the supreme authority over everything And everybody, and every nation, and every place, and every building, and every home, and every flower garden, and every thought, you worship the God of the universe Who is the sovereign ruler, king, lawgiver, and judge of everybody, and who also is the Savior and Redeemer of the world through Jesus Christ, his only Son. That is who you worship. That is who you worship. Holiness The holiness of God is the most counter -cultural aspect of biblical Christianity. The most counter-cultural aspect of biblical Christianity is the holiness of God. There are other counter-cultural aspects of Christianity But they all flow from God's holiness. For example, the fact that God would bring sinners to judgment is counter-cultural. People don't like that. But the only reason God brings sinners to judgment is because He is Holy. You understand? So the fact that there would be one morality, one absolute mor set of morals that applies to everybody. Is countercultural. People don't like that. But the only reason there's one absolute set of morals for everybody is because God is holy. Living for God truly, you are a fish out of water. You are a citizen of heaven to be like these angels living on earth. You're kind of like Isaiah. Most of the time when I'm preaching, I know what time it is. That's why I like that clock up there. This morning, I just can be honest with you, brothers and sisters. I completely lost track of the time. Can I be honest with you on that? But we have three more points. I will shorten what I have here, okay? Because I know you love God and I know you love preaching, but I also know you love to eat lunch. And so do I. Number three, the conviction of sin. Verse five, the conviction of sin What we witnessed this morning is the proper response to the holiness of God. The conviction of sin in verse 5. I said, Woe is me, for I am lost, for I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips. He understood his context, and he understood himself. And then he says, This, For my eyes have seen the king, the Lord of hosts. This is recording the call of Isaiah to ministry, this chapter, but doesn't it also look like his conversion? He says I'm lost. He says I'm lost. And then later in verse 6, his guilt is taken away and his sin is atoned for. It doesn't necessarily need to be his conversion, but it could be. It could be. The Holy Spirit alone can convince us that we are guilty of sin against God. And that we are inwardly corrupt and need to be saved. That's what conviction is. We are not trying to attract people to outward religion. We are not trying to attract people with worldly means so that we could get bigger or impress somebody. Or feel good about ourselves. Brothers and sisters, what we're striving for, striving together, striving in faith. Striving in prayer, striving in all of our various ministries of the Word. It's not just me who has a ministry of the Word. We all have a ministry of the Word in different ways, whether it's sharing our testimony and explaining the gospel. Or Sunday school teachers or Wednesday night teachers or youth group lessons or whatever. Whatever We're striving in all these different ways because we're praying and crying out that God by His Word and God by His Spirit would convict hearts that they are guilty and need to be saved, and that God by his word and God by his spirit would preach the gospel to the heart and bring sinners to faith. In Jesus Christ. That's what we're striving for. We want souls to be saved by God and for God, by His Word and by His Spirit. Isaiah experiences the conviction of sin when he has a sight of the holiness of God. And when we have a sight of the holiness of God, we should be humbled, and we should have a conviction of sin as well. And this is what the section was going to be, was going through the Ten Commandments. The primary way we see the holiness of God through the Word is by way of God's commandments. God's commandments reflect God's character. They reflect his holy character and they tell us what is required of us to be holy. And when we see that, when we see God's commandments, when we see God's holiness, we see God's character, we see God's moral standards. Basically, that's what the commandments are. We see by way of contrast, we see that we are guilty. We see that we are lawbreakers. We see that we are unholy. We see that we are corrupt. And therefore, therefore, we see we need a Savior. We need to be forgiven. We need to be cleansed. We need Jesus. Conviction of sin. It should be alive and kicking in our lives. It should be hitting on all cylinders as we study God's Word. And number four, the forgiveness of sin. Verses six to seven. The point to end on today is that God has mercy for the unholy. Does that make you glad? God has mercy for the unholy. Verses six and seven. One of the seraphim flew to me, having in his hand a burning coal that he had taken. with tongs from the altar. Which that's the word sacrifices were offered to God. And some of it would drip down on the coals. The coal becomes representative of what the sacrifices point to. The sacrifices point to forgiveness and grace. And verse 7, and he touched my mouth and said, Behold, this has touched your lips, your guilt is taken away, and your sin is atoned for. Taking all of the historical context and all the Bible and the way sacrifices point forward to the work of Christ. Taking a whole lot of day data together , this is a symbol, this is a living illustration of how the blood of Christ must be applied to our souls. To bring us forgiveness and to atone for our sins. The blood of Christ must be applied to our souls to bring us forgiveness and to atone for our sins. That's how we get saved, and that's the gospel. Jesus died as a sacrifice, as an offering, dying in the place of sinners. We're unholy. He wasn't unholy. He was holy. He was perfect. He was righteous. He was obedient. He obeyed the commandments. In heart, mind, word, and deed. He obeyed. He was righteous. But you see, he took our unholiness upon himself. He bore our sin in his body on the tree. He was pierced for our iniquities He died, he hung on the cross for our transgressions, for our law breaking. He bore our guilt. He bore our shame. He bore our penalty. That means carried. He's the sin bearer. He carried our guilt. He carried our shame. He carried our penalty on his shoulders and his body and his soul suffered this anguish, this anguish of receiving the judgment of God. The just judgment of God against my sin. The just judgment of God against your sin. Are you convicted this morning, church? Jesus died for sinners. He died for the unholy. It's an incredible God. He's just and he's righteous and he's holy. And he has this infinite love, this infinite grace, this infinite kindness for unholy sinners like me. And for lawbreakers like us, the love of God, the love of God, you have his law and you have his gospel You have his holiness and you have his grace. And when you have those two pillars, those two pillars of Christian theology, you're on the right track. Oh, cry out to God for a clearer sight of his holiness. Cry out to God daily. Seek him in his word daily for a clearer grasp, a clearer sight of his holiness. And I'll do that too. Let's strive to do that together. That God would humble us, that God would kill the pride that lives within us, that God would convict us of our sin and drive us back to Christ in faith. Strive to see his holiness and strive to see his grace and let it all be for the glory of God. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for The way you have revealed yourself. And we join our hearts in faith and we profess. If you did not reveal yourself, we would not know you. If you did not change our hearts, We would not love you. If you did not change our minds, we would not serve you. But thank you for sending Christ to live a righteous life that we could never live And to die a sacrificial death in our place, to take that penalty that we can never pay, and for bringing him back to life to become a living source of eternal salvation And thank you for your word. And thank you for your spirit. Thank you for your love by which you've saved us. It's in Christ we pray. Amen.