Let's take our Bibles and let's open them to Titus chapter one. Titus chapter one. Titus was a Gentile and he was converted at some point under the Apostle Paul's ministry, and then he was trained by Paul for ministry and he traveled with Paul in ministry. And then Paul leaves Titus on the island of Crete. To continue in ministry with the church, what the church is. And this book of Titus is the Apostle Paul. Now, writing To Titus as he is on Crete to instruct him and to encourage him in the ministry there. Today is Titus chapter 1: The Importance of Truth. If you take truth out of the church, it's like taking the sun out of the solar system. The whole thing would just fall apart. To take the sun out of the solar system, to take the truth out of the church, the whole thing crumbles, and you don't have anything left. To take the truth out of the church, but keep going on and doing the external things of church would be like printing our own money. It may look good with technology today, I'm sure. Some of you out there are smart enough and have the resources where you can create something that looks like real money and It feels like real money and smells like real money. But if you make it yourself, it's not real money no matter how good it looks on the outside. That's how important truth is. To the church. Church is a place of truth, the truth of God. And today that's what we're talking about, the importance of truth. What kind of church do we want to be? Do we need to be? We need to be a church. That's standing on the truth of Almighty God. And why do we come to church? Why do we get up on Sunday and get ready and get out the door and sacrifice our time to come to church? Because we want the truth of God to penetrate our minds. And because we need the truth of God to infiltrate our hearts and to form the way we live, the way we think. What are we trusting in to save souls? What are we trusting in to build the church? Truth. Truth saves. Truth builds. It's the truth of God that we are about. Now just to get us going this morning, let's read verses 1 to 4 in Titus chapter 1. Although the sermon will be on all of chapter 1, let's just get started with verses 1 to 4, and then we'll pray before we go deeper into the message. Titus chapter 1, verse 1. Paul, a servant of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ, for the sake of the faith of God's elect and their knowledge of the truth which accords with godliness in hope of eternal life Which God, who never lies, promised before the ages began. And at the proper time manifested in his word Through the preaching with which I have been entrusted by the command of God, our Savior, to Titus, my true child in a common faith. Grace and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus, our Savior. Let's pray. Father, we ask now as we come under your word that we each one of us truly would humbly submit to the authority of your word. We pray that each one of us would seek you, would seek your will, would seek Christ. In your word, we pray that you would open our minds and hearts to the truth of your word, to the grace that is found in Jesus Christ. That by the power of your word you would further strengthen us and shape us to live for you and for your glory in the world. It's in Christ we ask. Amen. Even though it's just a three -part series on a very small book, I've still given a name to the series as a whole. And I'm calling this mini-series on Titus a true and godly church. A true and godly church. Beloved, that's what we are striving to be, to be a true and godly church. And you can apply that to yourself, and I can apply that to myself. We're to be striving to be true and godly Christians, who are living true and godly lives, who are speaking true and godly words. But a true and godly church. And that comes from the first verse that really stood out to me in Titus 1, verse 1. Paul, a servant of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ. And now he is going to summarize what he's all about, and he says, for the sake of the faith of God's elect and their knowledge of the truth. Which accords with godliness. Did you see those two things? Truth and godliness. A knowledge of the truth Which accords with godliness. There's a knowledge of the truth of God, and it lines up with living for God, godliness, a knowledge of the truth, which accords with the With godliness. Tell you this one one. So that's where I got this title: A True and Godly Church Church means assembly, and it refers to an assembly of people that God has called out of the world. He's called us out of the world. He's brought us together through faith in Christ. He's assembled us together. We are his church. That's what the word church means, assembly. Called out of the general population by God and for God's purposes. And when we think about church and we think about gathering with the church every Sunday, it's a privilege. It's also a duty, and it also is formative, which means something is supposed to be happening in us into it. us as we worship God and come under His Word. It's a privilege which means we get to be here It's a privilege. It's a joy. We get to be the church. And it also is a duty, which means not only do we get to be here, but we have a responsibility to be here. Here. If God has saved you, He's made you a part of the body of Christ. He calls you, He commands you to live out that faith according to His Word, and part of that. Is joining and being a part of the church. It's a privilege, it's a duty. We get to be here, we have a responsibility to be here. But attending church and being a part of the church is also formative. It's one of the things God uses to change us and to mold us and to shape us to live for him and not ourselves. And so in an age of widespread counterfeit Christianity in an age of moral decay in society. God has called us out. God has brought us together. God has set us apart to be a true and godly church. And he gets all the glory for it. He gets 100% of the credit, 100% of the honor, 100% of the glory for what happens in the church. Now, as for the main point, the main point that I want us to contemplate and hopefully remember this morning is that truth leads to godliness. And godliness yearns for truth. So if you have truth That you've embraced the truth of God. That truth is going to lead to godly living. Truth leads to godliness. But as we grow in godly living, part of that is growing in a hunger for the truth. And so now we come back to the truth. When now we come back to God's Word and we come back to preaching and we come back to Bible study. And that truth that we're ingesting Will help us to grow in godliness. And as we grow in godliness, we'll now grow in our desire for the truth. And now we ingest more of the truth. And God helps us grow in godliness. And when we grow in godliness, are you getting the pattern here? The truth of God, when it's received by faith, leads to godly living. And godly living Brothers and sisters, godly living always drives us back to the Word of God. Like beggars Starving, thirsting to death for the truth of God. And then God uses His truth to conform us to the likeness of Jesus Christ. Isn't that a terrific thing? You see, Christianity is not complex. Now it's I know it's difficult because of spiritual warfare. I know that. I'm just saying the structure of it, the architecture is not complex. The truth of God leads to godliness, and that godliness yearns for the truth of God. That's our main point as we talk about the importance of truth. truth. And as we talk about the importance of truth, there's three simple points on your outline. I'll give you all three of them now. And then with our remaining time, we'll open them up as much as we can. Number one, we'll talk about the importance of true preaching. The importance of true preaching. Number two, we'll talk about the importance of true elders. All right, the importance of true preaching and the importance of true elders And then number three, and finally, we will talk about the importance of true doctrine taught by true believers. True doctrine. Doctrine means teaching. It means what we believe and what we teach. That's what doctrine is. It's synonymous with teaching. The importance of true doctrine taught by true believers. Well, now, first on the importance of true preaching. Let's look again at verses 1 to 3. Paul, a servant of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ, for the sake of the faith of God's elect and their knowledge of the truth, which accords with godliness, In hope of eternal life, which God, who never lies, promised before the ages began, and at the proper time manifested in His Word through the preaching See it? Through the preaching with which I have been entrusted by the command of God our Savior. Now I know that's a long sentence that's hard to track with. Can you imagine being in high school and the English teacher asking you to diagram that sentence. But you see the word preaching. Something has been manifested through preaching. He says, at the proper time, that means that at the right time in history, at the time in history that God chose, at the proper time Manifested in his word through the preaching. So something has been unveiled, something has been shown forth through preaching. What is that? Well, there's a lot of phrases here. If you were to diagram this and you were to break this down, it goes back to the phrase, hope of eternal life. Hope of eternal life, which is the gospel, right? The hope of eternal life that Jesus accomplished in the gospel. The hope of eternal life Has now been manifested in God's word through the preaching. In other words, the reality of the hope of eternal life Has come into people's lives through the preaching of the gospel. And you see the way Paul writes this. He talks about God's purpose from all eternity He says, in hope of eternal life, verse 2, in hope of eternal life, which God who never lies promised before the ages began. Right, so Just look at the verse, and this sentence will become easier and easier to understand. Before the ages began, God had a purpose. God had a promise of eternal life in Christ. But now, now Paul's saying, that's come to its fulfillment. Now that's come to its fruition. Now that hope of eternal life that God promised from before the ages began. Now it's been fully manifested in the Word through what? Through preaching. You read the book of Acts You'll see that the church spreads through preaching, through preaching and prayer. You'll see that sinners are saved through preaching and prayer If you look at Christ's earthly ministry, what are the major components? Preaching and prayer. And then also ministry of miracles and compassion. Sinners are saved by the preaching of the gospel, where the eternal life, eternal Life in Christ. The hope of eternal life is manifest to our hearts. This is the importance of preaching. True preaching centers on hope in Christ. That's why, brothers and sisters, We don't get up here and just and just simply talk about morals and what's good and what's bad. Because simply talking about morals and what to do and what not to do, but never preaching the gospel is not going to help anybody. That's not going to help anybody truly and eternally. True preaching centers on hope in Christ. And that's why no matter what passage we're in No matter what topic we're on, we're always at the same time preaching Christ. We're here to preach Christ. God has called us and God has set us apart to preach Christ as the center always. And then everything else revolves around that. Because that's where the transformative power is. That's how sinners can get saved. That's how the saved can get sanctified. That's how the saved can be strengthened to go out in the world and not give up, to go out in the world and live for God and not ourselves. The transformative power. For spiritual growth is always and only the gospel of Jesus Christ. So our preaching must always center on hope. The forgiveness of sins by the blood of Christ, the gift of eternal life That we'll be saved from final judgment, that we'll go to heaven when we die. That will be risen on the last day and dwell forever with God in glory. Hope that this life is not the end. That there's more than the here and now And there's more than money, and there's more than sensual pleasures, and there's more than fame and reputation. Hope of eternality. eternity, the hope of eternal life in Christ. True preaching shapes our identity in Christ. As you see some of these words that Paul uses at the beginning of verse one Paul, a servant of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ, for the sake of the faith of God's elect. Paul sees himself as a servant, and we should see ourselves as servants. Christ is the Master. Christ is Lord of the Church. Pastor is not the Lord of the Church. You are not the Lord of the Church. Our committees are not Lord of the Church. Christ is our master. Now, if we get that wrong, we're in trouble. That's what this whole thing is about. It's about submitting to Jesus Christ as our master and as our God. Coming under his authority. Paul sees himself as a servant. And then Paul is an apostle. He says, and an apostle. Now, we don't have the office of apostle today, but the meaning we still have, the meaning is one who's sent One who is authorized by the king and sent on an official mission. Paul had the office of apostle. We don't have the office of apostle. But with that meaning, that idea, we are those who have been sent by God to be witnesses of Christ in a dark and dying world to shine the light of Christ. We're servants Who have been sent. We see ourselves as representing God and his interests, not representing ourselves and our own interests Which is the definition of selfishness and the opposite of discipleship. Sent, servant, and then he says, for the sake of the faith of God's elect. God's elect. The chosen of God, the saved of God, adopted children of God God has put his love upon you. And eternal love, and infinite love, and unbreakable love has been poured out upon us. We're the elect, God's elect. So, understanding the gospel and understanding true preaching, one of the functions of true preaching is to keep shaping our identity, who we are in Christ, what have we been called to in Christ. True preaching can function like a birth certificate or like a social security card. It tells us who we are Those things tell you who you are. If you get in an accident and have amnesia, those things would help remind you this is who you are. And true preaching functions like that in our lives, like a birth certificate, like a social security number. You belong to Christ. You are a child of God. You have been born again. Heaven, think about this, heaven is your rightful inheritance. What? Yeah, it's true. It's true. If you've been united to Christ by a spirit forged faith, heaven is your rightful inheritance. You are an heir of God and a co-heir of Christ, Romans 8. Preaching, it's one of the central things the preaching does. Is it? You come on Sunday morning and you sit under the Word and the preaching says things like this every week. This is who you are. This is who you are. Remember who you are in Christ. True preaching, the importance of true preaching, centers on the hope of eternal life. It shapes our identity in Christ. We're servants, we're sent, we're the elect, it says God's elect. True preaching sets our purpose. It sets our purpose. True preaching is supposed to remind us of how we ought to live. Look at the end of verse 1 again. For the sake of the faith of God's elect and their knowledge of the truth, which accords with godliness. Now, three things you can extract from that. You can do this quickly. You can do this easily. Three things you can extract from this end portion of verse one. Faith. Knowledge and godliness. All right? Faith, knowledge, and godliness. True preaching is meant to build up faith. A true ministry, any ministry that you have, is meant to build up people in the faith. Not to tear people down, but to build them up in the faith. Faith, but then it also says knowledge of the truth. Do you know why? Because there's no true building up in faith apart from God's truth. God's truth is what builds us up in the faith. It's like building materials, bricks at the work site. You can't build up the wall apart from the bricks. Bringing the bricks over and lining them up and using the mortar and stacking them up. The bricks is how the wall gets built up. The truth is how believers get built up in their faith. And so we're not going for a superficial emotional stirring through storytelling and tugging the hard strings and stirring music. No, no, no. We are ambassadors of the truth of Almighty God. We're here to dispense the truth, to fire-hose the truth, and by the Spirit of God, God will use the truth to build us up in the faith. He says truth, he says knowledge, and he says godliness, which brings us back to that main point, and this is where this is where it comes from. Truth leads to godliness, and then godliness yearns for truth. And all that really just summarizes the mindset of faith. Are you a believer? Are we believers? Then, therefore, we're committed to the truth. We want to grow in the truth. We're hungry for the truth, and God uses his truth to help us advance in godly living. And isn't that what the world needs? Isn't this what isn't this well first of all this is what we need. But this is what the world needs. It needs believers Who love God's truth and are being shaped by God's truth to represent Jesus Christ in the world. That's what God has called us to. I 'll give you a few illustrations of how truth leads to godliness. So, for example, you receive the truth That God loves you, and you receive the truth that Jesus died for you. Well, how does that lead to godliness? Very simple, because when you receive the truth that God loves you, and you receive the truth that Jesus died for you for you Jesus died for you, it fills your heart with gratitude and it fills your heart with love. And the Bible teaches that gratitude and love create obedience in our lives. And so to be a more godly man at home or woman at home or employee at the workplace or wherever, to be a to be a more godly citizen, it always goes back to receiving the truth, being reminded of the truth. That God loves you. Jesus died for you. It fills your heart with gratitude and it fills your heart with love. And that's what enables us. To live for God and not ourselves. When you receive the truth, that God is always there for you. When you receive the truth, that God always hears your prayers, that gives you a comfort and a peace. And that's part of godliness. Peace is one of the fruit of the Spirit. And it makes us prayerful. And that's part of godliness. When we hear the truth that God is there for us and always hears us. When we hear the truth and we receive the truth that we are weak and we are needy and we are dependent upon God. How does that lead to godliness? It makes us desperate. It makes us desperate for God. It makes us to seek after God. That's part of godliness. Seeking God, seeking after God. We receive the truth that God has absolute authority over the world and that God has absolute authority over my life. Now when I receive that truth And when you receive that truth, how does that lead to godliness? It humbles us. It humbles us. It's supposed to The truth of God is not to exalt us on a pedestal. The truth of God exalts God But it humbles us. It brings man low. Now I know that's hard to grasp in our culture where man is the center of everything, and man's intellect is the highest good in the world. The truth of God cuts us down to size and humbles us. It reminds us that God is supreme, God is absolute, God is the authority, He is the judge, He is the lawgiver. God But you see, it's the truth of the doctrine of God that humbles us, and humility is a part of godliness. And you can make this list So long. I'm just giving a few examples of how the truth leads to godliness in particular ways. Think about the truth, the various truths of what's sinful. We receive the truth that lying is a sin. And we receive the truth that God hates lying and God hates sin. How does that lead to godliness? Very simple. It grieves our hearts And then we pray for repentance. And then God answers our prayer for repentance, and then there's a repentance. Now, our repentance in this life will always be imperfect. But you can still have true repentance as the truth, the truth of what is sinful comes into our lives. And there's lots of those things. Comes into our ears, rather. The truth of God regarding sin comes into our ears. It grieves our hearts, and we cry out to God, and then God sanctifies us. Truth leads to godliness. Godliness yearns for truth. Now I said earlier, that's the main point. If that's all you take home, I'm good with that. I'm good with that. If that main point would be the guiding main point of your life from this day forward, I'm good with that. That the truth of God leads to godliness, and that godliness will increase within me a desire for the truth. So I go back to the truth. And you grow in godliness. And you go back to the truth. And you grow in godliness. All for the glory of God. All for the glory of God. The opposite is also true. Error leads to godlessness, and then godlessness delves deeper and deeper into error. You see, the opposite of this is also true. False doctrine leads to wickedness. And wickedness will go deeper into false doctrine. Errors and lies leads to Sin. And sin causes us to go deeper and deeper into errors and lies. That's why we need to be saved. That's why we need the Holy Spirit. We're trying to do this on our own. All it would be Just be man-made religion and sin dressed up nicely to be presentable. But it wouldn't be true. We want to be a true and godly church. Right at the center of this is true preaching. True preaching that centers on the hope in Christ, that shapes our identity in Christ. And that sets our purpose in Christ in faith, knowledge, and godliness. Now, number two, the importance of elders. Now, this is Verses 4 to 9, the importance of elders. Verse 4, to Titus, my true child, in a common faith. Grace and peace from God our Father and Christ Jesus our Savior Verse 5, this is why I left you in Crete, so that you might put what remained into order and appoint elders in every town as I directed you. So whatever else Paul is teaching and encouraging Titus in this book, one specific thing Paul is calling Titus to do is appoint elders in every town. He had different local churches in these different towns on the island, but they need elders. Elders is the same office as pastor. In the Bible, there's different names for this office. It's pastor or overseer or elder. Sometimes you'll see the word shepherd. That's just what pastor. Shepherd means pastor. Pastor means shepherd. Paul is commanding Titus to appoint elders or pastors in every town. He says, as I directed you. So Paul had already told him to do this. He already told him this is how the church is to be organized. This is the government of a local church. First, elders, biblical elders. And then let's go just one piece at a time. Five different components here. We'll do them quickly, but for true elders, first of all, they have to have a proper character. A proper character. So look at the very beginning of verse 6. If anyone is above reproach, all right, if anyone is above reproach, the husband of one wife. He's above reproach. That means there's no charge you can bring against him. He's not known for losing his temper. He's not known for a particular sin. some kind of public or scandalous or just a habit of unrepentant sin, his character, his character, verse seven also, for an overseer as God's steward, that's important. An overseer is a steward of God's church. When you're a steward, you're taking care of somebody else's property. So when you dog sit, you're a steward. It's not your dog. It's somebody else's dog, but you're a steward for two weeks And the the elders, the pastors are stewards of God's church. It's not our church. It's not your church, except where we belong to it. I'm talking about ownership and authority over. That's what I'm talking about. It's his church. We're stewards, but it says, it says he must be above reproach. Now that's the second time he said that. He's talking about the character, the character of the elder. And you can write this down if you're taking notes. If you're not, maybe you can write it on your arm for later. Elders aren't the only ones called the Christian character. Amen. Elders are not the only ones called to Christian character. Every single one of us is called to pursue godliness and the character of Christ. Every one of us. It's just that if you if you're not if you don't have Christian character, you're not an option for serving as an elder And again, we can throw the I-word in here, just like we talked about repentance earlier. You have to qualify it with the I-word, imperfect. Every person on this earth, even the most mature Christian on this earth, is still imperfect while they live on this earth. But there's a difference between one who's qualified to serve as an elder and one who's not. But we all strive in Christian character and then conduct. The end of verse 7 into verse 8. Elders ' conduct. Or an overseer's conduct. An overseer as God's steward must be above reproach. And now here's the conduct. He must not be arrogant or quick-tempered or a drunkard or violent or greedy for gain. But hospitable, a lover of good, self-controlled, upright, holy, and disciplined. See the character And the conduct. And then leadership, the end of verse 6. And his children are believers, or his children are faithful. Just interpreted or translated rather in different ways. His children are believers and not open to the charge of debauchery or insubordination. So there's a leadership in the home. Leadership in the home, which Is a prerequisite for leadership in the church. And then he must be sound in doctrine. Verse 9, the very beginning, he must hold firm to the trustworthy word as taught. He must hold firm to the trustworthy word as taught. Importance of true elders. They must have Christ-like character, Christ-like conduct, Christ-like leadership. And the doctrine of Christ, they must have it down. They must know it thoroughly, the gospel of Jesus Christ. The doctrine of salvation. The doctrine of the local church. Doctrine of God. Not that you're fully formed in those things, you're done learning. I'm still learning. I'm certainly not done learning and growing in doctrine. But you have to have a firm grasp and a full embrace of the truths, the core truths of the Bible, to serve as an elder. And finally, the gift of teaching, because it's more than just knowing doctrine, the gifts of teaching or preaching. This is the end of verse 9. So that he may be able to give instruction in sound doctrine and also to rebuke those who contradict it. Now, the first one is the fun one. Alright, you see those two things that he's called to? Give instruction and sound doctrine. That's the fun one. Now what's the next one? Yeah, rebuke, refute. He must hold firm to the trustworthy word as taught. Why? So that he may be able to give instruction and sound doctrine and also to rebuke those who contradict it. That's not so fun. That's uncomfortable. But that's equally important. Two parts of being an elder is the speaking and the proclaiming and the silencing. Because God 's church has no room, has no place for heresy, for anti -biblical false teaching. Do you know why that is? Well, first of all, ultimately, because it doesn't honor God. It's not according to God's will. But practically, because false teaching The error that he's talking about here, those who contradict sound doctrine, that's what it says, those who contradict, those who contradict sound doctrine, those errors do not lead to godliness. Those errors lead to godlessness. Yes, but they're so religious. It feels so good, and everybody's on board. And don't you see how fast we're growing and the numbers are coming in and everybody's enjoying it and then there's fun programs for the children and there's there's groups for socializing for the adults and we're having these These wonderful events, that the community l is applauding our events. Yes, but if there's no truth If the teaching contradicts sound doctrine, God is getting no glory. God is being publicly defamed by all that religion. That's why we need to pray and strive and hunger to be a true and godly church, not just a church The importance of true elders. Now, the number one job of elders is to maintain true preaching. It's to maintain true preaching and to silence And confront any teaching that contradicts true biblical doctrine. Number three, the importance of true doctrine taught by true believers. True doctrine taught by true believers. And here I'm broadening out this idea. We're still on the main point of The truth leads to godliness, and godliness yearns for truth. And also keeping in mind the converse of that, the error leads to wickedness, and wickedness takes you deeper and deeper into error. But you see, it's not just me that's called to this. You are called to represent the truth. You are called to know the truth To embrace the truth and to teach and share the truth and stand up for the truth. And you'll see this in verses 10 to 16. The importance of true doctrine, true doctrine taught by true believers. Let's read 10 to 16 as a whole. There are many who are insubordinates, empty talkers, and deceivers. Especially those of the circumcision party. They must be silenced, since they are upsetting whole families by teaching for shameful gain what they ought not to teach. One of the Cretans, a prophet of their own, said, Cretans are always liars, evil beasts, lazy gluttons. I'll just pause right there for a second. Why would Paul quote this cultural saying, this Cretan saying right now about liars, evil beings? and lazy gluttons because he's applying that to the false teachers who have infiltrated the church. And that's what category he's putting these false teachers in. Liars, evil beasts, lazy gluttons. Verse 13: This testimony is true. Therefore, rebuke them sharply That they may be sound in the faith, not devoting themselves to Jewish myths and the commands of people who turn away from the truth. To the pure, all things are pure. That's believers. But to the defiled and unbelieving, nothing is pure. That's unbelievers. But both their minds and their consciences are defiled. They profess to know God, but they deny him by their works. They are detestable, disobedient, unfit for any good work. It's pretty strong language, yes? Just for teaching things that contradicts the Bible? Yes, yes Because what the Bible teaches, brothers and sisters, is everything. Everything is based on that. If you lose the truth, it's like taking the sun out of the solar system If you lose the truth, we're just printing our own money. It's not worth anything. It all crumbles apart. No matter how good it looks to man. The question is, does it glorify God? Is it true? Is it leading to godliness? Which is leading us back to the truth, and God's getting more glory. And we're growing in godliness, and God's getting more glory That's what church is about. God getting glory by conforming sinners to the likeness of Christ by the power of his truth. And that's what this church needs to be about. The glory of God, the power of God, and the truth of God. That conforms us to the likeness of Christ. And that gets you excited. You're happy about that. That's worth living for The second we breathe, our last breath, will immediately be separated from all earthly treasure. Isn't that a sobering thought? But what you have in Christ will last. What you have in Christ will last. In fact, not only will the blessings that you have in Christ, not only will they last, but you'll be lifted to a higher experience of them. As your soul departs the body, and your soul is perfectly sanctified, your soul is made 100% righteous, and your soul enters into heaven and dwells in the throne room of God, in the presence of the ancient of days, in the presence of the risen Christ, in the presence of all the angels, in the presence of all departed saints. to be perfect, to be in heaven with God. That's where you're going if you're in Christ now. And that's why the gospel is so important. Because faith in Christ, based on the gospel, is the only way you can have that inheritance. The good news of Jesus Christ: that he died on the cross for our sins. And he was risen to eternal life to forgive us and to reconcile us to God. That's the gospel. Maybe you're here today. You haven't put your faith in Christ based on that gospel yet. Maybe you've been resisting. Maybe God has been working in your life and tugging at your heart Drawing you to the gospel, drawing you to salvation. Maybe there's something in you that's resisting that. Well, today you can put that aside and believe in Jesus Christ Maybe you've just been straight up rebelling. Maybe there's a sinful habit in your life Maybe there's a sinful hobby in your life that you're just not ready to give up yet. We all can relate to that, amen. Not ready to give up what call what God clearly has called us to give up Maybe you've been rebelling, but this morning, this moment, you can lay that aside and humble yourself. And believe in Jesus Christ and be forgiven and be reconciled to God. And be, as he said earlier, God's elect And you can, from this moment on, give your life to pursuing the truth of God and growing in godliness. For the glory of God. Maybe you've been resisting. Maybe you've been rebelling. You can put those aside today and come to Christ. Maybe you've been running. Maybe you've been doing. Everything you could think of just to keep yourself away from dealing with God. And avoiding the truth. We all have to come to grips with this truth. But what needs to happen We all need to come to grips with the fact that one day we are going to die and step into eternity. And stand before God, who made us, who gave us life, who's offering us eternal life. We will stand before God And then what? Brothers and sisters, friends, then what are we going to do? What are we going to do? How are we going to be justified in his sight? That's the question. There's only one way to be justified in God's eyes: union With Jesus Christ. Union with Jesus Christ. Today, because he died on the cross for sins Because he rose to eternal, imperishable life, today , sinner, you can be made spiritually one with Jesus And you can have the hope of eternal life. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for Jesus and all He's made available. Thank you for your grace. Thank you for the hope of eternal life that you promised before the ages began, but have now made manifest through the preaching of your word. I pray for myself, my family. my friends, everyone in this church, everyone in this room, I pray that you'd work mightily in our lives That all the more we'd give ourselves to your truth, and all the more you'd enable us to increase in godliness And God, we pray that at every single point, every single moment, we would remember that it's all for your glory and not ours. In Christ we pray. Amen.