Let's take our Bibles and turn to 1 John chapter 4. Today we're looking at 1 John 4, verses 9 Now, typically our preaching is working through a book of the Bible, but for December, we're doing an Advent series. Today we're looking at the arrival of perfect Love. The arrival of perfect love. Again, that's 1 John 4, verses 9 and 10. In Christ, God's perfect love arrived on earth. To bring salvation to whoever would believe in him. It is the central miracle of human history. Jesus lived a righteous life Jesus died a sacrificial death in the place of sinners, and Jesus rose again to eternal life. In Christ, God's perfect love arrived on earth to bring salvation to whoever would believe in him. You can file this message under Goals for twenty twenty six. All right? Goals For 2026. Not that you can't have any other goals. I'm just saying, put this message in that category. Where each of us would purpose in our hearts in 2026 To seek and to savor God's perfect love like never before. Seek His love, savor his love like never before. It's a good goal to have. Amen? In Christ, God's perfect love arrived on earth to bring salvation to whoever would believe in him. Now I'm going to give just a couple definitions before I read the passage and pray, and I want to give these definitions so that we understand the topic of Perfect love. Okay? Love is sincere affections towards you And a genuine commitment to seek your well-being. That's what love is. Now there are different kinds of love, but in general, that's what love is. Sincere affections toward you, and a genuine commitment to seek your well -being. That's the opposite of hate, right? Now, perfect love, perfect is that which has no equal. Perfect has no defects. Perfect has no shortcomings. Perfect makes no mistakes. Now we can love each other truly, but we cannot love each other perfectly. And that's why we need God's help in all of our relationships. Perfect love, the arrival of perfect love. Now let's read this passage in 1 John 4, verses 9 and 10. In this, the love of God was made manifest among us. That God sent his only son into the world so that we might live through him. And this is love. Not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. And if you can stick it out to the end of the message, you'll get the definition of propitiation, unless you know it already. I know most of you know that word already. But none of us know what that word means the first time we hear it. We have to learn that. I had to learn that. I didn't uh roll out of bed one day and automatically know what propitiation means, but I'm telling you, if you can stick it out, if you get the definition of propitiation, you have got the core of Christianity down. It is all about propitiation. But you'll have to wait. That comes at the end. Because this is at the end of the passage. Alright, let's give this time over to the Lord in prayer, and we'll go deeper into the message. Father, we ask now that you would open our hearts to your word. Let us be eager to receive your grace and your wisdom. And your correction. Let us be seeking you in our hearts, open our minds to the truths of your word. And we pray now, God, that by your word and by your spirit, that you would faithfully And mercifully and mightily administer your grace to our hearts for the sake of Christ, and in his name we pray. Amen. The word Advent comes from a Latin word adventus, and it means the coming or arrival of something. And in an old Latin Bible, this word Adventus was used to refer to the future second coming. The arrival of Jesus Christ. And it represents waiting. Waiting for the Lord's coming. Waiting for the Lord's advent Or waiting for the Lord's arrival. But connected to that is waiting for the Lord's arrival and all the blessings that will come with him when he arrives. Now the Advent season is interesting because we're talking about waiting for the Lord's arrival in a couple different ways. Saints of old, saints before the first coming of Christ, were waiting for God's arrival. They were waiting for God's salvation Now, on this side of the first coming of Christ, we're not waiting for God to come and accomplish salvation. We are waiting for Christ to come and complete salvation. The salvation and bring about the eternal kingdom and the eternal state. So saints of old were waiting for the advent of the Lord, his first advent Right now we are waiting for the second advent, the second arrival, that final arrival of the Lord, and that's what the season is about, Advent. It's about remembering how saints of old were patiently and eagerly awaiting the coming of the Christ. And it reminds us that even now today, but in a different way historically, we are awaiting, patiently and eagerly awaiting the coming of Christ to consummate his kingdom. It's a season of waiting for God and all the blessings that He brings. Now, why is this important? Why do we need to hear of God's love? Why do we need to hear of God's love? Because only perfect love can give rest to the soul and satisfy our deepest longing. I'll repeat that because that's the main point I hope will be impressed upon our hearts this morning. Only perfect love can give rest to the soul and satisfy our deepest longing. Have you realized yet that the world and that the things in the world Cannot give you a true and lasting peace in the heart? Have you noticed yet that the allurements And the pleasures of the world do not deliver on their promises to satisfy you and to make everything all right and to give a true and lasting comfort to your soul. Friends, that's because the human heart was made by God, and the human heart was designed by God such that it can only find true rest. In God. And he can only find a full and true lasting satisfaction in God. And without God, we will always have This hole in our hearts, so to speak, that the things in the world Cannot fill and cannot satisfy, but the perfect love of God is fit for the task. Small things can fill small holes. If you have a small hole, a small amount of dirt will do. If you have a small gas tank, a small amount of gas will do. And small meals can fulfill small appetites. Small solutions are totally fine for small problems But the problem, the whole, the issue for the human heart is that we have a void That can only be filled with the infinite love of God Almighty. We need to be in fellowship with God. That is what will give rest to the soul. Is fellowship with God. That is what will satisfy our deepest longings. Fellowship with God. Now that's not what the world tells us. That's the opposite of what the world tells us. That's the opposite of what our pride tells us. The world in our product tells us to chase after what? Chase after things. All you need is more stuff. All you need is more valuable stuff. All you need is more money. All you need is more people to like you All you need is more attention. All you need, and then you fill in the blank with some temporal earthly treasure or temporal fleeting earthly pleasure. But at the end of the day, no matter how much of those things we amass, our souls will be unsatisfied. They will not be at rest We need fellowship with God. And the point is, only God's perfect love can bring us into fellowship with Him, and that comes through Jesus Christ Matthew 11, 28 is a really important verse, and it's one of the verses where Jesus gives a direct invitation to sinners. And he says, Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. And the next verse clarifies that he's talking about rest for the soul, not rest for the body. Rest for the soul. Jesus will give rest For the soul to whoever comes to him. Maybe today it's the day where you come to Jesus Christ in faith. I pray that that would happen. Because I don't want you to have this Unsatisfied deep longing in your soul and constant lack of rest for your soul. Want that to be remedied by fellowship with God. Come to Jesus Christ and He will give you rest. Now, talking about the arrival of perfect love in Christ, it's because of Jesus that we have at our fingertips, which just means available to us. We must receive it by faith, but it's available to us, it's at our fingertips. Because of Jesus, a perfect love that number one comes from a perfect being. Number two, it is expressed in the perfect gift Number three, it is experienced by a perfect power. Number four, it reveals perfect grace. And number five, It reveals that perfect grace, number five, through the perfect sacrifice. Now, number one, perfect love that comes to us from a perfect being. You see this scattered throughout the passage. If you look again at verse 9, in this the love of God, that's our key word, God, and then later in that same verse God sent, right? So God is sending something, God is sending someone, but that's the next point. But you have God, and then you have God, and then in verse 10, you have God. It's not that we have loved God, but that He, that's God, He loved us. And He sent His Son. This is about God and his love, and then what he did because of that love, or what he did as an expression of that love. If you say that you love someone, if you feel like you love someone, make sure you're expressing that love in loving words and loving action. Love, the love of God that expresses itself. And this love that we're talking about comes from a perfect being, it comes from God. That's our first key word. God Now I love you, but I love you with an imperfect love, because I am an imperfect being. And spouses, you're to love your spouse. But that will always be an imperfect love, because we are imperfect beings Children are to love your parents. Parents are to love your children. But that is and will continue to be an imperfect love. Because why? We are imperfect beings. And that's why we must daily depend upon God. You do not just depend on God one time to get saved and then stop depending on God. No, no, no. That's just when it gets started. That's when you jump in the pool We live our whole lives depending on God for everything, and one of those things is that we might grow in our love for each other, for our family members, and for our neighbors, and for those we work with. And according to Scripture, we're to love our enemies. But that none of that comes naturally. You see? This comes from the Holy Spirit. So we have to grow in our love. We are imperfect beings with an imperfect love, but there's a perfect love that comes from a perfect being. So let's talk about this perfect being. Let's talk about God, the source of perfect love. Now, a lot of what people call God today is in fact just a figment of the imagination. You might begin with philosophy and work your way up to an idea of God. You might begin with nature and then work your way up to a theory about God. Or you might begin with popular opinion of culture, and there you have it, that's God. But those are just arbitrary Imaginations of imperfect people. A true understanding of God does not come from us working up, but from God working down. God, transcendent and majestic and holy above us, reveals Himself to us. And when you read Scripture, that's what you see. God appearing, God speaking, God working, God revealing Himself so that You and I could have a true understanding of who God is and have a true relationship with Him. That we might know him, love him, and serve him according to truth, not according to speculation. This is not speculation, church This is church based on God's truth. I've said this before, and help me to keep saying this. God has brought us together by his truth and for his glory. And we never move on from his truth. That's always the foundation of what we believe, teach, and do, and how we're to strive to live on the foundation of truth. For his glory. And a lot of problems in our relationships come from we think we know what someone else is thinking. We assume we know their motives. But most of the time what we're doing is reading motives into them. And we're reading thoughts into them that they're not thinking and they're not intending. Does any of this sound familiar? Does any of this sound like some of the reason behind some of the issues and arguments and tensions and issues and problems in our relationships. We think we know why you did that. You did this because dot dot. How do you know why they did that? Man, maybe they just messed up. Maybe they just forgot. We're all sinners. And we're all weak and we all have shortcomings and we all make mistakes. But, beloved, please hear this. Not every mistake that someone makes in your life is from conscious malice and evil intent against you. Have patience with your loved ones. Show them the grace and mercy of Jesus Christ. Think the best of them. Think well of them. How come we don't How come it's not our impulse to read into them the best motives in the world, but the worst motives in the world? That's because we're imperfect beings and we're sinful beings and we need the help of God. But God is not like us. That's the point. God is the perfect being. When we try to work our way up to God, we can only create an idea of God that resembles creation. But the very first point about God is that he is uncreated. You see, man cannot work his way up to God. God must work his way down to man, and that's exactly what he has done. God is uncreated. He's not like created things. He's not like trees. He's not like us. Now we are like God in some ways, in some ways, but we are created beings who are depending on On God. God is an uncreated being, and He's not depending on us. We are limited in power, but God is unlimited in power. He doesn't need to breathe. He doesn't need to eat. He doesn't need to draw strength from me. He doesn't need our help. He graciously purposes to use us to accomplish his per to accomplish his plans. But God does not need us. God does not, are you hearing this? God does not lack anything such that he would need us for strength, wisdom, or power in any way ever. God is self-sufficient, wholly dependent on nothing outside of himself. We are morally sinful, but God is pure and holy. We are imperfect, but God is perfect. And that's why false ideas of God cannot give rest to the soul. False ideas of God cannot satisfy our deepest longing. False ideas of God are just our ideas bouncing back at us. What we need is the true knowledge of God. False ideas of God are just our ideas reflected back. It's like the moon trying to produce its own light. It won't work. It's like our stomach trying to produce its own food. It won't work. Likewise, our souls Must seek God above, not to create an idea of God from below. Perfect love from a perfect being. Now we've got to get our hearts settled that this is about God Otherwise, brothers and sisters, all we have is external religion. God's will for us is to have a relationship with him and to walk in daily communion with him, to have a true knowledge and enjoyment of who he is. And so this is not a subpoint. This is more than an introductory point. This is the heart of everything, God, and the truth of who he is, a perfect being the creator of the universe and the savior of sinners. This perfect love that Jesus has brought to us Not only from a perfect being, but it's expressed in the perfect gift. This also is scattered throughout. If we look at these verses again, first of all, verse 9. In this, the love of God was made manifest. And that means that here's how it was shown, here's how it was revealed, here's how it came to us. That's what manifest means. And then he says how it was made manifest: God sent his only son into the world. That's the gift. You see, the son of God is the gift of God The Son of God is the supreme gift of God. If you can get your hands on that gift, you don't need anything else for your eternal well-being. If you receive the gift, Of the Son of God, as given from God above, you have everything you need for life, for godliness, and for eternity. Jesus Christ, He's the gift of God's love. Sent his only son. And then verse 10. He doesn't say something different. He says the same thing. He loved us and sent his son. Jesus is the gift. That's why this Christmas season is all about what? All about gift giving. Gifts and gift giving and beings trying to be sacrificial. In our giving is to help us remember that God has given the greatest gift. God is the giver of gifts. And Jesus is the best gift, the Son, the perfect being, God Almighty, has sent the perfect gift, God the Son. Now I can get you gifts from Walmart if that's what you would like. I can get you a gift card to Chick-fil-A. Maybe some of you want cash. I can get you a little cash, a little bit of cash. I can make you something. My children like to make me things for Christmas. And they are simultaneously incredibly cute and really ridiculously funny as well. If you come into my office sometimes, I'll show you one or two from my kids. But you there's different gifts we can give, but nothing that I can give you and nothing you can give me can help our standing before a holy God. Right. Nothing that I can give you or that you could give me can give us rest for our souls or satisfy our deepest longings. And that's the point. Maybe this is the deeper point. Even if I Did have a perfect love for you, which I don't because I can't because I'm a sinner. But even if I did have the perfect love for you, I do not have the resources To provide the perfect gift for you and reconcile your soul to God. So the perfect being is first who gives the perfect gift. That's second, that's the Son. Now the context of the book of 1 John is you it's it's the first generation of the church, the first generation of Christians, and in this context, a lot of them are struggling with is Jesus enough? To sanctify them? Is Jesus enough to save them? And so some of them were falling for heretics who were infiltrating the church. Trying to add to the gospel, trying to change the gospel with a higher knowledge, a higher, maybe a deeper spirituality that was adding to Christ for salvation and for what you need for rest for your soul. And therefore, when you do that, you destroy the gospel. When you add to Christ As the remedy for sin. When you add to Christ as the source of salvation, you destroy the true gospel. But many of these Christians were struggling with: is Jesus enough? Don't I need a higher knowledge? I feel like I need more. I feel like I need a deeper spiritual experience. I feel like Jesus isn't enough. So John, one of the things John is doing is hammering home, hammering home the true gospel that Jesus is all you need to be saved. Jesus is all you need to be right with God. Jesus is all you need to be able to live for God in holiness. Jesus is all you need to have assurance for your soul. And he hammers this home, and I want to give you some sample verses from 1 John, showing you how John is hammering this home. And if you have Jesus, you have all you need. If you have Jesus, you have eternal fellowship with God Almighty. 1 John 2. 23. Whoever confesses the Son. Has the Father also? Now is that clear or is that clear? If you confess Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, of course, that's based on the true gospel It's got to be based on truth. If you confess Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, here's what John says: you have the Father also. Therefore, you do not need to add anything else to that plan to gain fellowship with the Father. If you have the Son, you have the Father, by the way, that's not in the verse, but by the way, you also have the Holy Spirit. Amen? He had the Holy Spirit. 1 John 2. 28. Abide in Him. That means walk in Him. Keep walking in fellowship with Christ. Abide in Him. So that when he appears we may have confidence and not shrink back from him in shame at his coming. Confidence. When Christ comes in judgment, when Christ comes in judgment, we have confidence on that day because we know we are safe and secure. Because of Christ, and we're not shrinking back in shame and guilt when Christ returns. Why? In Christ. Abide in Him. In Him. In fellowship with Christ. We have confidence that we will not fall under judgment. Is that good news, right? Good news. Amen? That's it. That's everything right there 1 John 4, 15 and 16. Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him, and he in God. So we have come to know and to believe the love that God has for us. God is love. Whoever abides in love abides in God, and God abides in him. By way of the Holy Spirit. That's how God lives in you by way of his Holy Spirit that he's poured out into your heart. Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him and he in God. What does that mean that God abides in him and that he in God? It means that that person who confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, it means that that person has a relationship with God that will never end. That's all that means. You've been spiritually united with the Creator of the universe. Can you imagine such a thing? The infinite, eternal, unchanging Perfectly holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty, has brought sinners like us into eternal communion with himself. Blessed be the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, because it is by his blood that this is possible. And the final one here, 1 John 5, 11 and 12, this is the testimony God gave us eternal life. And this life is in his son. Whoever has the son has life. Whoever does not have the son of God does not have life. If you have Christ, you have eternal life. If you have Christ, you have a relationship with God that will never end. If you have Christ, You will never fall under the judgment and the wrath of God if you have Christ. Would you come to Christ today? Maybe you've been putting it off. Maybe you think you need to go out and prove yourself. Maybe you think you need to straighten yourself out first. Maybe you're scared that if I come to Christ, then there's all these other things I'll have to do to earn my salvation. That's not our message. That's not the Bible's message. The message is based on his righteous life. Based on a sacrificial death, and based on his resurrection, if you believe in him as Savior, you have eternal life If you believe in Him as your Savior, you are reconciled to God. All your sins are forgiven. Can you imagine? All your sins, all the guilt of all your sins. Is forgiven, and you'll never come under the judgment of God. All those blessings are found in Christ. In Christ is where you need to be. Oh, I plead with you that you would put your sincere faith in Christ. The place you get saved, where you get saved, where it happens, is not in this building somewhere, of walking here or walking there, or kneeling down, or doing something. The place you get saved is in your heart. It is with the heart that one believes. Believe in Jesus in your heart, and you are immediately saved. Immediately Immediately saved, reconciled to God forever. Picture uh A pool with supernatural powers. It has healing powers. But in order to share in its healing blessings, in order to receive its healing powers, you've got to jump in the pool Now that's an illustration for Christ. All the blessings of salvation are found in Christ, but you've got to get in Christ. And the way you get in Christ is by believing in him as your Savior, believing in him. And you will be saved. The best gifts in the world are still imperfect. And the the definition of imperfect when we're talking about these gifts of the world, Walmart, Chick-fil-A, cash, little things, Jordan, that you make me every year Which I love. But imperfect gifts, by definition, what do they do for us? They always leave us needing more. That's engraved, engrave that on your heart. The things of this world The gifts of this world always leave us needing more. And oftentimes it can go in a sinful direction. They leave us And lead us to want more than lust after more than we shouldn't. That we shouldn't lust after and want. They leave us needing more. But the perfect gift from the perfect being. Provides everything we need. It provides us rest for the soul and satisfies our deepest longings. Perfect love that Jesus brings is from a perfect being Expressed in the perfect gift, which is Himself, Jesus Christ. And number three, experienced by a perfect power. Now this comes from one verse, experienced by a perfect power. This comes from one phrase. In verse nine. This point comes from the last phrase in verse nine. Okay? Live through Him. That's what God wants us to do. To live through him. AKA Live in Fellowship with Jesus. AKA have a relationship with Jesus. God wants us to live through Him, to be filled with His Spirit. To be led by his word, that he would be our mediator between us and God, our priest, our prophet, our king, our bridge, our go-between, our path to heaven, our mediator. Live through him. How does Satan want you to live? Satan wants you to live apart from fellowship with Jesus God wants you to live through Him, experiencing His power and love every day of your life. How does our own sinful pride want us to live? Our own sinful pride wants us to live not depending on Jesus. But God wants us to live through Him, depending on Him for strength, depending on Him for help. Depending for him, depending on him for wisdom in tough situations in life. Don't you need God's wisdom in life? To depend on him for endurance through the sufferings and trials of life. Do you feel it? Do you feel you need God to give you endurance? Through this life under the curse of sin and death, to live through Jesus is the best way to live. And it's the only way to live under the favor of God for all eternity. Satan doesn't want us to live through him Our pride doesn't want us to live through him. That's why we have to pray every day, every morning, go to God in prayer, so that we don't fall prey to Satan and to our own sinful pride. How does the world around us want to live? The culture around us? The society at large? How does the world around us and all the distractions of the world They want us, the world and the distractions of the world, want us, want me to be negligent in prayer. They want us to be inconsistent in worship, thinking it's not that big a deal. And they want us to be apathetic toward the Bible and longing for it, loving it, reading it, hearing it, ingesting it, dying for it, delighting in it. They want us to be indifferent to sin. Because if the world can get us to be indifferent to sin , Then we will immediately stop repenting of sin for the glory of God. The world wants us to have a distaste for holiness. Because if the world can get us to have a distaste for holiness, we will immediately stop crying out to God daily to sanctify us into the likeness of Jesus Christ. God doesn't want any of those things for us. God wants us to live through Jesus Christ, to be zealous in prayer, to be passionate about worshiping our God. To be hungry for the Bible, to have a hatred for sin so that we might flee from it. And to love holiness so that we might cultivate it by the grace of God and by the work of His Spirit. If you do anything in life Live through Jesus. And the way you do that is through faith. You look to Him and you believe. That is every brick on this road of Christian living. Every brick is a brick of faith. Therefore, every step Is a step of faith. Live through him. And friend, when you live through him, you daily experience The power of God in your life. To give rest to your soul in a restless world. And to satisfy your deepest longings. In a world where you're surrounded by things that cannot give you satisfaction. Number four, this perfect gift reveals a perfect grace. This comes from verse 10, and it comes from Two phrases in verse 10. And I am sorry, I have to pick up the pace. I won't be able to expound these the way that you want me to. But this point on grace comes from two phrases. The first phrase is not that we loved God. Alright. Not that we loved God. Verse 10, and this is love, not that we have loved God. In other words, to get our definition of love, we don't look at the way that we have treated God. No way, Jose. We do not look at the way we've treated God in order to get our definition of love. And then also for our sins. For our sins. The last phrase in verse 10. So we have not loved God. And we have sinned, so we need a propitiation for our sins. And that means this gift, by definition, is a gift of grace, because it's a gift that we do not deserve. It's an undeserved kindness, an undeserved favor. That's what grace is. Perfect love from a perfect being expressed in the perfect gift to be experienced by a perfect power, the power of God in our lives that reveals a perfect grace. Not that we have loved God, rather we have sinned. Grace and undeserved kindness. Grace is when you forgive someone for wronging you. Is there anyone in your life This week, right now, that you need to forgive and show grace. Grace is praying for someone who is clearly against you Grace is blessing and giving a gift to even to someone who has slandered you. Grace is a gift, a kindness that's not earned, not worked for, not deserved, but it's a great kindness that God showers upon us. Number five, this grace comes through a perfect sacrifice. This comes in verse 10, propitiation. Propitiation is a blood sacrifice that turns away the wrath of God. See? I was faithful on that promise. I promised you, I would give you a definition. Propitiation is a blood sacrifice that turns away the wrath of God. Now we are sinners. By nature, we're sinners. We've sinned against God. So we rightly deserve the wrath of God. And before I had come to faith, before I received salvation, I was alienated from Christ and rightly under the wrath of God. Right? And the wrath of God was hanging over me. And I needed salvation. I needed rescue. I needed to be delivered from the wrath of God. Well now here's where it comes in, Jesus Christ dying on the cross. Jesus died on the cross as a propitiation for our sins. He died on the cross as a blood sacrifice that turns away the wrath of God. Because it satisfies divine justice. It satisfies the penalty for sin. Jesus died as a substitute. He took our sins as his own on the cross. He took our guilt as his own on the cross. He took the judgment that we deserved as his own on the cross. And he died for us so that we would never, ever have to taste. And experience the wrath of God for our sins. That's propitiation. A blood sacrifice that turns away, that bats away the wrath of God never to return. over our heads. And that's how you can be saved. That's how you can gain access to heaven. That's how you can have the guarantee of resurrection. On the last day, that's how you come into fellowship with God and can live through Christ. This is the perfect love of God. Would you receive the perfect love of God in your heart? Would you look to Christ? Look to his propitiation on the cross and believe in him as your Savior? If you do that, you do that right now, in your heart, invisibly, trust in Christ, your sins are forgiven. You are reconciled to God. You have the gift of eternal life. You're filled with the Holy Spirit. And on the final day of judgment, you will not shrink back in fear, but you will have confidence because you're a child of God. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for your grace and for your perfect love in Christ. I pray that every single one of us in here will taste his love, receive his love And be saved by his love. It's in Jesus we pray. Amen.