Well, let's take our Bibles and turn to Genesis chapter 1. It's the easiest passage you'll ever have to turn to in your Bible. It's the first paragraph. Starting a series today on actually Genesis 1 to 11 will be the first chunk. I think breaking breaking the book up into chunks will help get the overall picture and manage our journey through Genesis. In a fruitful way. The word Genesis means origins, and that's what Genesis is about. The origins of everything, where everything came from, why it's here. Literally the word Genesis means in the beginning. Actually, the title of the book is also the first word of the book. Which is translated as a phrase in the beginning. But you can just remember to make it easier, origins. It's the origin story. But that's but that's what the title is. It's literally the first word of the book as well. In the beginning. And today we're looking at Genesis 1, 1 to 8. Genesis 1, 1 to 8, the first great doctrine. The first great doctrine of Scripture is that God is the Creator. Alright? God is the Creator. He's the Almighty. So that's where we'll be today. Let's go to the Lord in prayer, and then we'll dive into this. Father, we pray that you would fill our hearts with the humility that is fitting for people when they come under your word. I pray that you would fill our hearts with joy, the joy of Christ I pray that you would fill our hearts with faith , a trust in you, a sense of dependence upon you. By your word and by your spirit, you would help us. Father, we pray that your word would be preached and would be heard by the power of the Holy Spirit this morning. It's in Jesus' name we ask. Amen. The first great doctrine is God is the creator. God created everything. Now, to map out the story of Scripture, it's the story of how God has revealed Himself as creator and Redeemer. Essentially, you can file everything else about God underneath. God is creator and God is redeemer. Just for example a few examples. As creator, you can talk about how God is eternal, and you can talk about how God is infinite in power. As a creator, we can talk about how God is also the king over his creation. And therefore, he's also the judge of his creation. He's the lawgiver of his creation. God is creator. But the Bible also tells the story of how God has revealed himself as a redeemer. And under here would be how God is gracious to forgive sins, how God is patient with sinners, how God is compassionate with sinners, how God has redeemed sinners through the blood of Jesus Christ God is creator, God is Redeemer. And it all starts here in Genesis chapter 1. Now, before I read the passage, which I'll do in just a few moments, let's Contemplate the question, why does this matter? This is such an elementary doctrine. This is such a basic doctrine. Many of us in here have been hearing about that God is creator for our whole lives. Why does this matter? It matters to summarize because accountability. It's a reminder that we are under the authority of God Brothers and sisters, that is an inescapable reality of life on planet Earth. We are all accountable to God. And we will all answer to God for the lives that we've lived here on earth. God is the creator, God is the King, God is the lawgiver, God is the judge. The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. It matters because of accountability. Where do you fit into that? Have you acknowledged God as your creator? Have you remembered that you are a created being? Have you learned that you've been created in the image of God? Do you walk in the fear of God, acknowledging his authority and having an all-struck humility and reverence for the great creator of all things? The doctrine of God as creator is massively important. It's the foundation scripture. The scripture from Genesis 1 that God is the creator. Let's go ahead and read the passage. Genesis 1, reading verses 1 through 8. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth The earth was without form and void. Darkness was over the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters. And God said, Let there be light. And there was light. And God saw that the light was good. And God separated the light from the darkness. God called the light day and the darkness he called nights. And there was evening and there was morning the first day. And God said, Let there be an expanse in the midst of the waters, and let it separate the waters from the waters And God made the expanse, and he separated the waters that were under the expanse from the waters that were above the expanse. And it was so. And God called the expanse heaven. And there was evening and there was morning the second day. One of the things to keep in mind as we go through Genesis For this series, Genesis 1 to 11, but it will continue after that. One of the things to keep in mind is contrast. Contrast. We're going to see The contrast between what the world says about something versus what God's Word says about something For instance, the origin of the universe. The world will say one thing over here, but God, in his word, says a different thing over here. The nature of man as made in the image of God. The world will say one thing over here and reject that doctrine, but God's word will affirm that doctrine over here, that man was created by God. Man is created in the image of God, the doctrine of sin. That man is corrupt, that man is guilty, that man needs to be saved. The world, on the one hand, will reject that and say, man is fine. You're alright. Live how you want to live. You are not accountable to God. But God's word will say something different. The nature of marriage and family. The world will say one thing, God's word will say a different thing. The nature of gender and sexuality, the world will say one thing, God's word will say another thing. Morals in general The world will say one thing, God's word will say another thing. When we go through all the scripture, but it's really highlighted in Genesis. As we see the origin of all of these things and the origin of the world and the origin of man, the origin of sin, the origin of family, the origin of gender, the origin of sexuality, the the contrast is really stark and really clear. You've just got to choose this day in your heart which side you line up with. What the world says or what the word of God says To map out this message from verses 1 to 8, there's three major points. Is anyone surprised by that? I did one the other day that was four major points. How about that? You didn't hear that one. I did four. First, God created two realms That'll be verses 1 and 2. And then God created light. That'll be verses 3 and 5. And then number 3, God created the visible heaven. Verses 6 through 8. God created two realms. That's number one. God created light. That's number two. And then God created the visible heaven. Versus six through eight, that'll be the third point. Does that sound good? Pretty easy, right? Try to make it simple. I know that within the points I come at you like a fire hydrant. So I'm trying to slow down the beginning and give you the roadmap so you could just sit back and receive the Word of God. And enjoy it and let God's word do its work. First of all, God created two realms. It doesn't tell us everything about these realms, it's just an overview. But it does say verse one, in the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. The earth was without form and void, darkness was over the face of the deep, and the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters. Man, there's a whole lot in these Two verses. This is the stage. This is the setting or the just the picture we want to get in our mind's eye. The heavens and the earth. Alright? The heavens and the earth. And you could just zoom in and z into it in your mind's eye of the earth. The planet Earth. That's the stage that's been set. God created the heavens and the earth. But the first phrase is in the beginning. So let's camp out on that for just a few moments. In the beginning. The beginning of what? The beginning of everything except for God and except for sin. This is the beginning of anything that exists other than God. It's the beginning of time. It's the beginning of space. It's the beginning of energy. It's the beginning of matter. It's the beginning of atoms that make up everything. It's the beginning of anything out Tide of God Now sin has not entered the creation yet. Sin will come later. I want to give that caveat here. God is not the author of sin. But this is the beginning. Before this happened, this in the beginning God created. The only thing that existed was God. In the sublimity of his own eternal being. This is the prime miracle. Creation is the prime or the first Miracle. It's the greatest evidence for the existence of God. It's the greatest proof for the existence of God that surrounds us always, and we cannot escape it. Things in creation do not have the power of creation. We can reshape what already exists. We can manipulate what already exists. and take different things in creation and form them and fashion them and put them together to create lowercase C things. We cannot bring things into existence out of nothing. We cannot create atoms Where there are no atoms. We cannot create energy where there's no energy. We cannot create space. Can we create space and add space to the universe? We cannot create life, any kind of life. We cannot create human life or human consciousness. We cannot create blood We cannot create laws of logic. Those are set, those are fixed. We cannot create morals, although we like to think we can and we have the authority to do so. Isn't that true about mankind? We cannot create light. In the beginning, the beginning of what? Time, space, energy, matter, anything outside of God. It says, God created. In the beginning, God created. Now it's not said in this verse, but the rest of Scripture testifies that God created by the power of his word. So I'll give you those verses. Hebrews 11, 3. By faith we understand that the universe was created by the Word of God, so that what is seen was not made out of things that are visible. That's a good cross-reference, right? There's your proof text. That's why we can say, even though it's not in this verse, we know that the power of God's word is the power of creation And we saw in one of the readings in John 1, the first paragraph of the Gospel of John, the personal nature to this, the preincarnate word of God, God the Son from all eternity. Was the agency of creation. By faith we understand that the universe was created by the word of God. The creative power of God's word. You know, if you have a heart that loves God, that heart was created by the power of his word. The power of the gospel created a love for God in our hearts. Psalm 33, 6. Psalm 33, 6 By the word of the Lord the heavens were made, and by the breath of his mouth all their hosts. So there you have it again. It's by his word, by the power of his word. One of the things we must understand and we must be very glad about is the power of God's word The power of God's word to teach us in life, to comfort us in life, to correct us in life. God's word brings the message of salvation into our lives. God's word changes the heart. The Bible teaches that by his word and by his spirit, God sanctifies us, and he changes us into the likeness of Christ. It's by the power of his word. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. It's those two realms. And then in verse 2, this interesting phrase, the earth was without form and void. This is not invisible nothingness. Or just like this enormous shapeless blob. Keyword is earth. Alright? The earth was without form and void. And what this phrase means is Two things. Number one, empty of life, and it's an unlivable situation. It's void. It's empty of life. And it's an unlivable situation. It would mean something in our idiom of a desolate wasteland. It's the cannot live here in this place. It's empty and it's void. Um now the rest of the story of creation is actually very, very simple. Simple beyond imagination. If we could get that point about it's empty of life and it's an unlivable situation. The rest of the story of the creation is going to be God is going to make it livable, and he's going to fill it with life. That's the purpose of this creation narrative. It's teaching us how God is going to make the earth livable and then fill the earth with life and then on this earth filled with life With man being the pinnacle of his creation, he is going to accomplish his eternal purpose on this planet So it's empty of life. It's an unlivable situation. God is going to make it livable, fill it with life, and then accomplish his purpose Here on earth. This phrase, form and void, this Hebrew phrase is used one other time in Scripture And it's used in Jeremiah. And it's used when Jeremiah envisions the desolation of Judah at the sword of Babylon. God in judgment against Judah is going to make them desolate. In Jeremiah 4. 23, he says, I looked upon the earth, and behold, it was without form and void. And to the heavens, and they had no light. So God had filled Judah with life, the life of his covenant people, Israel. They rebelled against him over and over. They refused to repent. They refused to worship him. And he's going to come in judgment, drive them out, send them into exile and make it desolate. Bring destruction upon the land and make it Without form and void. Ultimately, he would restore them But that's the phrase form without form and void, empty of life, unlivable situation. Now , very key question for understanding verses one and two is what is it exactly that makes the earth unlivable at this point? What is it that makes it unlivable? And the rest of verse 2 will tell us, and what the rest of verse 2 tells us is that the earth, try to picture this. The earth is covered, completely covered in a sea, and that sea is completely covered in darkness. That's the picture. That's the situation of the earth at this point. Verse 2. The earth was without form and void. And darkness was over the face of the deep, and the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the Waters. So just get this in your mind. This is why it's unlivable. You can't live in that world. It's just a sea covered in darkness. And now that'll put into context what happens on day one and what happens on day two. Bit by bit Step by step, God is making this earth livable. And then He'll fill it with life. But look at this again. You have darkness over the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God, we'll come back to that, that's important, is hovering over the face of the waters. There is a glimmer of hope. We get the strong impression that God is about to do something of great power and great significance, and we get that glimmer of hope. We get that strong impression from And I quote, and the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters. End quote. This is the revelation of God within his creation. If God didn't reveal Himself, we would not know God. And here you have the prime revelation. God Manifesting his glory. Manifesting his glory by the power of the Holy Spirit in his creation. The Holy Spirit hovering over the darkness, hovering over the waters. This is the revelation of God in his creation on his earth. Now, it really helps to remember the context of Genesis. Moses wrote the book of Genesis. Moses wrote the first five books of the Bible, and he wrote them and delivered them to Israel in between Mount Sinai and Israel and his death, which was before Israel went over into the promised land. So somewhere in the wilderness is where Moses would have completed Genesis along with the other first five books of the Bible, Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy. And given it to Israel in the wilderness. Now, do you remember the way God was present with his people at Sinai and in the wilderness? Do you remember how God reminded Israel of his presence and how he guided them? The glory cloud. The cloud of glory. The pillar Of cloud that guided them by day, the pillar of fire that guided them by night, the pillar of cloud, the manifestation of God's presence that descended over and upon the tents of meeting. This is the presence of God to guide, the presence of God to guard, the presence of God to remind Israel that He is their Redeemer and that He is with them. And it's the revelation of God in the world. It's a sign, put it in the most general way possible, this glory cloud manifestation of God. It's a sign that God has come down to earth to accomplish his purpose. God has come down. God is here. God is on earth. He is going to accomplish his purpose. Church, are you happy about that? That God is accomplishing his purpose here on earth. The future of the world is not in the hands of mankind. It is not in the hands of the government. And it's not in the hands of the church. The future of the world is in the hands of God. He is accomplishing his purpose. Here you go in verse two. Verse two of the Bible, the Spirit of God hovering over the waters, the darkness, and this unlivable, empty situation. How is God present with you? Do you know, child of God, how God is present with you? Because He's present with you in a way that is far better than a manifestation pillar of cloud. Because that would be outside of you. God is present with you by his Holy Spirit living inside of you. The Spirit of the risen Christ, the Spirit of the Exalted Christ, who reigns over all things, His Spirit fills your heart. That's how God is present. With believers. That's better than this, hovering over the water. If we were there, you could see This spirit of God hovering over the waters. And if you were a citizen of Israel, you could see the manifestation of God's glory at Sinai Or hovering over the tent of meeting. Brothers and sisters, that is different than the Holy Spirit of the risen Christ filling your heart Making you a partaker of a new creation, giving you the hope of resurrection, the hope of heaven. You have the Holy Spirit. Church, you have the Holy Spirit Spirit of Jesus Christ. I hope that's precious to you. There are other things we could talk about, the presence of God, the presence of God in the fellowship of the church, which is the body of Christ. The presence of God in the preached word. The presence of God in the Lord's Supper celebration. The presence of God through prayer. Your personal devotions. But it all starts with God present with us by the Holy Spirit. So before we move on from from um this first point, God created two realms. I really want us in our imaginations to have this picture of what the verses are putting out here for us. The earth covered in the deep. And the deep covered in darkness, but the Holy Spirit hovering over the face of the waters. And that leads to point number two. God created lights. God created lights. Verses 3 to 5. And God said, let there be light. And there was light. And God saw that the light was good. And God separated the light from the darkness. God called the light day, and the darkness he called night, and there was evening and there was morning the first day. The light is good because now you can see things. The light is good because now you're one step closer to this earth being livable So that God could fill it with life, and so that now on this earth that's livable, filled with life, God can work out his purpose as a manifestation of his glory. It all comes back to the glory of God. What kind of power is this to speak light into existence? We don't know power like this. The power of God's word, the creative power of God's word. Think of the power of light itself, its ability to illuminate things. Imagine living on earth, societies trying to build up on earth without light. I mean no light at all. If light literally doesn't exist. It's not like it exists, you just can't get to it Whether there's only a little bit of it, but it doesn't exist. It's unlivable. Think about the speed of light, the incredible speed of light. It's an amazing thing. Think about the unique properties of light. Just for example, the fact that light needs no medium. through which to travel. Light can travel through a vacuum. Other waves, other things can't do that. Light has unique properties. It's incredible speed, it's incredible ability to illuminate things. Think about the importance of light for life. Think of the power of light itself, how incredible it is. We're talking about the being who created it. The one who creates it is greater than it. If light itself has incredible abilities, the one who created it has greater abilities. If the properties of light are amazing and without compare, how much more the being that spoke it into existence? If light is important, how much more the being who created light? God created light. So you still have the earth covered in the deep, but now you have light and the separation of light from the darkness. Well, hey, amen to this church. At least there's more than just darkness. Do you track with the story? There's an actual story being told here. And then final point, verse 3, God created the visible heaven, verses 6 through 8. A lot of you will have a different word instead of expanse. I'll talk about that just a second after I read the verses. God said, Let there be an expanse in the midst of the waters. And let it separate waters from waters. See what's happening? These waters are a big deal. Separate waters from waters. God made the expanse and separated the waters that were under the expanse from the waters that were above the expanse. And it was so. God called the expanse heaven, and there was evening and there was morning a second day. Well, he's taken some of those waters out of the way. Now the earth is still covered in waters, but there's a separation this way. And that direction is very important for what's coming in later passage, another day of creation. But for right now, it's separation right here. So not only do you have lights, what makes makes this earth a little bit more livable, but now you get rid of some of those waters and you store some of those waters up above in some way. Now, expanse is uh is a word that's been debated, it's been interpreted, translated rather in different ways A firmament, which would be the uh the King James and the New King James. The NIV, I know some of you have the NIV would say Vault The New American Standard and the ESV what I have has expanse and there may be some others. I mean the Hebrew word literally means something of an arch. Or a dome. Almost like a you can think of a vaulted ceiling. It's using architectural language to describe the cosmos. And that's not strange in Scripture. It's not strange to use construction language or building language. language to describe creation. I'll give you a few examples of this. Job 38. 4. God says to Job, where were you when I laid the Foundation of the earth. Job nine six, talking about God who shakes the earth out of its place and its pillars tremble. The cosmos and how God has put it together. 1 Samuel 2. 8, for the pillars of the earth are the Lord's, and upon them he has set the world. Job 38, 22, one of my favorites. God asks Job, have you entered the storehouses of snow? Or have you seen the storehouses of hail? So that's a room, a building, a storehouse of snow. So whatever your translation, it's uh it's describing the observed phenomenon Of the vast universe. It's how can you come up with a word? How can you put it into human language? The the size, the vastness of the universe. Can you measure it? Does it end? But you can describe it with architectural language. From the human perspective, here's what we have: this firmament, this vault, this Expanse this visible heaven is what I called it. The visible heaven. But the thing I want us to focus on, the thing I want us to imagine, they're trying to visualize I know I'm really pushing you to do that today because I want us to understand the concreteness of what's happening here, that there's actually a s a story going on here. I want us to imagine or to visualize the separation. Because we're still on, we're still dealing with this earth that's covered in the deep. And God moves this one step closer, He moves His creation one step closer to filling it with life to accomplish His purpose. And he said verse six, let there be an expanse in the midst of the waters. But then he says the purpose of that expanse. That's the important thing. And the purpose of the expanse is one of separation. Separation. Let it separate waters from waters. And then God and God made the expanse, and He separated the waters that were under the expanse from the waters that were above the expanse. And it was so God called the expanse heaven. God created two realms. And right at the center for God's purposes is earth. Planet Earth, your home planet. And is covered in a deep sea, which is covered in darkness The Spirit of God is hovering over that darkness, present, the revelation of God in His creation, the manifestation of God in His creation. And God creates light by the word of his power, and by the word of his power, he creates the visible heavens and separates some of those waters above, and some of those waters above Below. And I'm leaving you there on that cliffhanger until we get to the next passage. Today's just the first two days of the creation. The creation and the first two days. But I do want to talk about some conclusions for practical application. I mean we hit that overarching one at the beginning. What's the big deal of God as creator? Brothers and sisters, friends, the big deal is accountability. It's because God made the world that we're accountable to Him. And the world doesn't want you to know this. Our own sinful flesh doesn't want us to know this. Now Satan doesn't want us to know this, certainly not embrace this or live according to it, but God is the authority over us. We are accountable to God. We will give an account to God for how we've lived. That's why we preach and teach. We teach Sunday schools for the children, for the adults, and we we study the Word of God and we pray for the lost because we want people to know this. We want souls to be saved. We want souls to be reconciled to God so that when they give an account to God, they'll be innocent and not guilty. They'll be saved and not punished. That's what we want So it all starts with this understanding that humans are accountable to God because God is the creator. Now some other conclusions for practical application. This reality of God as the Almighty Creator should well up within us a sense of awe and wonder. A sense of awe and wonder. Be amazed at the infinite power of God. Now we get ex excited about so many different things in the world, isn't it true? And sometimes it's it's it's not it's not always bad things. I mean it's right to get excited about food, pizza, bacon, or sausage. Pastor Anthony said bacon. I heard someone over here say no it's gonna be sausage. Either way, I'm excited about it. Savory breakfast meets an immense breakfast, and then the word of God will be preached. I'm excited about it. Well we get excited about something so good things we get excited about, but we get excited about trivial things. And let's be honest, it's easy to get excited about things in the world. And if we're not careful, we can become utterly bored with God Almighty. We get so wrapped up in other things, whether they're good things, trivial things, whatever, we can become bored with with God. Our hearts can become hard to the Word of God. Our hearts can be hump become hard and negligent in prayer. And we lose the sense of awe and wonder. We remember the power of God. We remember the infinite creative power of God. It should well up within us a sense of awe and wonder. Beloved, pray for that. The only way we grow in that is the same way we grow in any virtue is by the Holy Spirit. And we'll grow in that over time. God's word will help us to grow in that. We'll give ourselves to prayer. Let's encourage each other. Let's build each other up to grow in that. But God is faithful, and God will do it. He'll create in his children a sense of awe and wonder. Secondly, the reality of God as creator should give us a sense of gratitude. Because when we think about God's power, we also think about that He's poured His love out upon us and that He's given us good gifts And he's enabled us to know him. Our hearts our our hearts should be full of thanksgiving. And our lips should be full of thanksgiving. Thank you, God, that you've enabled us to know you. Thank you, God, that though you're perfect in holiness, infinite in power. Thank you, God, that you came down to our level and saved us. And um Hebrews 12, 28 and 29, therefore let us be grateful for receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken. And thus let us offer to God acceptable worship with reverence and awe, for God is a consuming fire. Hebrews twelve, twenty eight and twenty-nine is a really good passage to remember because in there you have the the gratitude we should have, but also the awe and reverence that we should have as worship worshipers of God. And brethren, that's who we are. We're worshipers of God. Another practical application would be revival. It would be revival. And um you could put for this restoration for any believer who's strayed from the path, any believer who's wandered off into a habitual sin, unrepentant sin, if you've fallen away, be awakened. Be awakened. Don't let the devil keep you in that spiritual apathy. Don't let the flesh keep you in that spiritual apathy, that slumber. Be awakened. And be restored, be revived again to joyful obedience to the Lord Jesus Christ. Number fourth, so all gratitude, revival, or restoration. Number fourth, humility. Would you humbly acknowledge the authority of God? Humbly acknowledge that God rules over his earth. A number five and finally salvation. Salvation, which is coming to know God if you do not know Him already Number one, see that you need a savior because like all of us, like me, like the person sitting in front of you, behind you, to your right, to your left, like all of us We're all guilty of sin before God. So we all need a Savior. So see your need for a Savior, your need for forgiveness, and see the Savior that God has provided. God has provided a sufficient Savior. He's provided the Lord Jesus Christ who died on the cross for sins. Right? That accomplishes forgiveness. And then he was risen from the grave. That accomplishes hope and victory over death. Put your faith in Jesus On the basis of his death, on the basis of his resurrection, and you have salvation. Believe in Jesus, you are saved. Believe in Jesus, you have salvation. Believe in Jesus, your sins are forgiven. That's something you do in your heart. Believe in Jesus. Look to him. First, see your need for a savior, and then second, see the Savior, repent, and believe in him. Turn to Jesus in genuine faith. And if you do that, you'll come into an eternal relationship with God, the infinite, almighty, glorious creator of all things. That's the first doctrine of Scripture. God is the Creator, capital C. You can't say that about anything or anybody else. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your grace, mercy, kindness, and love. We sing your praises. We lift your name on high. We magnify you, your power, your awesomeness, your glory, your beauty. Father, we ask once again for the one who strayed that you'd bring them back, for the one who was lost, that you would save them. For the one who is proud, that you would humble them. For the one who is self-righteous, that you would give them repentance in their heart, mind, and life for your glory and for your name. It's in Christ we ask. Amen.