If you'll turn your Bibles to Joel chapter one And we're going to cover verse 1. We're starting a new series in Joel. Don't worry, we're not going to do just one verse tonight in the future, but tonight we need to lay out Where we're headed, what is the book of Joel all about? What are we doing? Why are we studying this? That's why we're just gonna give an overview of the book tonight. But the one thing I want you to keep in your mind tonight as we look at this text, as we hear this message preached, is the word of the Lord. I want you to hold that in the front of your mind, the word of the Lord, and what does that mean and what does that bring? We see it here, we're going to see it a lot throughout all of Scripture, the entire Bible. We must think about this. When we hear this, sometimes we just, it kind of just flows over us. The word of the Lord. Okay. It's just words. It's just a saying. But we must recognize the deep, true value. How special it is that the creator of the universe is speaking and that we get to hear. So, Joel 1, verse 1, the word of the Lord that came to Joel, the son of Pethut. That's it. The word of the Lord that came to Joel, the son of Pethu. Now this is being set up. This verse is just essentially just announcing what are we about to read? We're about to read The prophet Joel proclaimed the word of the Lord to proclaim what has been told to him When we hear this, when we hear the idea of the word of the Lord, we must recognize that the word of the Lord brings wisdom. Brings wisdom. We shouldn't just pass over this one verse and say, okay, we got it. This is just it's setting up the stage. We understand this is a prophet speaking. His name is Joel, and his his He's the son of Pethutha. That's all we know of Joel, just so you know. If you want a history lesson of who Joel is and a deep background, you have all the information that we know for sure right here in one verse. So you no-takers, write that down quickly, that he's the son of Petus. That's all we know. We don't know any more than that. But we do know that God spoke to him. God spoke to him with a purpose. God spoke to him and gave him words to take to the people, to announce and to proclaim to the nation. We see this a lot in the prophets, that the prophet receives a word from the Lord. He receives instruction to give to the people. Often this is to the people of Israel But we see in other places in Scripture that the prophets are actually proclaiming and giving the word of the Lord to the nations, to pagan nations that don't even recognize and worship God. Now, why is it important that we see and recognize that the word of the Lord brings wisdom? Well, one is this gives us reason to study this. What when was the last time some of you read Joel? A year ago? Maybe if you're on the yearly reading plan, you read it a year ago And then there's some of you that are going in there, I have a cousin named Joel, and that was probably the last time you heard that name. It's okay. We're gonna study it here. Why are we studying this old book? It's called a minor profit, not because they were of lesser value, but just the length of the book. It's small. Why are we spending time over the next uh it's actually gonna be a few months because of all the breaks we're gonna have in between uh uh our evening services, why are we gonna spend so much time saying it's because we want to know God? Right? We want to know God. If God gave us words, if he gave us his word, he gave us instructions, he gave us the Bible, we want to know him, and how do we know him? It's through studying it. As we study Joel, as we hear the word of the Lord proclaimed, as we hear a prophet announce what God has given him to announce to the world, as we read that, we're going to know God more. We want to know God more. Not just the head knowledge. We talked about this in Sunday school a few weeks ago. Our goal as Christians is not to be able to pass a multiple choice question at the end. No, no. It's that we know God in an intimate way, that we seriously, our hearts are transformed, that we fall in love with Him. We want to know who he is. We want to know his character. We want to know his will. We want to know all we can about him because we are his children. We are following after him. But as we get to know God, we also get to know ourselves more. This theological term is called double knowledge, nothing special. As we know God more, we know who we are more. And often what happens is we know God more. He gets lifted up higher and higher. We start to see how majestic he is, how great he is. How holy he is. Our knowledge of him grows throughout our entire life. And it grows bigger and bigger. He becomes grander and grander. And the knowledge of ourselves becomes bigger and bigger, but we start to get diminished even more. We start to see how sinful we really are. We start to see how pitiful we really are. And the chasm between us and God, as we grow in our knowledge of God and we grow in our knowledge of ourselves, that chasm starts to get bigger and bigger. And there's a bit of us that we can get a little downhearted in this. We go, well, wait, we just see that we there's no way we can get to God because we are so sinful. We are so bad. But as Christians post-Christ, we know that that chasm, no matter how grand it gets, has been bridged by Christ. The knowledge of God and how glorious He is and the knowledge of ourselves and how sinful and terrible we are magnifies the glory of Christ's work on our behalf. And as we study Joel as we read the word of the Lord, that knowledge is going to grow and we're going to magnify and worship Christ and follow Christ even more. Even this old, old book, even this Old Testament book that was written before Christ will drive us to the feet of Christ. As we study this, as we understand what's happening here, we're going to worship Christ more because we're going to know God more and we're going to know ourselves more and we're going to see our need for Christ grow. More and more. All of us should be in this, not just in the book of Joel. But as we grow as Christians, as we're being sanctified, each and every one of us should be growing in the double knowledge that we know God more, we know ourselves more, and we start to see the value and the beauty of God. of Christ more and more each day. Oh may we may we all pray and hope for the truth that our knowledge of God has grown significantly from the day you became a Christian to the day you meet him in glory. We should all want that. We should all be seeking to know him more. Now, it it's maybe a little strange saying that to you all. You guys are here. You want to learn about God. You want to hear preaching. But may we not just limit that to Sunday mornings nights, Wednesday nights, but may this be who we are as a people. May we just seek to know him more. May we be people that seek to know to talk about God and what He has done in our lives. May we be people to just want to explore the depths and theology of God. So the wiz the the word of the Lord brings wisdom that we know God, we know ourselves, and it's also going to train and guide us in how we should live as Christians. As we study Joel, we're going to see our shortcomings and our failures, and we're going to see the correction of that. Really, the series title of this should be Return to God, Return to the Lord. We're going to have to deal with, through the book of Joel, we're going to have to deal with sin, rebellion, and disobedience to God, and the solution to that problem. We have to deal with that we have sinned and disobeyed God, that we have broken the law, that we have fled from God, that we have followed after our own passions, our own desires. And then we must see that the only way to be made righteous is through repentance, to place a faith in Christ and to turn to the Lord. Turn away from our sins and turn to the Lord. We're going to examine that throughout this book. So point number one, the prophecy we read in Joel is from God, not man. That's to be clear, it's one of the reasons that this book starts this way is that the word of the Lord that came to Joel Now, Joel is the one that wrote these words down for us to read. He's the one that ascribed it. He's the author of it. But it was through the work of the Holy Spirit that God gave him the words to write down here. Why is this important for us to think about this? You're maybe kind of thinking this is pointless, Anthony. We know this, we agree, but it is valuable that we understand that The words that we're reading have authority. The words have authority because they're from the Lord. If this was just a book that Joel wrote, just some guy he wanted to write this book, what kind of authority would it have? Well, we actually don't know. It'd probably be zero. We know nothing about this man. We know nothing about him. So we can't say, well, he was a king, so that's why it had authority to know. The authority of this word, the authority of this book is not because of the man that wrote it, but it's because of the Lord that gave him the words to write. It's because of the Lord that gave him the instructions to proclaim to the people. We've got to recognize as well that the authority is quite clear when it says the word of the Lord. There's other names of God that could have been put there, and that would have been just fine. But we see the Lord. This is an authoritative name of God. This is the idea that he is king, he is the sovereign. No one tells God what to do. News flash if you didn't know that. No one tells God what to do. There's not a higher being or a council that God has to go to for approval. No one instructs God to do this or not to do this. He is the sovereign. He's in control of all. We heard that proclaimed clearly this morning out of Matthew 28. And we see here That if the word is coming from the Most High, then it has the most authority. There's no one that has more authority than the Lord. His word has authority. So that's important that we recognize this. Look with me at 2 Peter chapter 3. 2 Peter chapter 3 May we just be reminded of the value of the word of the Lord. May we be reminded of what the prophets wrote have value for us. 2 Peter chapter 3. This is the verse 1. This is now the second letter that I am writing to you, beloved, and both of them I am stirring up your sincerity. sincere mind by way of reminder that you should remember the predictions of the holy prophets and the commandments of the Lord and Savior through your apostles. Knowing this first of all, that scoffers will come in the last days of scoffing, following after their own sinful desires. So we see here that the the prophets spoke for us to receive, to grow, to know God, to follow after God. And it's also a way that we defend, it has authority to defend against the enemy. Look, the liberal theologians or or just uh liberal scholastics will say, sure Maybe this is the word of the Lord, but it was Joel writing it, and Joel put in his own thoughts and feelings. That's a lie But they use this to try to say that, well, it may have been true and maybe had value, but we can't be sure that's a hundred percent accurate because maybe Joel just put in his own thoughts. That's letter B. This is not Joel's thoughts. or his feelings. It's not his thoughts or his opinion. It's the word of the Lord. May we stand fast and know that we are reading and hearing from God when we read Scripture. Scripture. Especially when we read from the prophets. It's clear there. This is from God announcing to the people. So it's the enemy, if the liar comes in and tries to deceive us and say, Well clearly this is this is just a man's writing. And it's a man's idea, a man that lived thousands of years ago, so what he's saying cannot be relevant today. We can sit back and say, no, this is from God. We know that this is his word and it has authority. This isn't Joel just putting out what he wants. He doesn't have a beefer. He doesn't have he doesn't have a an agenda that he's trying to push forward. We actually know if uh if Joel wanted to become a politician or he wanted to become popular, he would not write this book. We're going to see throughout the book that Joel's making some very harsh comments to the nation. He's calling out some grievous sins and calling them to repent to the Lord. If Joel was just trying to become popular, just trying to get his ideas out there, he would not have written this book. He would have said something else. Hey guys, you're doing good Keep keep gathering gold, keep gathering war horses. This is good. God's happy with you. And then hoping he was gonna get promoted. This is what we see politicians doing today, right? They're just saying whatever the the ears want to hear. I'm gonna give money here, I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna make sure you're happy as long as you vote for me. And what happens? They get elected They can't do it. They don't do it. Joel's not running for an election here. He says the harsh words. So we actually need to rest in this that the hard things he says are from the Lord. We can we can be assured that Joel's not trying to just say an opinion trying to win people over, but he's saying the hard truth because it's from the Lord. And let us see there in point one The word has authority throughout history. Throughout history. This word of the Lord is not just for the people in that time. Now we will see. We're going to have to wrestle with this a lot throughout Joel, but we're going to see clear statements and judgments that are for the people at that time and clear statements and salvation for the people of that time, but we're also going to see statements and salvation, statements on judgment and salvation for us throughout all of history. We're going to see truth and theology about God that is applicable throughout all of history. So we're going to see both of it at the same time. Things of historical, currently happening in the time Joel's writing were in the near future, and then big-term future that we now can experience and recognize through uh through the working of the Holy Spirit. So it has authority throughout all of history. Turn with me to Romans 15. Romans fifteen verse four reads For whatever was written in former days was written for our instruction, that through endurance And through the encouragement of the scriptures we might have hope. Alright, so as we read Joel, while it had a specific group it is speaking to in a specific point in history, we're going to see that it actually is instruction and guidance for us today. Thousands of years later. That's the sovereign Lord we worship. That's the sovereign Lord that has given us this word. That it's applicable then, and it has meaning and application to us today. And how to live, how to worship God. How to recognize our sin and repent of it and turn to the Lord. We're going to see all of that played out here as we study the book of Joel. But not only that, I I love that, okay, it's instruction, that's good. We need instruction. We all need instruction, right? Yeah, we all need instruction. But it's not just instructions, not just a rule book. Study the rule book, know what to do, uh the IKEA map of how to build your furniture and get mad at it. No, no. This is not just the step-by-step of how to live. but it's also to give us endurance and encouragement, to give us hope in our Lord. As we read the hard things in the book of Joel, we should be encouraged that we worship the Lord. That we serve a Savior. May we be encouraged. May we be strengthened. May we actually have endurance from reading Joel. That's why it was written. We see Paul saying this is why we have the old writings. This is why we have it. It's instruction that through endurance and through the encouragement of the scriptures we might have hope. Brothers and sisters, as we're studying this book, as we're studying any piece of scripture, and we recognize that it's applicable to us now. Must read through the lens of the historical setting it's in, but may we have hope not ourselves Not in that we have the ability to read, not in the the ability for us to look, we know what it's saying. No, that our hope is rooted in Christ, in the Savior. That God has given us his word. He's given us his, that we're seeing a glimpse of who God is and his will for us. And that's going to become clear as we we study Joel. We also see other places. We can go back to Joel, and we're going to see other places in Scripture that it's very clear that as we're studying the book of Joel, it has a lot of meaning. to Christians. It has a lot of meaning to Christians. Why do I say that? Well, let's look at Joel 2 verses 28 through 32. I just want to show how the word of the Lord goes throughout all of history, has authority throughout all of history. Joel 2, verses 28 through 32. And it shall come to pass afterward that I will pour out my spirit on all flesh. Your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your old men shall dream dreams, and your young men shall see visions. Even on the male and female servants, in those days I will pour out my spirit. And I will show wonders in the heavens and on the earth, blood and fire and columns of smoke, the sun shall be turned to darkness, and the moon to blood, before the great and awesome day of the Lord comes. And it shall come to pass that everyone who calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved. For in Mount Zion and in Jerusalem there shall be those who escape, as the Lord has said, and among the survivors shall be those whom the Lord calls. Alright, a little Bible trivia. Where in the New Testament have we heard this exact same wording? Anyone know Pentecost. Acts 2. At Pentecost, as as Peter's preaching to this the brand new Christians that are starting this brand new church. What does he preach? He preaches a piece of his sermon comes right out of Joel. It comes this text exactly. Now, it makes perfect sense. As you think about it, all this talk about pouring out of the Spirit, that's what Pentecost was. We saw the Spirit come out and go upon the people, and the lives are transformed, and the the church begins to flow. And though church, the kingdom of God starts to go into all the world. Do we start to see that the word of the Lord that was was proclaimed thousands of years ago, we then see happen and preach in Pentecost again, still affects us today. Do we see the Holy Spirit poured out upon people that place faith in Christ? I hope so. It's what Christianity is all about. It's who we're following. It's how our hearts are transformed, it's by the working of the Holy Spirit. May we see that the word of the Lord goes throughout all of history, has authority, and it has purpose for us. Now the word of the Lord, let's let's talk about w there 's two things that come with the word of the Lord. Often there's two instructions that come from it. So the first one is the word of the Lord comes with judgment. Comes with judgment. You are going to hear a lot of language of judgment as we study Joel. The second thing, and this is number three, and then we're going to talk about them combined, is the word of the Lord comes with salvation. Judgment and salvation. God's word from Joel and through many of the prophets and even in the New Testament comes with judgment and salvation. Brothers and sisters, we cannot separate these two truths. We cannot separate judgment and salvation from one another. If we do, if if we just want salvation, give me the good stuff, right? Give me the just give me the good news of salvation, and we never talk about judgment, we won't understand why uh salvation is good If there's no judgment, why do I need salvation? If there's no wrath of God, if my sins haven't caused any problems, I'm good, you don't need to come save me. Don't bother me with all this. But we know the truth. We know that sin has caused God's judgment to be poured out upon man. We know that judgment and salvation must go together. So as we study Joel, we're going to see judgment and salvation. Judgment and salvation. Judgment and salvation. They're going to be overlapping at times. They're actually twined together. Because they cannot be separated. And we need to hear this as Christians regularly. We need to hear of God's judgment regularly as Christians. Why? So we're reminded, right? Remember that the double knowledge? We're reminded of the glory of God as the holy just judge, and we're also reminded of our depravity, our sinfulness. And we start to glorify Christ's work on the cross, his redemption of us more and more as we start to understand God's judgment and his salvation. So the first one, the word of the Lord comes with judgment. The phrase that we are going to hear a lot in Joel that should point our minds to judgment is this. The day of the Lord. The day of the Lord. When you hear that in the book of Joel You should be recognizing that there is a judgment that is going to be poured out, that God is judging the people. There's going to be a specific day or moment of judgment to come upon them. Now we hear this language in Joel. You can just write these down. You don't need to turn to all of them. Joel 1. 15 Joel two one, two eleven, two thirty one, and Joel three fourteen. language of the day of the Lord or something along that. But recognize that when we hear the day of the Lord, we see judgment. Now there's two parts to this judgment. There is a physical present historical judgment. That's the language we should use. A historical judgment is poured out, meaning that God is judging people in that time. And we see this throughout Scripture. The exile, right? Israel is taken captive by the Babylonian nation. This is a historical judgment upon Israel for their sin and rebellion against God. It has a specific point in history that God's judgment comes upon them. They're taken captive, they lose their land. They're now enslaved to another nation. This is a historical judgment. So when we see the day of the Lord in Scripture, we can Th the possibility is that it's talking about a historical judgment being poured out. A historical moment in history or in the future history where judgment and punishment will come upon people or a group of people. But also we see in Scripture language of uh an eternal judgment, the the day of the Lord that is the final final, the second coming of the Lord. And we see this in in Scripture that there is going to be a final judgment to come upon the people, that all people past and present, all people at some point will stand before the Lord. He will sit on the judgment seat and he will judge the people according to their deeds. Right? He opens up the book of works, and he looks through the book and he judges according to those works. Books, there's he's he's looking throughout all of your lifespan judging you Not only that, he then opens up the book of life. He sees those washed in the blood of Christ But we must recognize that the day of the Lord can has a historical judgment and an eternal judgment, an end judgment possibility. So when we're reading Joel, we're going to see a lot more of the historical judgment happening. We're going to see a lot more of the historical judgment. That the people of Israel have rebelled against God, and he is giving them a specific judgment to discipline them, to correct them. And to judge their wicked acts against them. And we see this in history. We can tie the these events in this situation to historical events that God's judgment was poured out upon the people. But God's judgment is not just for his people. Yes, it's for Israel, but we also see nations being judged. One of the clearer ones that that many of us are are very con uh uh know very well is Exodus III, the burning bush, right? The judgment of God is is it the judgment that God's speaking of in the burning bush? Is it being poured out upon Israel or upon Egypt? It's Egypt. It's Egypt's rebellion. Egypt's rebellion, uh actually in Exodus as we're studying in Sunday school, it's just so fresh in my mind that God is using Moses as a prophet to Aaron as the prophet to go before uh to go before Pharaoh. And and we see the word of the Lord going to Pharaoh, calling out judgment upon him, that because of his rebellion against God for not letting the people go to go worship God, there will be a specific historical judgment poured out upon him. We actually see the The ten plagues, and then we see Pharaoh and his army uh washed up and drowned in the crossing of the sea. But there we see the historical judgment against specific nations as well. So judgment is for God's people and for foreign nations. Now what about salvation? We need to be reminded of judgment so we are reminded of how great and grand salvation is, but we're going to see the language of salvation come throughout the book of Judgment upon them, there's going to be a punishment, there's going to be destruction, there's going to be death and famine, but there's going to be salvation in the end. Once again, there's two types of salvation that we're going to read in Joel. One is the physical salvation. There's going to be a physical salvation from famine. There's going to be a physical salvation from a physical Armas Uh look with me in Joel 2, verse 19 through 20. Joel 2, I'm actually going to start in 18. Then the Lord became jealous for his land and had pity on his people. The Lord answered and said to his people, excuse me, yes, his people, behold, I am sending to you grain, wine, and oil, and you will be satisfied, and I will I will no more make you a reproach among the nations. I will remove the northerner far from you, and drive him into a parched and desolate land, his vanguard into the eastern sea, and his rearguard into the western sea. The stench and foul smell of him will rise, for he has done great things. Recognize that this is a physical salvation coming to the people. We're going to read some of the judgment of God is that the Israelites' land is destroyed. Their harvest is destroyed. They have no food. They have uh nothing to sustain them. And here the salvation. Right? God's mercy, his grace Will be poured out upon them. We're going to see that when they turn t back to the Lord, uh in this same chapter chapter two, when they return to the Lord, he will then bring back the He will bring back the fields to them. So there's a physical salvation that comes to them. They will not starve because God's judgment will be withdrawn from them and he will give back their fields. We also see that God will remove his enemies. Their enemies. He will remove their enemies. This is a physical salvation, a physical restoration to them. This is historical. It has happened in this time that Joel lives and the few generations after him. We see judgment and restoration happen. Salvation come to them in a physical sense. But we're also going to see glimpses of the eternal salvation. We already read a piece of it. in in uh chapter two verses twenty-eight through thirty two the Holy Spirit poured out upon the people. Let's just re uh revisit that. We're in chapter two In verse 28, and it shall come to pass afterwards that I will pour out my spirit on all flesh. So we start to see this glimpse of something more than just a physical salvation from enemies from starvation, but there's a spiritual aspect here. There's an eternal salvation. Your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your old men shall dream dreams, and your young men shall see visions. Even on even on the male and female servants, in those days I will pour out my spirit. So start to see that this is spreading outside of the nation of Israel and it's starting to go to generations. It's starting to go to multitudes of people. The servants even The lowest of lowest are about to experience the salvation of God. We are partakers in the salvation. We are partakers in the eternal salvation that was prophesied in the book of Jewel. But not only that, we see that it continues in verse 32, and it shall come to pass that everyone who calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved. Start to see that this is going beyond just having enough food. This is going beyond just taking away an enemy army. And we start to see the eternal salvation coming to all of humanity. May we recognize that the word of the Lord is proclaiming salvation throughout all of history. This idea of salvation didn't just arise when Jesus showed up on the scene. It wasn't like in 0 BC or 0 AD, however they calculate that, that the moment Jesus was born, now they start talking about salvation. Oh, now God's going to save us. No, no, no. This has always been prophesied and proclaimed. God's word has always been proclaiming there was going to be salvation, eternal salvation to all people. But let us go back to this one verse in verse 27. So chapter 2, verse 27. And see the eternal nature of the salvation. You shall know that I am in the midst of Israel. And I am the Lord your God, and there is none else. And my people shall never again be put to shame. Never again be put to shame Now we look at this and we think, okay, he's talking about Israel. He said Israel here, and they're never going to be put to shame again. And then we open up our history books. And we go, wow. Maybe this prophecy hasn't happened yet. Or maybe Joel's not really that good of a prophet Because we can look throughout history and see the nation of Israel being put to shame over and over and over again throughout all of history. But if we limit Israel all times, if we always limit Israel to just a physical nation, we're going to miss some of what the prophet's saying. Now there are clear times that when he speaks of Israel, he's speaking of a nation. He's speaking of a people group. There's other times in Scripture that we see that Israel is talking about God's people. In the spiritual sense, not because they have a certain bloodline, not because they have the right grandparents or the right family tree, but because their hearts have been circumcised, their hearts have been transformed. Philippians 4, this is what Paul is addressing there. That all his good obedience to the Jewish law and all of his lineage that he has and that he can trace his lineage all the way back to David has no meaning when it comes to being a child of God. But it's through the transformation of his heart through faith in Christ. So when we start to see this, and we start to study Joel, and we start to see that My people shall never again be put to shame, we start to understand that this has a physical sense. His people, the nation of Israel, goes back to their homeland, they get their land. But we see the eternal spiritual sense of the identity of the true Israelite, the true Jew, being fulfilled in the church today. We aren't put to shame, brothers and sisters. No Christian is put to shame. Sure the world attacks. Sure they mock. But what shame can they really bring upon us? That we're redeemed. Ooh, how embarrassing is that? That we're forgiven of our sins? Not much shame there. And we see that as Christians, as redeemed by the blood of Christ, made new through the working of the Holy Spirit, transforming our hearts to new, there's nothing that can bring us to shame. Not in the eternal sense. Sure, in this world we're going to face challenges, we're going to experience moments of shame. But in the eternal sense, we have been redeemed. by the God man. Can we recognize that there's no need for us to be put to shame? And as we're reading Joel, as we're studying this proverb, we're going to see salvation both in the physical sense and in the eternal sense. sense that has meaning to us. So the word of the Lord comes with both judgment and salvation, and this is good news to us. We need to be reminded of this, and throughout Joel, we're going to see the judgment poured out. We're going to see God's word bring judgment, and we're going to see God's word bring salvation. And recognize that we have seen the total fulfillment of the judgment and salvation through the word of the Lord. If we do good biblical theology here, we can actually see how in the coming of Christ, judgment and salvation appear to us. I mean how how does John open up his gospel? The word of the Lord? Right? It became flesh. We see that in the beginning was the word, and the word of the Lord was with God, and the word of the Lord was God. Alright, now this is transforming. This is not the words of which Joel wrote down or spoke, but the same language is here because we are receiving wisdom of God. We're seeing the revelation of who God is through Christ. And judgment and salvation are being spoken to us. Your sins were judged on the cross. The wrath of God was poured out upon your sins, my sins, on the cross. And at the same time that judgment was spoken and poured out upon our sins, salvation came to sinners such as you and I. all through the work of Christ. May we not separate and say that this Old Testament has no meaning to us. We're New Testament people. For people of the new book, no, no, no, may we see that all of Scripture has been prophesying, proclaiming salvation found in Christ alone, because he has paid for our sins. Romans 5 gives us a very clear picture of this. Romans 5, verse 6, for while we were still weak, at the right time Christ died for the ungodly. Ungodly. He didn't he didn't die for those that had everything in order. He didn't die for those that had the perfect church attendance and were safe because they followed the law perfectly. You know why he didn't die for those? Because they don't exist. No one is godly because of their works. All of us are ungodly. This is Romans 3 stuff. This is Romans 3. All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. But he continues, verse 7, for one will scarcely die for a righteous person, though perhaps for a good person one would dare even to die. But God chose his love for us, and that while we were still sinners Christ died for us. Since therefore we have now been justified by his blood, much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God. How are we saved from the wrath of God? Because the wrath of God was poured out when Christ's blood was shed. May we find salvation because judgment of God was poured out upon Christ. As we read Joel, as we study this beautiful book, as we hear the word of God, may we see both the judgment and the salvation of God being poured out. May our knowledge of God grow, may our knowledge of our depravity grow, and may we see the gloriousness of Christ grow even more and more more. That's my desire for us as we study the book of Joel. I desire that if we have sin in our life, we confess it and turn back to the Lord. If you have never done that, I desire that as we hear the word of Joel proclaimed and preached through, that your hearts transformed, you recognize your need for a Savior and you turn to Christ. And I recognize as Christians that we grow in our love for the Lord. I hope this study is beneficial for us. I pray that God works through it, speaks to us. And may we be reminded that each Sunday, each time we gather together and hear Joel read aloud, that this is a word of the Lord. And it has authority, it has meaning. Let us pray. Father, I thank you for your truth. I thank you that you have given us a word, that you have spoken throughout history, you have given your people guidance. You've pointed out your judgment. You've pointed out our sins. And you've given us redemption in Christ. You've shown us your salvation. We're broken. People. You've shown us salvation for sinners and rebels against you. That you've poured out your love for us. Lord, I ask that as we study this book through through the next few months, that You continue to remind us of our need for a Savior and you continue to magnify your Son's work on the cross. We pray this in his name. Amen.