Well beloved, if you'll open up your Bibles to Revelation chapter 2. We'll be examining the letter to the church in Smyrna. Revelation 2, verses 8 through 11. The conquering church. You believe that, beloved? Do you believe that Christ's bride Those that have been purchased at such a great high priest uh at such a great high price will conquer, not through our own work or their own doing, their own strength, but because of the Spirit of the Lord within them. I hope you see that. Thank you for the yes and acknowledgement of that. Yes, we are a conquering church. We know that we have the victory because of Christ's victory. We know that we will conquer because of the Spirit within us. But now let us be honest. It does not change that there will be trials and tribulation here on this earth. Just because we are a conquering church, just because we are victorious in Christ, doesn't mean that the enemy has stopped attacking. Doesn't mean that the enemy is just sitting back and has accepted the defeat. We actually see in this uh book of Revelation, we actually see the opposite. is because Satan knows that his time is short, he knows that he is the loser, he knows that Christ is victorious, he is angry, he is furious. He's going around the the creation trying to destroy anything he can. Not because he thinks he's victorious, but because he knows that Christ is victorious. So the question I want us to answer this morning is: how is the church to conquer in the face of tribulation? How are we to conquer as we take on the attacks of the enemy? How are we to be a conquering force in this world if the enemy seems so powerful? The enemy seems to have all the authority. The enemy seems to be the one that's controlling everything. How are we to conquer? And this tiny church in Smyrna is asking a very similar question. How are we to be conquerors? Actually in this time this church was receiving a lot of attacks from the world. Modern day this church would be somewhere in Turkey, uh sitting in Turkey. We actually have a lot of history on this church because of Polycarp. He lived there, he was the bishop of Smyrna. Um Polycarp was a disciple of the Apostle John. And we have a decent amount of his letters because as he was taken under uh the authority of Rome, he was arrested, and then he was drugged over to the city of Rome. And as he's traveling there under the authority and control of the guards and the soldiers, they were able to stop. He was able to stop and write some letters to the churches that he interacted with. But this is much later. Polycarp 's life was much later than what we read here in Revelation chapter 2. But we see that church being faithful even in the face of trials. Polycarp actually goes to his death saying he will not renounce his Lord and Savior. He's actually taken before the stake. They want to tie him to the stake, but he says, What would I do? Why would I flee from this? I get to suffer with my Lord, and they start to burn him at the stake. And as the story goes, the fire could not consume him. The fire was actually around him and and their polycarp is singing and praying to the Lord as the fire is trying to burn him and the guards and soldiers get so frustrated That he will just not die, that they finally stab him and pierce him. He dies there. And uh the story is that the life and death of Polycarp, being faithful to the Lord Not renouncing his faith, not proclaiming Caesar as king and as lord, and then his death because of his commitment caused a great fear to erupt in Rome. actually spread and the church strengthened in this time and the attacks of Rome became stronger because they were worried that more Christians were going to start to act like Polycarp. We have this story because of the faithfulness of this tiny church in Smyrna. That they withstood In the face of tribulation, in the face of attacks from the enemy, they stayed faithful to their Lord, trusting that he is good, trusting that they are conquerors because of his strength. And brothers and sisters, this morning, we stand on these same shoulders. We can recognize that we are victors, we are the conquerors in this world. Standing true, standing on our faith in Christ, just like this tiny church did. So without any further delay, let us read chapter 2, starting in verse 8. And to the angel of the church in Smyrna, right? The words of the first and the last who died and came to life. I know your tribulation and your poverty, but you are rich. And the slander of those who say that they are Jews and are not, or a synagogue of Satan Do not fear what you are about to suffer. Behold, the devil is about to throw some of you into prison. That you may be tested, and for ten days you will have tribulation. Be faithful unto death, and I will give you the crown of life. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. The one who conquers will not be hurt by the second death. And the Lord blessed the reading of his word. So we see this. John 's receiving the instructions from Jesus to write this letter to the church. And he's writing this letter to the church because they have been faithful. Out of the seven letters in Revelation, there's only two churches that don't receive a rebuke. They don't have a form of correction. And Smyrna is one of those churches. There's no correction there. As we saw the last time in the letter to Ephesus, and we'll see through many of the other letters, there's some kind of rebuke and correction. You're doing good here, but you need to change this. You need to fix this problem. You're straying from the Lord here. But in this letter, we don't have that. So it's a letter of encouragement. We see that the Lord shows his closeness, his love for this church, and there's not a correction. What he's doing is he's actually telling them to stay encouraged. Stay fast, hold fast to their faith, because he knows the trials and the tribulation that are coming towards them. He knows their pain. He knows their suffering. And he's challenging them. He's pleading with them. He's calling them to stand fast to their faith. May they not stray away. May they know that there's a great reward for those that stay the Course. He wants them to know that the enemy is not that powerful in the end. Well, beloved, we must hear these same words. Our trials and tribulation in this age look slightly different. I can assume that for most of us, and most likely all of us, we will never face a physical death because of our faith. May we praise the Lord for that. May we recognize this is his blessing throughout history, that we live in a place and an era in history that we don't face the arrest and the death penalty for believing in Christ. We do know that we have brothers and sisters around the world that are facing such trials even today. So then, what kind of trials and tribulation are we facing? Or should we just say that because we're not facing the death penalty for our faith, then we don't need to even listen to these words? Oh, by no means. We still face trials. The enemy is still attacking. The attacks just look very different today. We do see political attacks. Uh there's some kind of stipulation or limitation on religious freedom and and the free worship of Christ today, even within America. Those attacks are minor and small, and we do see a fighting force against them. Maybe within your workplaces you've been asked to be silent of your faith. That's to proclaim the gospel Those attacks are definitely there. But I think today, in our age, the attacks we face the most from the enemy is something trying to draw us away from Christ and put our focus and our attention on anything we Within the world. are Put your focus here. Look towards this. Don't look to Christ. Or another attack that is very prevalent within the church. The enemy wants to attack our faith in Christ. Wants to plant some seeds of doubt within you. Maybe you're really not saved by faith alone. Oh, you're such a great sinner. How could Christ possibly save you? Or maybe, yeah, sure, you were saved a long time ago. But come on now, have you really been cleansed of all your sin? Are you actually forgiven of your sins? This is the attacks of the enemy, of Satan that wants to destroy our faith, wants to distract us from our Lord and Savior. Well, brothers and sisters, may I encourage us today that we are a conquering church, that those attacks are vicious, they are harmful, they're dangerous. But we have a Lord and Savior who is not afraid of those attacks. We have a king that has defeated the attacker, the enemy. We have been made new, and in that newness, we have the ability to fight against these attacks. So, how is the church to conquer in the face of such tribulation and trials? Well, friends, the first thing we must understand is we must understand the identity of our Lord. The identity of our Lord look with me in verse 8. It says unto the angel of the church in Smyrna, write, the words of the first and the last who died and came to life. It's interesting, each letter in Revelation has a different title or a different characteristic and identity for Jesus. But it's all from the same author. Jesus is telling John to write these words, and this is the characteristic or the trait, his identity, he wants the church in Smyrna to hear. They are the words of the first and the last. Understand the identity of our Lord and Savior is that He is eternal. He always has been. He's always existed. And he always will exist. With his always being, his being eternal, we should recognize his sovereignty Nothing has come before our Lord. Nothing will come after him. There's nothing greater, more powerful Understanding that he is the first and the last, that he has always existed, also shows us that he is the creator of all. He is the creator of all. The heavens and the earth. You and I, the animals. And hear this. He's even the creator of the enemy. You know this? That he created Satan as an angel, and in Satan's rebellion, devil's rebellion. He is punished and he will receive his just and final punishment in the end. But that should cue us into something. If we understand that our Lord is the first and the last, He's always existed, He always will exist, He's the creator of all, and He created the enemy, how powerful is the enemy actually? It's not that strong. He was created. And the one that created him is the one that is defeating and destroying him. Friends, as we understand that our Lord is eternal, we understand his sovereignty, his greatness. Nothing is more powerful than him. But it doesn't just end with that characteristic of who he is and always existing We see this in in John 1, 1 through 4, the w the word existing, the word taking you on flesh. So Jesus, our very Savior, the one we've just worshipped and celebrated in this Christmas season. It's the one that has always existed. We see that he's taken on flesh, and then in his death and resurrection, he then ascends to the heavens. Revelation 22, verse 13 tells us this: I am the Alpha and the Omega. Or if we wanted to put it in modern language, we would say, I am the A to the Z, the beginning and the end. Everything dwells within my creation. I am Revelation 22, 13. I am the Alpha and Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end. Beloved, may we be encouraged with these words. May we be encouraged that our Lord and Savior is the beginning and the end. We shall rest and find hope in this. But then back in this letter to Smyrna, it gives a second trait of who God is. The words of the first and the last. But then listen to this victory, who died and came back to life. May we understand, may we see that our Lord, part of his identity is that he has defeated the grace. He defeated the grave. Now if this doesn't excite us, if this doesn't give us the joy and the zeal to understand that we are a conquering church in this world, brothers and sisters, I don't know what will. If we don't recognize that our Lord and Savior died on a cross, taking on our sins, redeeming us. But he did not stay in the grave, but in fact he he defeated the grave, coming back to life on the third day He's defeated the grave. I don't know what other joy we have in this life. That we are now children of God. We have been made righteous before a holy God. And he has defeated the grave, so we have no fear of the grave ourselves. 1 Corinthians 15, 55 sings this. Says death is swallowed up in victory. Many of you know this, and this is sweet words for our ears. Oh death, where's your victory? Oh death, where's your sting? And we recognize that the victory Christ has over the grave has given us a great victory over the grave ourselves. And may it be encouraging to us as we fight this battle, as we face tribulation. May we recognize that if our Lord and Savior has defeated the grave, we too will one day defeat We know that on this earth, as we have our physical death, that is not the end. That as we physically die, we will immediately enter into the presence of our Lord. And then we will join him in the resurrection. We will take on our resurrected bodies and spend eternity in the presence of our God. May this be a great hope that we rest upon in the face of tribulation. But why is this encouraging to us in trials? Why is the truth and the fact that Christ has defeated the grave give us encouragement during tribulation? Well, what's the worst that the enemy can do to you? I mean maybe you're running through a list here, but ultimately the final destruction, quote unquote, that the enemy can do is to kill you. And then what happens in our death? We enter into the presence of our Lord. Philippians 1, 18 through 21, so many of you know that. Give us this promise. 1 18 through 21 says, Yes, and I will rejoice, for I know that through your prayers and the help of the Spirit of Jesus Christ, this will turn out for my deliverance. as it is my eager expectation and hope that I will not be at all ashamed. For that with full courage, now as always, Christ will be honored in my body, whether by life Or by death. For to me, to live is Christ, and to die is gain. Are we ready? And and facing the trials and tribulation with this mindset. Saying, come on enemy, whatever the worst is you throw at us, whatever the worst attack you bring against us Our lives, our endurance of that suffering is glorious to Christ. We're not ashamed of it. Bring the attacks. We're not ashamed of it. We recognize that it's because of our identity as Christians But even if you do bring death, we know that the sovereign Lord is in control of that death, and we recognize that when we die, we enter into the presence of our Lord. What attack can the enemy truly bring against us? We know that we have the victory over the grave, and we shall not fear death itself So the first thing that we must remember on how we are to conquer in the face of tribulation is we must understand the identity of our Lord. Could you imagine? Try to understand Satan's thinking the day that Jesus died on the cross There's some understanding there that he thought he was actually victorious. He thought he had done it. The Son of God is dead. I mean the enemies of God and the enemies of Jesus at the time, both the the human ones were rejoicing. They've killed off this man. There's no more of this rebel trying to cause division and stir up the Jews against them. But then there's also the spiritual side. They're thinking they won the victory. The Son of God is dead. We've won. Now think about how they felt on that third day when Christ defeated the grave. As he arose from the grave. As Satan, the devil, recognized that his defeat is sure. He did not win. He did not have a victory. It was only a perceived victory. But in the end, we know that Christ is victorious. We must remember that. That our Lord and Savior is eternal, and he has the feet of the grave. What's the second thing that should encourage us, should help us as we conquer in the face of tribulation? We must understand who you are in Christ. We must understand who I am in Christ. While we see our great Lord and Savior, it's very helpful for us to rest and see his identity, his victory, but we also must recognize who we are in him. Look with me in verse 9. It's the very first thing that the Lord wants to tell this church. I know your tribulation and your poverty, but you are rich. And the slander of those who say that they are Jews and are not, but are a synagogue of Satan. Notice this little this little parentheses in your Bible. Probably marked out, says, uh, your poverty, he's saying, I recognize your poverty, but then he says, But you are rich. He's saying, I recognize the poverty of the physical You don't have all the shekels. You don't have all the gold. You're not the kings and the rulers of that time. But then he says, you are rich. Brothers and sisters, may we see that if we are made new in Christ, we are indwelled by the Holy Spirit, we are indeed rich. I don't need to look at your bank accounts or your house to make that claim. Our richness, our wealth comes in the spiritual form. It comes from the reality that we have been born again. Ephesians 3 verse 8 says, the unsearchable riches. That the riches we have in Christ, we can't even completely fathom. We can't put and list them all out because they're unsearchable. They're so great and grand that it won't be till we enter into glory That we actually see and understand all the greatness and all the riches that the Lord has blessed us with. But in Ephesians 1, verse 3, it says, Bless us in the heavenly realms. So our richness rests in heaven today. Our wealth, our wealth rests in heaven today. We already have it. It's ours. We have received it through the blood of Christ and the new birth in the Spirit, and now we have it in heaven today. Now you're asking the right question, Jim. But I want it now, right? Why can I have the richness now? Do I have to wait till I get to heaven? Good question, Jim. Thank you for asking that. By no means do we wait just for the heavenly. We're not just Christians that are just sitting back and waiting for the glory to enter into the the the the presence of God, but we actually have blessings now. We have a richness here on this earth. Not of money and wealth, but of a spiritual wealth, a godliness, a holiness that is worth more than the biggest paycheck you will ever receive. 2 Peter 1 verse 3 says that he has given us everything we need for a godly life. Friends, may we see the beauty of living a godly life. May we see the richness of following after and obedience our Lord and Savior. May we recognize how this brings us joy. It provides us a good living. It gives us hope. Ultimately, we see that our riches, well the world looks at us and goes, you guys are poor, you're worth nothing. You could have been a CEO. You could have climbed up the corporate ladder. Not that those are evil or wicked, but that's not where our identity rests in. We recognize that we are truly rich in Christ. The other aspect of understanding who you are in Christ, while we know that we are rich in Christ, this should encourage us that your Savior, Jesus, knows everything about you. May you recognize how encouraging that is. Look back in verse 9 once again with me. He says, I know your tribulation and your poverty. And the slander of those who say that they are Jews and are not, but are synagogue of Satan. That the Lord is present with this church. He says, I know your tribulation, your poverty, the slander. He knows it. As we are facing trials and tribulation, as the enemy is attacking us, May we understand that our Lord is aware of it. May we recognize that it is only happening by the allowance of our Savior. The sovereign God is the only one that allows the enemy to attack. If the Lord wanted to prevent the enemy from attacking us, he would stop it. It just wouldn't happen. And then in our human minds, we wrestle with this. We struggle with this. How is this so? God, come on, can't you just stop all the attacks? Wouldn't it be better if we just never faced any trials or tribulation? But we read that in our readings before the sermon. That there's actually a fruit. There's a reward that comes through facing trials and tribulation. It grows our faith. It strengthens our hope in the Lord. It matures us. It digs our roots deep into our foundation of faith. That when we enter into glory, as we enter into the presence of our Lord, we become more grateful of his work and how he has sustained us. We recognize that the Spirit is the only one that gives us the strength to endure these trials and tribulation. The story goes that the there's scientists that tried to plant some trees. This is the biodome. They tried to plant the trees in that biodome and create an entire ecosystem that existed inside a building And one of the problems they were having was that these trees would grow tall and then they would collapse and fall over. And the scientists had learned that as these trees were growing, they were never facing uh strong gusts of wind, or they were never facing any kind of forces that were strengthening the roots and causing the roots to dig down a little bit deeper. so that they could really hold on, so that when the tree was fully grown and the gusts of wind would come, it would not be knocked over. But because the tree had never faced the trials of the wind, the tree never grew its roots down. Well, friends, we are very similar to these trees. It is good for us to face trials and tribulation in the name of Christ. It is good for us to endure the attacks of the enemy. Now, don't go seeking it. Don't go looking for it. There's no need for that. But may we not think that there's a problem. May we actually recognize that the attacks of the enemy is under the the sovereignty of God and our endurance through faith within the attacks will strengthen us and grow us. How is this possible? It's because the Lord knows each and every one of us. He knows the attacks and the tribulation and the trials that you were able to face. And they probably look quite different than the ones I can face. And they look quite different than the ones you can face. But our God is near. He cares for us. He's present. He loves us. This knowledge is also the intimacy of God. He knows. He knows who we are. He knows our faith. May we rest and enjoy the truth that our Lord knows us. May this also encourage us to confess our sins. He knows our sins. He knows the wickedness of our hearts and the passions of our flesh. He sent his son to die on the cross. Jesus knows the sins that he bore on the cross. He knows the sinner that his blood was poured out for. He knows those sins. May we be quick to confess those sins before him. May we be able and ready to face trials and tribulation. May we be a church that is ready to conquer this earth. In the face of tribulation, as we understand who we are in Christ, that we have a great richness in Christ, and that our great and victorious Savior knows everything about us. The third thing that will help us and encourage us to be conquerors in the face of tribulation. Number three, the understanding, understand the identity of the attacker. It's important. We must know the attacker. Great armies. They don't just train real hard to be great warriors, but if they're about to go into battle, they try to know everything about their enemy. The strengths and the weaknesses. So may we get a glimpse and understand the identity of our attacker. Look back in verse 9. I know your tribulation and your poverty, but you are rich. And the slander of those who say that they are Jews and are not, but are a synagogue of Satan. Do not fear what you are about to suffer. Behold, the devil is about to throw some of you into prison And that you may be tested. And for ten days you will have tribulation. Be faithful unto death, and I will give you the crown of life. So here Jesus recognized and sees the attacks of the enemy and he lays them out before the church. And don't we want this letter sometimes? Like, just tell me what the enemy is going to do to me. Let me know what the enemy is going to do. Let me know the angle that Satan's going to attack us. Let me know the lies that the enemy are going to try to plant into our minds. We don't have the same promise and the same clear instructions as this church in Smyrna does, but we must understand who our attacker is. Now just let me step back for a moment and take a historical glimpse at this church. Because there is a temptation to point our fingers and say, this means all Jews of all time are the enemy. No. Do not fall for that lie. Do not fall for the anti-Semitism that is attempted to be drawn out here. But may we also not miss the people and the group that the enemy uses throughout history to attack us. In this time, the Church in Smyrna was living under the authority of Rome, and Rome had done really well at conquering the known world You didn't know that. You can read your history books and see that Rome just kind of took over all the known world and uh once you got to the Alps they didn't go into the mountains for a long time and then they didn't go too far east, but they conquered most of the world. And one of the things that had made Rome victorious in conquering these foreign nations and then making them Romans while not allowing uprisings and rebels to rise up and to fight against them. is that r the r the Roman Empire taken a semi-neutral uh religious liberty type of approach. Not as we understand today, but uh Rome came in and said, you can worship and believe in any God you want. As long as you also recognize that Caesar is God. And and to the pagan world, that sounded great. You're gonna allow me to hold to my gods? I'm gonna pinch a little incense to Caesar and recognize him as a God, but truly not disrupting any of my world But in this time, the Jewish nation of Israel and the Jewish people that were under the authority of Rome did not like this instruction. And we know through history there were some battles and uprisings, and ultimately the Jewish group had gotten a special permission that they did not have to recognize Caesar as Lord. They just had to recognize that Caesar was a king and they still had to pay a tax to Caesar. And so uh the the Jewish religion had an exemption within Rome and had received this exemption to just pay tax, but you didn't actually have to worship Caesar in the same way as the rest of the world. So what's happening is now this this new group, these Christians, have actually been lumped into the group of the Jews. At times they felt they were just a separate uh group of the Jewish faith, especially the the known world at that time in the early church. So we get an understanding here in Smyrna that the Jews are now saying, no no no, these people are not Jewish. These Christians are not Jewish. And they don't get the same privileges that we get. And they're actually starting to rat out the people that are claiming that are Christians. So the Jewish uh the Jewish leaders in Smyrna at that time are going to the Romans authorities and saying, here are these Christians, they're not Jewish, and they're refusing to worship Caesar. Punish them. Arrest them. And then there's actually some other lies that came at this time. They were called atheists. If you didn't know that, the Christians were some of the earliest uh atheists because of the misunderstanding that Jesus was God. So the the belief was that Jesus was just the man. So if these Christians are worshiping this man, then they don't believe in God. So this Jewish group in Smyrna, they're they're leading the charge, getting the Romans to attack and arrest the Christian church in Smyrna. Alright, so we understand the picture that's painted here, and that's why Jesus says that those say that they are Jews and are not, but are a synagogue of Satan. Let me just make this clear if you didn't know that's not encouraging language. The synagogue of Satan. Jews that are not not encouraging. What Jesus is pointing out is these men who proclaim to be the God's people, these men who proclaim to be the voice of God are not, if they are attacking, Christ's bride, the church. So let us understand who the attacker is in our day. It's the same attacker that we see in Smyrna, look in verse 10, it says, Do not fear what you are about to suffer. Behold, the devil is about to throw some of you into prison. So the attacks of the enemy Are from the devil. The devil is the enemy. He 's using different mechanisms and different authorities to do that, but ultimately the devil is the enemy. So what's his identity? The attacker appears to be powerful. It appears to be powerful. In Smyrna he has the the he sits in the synagogue, so he has the authority and the control of the Jewish synagogue in that region. But the enemy also has some kind of control within the political. scheme. The the the authority that is over the region of Smyrna, the Roman authority. That's why they are able to be arrested and thrown into prison and ultimately receive the death penalty. The enemy appears to be powerful. And friends, may we not lie to ourselves and say that the enemy is not powerful today. May we not think, oh no, the enemy doesn't seem powerful. Well well, when you start to doubt your faith, it seems pretty powerful, right? When you start to lose your loved ones Suffer job loss , all of a sudden the enemy seems quite powerful, does he not? But let me encourage you and promise you that the attacks appear to be powerful. The attacker appears to be powerful. Yes, do we feel the pain of loss of a loved one? Absolutely. Absolutely. Do we have the promise of eternal hope? Yes, we feel the pain of the world mocking us in our faith, in our religion, mocking us and holding fast to the confession of our faith. Those attacks hurt. Let's not lie that they're, oh no, it doesn't, we don't feel it, we don't notice it. No, they hurt. Feels powerful. But is mockery going to put us to shame? By no means. We are forgiven in Christ. What if mockery goes to the point of our death? What shall happen? We will enter into the presence of our Lord. How powerful really is the attacker if the worst thing he can do is kill us and send us into the presence of our Lord. What's the worst thing of our attacker if if the only powerful thing he can do on this earth is try to make us ashamed of who we are and we're standing here saying we are children of God forgiven. Our sins have been forgiven. What chain can you bring against me? We start to recognize that the attacker is not as powerful as he may appear. We see there in point B is that we know that the attacks are from Satan. We already talked about that, that the attacks are from Satan. But we must recognize that Satan only operates under the authority and the sovereignty of our God. He does not have free reign. He's not just doing whatever he wants. He's not in any power or authority to destroy the church. Because the church is Christ. I don't think you could hear the appropriate context there. The church is Christ. What's this? Comma apostrophe s. It belongs to Christ. The church is his. It's not Satan's. Satan doesn't have the power and the authority to say, here, you were the bride of Christ, but now you're mine. No, no, no, no. He does not have that authority, he does not have that power. He cannot do it. Why? It's because we belong, we have been purchased by the blood of our Savior Jesus Christ. But then point C, we see that the attacks are limited. They're limited. Please recognize this. The worst attack that could this enemy could bring against you will end at some point I don't want to put a time frame on. I wish I could tell you like the this letter that it's going to last ten days and then it'll be done. But I can't do that. But I can promise you that even if the attack starts today and lasts for the next 50 years of your life, and then you die, and the enemy is continually attacking you for 50 years years. May I rest assured that that attack is over as you enter into the presence of our Lord and Savior. It's over. It's done with. The attacks of the enemy will not last into eternity. Now there's a little bit of debate of what the attacks in this uh church in Smyrna are. says that uh for ten days you you will have tribulation. There's some understanding that they're most likely arrested, put in prison for ten days. We have no historical context that we can point to this group of people in this time that face this type and exact tribulation. But then the debate is, are they released from prison or are they put to death? And I believe that what we see here is that most likely they were in prison for ten days and then they were put to death. For their faith. They were put to death. And in the face of death, the promise of death that will come at the attacks of the enemy, our Lord is saying they are still limited. Why? Because you're entering into the promised land. Their attacks are limited. They can only happen under the reign of Christ. Their attacks are limited. They're not that powerful in the face of the victory of Christ. Friends, may we recognize how weak our attacker truly is. May we recognize how limited our attacker truly is. Doesn't change the pain. Doesn't change the suffering that we will face, but we should be encouraged that he is not more powerful than Christ. We're often tempted in this world to say, no, that the that the enemy is actually winning here on this earth. The enemy is winning here on this earth. That is a lie from the enemy. That we recognize that the church is winning on this earth. It's through the power of the Spirit that the church is advancing into the darkness. The church is growing. The church is preaching the gospel. Sinners are coming to be saints. The dead hearts are being ripped out of people and given new ones through the work of the Spirit. Christ's victory is here and now. The enemy is not winning now. Now some of you are going, but Anthony, look at the media, look at the news, look at the world around us. Well let me just give you a a one fact. All right, just take this fact and then do whatever you want with it. But I hope it encourages you that the church is conquering this creation through the victory of Christ. In the peak of the Roman Empire, there's circa 80 million citizens of Rome. 80 million in the peak of the Roman Empire Today, around this world, there are over 600 million Protestant Christians. 600 million. Now you say, well, you know, I don't think they're actually Christians. That number is probably skewed. Let's go 300. Let's cut that in half if you're so doubtful of the work of victory of Christ. Do we recognize that the advancement of the gospel is going around the world? There are more churches around the world than there were the day that Christ rose from the dead. Dead. Amen? Alright, there's more Bibles and more languages than they could speak or even knew existed in the day that Christ rose from the grave. Brothers and sisters, each one of you has a Bible in your lap that you are able to read. That's a unique thing in history. It wasn't until about the fifteen hundreds that that started to become an idea. An idea, not not Given, but an idea that you could have your own Bible that you could read. May we see the advancement of the kingdom of God. May we recognize the victory of Christ. Uh just look around you. How many of you still uh see uh enslavement of a different race in America today? Good answer, zero. Why? Because Christians went to the forefront, went to the politicians to fight for the abolishment. Cattle slavery. May we recognize the victory of the advancement of the gospel of Christ because our Lord and Savior, who is the King of Kings, the Prince of Princes, He is the Lord that sits and reigns in heaven, is victorious, and he has sent his bride, the church, to operate here in this creation, here and now. The enemy is weak in the face of such a great king. May we recognize, church. May we recognize that we are married. We will be married to that king in the end. The church will be. That we are victorious. Oh, what a great promise we have. May we understand the weakness and the identity of our attacker. And lastly, as we face the trials and tribulation. May we understand our reward. We've talked about it over and over and over again. That we get to enter into the presence of our Lord and Savior. That we are forgiven. We are called child of God. That Jesus looks at Elsa and says, I purchased you at such a great price. You are mine. What other reward do you want? Well, we see it here, verse 11, he who has an ear, let him hear Excuse me, let me back up just a little bit. Be faithful unto death, and I will give you the crown of life. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. The one who conquers will not be hurt by the second death. Notice here this crown of life. In this time the the Olympics would be happening and and the victor in a race, so the one that won the the competition would get a crown placed on their head. They wouldn't get the gold medal as we see today, but they would get a crown of often some kind of leaves, olive leaves that would be placed onto their heads. So this imagery should make perfect sense to the original reader. And they're hearing and seeing that they're receiving the crown, the mark of life. The crown of life. The sign that you are his. The promise that you are God's. The promise that you will live forever. Be faithful unto death, and I will give you the crown of life. We see our reward, our final and eternal reward awaits us in our death. But then he goes on in verse 11, he who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. The one who conquers will not be hurt by the second death. Now who is the ultimate victor? Who's the ultimate conqueror? It's Christ. Was he defeated by death? No. We know that he took victory over the death. Yet we see that we are conquerors in Christ. We have been purchased. And we are made new in him, and we are conquerors yet. Many, if not all of us, will face a physical death. But here's the promise that the Lord gives us. The one who conquers, the one who stands fast in the faith of Christ. Digs our roots down deep into our faith, believing and trusting Christ as our Savior, will not be hurt by the second death. Sure, the enemy could kill us. The enemy could put us to death. That promise is probably given here to the church in Smyrna. But here's what the Lord says: do not worry. The second death, the final death, the one that will bring eternal destruction, eternal separation from God, you will not be touched by it. You will not even sense its effects. Why? It's because you have been made alive in Christ and you will be written in the book of life and you will dwell into eternity with your Lord and Savior. Revelation 21, verses 3 through 4 says that we will dwell in his presence forever. Enemy, bring your attacks. You won't separate us from our Lord and Savior. Oh, bring death upon us. We will enter into the presence of our King. Church, may we recognize that we are conquerors because of Christ Yes, we will face tribulation and trials here on this earth, but we worship, we follow, and we are children of the great, victorious King Jesus. Let's go before him in prayer. Holy God, we thank you for your words. We thank you for your truth. We thank you that you are victorious. That we have been redeemed by your Son's blood. You have made us new. We do not need to fear the attacks of the enemy. We can stand fast and stand true in faith. Trusting and resting that we have been purchased by Christ. The enemy will not beat, will not win, will not overcome Christ. Our great King. We pray this in his name. Amen.