This morning our text, the words we'll examine, come out of Psalm 19. The purpose of the law of God. Psalm nineteen, the purpose of the law of God. So often when we start to talk about the law of God, uh and especially in modern-day evangelicalism, we We have kind of two extremes that feel very relevant and very in our faces, and many of us maybe think this way or have thought this way at some point in our lives A very common one is what we would call legalism that you must fulfill the law of God to be made righteous. Right? So you have the law of God, and I'm not even defining what that is right now, but there's some kind of rules and laws in our mind that say if you are going to be a Christian Before you can become a Christian, you must do X, Y, and Z. Right? That's kind of how this is approached: the law of God is used as the mechanism. to approach God. And we call that legalism. But there's also another side of legalism that we often don't think of as legalism. And that's the the very fancy word that we would call antinomialism. Right, everyone was thinking about that word this morning as you're brushing your teeth. Very simply put, it's no law or anti -anti -law, against law. That is legalism as well. Because on one hand you're saying you have to have these laws and rules perfect to approach God, and then on the same coin Just on the opposite side, you're saying there are no rules, there are no laws of God. That's old Testament stuff. Right? As soon as Matthew, the book of Matthew started and Christ came on the scene We completely got rid of the law of God. And these are the two extremes that we see in society today within the church. No, we're not talking about outsiders, we're not talking about those that are uh we wouldn't call brothers and sisters in Christ. We're talking about churches and other Christians Either they're saying you have to have the law perfect to be righteous before God, or they're saying there's absolutely no law. It doesn't matter. We can just do whatever, right? We have grace. What is grace, Christians? And what we must see today is neither of those are true. Rather, we want to have a good understanding of the law of God. The beauty of what the law of God is, the benefit of what the law of God is for our daily living as Christians. We see Thomas Watson there on your outline. It says, the law of God is a copy of his will, a beam of his holiness, and a rule of life to guide us. To happiness. It's a copy of His will, a beam of His holiness, and a rule of life to guide us to happiness. If you're in this camp over here where you're saying, Really the law of God isn't for us, that's just the Old Testament. We're now new covenant, you know, we're Christians, we're we're in the new covenant, you're right. But if you're saying, Well the law of God is is Is bad, it's not good, you're gonna really struggle reading the Psalms. You're really gonna struggle with it. I mean, the Psalm we'll see then this morning is Psalm 19, and it's about how good the law of God is. The beauty If you're on this side and you're saying the law of God is bad, we don't have it, we don't want it, we don't deal with it, don't read Psalm 119. Don't read it because you're gonna be all twisted up. If you're saying the law is bad, it's not good, and then you read Psalm 119. You see that the law is very good. They meditate on the law. The law is the very lamp. The word of God is the very lamp of how we we walk and how we know how to live. But if you're on this side, on the other side of legalism, the strict, you've got to follow the law perfectly, you've got to have all these things checked off, all these boxes checked off before you can come to Christ. Oh, Ephesians two is gonna be your worst enemy. This idea that you can't accomplish the work on your own, this idea that you're dead in your sin, this idea that Christ had to come and die to save sinners like us, that There's no works we could do to accomplish our salvation, that starts to destroy this legalism. Check the box, make sure this is all right before you can be saved. saved. So then what shall we do? Well, as we we'll see in Psalm 19 that we're looking at the law, and it has three aspects This is a very historical way of thinking about the law. And essentially there's three aspects to the law. It reveals and drives. So it reveals that we are sinners and drives us to the cross of Christ. Reveals that we are sinners and drives us to the cross of Christ. And then the second aspect, the second purpose of the law of God is it's a guide. Okay, now you're righteous in Christ. You've gone to the cross. You are forgiven. You are now a child of God. How then shall you live? I want that. I want the then how shall I live book. I want the then how shall I be a Christian? Scriptures, that's something I yearn for. So that's the second aspect of the law. And then the third aspect is it restrains. It restrains. Here is what sin is, and this is the crime against God, and this is the punishment for such a crime. Then we avoid doing it. This restraining aspect we'll see later is also for society. It restrains society. It restrains the wicked of society. But that's the three aspects we'll examine. Reveals and drives, guides and restrains. And the whole reason I'm doing this is to prepare our study in the future of the Ten Commandments. We're going to take one or two commandments each Sunday. and break them down, unpack them. But if we don't understand how we should uh see and view the law of God, when we get to the Ten Commandments, it's It can be confusing and hard for us to use and to wrestle with and to understand what God's purpose is with it. So we must understand what the purpose of the law of God first. So let us examine our text. Join me in reading Psalm 19. The heavens declare the glory of God, and the sky above proclaims his handiwork Day to day pours out speech, and night to night reveals knowledge. There is no speech, nor are there words whose voice is not heard. Their voice goes out through all the earth And the words to the end of the world. In them he has set a tent for the sun, which comes out like a bridegroom, leaving his children. Chamber, and, like a strong man, runs his course with joy. Them. And there is nothing hidden from its heat. The law of the Lord is perfect, reviving the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple The precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. The rules of the Lord are true and righteous altogether. More to be desired are they than gold, even much finer. Sweeter also than honey and drippings of the honeycomb. Moreover, by them is your servant warned. In keeping them there is great reward. Who can discern his error? Declare me innocent from hidden faults. Keep back your servant also from presumptuous Let them not have dominion over me, then I shall be blameless and innocent of great transgression. Let the words of my mouth and the meditations of my heart be acceptable in your sight. O Lord, my rock, and my redeemer. The psalmist here starts out with such imagery that encourages us to see that God is communicating. God is communicating to all of creation. And he is pronouncing and announcing that he is the creator to all of humanity. It's very interesting. I found this quote as I was preparing that C. S. Lewis wrote about Psalm 119. He says, I take Psalm 19 to be the greatest poem in the Psalter and one of the greatest lyrics in the world. But as he's seeing this, he's just Seeing the beauty of this song and thinking about how much it encourages us to look to God. And that's what David does in the beginning, is he declares right there, the heavens declare the glory of God. Right, we we talk about this quite a bit and we know this that the creation order declares that there is a creator. Right? The reality that we can look out, the reality that there is going to be be snow upon snow upon snow tomorrow declares that someone has created each and every individual snowflake, put it in a storehouse in the heavens, and now is dumping it. On us, right? Just pouring it out upon us. It's for our His glory that it's happening. But we know that there must be a Creator, and this declares His goodness And then that that we can know him by his creation. That we can know that he is the creator. Now the reason the psalmist starts here is because this is what we would call kind of just common knowledge or general revelation. This is a common grace to all of humanity. You don't have to be a Christian to know that there is a creator when you see creation. Right? Now, they're denying it. Well, many people in the world deny there's a creator, but it's not that hard, logically, to come from the conclusion that there must be a creator because we see creation. And he's using this to stir us up and to point us to God and to the glory of God and to be thinking about how great God is so that then when he starts to talk about his law being beneficial for us For , us, worry, think about how great God is. And the and then the psalmist is weaving in that even the law of God Announces the glory of God. The law of God is glorious and beneficial for us. But this almost continues here. with this idea that there's nothing of creation that doesn't announce God. And that it goes out into the world, that's where verse four is. Their voice goes out through all the earth and their words to the end of the world. In them he has set a t So here's this imagery that his announcement of who he is in creation is going forth to the ends of the earth. No one can avoid it. But then he shifts to this imagery of the sun being in a tent, and this is imagery, right? I just want to be clear, there's not a physical literal tent that the sun goes into. At night, right? We understand that. But he's using this imagery that there's a tent, that the creator has an order, that the creator has set the sun on a path He's just magnifying God, how great God is. But now he's going to start to use this imagery of the sun and the beating down of the sun. And that w when the sun's at its hottest, it's hard for us to imagine this in January, in one of the coldest times, but and when the sun in August and this basketball camp and the sun 's at its peak And it's beating down on us. It's hard to escape that heat, is it not? It's hard to get out of the glowing rays of the sun. And that's what he's starting to drive this home. In verse 6, its rising is from the end of the heavens, and it circuith to the end of them, and there is nothing hidden from its heat. Well wait, what's the psalmist doing? He had us thinking about the Creator and how the Creator is announcing himself in creation. and how glorious the creator is. And then he starts to say that no one can avoid it hearing the words of the Creator through his creation. And then he talks about the Son and how no one can avoid the Son. What is he doing here? Well look with me in verse seven. The law of the Lord is perfect, reviving the soul. Oh man. Now I'm starting to see why C. S. Lewis is saying this is such a wonderful Song. Because what David has done is he's brought up this imagery of the sun for us to be thinking about, and then he talks about the law of God. And we start to make this connection that no one can avoid. the law of God. No one can escape the judgment of God. No one can say, well I'm ignorant. I don't know God. I was born in this tribe and never heard the gospel. I was born in America and no one ever shared the gospel with me. I wasn't born into a Christian family. I don't believe what the Bible says, so I'm not guilty. No, actually the psalmist is proving to us that just like the sun, you can't avoid the heat of the sun. You can't avoid the law of God. And that brings us to point number one, the purpose of the law. It reveals and drives. It reveals and drives. Beloved, the world hates the law of God because it convicts them of their sin. And friends, you hated the law of God before Christ because it convicted you of your sin. As you started to see That there are rules in this creation. As you sure don't understand that there's a creator and that we have offended him and we have sinned against him, your punishment becomes clear in your mind. And and as we read the Ten Commandments you see that, that that w we we start to see that we have sinned against him. Okay. You know, maybe all right, we haven't murdered, we're we're good, we start to feel like, all right, we're we're gonna survive this list, but then We start to get to the righteous worship of God, using the Lord's name in vain, lying, lusting, coveting, and we start to go, oh man Man, I am a wretched sinner. I'm broken. That's what the law of God does. It's like that sun that's beating down on us. We can't avoid it. You feel the heat You feel the pressure and it's upon you, and you're just broken. You're crushed by it. And sometimes we we can kind of soothe our conscience to say, if I really I'm not that bad, right? I've never murdered. We try to use the big ones, right? I've never been to prison. And my saying is I've never been to prison because they haven't caught me yet, right? Rob. I'm just that good. Right? That's that's our thinking is, oh well, if I haven't gone to prison, I haven't gone to jail, I haven't paid major fines, then I'm really not that bad. I haven't murdered, I haven't actually stolen anything. I haven't slept with someone other than my spouse. And we think, all right, I'm not that bad. But what does Jesus do when he comes onto the scene? He starts preaching. This is a classic sermon, the Sermon on the Mount. What's he do? He starts to lay out the law for the people. He says, you have heard that you shall not murder. Right? And I and just imagine you're in that crowd and you're like, Yeah, yeah, yeah. Because right now you're feeling good. Like I'm I'm with this guy. He's talking about you shouldn't murder and I I haven't murdered. Right? And you're starting to feel good about yourself. And then what does Jesus do? But I tell you, if you've hated your brother in your heart, you've already murdered him. You're like, oh no. This isn't what I thought it was going to be. You've heard that that adultery is a sin and a crime. Lusting. And you're like, all right, I'm good. I'm back in this. He goes, but if you've lusted after a woman in your heart, you've already committed adultery. Oh no. Right? The law of God reveals our sinfulness. The law of God reveals that we have problems. Look with me in verse 12 of Psalm 19, it says, Who can discern his errors? Right, without the law, we don't even realize that we're wrong. Without the law, we don't see that we have sinned against God, even though we're doing it. And look here, it says, declare me innocent from hidden faults. Yeah, we we sometimes think that well if I'm ignorant to the law then I can't be g found guilty of the law, right? Right? So next time you're driving and the police pull you over and you say, I'm sorry, officer, I didn't know this was a 30 mile an hour school zone. I thought it was one of those fancy Texas highways at 70 miles an hour. I'm ignorant. And the state trooper is going to go, I understand your ignorance. Go on your way. No. No. You might get arrested for that speech. But we see that ignorance isn't acceptable. So we need the law to reveal to us that we are sinners. If you can flip with me to Romans 7, and you're just going to see this is what Paul is talking about. Teens, we talked about this on Wednesday night. But that the law has revealed to us and has taught us that we are sinners. Look in Romans 7, verse 7. It says, What then shall we say? That the law is sin? Just remember, Paul has been addressing the grace of God and that we're saved by his mercy and grace. So the the argument is: well then, if we're saved by grace, then the law can't save us, therefore the law is sin. So verse 7-7 says, or chapter 7-7 says, What then shall we say that the law is sin? By no means. Yet if it had not been for the law, I would not have known sin. For I would not have known what it is to covet if the law had not said, you shall not covet. Do you start to see that, friends, that we see our sin through the law? It's through the law that when we when we see the law of God, when we r realize that there is a holy and righteous order to society and to culture and to creation, there is a holy and righteous God that we have offended and sinned against. We start to have a problem. Because if we have sinned against the Creator, we have broken his law, regardless of how severe you think it is, you have sinned against the Creator, you now have a problem. and the law reveals that you have a problem. This is why this uh on our on our scale here of the the legalism it doesn't work Legalism, following the rules to a T to find your righteousness, fails. Because the law reveals that we are sinners. The law reveals that even if we're not doing the sin with our hands, we're probably doing it with our mouths and our Our hearts. And we have this problem. So the law of God reveals that we are sinners and that we are going to receive a just and hard punishment. And this is why when it reveals, it also drives us. It drives us to our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. It drives us to Him. That's why legalism doesn't work. Legalism just reveals that we are sinners, and then that we have this hope that we're going to solve our sin problem with our own hands, and it fails. The law of God reveals that we are sinners and drives us right to the cross. It drives us to the feet of Him. It drives us to humble ourselves to say there is no hope. in myself. There is no way that I can solve this problem. There is no way that I can fulfill the law. There is no way that I can stop thinking the way I'm thinking. Stop living the way that I'm living. Stop talking the way that I'm talking. Without the work of Christ on my behalf and the Holy Spirit within. It drives us to the cross. It drives us to God. The law of God drives us to worship Him. To recognize how holy he is, how perfect he is, how broken we are, and that our only hope is in Christ Jesus. If you're still there in Romans 7, jump all the way to the end of that chapter where it's in Verse 24, it says this is Paul crying out here. This is Paul, but I feel as though I'm crying this out at times. Wretched man that I am. Anyone else feel that way? This is that revelation of sin. When the law has just revealed how broken we are, it reveals how disgusting we are. And we go, wretched man that I am, who will deliver me from this body of death? It's not the law. The law has just revealed that you need that deliverance. But the law has driven us to verse 25. Thanks be to God. Through Christ Jesus our Lord, so then I myself serve the law of God with my mind, but with my flesh I serve the law of sin. Paul's dealing with this reality that while we're in the flesh, we still have this issue of sin in our lives, but in the newness of Christ. Because it has been revealed to us that we are sinners by the law, and the law has driven us to see that our only hope is in Christ Jesus, and it causes us to worship God in a servant. That's what the law does. It reveals our sinfulness and it drives us to Christ. It drives us to the only hope we have. Back in Psalm 19 If you flip back there, look in verse 14 with me. He's just saying about how great the law of God is. And then in verse 14 it says, Let the words of my mouth and the meditations of my heart be acceptable in your sight. Here it is: O Lord, my rock, and my redeemer. O Lord, my rock and my Redeemer. This is a man that has seen his brokenness. This is a man that has seen that he has broken the law of God and has failed. This is a man that has seen the glory of his Redeemer. This is a man that sees the goodness of God. This is a man that sees that the law of God gives him hope in the lawgiver. And that's why he cries out, O Lord, my rock and my rejoice. Redeemer. Beloved, may this be who we are. I believe that anyone that has faith in Christ and has been redeemed by the blood of Christ, at one point it was revealed to them through the law of God that you are a sinner. You maybe didn't realize that's what was happening, but that's what happened. Oh, I'm a sinner. Right? And then what has happened in that process was then it drove you to seek out a savior for that sin and it drove you to the cross of Christ. And my plead with anyone in here that hasn't had that testimony Have it now. Allow the law of God to reveal your sin. Allow the Holy Spirit to convict you. Stop pushing it away. Stop saying, well, yeah, I know that's bad. I know that's wrong. But And I know I'm sinning, but you know, I'm a good person. I give money. I help the homeless. I don't swear too much and say that's where I'm gonna find my righteousness. No, allow the conviction the Spirit to convict you so much that you are broken and you are hopeless in yourself. And allow the Spirit to drive you to the cross of Christ. Christ, to find the only rest and the only hope and the only forgiveness that is in the blood of Christ, who died on the cross, obeying the law perfectly. Died on the cross as the perfect sacrifice, buried in the grave as the ultimate sign of the death of our sin, and rose from the dead showing that He has victory over sin and death. This is what the law has driven us. Us too. So then, now that we have been revealed that we are sinners and we have been driven, forced to the cross of Christ, we have faith in Christ, we are born again of the Holy Spirit. The second aspect of the law now applies to us. It guides us. How then shall we live? You've got me to the cross. I'm a new creature in Christ. I've been born again, as Jesus instructed Nicodemus in John 3. I'm born again of the Spirit. What now? Right? Do we just go back to what we were doing? Let's say you get saved today. We rejoice with you, that's a glorious thing. Even on a Saturday, someone can be saved. Well, what what do you do tomorrow? Right? That's the normal question. And for many of us, we've been Christians for a long time, and we're even saying, like, what do I do? How am I to live where the law of God guides us? Thus. That's why we'll see in the Ten Commandments, arguably it's often divided into what they call two tables of the law Two tables of the law. Um table uh laws one through four of the Ten Commandments are how we are to love God, and then laws or commandments uh four five through ten are how we are to love one another. Um that's that's the normal ranking. If you have a different that's fine. But what we see What we see are those are instructions of how then we should live. Alright, if we are worshippers of God, we are his children, we want to honor him, right? And your household, your children love you. And they want to honor you. So you have rules and instructions of how to live. Well, likewise, we want to honor our Heavenly Father. He has made us new. We are new creatures. We want to live in obedience to him. The law of God guides us. Us and how to do that. Look with me in Psalm 19, starting in verse 7. The law of the Lord is perfect. Here it is: reviving the soul. When was the last time you thought about the law reviving your soul? Our issue is we think about the civil law. We think about the tax code. Anyone revived by the tax code? We will have a counseling session afterwards if you do. Right? R oh, we we don't think that way because we have uh the civil magistrate has an abundance and an oppression of laws that causes us to think of the law of God in that same manner and we think it's oppression. oppressive, but in fact the law of God is reviving to the soul. Why is that? It's because it directs us. It gives us a a direction in how to live. It it it shows us to how we are to have unity With our Lord and Savior as we're living on this earth. It continues the testimony of the Lord as sure, making wise the simple. That's a wonderful. Amen. I want that. Making the wise the simple. The precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. The rules of the Lord are true and righteous altogether. More to be desired are they than gold Even much fine gold, sweeter also than honey and drippings of the honeycomb. Do you see how David's writing about the law of God? Not as oppressive, not as this bad thing But he's using language to show the goodness. Of the law of God. Gold, and even the finest gold. Right there at the end of verse 9, I think it's really important for us today. The fear of the Lord is clear Clean enduring forever, the rules of the Lord are true and righteous altogether. This is so important for us because the There's the temptation to say that the law of the Lord, the law of God was true and righteous for them back then, but now we have taken TikTok. We're in a completely different society. Or now we have Christ, so it's not good for us. But what we see is that if the law of God is true and righteous, Back then, then it must be true and righteous now. And it's good all around. It's not like, well, it's true and good for this group of people, but this group of people, the law of God isn't good. For them. It can't guide them. But we see that it is good and righteous all together. What we'll see in our study of the Ten Commandments is That the law of God guides us on two aspects: how to love God and to love our neighbor. If you'll remember out of Matthew 22, verse 40, this is what Jesus instructs them. They're trying to get him all caught up and say what's the greatest commandment and they're hoping he'll misspeak so that then they'll have a crime to bring against him. Can't fool Jesus Right? It's not going to happen. What Jesus says is that the greatest commandment is to love God, and then he goes, I'll give you some extra credit. I'll give you a little a bonus answer here. The second is like it to love your neighbor, to love one another. And then this is how he finishes. So loving God, loving neighbor, loving one another, and then he ends it like this. He says on these two commandments hangs all the law and prophets. So now as Christians, when we hear Jesus speaking Yeah, of course as a Christian I want to love God. Of course, as a Christian I want to love my neighbor. I want to love you guys. I want to love the people that God has created. How? Right? Hell. The world has taught us love means accepting everything and anything. The world has taught us that love can be used in any context between Any people or anything. Right? So if we have the world's definition of love, loving God and loving neighbor become very complicated and confusing too. Or even if we're not using the world's definition of loving God and loving neighbor, but we're trying to stick, all right, we're We we know that's lies, we know that's not true, we're gonna stick with scripture. The temptation is it's really easy to love my neighbor in in theory because I see them, I can interact with them. But we often forget to love God. It's kind of out of focus. And Sundays we'll love God. Saturday mornings we'll love God. But the rest of the week we just kind of forget about it Or we're on the other side, like we love God and His righteous, holy, living, and we're seeking to honor Him. And because of that, we completely avoid and forget our neighbor. And our loves become unbalanced and out of order. And that's why we need the law of God is to give us a right ordering of our loves that God has commanded us to have That's why the Ten Commandments start with how to worship and love God. And then they transition into how to love your neighbor. And then I believe that the rest of the law code in the Old Testament are all based off of the Ten Commandments. Even in the ceremonial laws are based off of the Ten Commandments. And they're giving instruction of how they are lived out in a practical way, or they're giving a case study. Alright, so you And then there's a case study later on in Exodus. If someone uh is uh using an axe and the axe handle flies off and accidentally kills someone on this is how you should handle that situation. Right, that's beneficial for the people to understand. How does it work? We have the commandments. How then are we to uh implement Implement them into society in our daily living and the worship of God. But we need the law of God to show us and to guide us in this. So, Christians, I hope this isn't a tough question. Is the law of God good or bad? Good, thank you, yeah. As Christians, should we We study the law of God and seek it for wisdom on how to live. Yes or no? Yes, absolutely. Thank you. Whoever said absolutely, you knew the answer better It's good for us. Don't be the antinomianism, the anti -law. I don't want it. I'm the Christian. I'm the New Testament, New Covenant person. That was for the old covenant, the old people. The Old Testament. No, the law of God guides us as Christians and instructs us of how we are to live. How many times in the New Testament, especially Paul, he tells us to put off the old and to put on the new? Well, what's he talking about? We're putting off the old, all right? The old self, the old flesh, our old desires, our old passions, our old ways of living. But now we're to put on the new. What are you talking about, Paul? Well, the law of God guides us in that. What is righteous living? We are called holy and righteous. We are called to live righteous and holy lives as Christians Well, how am I to know what that is? Remember, yesterday I was a wicked pagan-worshiping sinner that just today came to faith in Christ. I need to be instructed Instructed and guided on how to live a righteous and holy life. And that's found in the law of God. This then brings us to our third and final purpose of the law, which is the restraining aspect. of the law. The law of God restrains. There's two aspects to this purpose. The first aspect is for the believer. Alright, so as we're being guided as Christians, part of that guiding is also restriction. Restraining, right? It's restraining us from our sins. Remember, if if you just became a Christian today, yesterday you followed after your passions, your lusts, your desires, and you didn't care anything about the law of God. Now the law of God reveals to you that that was sinful and wrong, and you're being instructed on righteous living, but you also have to be instructed or restrained from what sinful living looks like. like. And that's what the law does. Look with me back in Psalm 19, verse 11. Moreover, by them is your servant warned, and keeping them their great reward. So that restraining aspect is a warning. Right? It's a warning. If you do this It is a sin against your God, your Redeemer, the one that you say is your Savior. It's a sin against sin. Well then what are you going to do? You want to honor, you want to obey, you're going to fight against that temptation, you're going to resist that, and you can do that because you're born again of the Spirit. You have the ability, as James tells us, you have the strength and the ability and The desire to fight against that sin. But that is a restraining act. Just like the speed Limit is. That's a restraining act. Now, does that speed limit sign fall down in front of you and prevent you from going 41 in a 40? No. No, but you're seeing it, you're trying to honor the systems that's put in place, so then you're restrained on your speed. Right, everyone? That's what we do Do. Oh, Alex, you're the newest driver, right? That's what you're doing. Good speed limit. But you see, it's not a physical act that's preventing you, but it's there to guide and to instruct. And that for the believer, that's what's happening. We're told it restrains us. Verse thirteen Keep back your servant also from presumptuous sins. Let them not have dominion over me, then I shall be blameless and innocent of great truth Transgression. Alright. I don't want anyone to answer this out loud, but think of the one sin that you have wrestled with for years. Or the one temptation that's just regular in your life. Right? Why do you hate it? Why do you know that that's a sin? Why do you know it's a temptation in your life? life because the law of God has revealed it to you as being a problem. Right? And why do you have any care in the world to try to fight against it? It's because the law of God has revealed that that's not what righteous holy living looks like. And I believe that for some of us, and it may be subconscious as we do it, but that the law of God is ingrained in us and it's actually holding us back from doing it. As you mature in Christ, as you're being sanctified, your anger starts to slow down, coming out so quickly, right? That's the restraining work of the law of God within your life. Your love and passion for your friends and your family and your enemies changes and and it's not so much that you are all about yourself but you start thinking about others and God, that's the restraining work of the law of God. So for the Christian, the law guides us and it restrains us from sinning against God. And when we do, it then drives us to the cross of Christ. Right? It drives us back to confess our sins. The second aspect of the restraining work of the law of God is within the civil sphere. It's within the civil sphere. We don't think about this then. Our modern society has almost completely completely forsaken this idea and is almost disgusted by the very mentioning that the law of God should be used in the civil society to make just laws and a just society. We say no that no no no no no I know about church separation of church and state I know all about it I know we're not supposed to cross that line But the challenge then is, well then, how do they know what righteous laws are and look like and how they should be implemented in society? Right? If I would talk with many of you, a lot of your complaints and issues with culture and society are legal. They're allowed in society. And we don't want that to be. So I f mentioned our prayer about abortion. It's a destructive act. Seventy plus million children have been aborted in the United States since mid-1990s. 1970s. Destroyed. If you want to go down to the abortion clinics with me, usually on Saturday mornings, you'll see there's a predominant type of person going into there, and it's not the rich. It's not the wealthy, it's not the well-off, and it's not white people. It's a racial i institution, and it's completely legalized in the Americas. It's completely legalized, encouraged. There's not a single state in our union that has abolished abortion. Not one. Oklahoma will say they did, they didn't, up to six weeks, and the abortion pill is illegal throughout the entire uh pregnancy process. So are are we just going to say, yeah, well, separation of church and state, we're going to allow that to happen. Or do we want righteous Leaders, righteous politicians saying, you know what, that is murder and destruction, and we're going to make laws to abolish it. The only way that happens is if they know the law of God. Because when we just allow the humanist thinking and the just follow your passion, just follow the culture, we are now 70 million babies murdered. That didn't work for us. When the church says, no, actually, no, we don't want to get into this political sphere. We don't want to talk about the law of God. That's going to offend people. This isn't our role. Here we are. Blood being poured out in the streets because of murder. Marriage just completely destroyed. It has no image, has no understanding. The destruction of the family and the household completely gone and destroyed within the culture and society. War is just uh unchecked. Do you are you just uh you're hearing the news, right? I'm just I'm just citing the news to you, and each and every one of you is going, that's wrong, and I don't want it to be that way. And you're right. That's why we have the law of God. And that's why we're pleading with our leaders and our politicians to make righteous laws. Now you're thinking, Anthony, I've heard about you people. The culture has said you're scary. You start putting titles on it. I'm just doing what Paul instructs in Romans 13 Right, Romans 13 is the classic church and state argument and passage to go to. And so when the state says you have to do anything, when the civil government says you have to do anything, And we we're like, I don't know if that's right. What's every good Christian going to do? Romans 13, you have to do it. And I'm in agreement. That's what Paul is saying there. But if you look with in Romans 13, Paul is laying out an understanding of how the church and state are to relate and operate. And he's actually instructing that the civil magistrate is ordained by God. Meaning God is the one that has established the civil magistrate in their position. That's hard to swallow sometimes. When it's a good leader, we're like, yeah, that makes sense. That's the man of God. That's the woman of God. He put them there. It's great and glorious. Also, God ordained the bad leader. The tyrant probably has a discipline for us. Probably to show that we have just abandoned the law of God. But to notice that the political leaders have been established and ordained by God for one purpose. Verse 3 of Romans 13 says, For rulers are not a terror of good conduct, but to bad. And then verse 4, for he is God's servant for your good, but if you do wrong, be afraid. For he does not bear the sword in vain. For he is the servant of God, an avenger who carries out God's wrath on the wrongdoer. So the civil magistrate, the one that makes the laws in our society, is an advenger of God. and wields a sword. I don't know if you know what a sword is for, but it's for killing. So here polling it out that this is what the civil magistrate is. So this is our understanding that the civil magistrate should be uh is Established by God, they should be an avenger, right? They're a servant of God, and they should be an avenger of God's wrath and yield the sword. Now we want to say God's law shouldn't be involved in that process. Well then they're not carrying out God's wrath. How is the civil magistrate to determine who the wrongdoer is? According to their feelings? Do you want that? Do you want President Trump going off of his feelings to make laws and rules and decisions? No, thank you. That was a no-brainer as well. And I'll put anyone in there. Put Reagan. Everyone's the the hero of America. But do we want to go off of his feelings? No fault divorce. Right? Do we want that? No, we want the law of God. Brothers and sisters, hear me. I said this the last Sunday night that I preached. We seek for Governor Moore and President Trump and all of our politicians. To be convinced, right, because that the law of God reveals that they are sinners, drives them to the cross of Christ. We want that for all of our politicians. And because of that, they then start making righteous laws in society. That's what we want for all of them. We want saved politicians making righteous laws. We want them to seek the word and law of God, saying, I can't just make this up, I can't just wing it, I must have the law of God To examine. And that's actually what the Constitution was based off of. Blackstone is way before the Constitution, but he wrote a law book for the Europeans at that time based off of the Ten Commandments. It's interesting. Throughout society, history, that's kind of been the norm. Is writing civil law based off of based off of the law. But we've allowed this idea of separation of church and state to sneak in and say, nope, we can't touch it, but actually the law and God's word tells us that we should be advocates. Ambassadors, right? Have we heard that language? Ambassadors of Christ announcing and proclaiming that there is a good, just system, that there is a righteous way of living. And not just for the average Joe in the street, but also for the the king of society, the president of the United States. We plead with them, we plead with all of our leaders to restrain wickedness in our land, and the only way you can do that is by knowing the law of God. Restrain, make laws that punish murder. Just so we we very limitly punish murder. You're saying, well they'll go to prison. That's not in the law of God. When when was murder in the law of God allowed to be punished by imprisonment? It's not not. Actually that was the commandment from God to put to death the murder was before we ever received the Ten Commandments. And here we are in a society saying, no, this is actually good. We like this. So, no, we want laws that restrain the murder, hold back the murder, and punishes the murderer. We want laws that restrain the thief. Once again, we don't want them just thrown into prison. We want to be paid back and restored as God's law has instructed us. We want laws that make society flourish. And grow. We want laws that promote the glory and worship of God. Right? We always pray for the persecuted church around the world. What are we praying for? That they just keep getting persecuted? No, we desire North Korea to just open up and say, yeah, you can worship whoever. You can worship God. Right? We're not praying, oh, I hope they keep suffering. No, we want this is what we want as Christians. But the moment we say we want society to have the law of God, we then get scared of it. But we shall not be. We should see that the law of God restrains both the Christian and when used properly, it also restrains the wicked in society. It builds a better society. And in that process. It will drive sinners to the cross. It will guide these new sinners that are now saints in righteous living. And it will promote more and restrain more wickedness in all sin. Society. Friends, this is my desire as we study the law of God, that we see how each one of the Ten Commandments applies to every aspect and purpose of the law, how it can be used and should be used. in different aspects of our lives, and that all of it will be to the praise and glory of our God. Let us go before Him in prayer before we sing our last song. Holy God, once again we come before you, rejoicing that you have revealed that we are sinners. Rejoicing that your law has driven us to being hopeless in ourselves, but being alive in Christ. Lord, we ask that you continue to guide us and strengthen us, sanctify us as a church. And as individuals. And Lord, if we do pray, we pray for society to be alive in the Spirit. We pray for the salvation of sinners. In society, for more and more Christians to come out into the church, to flourish, to live in society as Christians, and for that to multiply over and over again And for our politicians to be fears of you, to love your word and your law, to make decisions according to your law, and that we will see justice in this land. We pray all of this in the name of Christ. Amen.