The words we'll examine tonight come out of Jonah Chapter One. Jonah Chapter Chapter one. If you're using the Pew Bible, you'll find that on page one thousand one hundred and sixty-seven 1167. It's a very popular uh book of the Bible. Many of you probably know the story, know the narrative within it. While it's considered a minor profit really due to just the size of the book, the amount of writing, uh it's a very popular book, and I don't know if maybe just because of the storytelling It's interesting. It makes you know children's books. You can make a nice children's book out of it. Veggie Tales, of course, they've They've milked it for all it's worth of doing it there. But what we sometimes miss is the theological depth of this. One of the things is I was studying Jonah and diving deep into it to see the grace and the mercy of God. In almost every single verse of this book. The grace and the mercy of God That while sinners are rejecting and rebelling against a holy God, He's sending them a messenger to turn to Him And be forgiven. As the very prophet of God is commanded to go and proclaim this message, he rejects God, flees from God, well, tries to flee. from God. Yet God is merciful in every step of the way. As Jonah and his rebellion is crying out from the belly of the fish and his distress, that's in chapter two. Here we see The mercy of God. Jonah is grumbling and complaining in chapter 4 because God is so merciful. We'll see the mercy of God. Every single piece of this we see sinners rejecting God and God demonstrating a great mercy. Demonstrating patience. And friends, if that's not encouraging for you to hear, I don't know what else to tell you. Is that you, as a rebel, a sinner against God, have received or Can receive the mercy of God. If you're currently in rebellion against God, know that He is patient now in pleading with you to turn. And tonight we're going to examine in this this idea of the fear of God. Chapter 1 is all about the fear of God. And we're gonna see how that unfolds. Actually, Jonah is not the main character in chapter one. It's these these pagans. These sailors, these these foreigners who worship idols and multiple false gods, they'll become the focal point. We're gonna see how God works in their lives and how the fear of God is demonstrated in a multitude of ways. I have this quote here from Thomas Watson on your handout if you have one. It says, the fear of God is a leading grace. It is the first seed God sows in the heart. When a Christian Christian can say little of faith, and perhaps nothing of assurance, that he dares not deny but he Fears God. God is so great that he is afraid of displeasing him, and so good that he is afraid of losing him. How how often do we feel this way? Like I I can't put words to my faith, I can't put words to to what has happened, my understanding of God, I can't answer all the tough theological questions and All the strange Latin words that theologians like to throw in. But I know that I fear God. I fear displeasing him And he is so good and merciful, I fear a moment that I'm not with him. May that be how we are as believers. If that's not you tonight. I hope and pray that the Lord is working in you and that you sense, you yearn to understand what it means to fear. The fear of the Lord is simply put being in awe and a humble respect of God. God. Often this word is challenging for us, this word fear, because we think of like being afraid, like we're scared. We go watch a scary movie or something makes a weird noise in the middle of the night, right? And we say, all right. Go go take care of that. I'm not getting out of bed. You go. Like we're afraid of something. That's what comes to mind. So then when we see scriptures telling us, like in Proverbs, that the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. We start to really struggle with well wait, how I 'm supposed to be afraid of him, yet he's this gracious father that loves me, yet I'm afraid. And really the modern English understanding of the word fear has caused this complexity for us. I remember when we were living in Italy. I was teaching on the fear of the Lord and you know to uh had a bunch of Americans there so we're working through the understanding and trying to like know it's not like oh we're scared. But it's this, you know, there's an aspect of that, but there's also this great aspect of being in awe and having reverence of God. And one of the young Italian ladies that was part of our ministry, she's like, Well, this This is really easy. I'm like, oh no. Like, trust us, it's not. We're Americans, we know everything. But she said, no, in Italian, the Italian word for fear isn't used in this being afraid and scared. Uh I'll use my fancy Italian. It's timore, right? Sounds real popular. Sounds good. Probably didn't pronounce it. And this idea here, it's not this terror of this, oh, I'm terrified and I I'm uh frozen and shaking in fear. That can be an aspect of the word But it also is in awe and respect. And we go, oh, okay, that starts to make sense when we see this fear the Lord, fear the Lord, walking in the fear of the Lord. We see that all over the place. The fear of the Lord is beginning of wisdom. And this idea of the fear of the Lord, we start to see it's not being simply in terror. Of him. There is an aspect of that, in terror of displeasing him, in terror that we will face judgment by the just judge. But it's also this being in All of him. Are you amazed by God? Are you awestruck by God? When you see the mountains, Jesus goes, it makes no sense how he He created that as he poured out the storehouse of snow upon us. Are you in awe that he designed each and every Every single snowflake. You look at your hands and and your your family. Are you in awe that He designed each one of us? us in a unique way. As you see your brokenness, your sinfulness, you being dead in your sins, are you in awe that Christ died on the cross for you? This is the type of fear that we should have as believers. We should be in awe of God. So let's examine Jonah chapter one. We're going to see an improper fear or an improper response to God, and then we're also going to see the start of a proper fear. of the Lord. So join me in Jonah chapter 1. Now the word of the Lord came to Jonah, the son of Amite, saying, Arise, go to Nineveh. That great city, and call out against it, for their evil has come up before me. But Jonah rose to flee to Tarshus from the presence of the Lord. He went down to Joppa and found a ship going to Tarshus, so he paid the fare and went down into it to go with them to Tarshus, away from the presence of the Lord. But the Lord hurled a great wind upon the sea, and there was a mighty tempest on the sea, so that the ship threatened to break up Then the mariners were afraid, and each cried out to his God, and they hurled the cargo that was in the ship into the sea to lighten it for them. But Jonah had gone down into the inner part of the ship. And had lain down and was fast asleep. So the captain came and said to him, What do you mean? You sleeper. Arise! Call out to your God. Perhaps God will give a thought to us that we may not perish. And they sit and they said to one another, Come, let us cast lots, that we may know on whose account this evil has come upon us. Us. So they cast lots, and the lot fell on Jonah. Then they said to him, Tell us on whose account this evil has come upon us. What is your occupation? And where do you come from? What is your country? And of what people are you? And he said Then the men were exceedingly afraid and said , For the men knew that he was fleeing from the presence of the Lord because he had told them. Then they said to him, What shall we do to you, that the sea may quiet down for us? For the sea grew more and more temperous He said to them, Pick me up and hurl me into the sea Then the sea will quiet down for you. For I know it is because of me that this great tempest has come upon you Nevertheless, the men rode hard to get back to dry land, but they could not, for the sea grew more and more tempted. Therefore they called out to the Lord, O Lord, let us not perish for this man's life, and lay not on us innocent blood for you. O Lord, have done as it pleased. You. So they picked up Jonah and hurled him into the sea, and the sea ceased from its raging. Then the men feared the Lord exceedingly, and they offered a sacrifice to the Lord. and made vows. We'll pause there. I I believe seventeen flows more into chapter two. Well let us see the fear of the Lord in an improper way first. There's two characters brought up in chapter 1 that we see improper fear of the Lord. The first one is seen as just having no fear at all. And that no fear we see in the city of Nineveh. Look with me as God is sending Jonah in verse 2. He says, Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and call out against it. For their evil has come up before me. And we'll see later on in the prophet that we see this city just has no care about the world. The city has no care about the creator of the world and walking in obedience to him. So many people in today find themselves in a very similar situation. Don't even think about God. They have no thought about a holy God. They have no thought about how should I live my life honoring or dishonoring God. There's just not a thought in the world when it comes to of spiritual things. God. There's no thought that's going through their minds of there's a God, there's a creator of the universe, we should walk in obedience, we should worship him. He is just, we have rebelled against him. That thought's just never crossed. Their mind. And even when we present it to them and we talk about their sinfulness, they just reject that idea because they have no fear of the Lord. There's that two aspects of the fear. They don't fear his judgment because they deny his existence. So if someone doesn't exist, how can they rebel against that unexistent person? And how can they be punished by someone that doesn't exist? But there's also not that love and that being in awe of God because they deny, once again, his existence. How can you love? How can you be amazed by something that is not real? And I believe some within that category will say, yeah, they believe in God, but that's just kind of general belief, but they have no fear of him, no fear of displeasing him, no fear of losing him. Because they don't care about him. And that's what Nineveh finds themselves , that's the situation Nineveh finds themselves in currently. They're great, they're a great city, a massive city. They're probably the capital of that region. Arguably they could be the capital of Syria at that time. If you really want to nerd out, we can debate that later. But they are an impressive city by both the amount of people, but also the wealth. The conduct, they are a known city throughout the world, but they're also a well-known city to God because of their Sin. Their evil has come up before me, the Lord says. Has gone up to him. The Lord has heard of their evil acts. Those that don't fear God commit evil acts. With no care. So that's the first group of the improper fears, just no fear at all. There's no thought of them. And that's what Nineveh finds themselves in. We'll see later that Jonah will call out upon them. And we see the beautiful uh reality of them repenting. But at this time, Nineveh has no fear of God. That's an improper fear of God, having no fear. The second reality of an improper fear, or second aspect or category of improper fear of God, is what I call the head fear. Alright, you know God, you know the facts of God, you could cite the Bible, you could cite every passage. If I gave you You a test right now on Bible trivia, you would pass it with flying colors. But it doesn't change how you live your life. It's that head knowledge. It's just up here. Yes, I know God. He's a trying God. He lived and he made the heavens and the earth, and yeah. But it has no effect on your life. And I believe that's where we find Jonah. in chapter one. He knows God. And we actually see, strangely enough, he tells the uh the sailors that he Fears God. Look in verse 9. He says, and he said to them, I am a Hebrew, and I fear the Lord, the God of heaven, who made the sea in the dry land. To me, that sounds like a really good Hebrew man that grew up learning the Torah, grew up learning the law, knows the right answer. So now when he's challenged, he can tell them, yeah, I worship, I fear the Creator of the Universe. Universe. That's who I fear. The one that created the very sea we're on, the one that created the land. And and Jonah is so close and knowledgeable of God that he is well aware that all this The storm, all these problems that have come upon them on the sea is because of him and the Lord. He knows God. I mean, think about this. He's so close with God in some sense that the Lord comes to him and gives him a message. Right? That's how this whole book starts. Is the Lord came to Jonah and told him, Arise and go to Nineveh. So he's a good Hebrew. He probably has a lot of the law memorized. He's probably going to the temple when it's appropriate. He's sitting under a rabbi and learning. Maybe. Hear me out. Jonah may be in a position That he is teaching in the synagogues and in the temple. He may be that well-respected Hebrew, that well-respected Jew that everyone else in the town goes to. To get answers when they have questions about God. But notice that that fear doesn't reflect any worship and a reverence. Of God. He's not in all of God. I believe that Jonah has such a great head knowledge of God that he knows the truth about how merciful God is. Jonah is well aware that this God that he knows about and has called him to go to Nineveh is so great that he is actually going to forgive. We see that in chapter 4, verse 2. Right? This is where Jonah's throwing his little temper tantrum after Uh Nineveh has repented. Jonah is now all upset because they've repented and God has forgiven him. In chapter four, verse two he says, And he prayed to the Lord and he said, O Lord, is not this what I said then? What I was in yet in my country That is why I made haste to flee to Tarshus, for I knew that you were a gracious God and merciful, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love and relenting from disaster. That's why you're upset, Jonah? Because you know that God is merciful? Here's what has happened for Jonah. As he knows God, he knows the truth of God, but it hasn't penetrated his heart for him to truly love God, and it hasn't penetrated his heart for him to truly love his Neighbor. Because what Jonah's problem is he knows that God is actually going to forgive Nineveh, and Nineveh is the enemy. And Jonah doesn't want to give up this possibility of his enemies. We gotta recognize that Jonah was alive and a prophet during uh the reign of Jeroboam the Second. You can go check him out. Um as a classic uh king King of Israel in that time, Jeroboam was not a morally sound man. He wasn't a righteous man, he didn't fear the Lord. But Jeroboam had about a 40-year reign as king. And he was a very good political king. He was a very mighty king. He had a great army at the time, won many battles, but not very moral. Strong politically, weak morally. Sound familiar? Can we Picture any politicians. Strong politically, weak morally. That's the situation that's happening here. Actually a lot of Jeroboam II 's battles were against uh the Syrian army. They were always trying to take over part of the land, he was always at war with them, there were seasons of peace, but ultimately the They were at war. So now, now we're understanding Jonah set in this situation where he is under the reign of King Jeroboam II who is attacking and fighting Uh Syria all the time, and now the God, his God, has commanded him to go to the enemy, the Syrian enemy, and offer forgiveness to them. Plead with them to repent. And he knows that they're going to do it, and he knows that God's going to forgive them. Because the fear of the Lord is just a head knowledge for Jonah, hasn't penetrated his heart, he doesn't love his neighbors enough to To seek for their salvation. It's one of his problems. When we have just a head knowledge fear of God, just a head fear of God, and we think That we can try to get away from God, it actually reveals how foolish we are. Right? Here, hear that out. The fear of the Lord went just in our head, just facts, just knowledge, it actually reveals that we are foolish. Fools. It reveals that we are fools. Look at Jonah's just testimony here in chapter one. Jonah knows the Lord so well that when he receives a command from the creator of the universe, the sovereign king, And he receives a command to go and do something, what does he do? Tries to run away. How far are you going to get from the creator of the universe? Is Tarshus the one place God can't get to? We don't even know where Tarshus is, right? But we're just saying, like, is this we start to see Jonas Foolishness. And I want us just to see that as Jonah continues down this path of rebellion against God because he doesn't truly fear the Lord. We see his foolishness unpacked, but we also start to see the separation from God happening. A spiritual separation. He can't physically flee from the Lord. While Jonah is a a narrative, it is a true story. We should take this as a reality that this truly happened in history. He was a true man. He truly fled from the Lord. He truly was swallowed up by a fish. He truly went into like this is all historical facts. We also should see The poetic nature of this writing. The author of this book wants to make it very evident of Jonah's foolishness. And his departure from God. So just look with me. Verse 2, God gives the command. What's the very first word that he tells Jonah? Arise. Get up. Alright, so that's that's a normal command. In my mind, I always just picture like Jonah was sleeping when he We see this. That doesn't have to be the case, but we see this language of get up and go. Get up and go. So this arrives. But then in Jonah's rebellion, his Refusal to fear the Lord with his heart, we'll see that instead of getting up of the rising, Jonah starts to go down, down. And this language is used to show his departure from the Lord. So look with me in verse 3. But Jonah rose to flee to Tarshus from the presence of the Lord, his foolishness. You're gonna run from the Lord, let's see it. And here it is, he went down to Joppa. So right there, we don't have to take that like, oh, that's really impressive. But the altar starts to string all this imagery of him going down. In a sense, to show his fleeing and departure from the Lord. So he went down to Joppa, and then just a line down says, so he paid the fare and went down into it, into the the ship. Alright, so you just see this continue action of him going down. And then when in verse five, when the mariners were all afraid, they're looking for Jonah, they're throwing everything out. Look at the very uh kind of towards the end of verse 5, it says, But Jonah had gone down into the inner parts. The author is trying to draw a connection for us to see That Jonah is going farther and farther away from the Lord. Even though he has a head knowledge of God, he doesn't fear the Lord in his heart. Verse ten it continues And then the men were exceedingly afraid and said to him, What is this that you have done? For the men knew that he he was fleeing from the presence of the Lord, because he had told them. So here's another sense of him. fleeing, trying to go away. And then his commandment in verse 12, it says, pick me up and hurl me into the So once again, it you could translate hurl me down into the or cast me into the sea. So it's this reality that he is trying to flee from the Lord, he is departing, he is getting away from the Lord, and because he does not flee And then verse 15, so they picked up Jonah and hurled him down, or hurled him into the sea, and the sea ceased from It's raging. Down, down, down. And then verse 17, what does the creator of the universe do? Does he sends the great fish to swallow up Jonah And take him down. And then in uh chapter 2, verse 2, we see he's down in the belly, not of the fish, but of Sheol. They're very depths of the earth. So because Jonah did not fear the Lord in his heart, he has now gone to the very depths, the very depths of all fear. creation. He's gone as far away from the Lord as is humanly, spiritually possible. The author wants us to see that connection. To see that that Jonah's rejection to fear the Lord has caused him to depart from the Lord, has brought him into the very darkness. And I'm not talking about the belly of the fish, but the very darkness of the absentee. That's the situation we'll find ourselves in if we don't fear the Lord. When we are void of the fear of the Lord, in our hearts When we're not in awe of him, when we don't respect him as the just judge, but it's just knowledge, it's just information our head, we actually depart from the Lord. And we are in peace. Pain because of that separation. But now let us look at what a proper fear of the Lord. Interestingly enough, this proper fear comes from pagans. Whoa. Whoa, whoa. What i isn't this this is just how God tells stories, right? God always, he's the greatest author ever, and he always puts in the best twist that you You can't really expect. And we've read them so much that we actually miss them. But he takes the the perfect Hebrew man, right, the prophet of God, the Hebrew who fears the Lord, and shows that he is broken. And he doesn't actually fear the Lord and then he takes these pagans, these nasty sailors. Right, if right? Navies, just nasty people All Marines are sailors. I'll f we can f fist fight afterwards to solve that, but The just the nastiest, not just by you know profession, because they're you know it's a profession, but they were pagans. They worshiped false gods. They worshipped a multitude of gods. And here's the great storyteller that he He's going to use the pagan as the example as the one that righteously and correctly fears the Lord. It is a beautiful story when we understand that. That. So let's see what a true fear, a proper fear of the of God looks like. Now we talk about the improper often with the it's either not a fear at all, or it's just a head fear. So the proper fear of the Lord Is a heart fear. It's a love for God in the heart. It's a respect for God in the heart. It's a terror of the justice of God in the heart. And we'll see that unfold with these sailors. Look with me in verse 5 as this storm starts to pick up. I I think this will be next Sunday sermon. We've got to see where the Spirit leads me, but the sovereignty of God, that in verse 4, as Jonah is fleeing from God, yeah, you're going to get away. What does the Lord do? He does he s He throws down, hurls down a great uh storm upon the sea, physically preventing the ship from getting to Tarsh. Physically preventing it. So you think you can flee from God, he's going to physically stop that, but we see that storm coming upon them. And then in verse 5, then the mariners were afraid. And And each cried out to his God, and they hurled the cargo that was in the ship into the sea to lighten it for them. This is often the beginning of fear. For some of us, we can't think all the way back. To the when fear of the Lord first started in us. It was so long ago, or we just weren't even thinking in those categories. But for so many people The fear of the Lord, the fear of God starts with this little piece of just like an uncertainty. You're not even putting Christian language on it. We're not even talking, you know, the Bible, and oh, I can put the theological terms and categories on it. It's just this : I'm not. Sure of who I am. I'm not sure of what might happen tomorrow. Can you think back before Christ and maybe that feeling you had? Some of those thoughts of like Is this all life has? Just this uncertainty. I know for myself, I just remember it so clearly my first semester of college, and it just felt like I I have no identity. I have no purpose in life. You know, I'm going sure I'm going to school and and I'm doing this army thing, but I just have no purpose in life. And and it was the start of that kind of fear of like The uncertainty. And we see it here in the sailors, the mariners, that they were they were terrified. They were afraid of the storm that was happening. And they were unsure of what was going to happen to them. And in this beginning aspects of the fear, the very kernel of fear of the Lord that starts within us, they were willing to do anything. They were willing to do anything to solve this uncertainty that they had. You see that they're not when they first were afraid of the Lord. The first thing they did was not cry out to God, start to worship him, start to talk about the Romans road and Jesus, right? No, what's the very first thing they do? We're just gonna throw away our stuff. Right? We're just gonna get rid of our stuff. Was anyone alive in the 70s? Right Right? Sorry, Becky and I were talking about our age difference, so I that just shocks me, Becky. But right, what was what was the hippie movement? They were trying to find themselves. Let's live in vans. Let's just travel. Let's go to India and find ourselves. So many movements happen because this group of people were trying to find their identity and they were willing just to give up everything. They didn't understand what they were giving up, and they were they didn't understand what they were trying to solve, but they knew they were trying to solve something That's what we see happening here. They're just willing to do whatever. And then look in verse 6 with me. So the captain came and said to him, What do you mean, you sleeper? Arise, call out to your God. Perhaps the God will give a thought to us that we may not perish. This isn't a righteous fear yet. Just hear me out. Right now we're not saying, oh, these sailors are Christians. They're one if we stopped here at verse 6, I'm not saying, oh, we will get to spend eternity. eternity with these sailors in heaven. We can argue about that when we get to the end of the chapter. But right here, they don't care how they solve this problem. You cry out to your God, we're gonna cry out to our God, we're gonna make up gods, we're just gonna solve this problem. We gotta get out of here. We're afraid. We'll do whatever. That's where fear of the Lord begins for so many. Many of us. But then over time, over time it starts to take a different shape. All right, it starts to take a different shape and that it it begins to mold into this fear of God and being destroyed, but not fully understanding it yet. So look at verse 10. It says, Then the men were exceedingly afraid and said to him, What is it that you have done? For the men knew that he was fleeing. From the presence of the Lord, because he had told them. So after Jonah has explained, I am a Hebrew, I fear the Lord. The God of heaven who made the sea in the dry lands, now they're starting to see this Yahweh is maybe important. important. That's really an uh important distinction there. Uh as they have been crying out, cry out to God, cry out to God, they're using just the general term for God. But here in verse 10, for the first time, the sailors used the proper name Yahweh, the proper name of God as their crying. out. So they still don't, they're still not righteous in their fear of the Lord, but they're starting to say, maybe there's something to this Hebrew guy and this Hebrew guy. I don't know it. I don't have it figured out. But if this Hebrew God has brought a storm upon us, let's at least entertain the idea of this Hebrew Hebrew God. God. That's kind of where they're at. I'm not saying they've they've been converted, they're saved, but in this moment they're starting to shift their understanding. Of Yahweh. And I think this is how it is for many of us. It starts with that kernel of just the uncertainty, and then it starts to shift into: well, let me explore, let me figure out, let me Think about this Christianity thing that I s see so many people a part of. Oh, I remember that one time as a kid I went to church with my grandmother. Grandma, and there was some crazy guy shouting at me from the pulpit. That's a morning sermon, not an evening sermon, alright? Just to be clear. And start to go, and he was in this random book of Ephesians. Let me Let me just pick that up. That Dusty Bible. You know, that's that's what I'm talking about. It's just uh oh now we're intrigued by it. And and it's starting to shift to to start to seek after something else and start to see Maybe it's the God of the Scriptures. But this fear takes on a different form as well. What happens in this story in verse 11, they refuse. Well, let's read verse 11. They said, then they said to him, What shall we do to you? That the sea may quiet down for us. So they're saying, it's because of your God. We don't understand it. What can we do to solve this problem? And Jonah And I'm going to say, Jonah, being the coward that he is, says in verse 12, he said to them, Pick me up and hurl me into the sea. Just I'm trying to flee from God. If you throw me overboard, I'm gonna get away from God. I'm gonna die. But I think I might also save you. I think that may calm the storm. What Jonah's saying. But notice, once again, here's the Hebrew is saying, I'm still trying to run away from God, and I'm just trying to deal with This situation, I don't actually care about God, I just want the problem to stop. But notice how the pagan sailors response is different. Jonah. Because they don't pick him up and hurl him overboard at first. What do they do? They start to try to s to row back to sea. They attempt to get back to dry land. Why are they attempting to get back to dry land? It's because they fear They fear the God of Jonah. They fear the God of Jonah that has sent the storm, and they fear that if they harm this man, they will offend his God. God. And they don't want that blood on their hands. That's what they're saying here. Um, after they've determined, all right, we can't get back to dry land, we're going to cast him overboard, we're going to hurl him in. Verse 14, they say, Therefore they called out to the Lord, O Lord, let us not perish for this man's life, and lay not on us innocent blood. Don't find us guilty that we're going to throw him overboard. This is the transformation of fear. And I believe this is probably where a lot of our fears, when we come to faith, is where we can pin this on. is we fear the judgment of God. We recognize that we are sinners. I can't give you a chapter and verse of this point in my life. I can't tell you all the details of that, but I know I'm a sinner and I know that I have offended a holy God and I know that He has a great punishment for sinners. And this is the fear they have, and I believe this is the fear many of us have. And we don't have it figured out, but we we attempt to try to solve this problem on our own. Okay, I know that I've sinned again. against God. So what am I going to do? I'm going to just start reading my Bible. I'm going to start going to church. I'm going to start following the Ten Commandments, right? Maybe for some of us, that's where this fear of the Lord starts. We are at that first spot of we are just afraid of displeasing him. We're not in the awe yet of him, we're just in the fear of displeasing. Or, let's be honest, how many of us have come to faith because we heard of the two options were heaven and hell? And if you're going to give me the option of hell of of judgment and destruction and punishment for eternity, I don't really need to know what the other side is. I'm going to go with that side, right? But for so many of us, the fear of the Lord starts with this kernel or gets to this kernel of just fearing the judgment of God. And that's how these sailors are. But, friends, let me warn us, we can't stay there. If you have come to faith in Christ, just because you fear the punishment So you just, let me just go to heaven. Let me just get out of hell type thing. That's not truly fearing the Lord. It's not. That's just the fearment of judgment. That's a very logical way of thinking. The fear of the Lord is not just terror of him, but it also transforms into all and reverent worship of him. him. And that's what we see these pagan sailors doing. So as they're uncertain, they're pleading with God, oh Lord, uh O Lord, let us not perish for this man's life, and lay not on ostiness and blood for you. O Lord, have done as it pleased you. So they picked up Jonah and hurled him into the sea, and the sea Ceased from its raging. I really envisioned the moment that Jonah's head went into that sea. Boom. Calmness, sunshine. Sparrows. I think sparrows in the sea. But we just see a complete uh change in the environment around them. So now they went from the fear of judgment and punishment, the destruction of a holy God, and look in verse 16 with me, to it now transforms into a worship. in all of God. Verse 16, then the men feared the Lord exceedingly, and they offered a sacrifice to the Lord and made vows. Is that Is that not our case, beloved? We were in terror of standing before a holy God, giving account for all of our deeds, him seeing all of our sins someday. And we say, there is no hope. There is no way that I can solve this problem. I'm a broken man. I deserve the fires of hell. I deserve the separation of God. And then we are in awe. That he sent his son to this earth to live a perfect life and to die on the cross on behalf of a sinner like me We are in awe that as Jesus laid in the grave, Satan thought he won. But three days later, Jesus rose from the dead, taking victory over sin and death. We are in all that he ascended to the heavens and now sits at the right hand of the Father, having dominion over heaven and earth. We are in all that we are indwelled by the living God We are his temple. We are his children. We are amazed at the mercy and grace of God. Beloved This is the fear of the Lord that we have. This is the fear of the Lord that has transformed us, made us new. This is the fear of the Lord that we now see these former pegs. Sailors now having. Their fear was exceedingly it was great. It was a multitude, and their response is correct. Worship, sacrifice, making vows. Uh I believe these vows were probably commitments. I uh probably very similar prayers we did. When we came to faith, probably very similar actions we saw go when we were baptized. We are committing to walking in obedience to God. We are committing our lives as long as He gives us breath to follow after Him. We are committing to see. Seeking to know him more. The only way that we do this is because he has brought to life the fear of the Lord. within us. He has brought it into our hearts. It has gripped us and we cannot escape it. Beloved, may the fear of the Lord not just be information and knowledge and facts, but may it penetrate our hearts that we see the justice Just judge the loving Father all in one, that we are terrified to displease him, and we can't imagine a day that we're not in his presence. presence. We fear the Lord in worship. And and we see in the New Testament, we don't get away from this language. This isn't, oh, this is the Old Testament God and he's that mean God and we have to fear Him. But we actually see this fear of the Lord because it's the same God, it's the same scriptures in the New Testament. Acts 9, 31. We 're walked in the fear of the Lord. Meaning now that we are Christians, how are we to live in the fear of the Lord? And in the all and respect of who He is. Philippians 2 12, it's very similar. Work out salvation with Fear and trembling. Are you amazed that you are saved by the grace of God? Are you amazed that it was faith that saved you, not works of your hands? You should be trembling at the reality that you are supposed to stand before him and receive judgment, yet Christ has taken your place. And you can't imagine not living in obedience to him. Ephesians 5. 21. Submitting to one another in the fear of the Lord. Lord. We are to love one another. We are to interact with one another. The only way we can do that correctly is if we have a right fear of the Lord. Lord. Beloved, may we be encouraged by the book of Jonah. May we see this story and be amazed at the grace, grace, and mercy of our God. And may we see that this was just a glimmer of how he saves sinners that turn to him. That Jonah's story to J and proclamation to Nineveh and seeing a whole city redeemed because they repent of their sin. Is just pointing forward to the coming Messiah that brings salvation to the whole world. Let's go before our God in prayer. Holy God, we thank you for this word. And Lord, I ask that you stir up in us the true heart fear of the Lord. May we fear you rightly. May we see your judgments. Fear your justice But may we see your grace and the mercy in Christ. May we love you and be in all that you would save sinners like us. Lord, strengthen the saints here tonight in this truth and this reality. May we live by this every day. Lord, anyone that is not in this route, anyone that does not fear you rightly Convict them tonight. Show them that the only hope they have is in Christ. We pray this in the name of Jesus. Amen.