Backtracking for the battery. Oh yes, I am backtracking. Is this mic too loud or is it good? It's fun? Alright. Alright, well welcome. We're starting in Hebrews 1 this evening. We are taking a break from the Hebrews series. The next two Wednesdays, we have special guests, each of those Wednesdays, and both of those weeks have an evangelism focus. Okay? And then we'll come back and we'll pick up this side series. And then let's see, February, March, April, then in May. Well, late April or early May, we'll get back into Hebrews. But if I'm going to take this break to do a special series, it has to be now because the next chapter in Hebrews is who knows where we are in Hebrews. Chapter 7. And that this is the definitive chapter of Hebrews. Everything before seven is leading up to it, and everything after seven is flushing it out and applying it and going deeper into it. And so we're taking a break, uh doing a mini-series called These Last Days. That phrase comes from Hebrews 1. We'll look at it in just a moment. Not just the last days, but These last days that we are in. And so this will be a mini-series introductory study tonight. Two week break for special guests on evangelism, and then we'll come back and we'll complete this series on these last Days. Here are the verses that we are beginning with, and then I'll pray for us and we'll get started. Okay? And we're going to ease our way into it. Okay? Ease our way into it. and work through things properly. Hebrews 1, beginning in verse 1. Long ago At many times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets. You can read all about that in the what? The Old Testament, yes. But in These last days he has spoken to us by his Son. whom he appointed the heir of all things, through whom also he created the world. So as the author of Hebrews is writing, which would have been in the sixties AD, he can already say these last days And he speaks immediately to the defining characteristic of these last days. God's Clear and climactic revelation in his Son. This is the defining marker. The marker of these last days that we live in. God's revelation in His Son. Let's pray together. Father, we ask For your help, we ask for your grace and your power and your spirit to help us. Give us humility Give us compassion. Give us clarity on the things that are clear. Help us to not get sidetracked or distracted by things that are unclear. Help us to focus on your son, no matter what else, that we would see him and love him and seek him and worship him and be conformed to his image and likeness. That we would love you through faith in him, love each other in his name, and serve each other well in his name, and be a light to our community in his name. Father, we ask for your help Help us to understand these last days. And Father, help us to understand the personal practical lessons for us and our discipleship as it relates to these last days. Lord Jesus Christ, we await your return. Help us to be ready. Help us to be awake. Help us to be active. Help us to seek your kingdom first and your righteousness. And trusting that you'll take care of everything else, Lord, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. All right. The overall approach for how we're going to approach these last days is we're going to start with the big picture. And then work our way into the details. It's the classic phrase, the classic idea in saying we uh don't want to miss the forest For the trees, right? We don't want to so focus on this detail or that detail that we get distracted from the big picture And there are many things about these last days that are clear, that are easy to understand, they're not meant to confuse us It's not to send us off on some quest to try to interpret current events and figure out this or figure out that or when is this going to happen. There are things that are clear. So we're starting with the big picture and we're working our way in. And that's why we're starting tonight on Uh this is the title of the series, These Last Days, but tonight that is our explicit focus that we will get to. It's the biggest section we have tonight. Verses that use that phrase or phrase phrases very, very similar to prove that we are in the last days. So here's the three things just to throw out to you before we Really get into this, and I told you we're going to ease our way into this, right? Point the one main point tonight, or the main point tonight, is that we are in the last days. That's why they're called these last days. Number two, the defining characteristic of these last days, which I've already said in one way, is God's climactic revelation in his Son, Hebrews 1, verse 2, clearly says that. But I'll say it a different way here about the defining characteristic of these last days. Christ is King. Okay? Jesus Christ is Lord. The incarnate risen Lord. That reality defines everything else about these last days, this era that we're in. So we're in them. Christ is king. And then the third thing I want to emphasize throughout this series is our Christian duty in light of these things. And the broad sweeping application point would be this: be ready. Be ready for his coming. Mark thirteen thirty two But concerning that day or that hour, no one knows, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but only the Father. Be on guard, keep awake. For you do not know when the time will come. It is like a man going on a journey when he leaves home and puts his servants in charge, each with his work, and commands the doorkeeper to stay awake. Therefore, stay awake. The second time he said it, keep awake, stay awake, for you do not know when the master of the house will come. In the evening or at midnight, or when the rooster crows, or in the morning, lest he come suddenly and find you asleep. And that and what I say to you, I say to all. Stay awake. So beginning of the passage, middle of the passage, end of the passage. Stay awake. Be alert. Be on guard. And there's one broad sweeping thing that we know, one broad sweeping thing we don't know. We know Christ is coming back. We don't know when. So the command be awake, be awake, be awake, be ready, because he is coming back. And that is that is our b overarching duty, is to be ready. And you can put subpoints under that. Number one, that uh implication means we need to be right with God. Before anything else, get right with the Lord. Turn to Him in faith and repentance. Be right with God. Secondly, for believers, it means be faithfully serving in His kingdom, in His church. In love, faithfully serving in love, according to truth, in a biblical church. Be ready. Be awake. Put the kingdom first. Thirdly, it also means for believers: be walking in grace and holiness. Be walking in grace and holiness. Be walking in grace. Rather than legalism, be walking in holiness rather than licentiousness or sin. Number four, also for believers, what it means to be awake and to be ready. Be devoted to prayer. Be devoted to the Word of God. Be devoted to a proper witness in the world in terms of your example and your lifestyle and your speech. We need to be ready. Hebrews one, one and two, let's read it again. Um Say so I just want to re reread it, restate that point, and then I'll give you a roadmap for for tonight. Okay, all this right here is introduction And I'm about to wrap it up. Hebrews 1, verse 1. Long ago, at many times, in many ways, God spoke to our forefathers, or to our fathers, by the prophets. But in these last days, these last days, he has spoken to us by his son. Okay, so the these last days is the era of history where God has clearly and climactically revealed himself. In his Son, Christ our Exalted Lord. Now here's our roadmap that we're we're going to do tonight. First, we're going to look at an overview definition of the last days. We've already begun that. I want to say a few more things about that. Just to give us a working definition, an overview definition of the last days. We've already said that we're in them. We'll prove that as we get through this lesson tonight. And we said that the defining marker is what? It's God's climactic revelation in His Son. So we'll look at an overview definition and then we're going to talk a little bit about our method or our approach in this study of the last days. And no surprises here, no shocker here. It would be the same method and the same approach that uh Pastor John or me would take with any topic. Alright, we'll see if you can just guess it. Don't blurt it out loud, but see if you can guess w what just the basic approach or method will be to this topic. And so we'll give an overview definition. We'll look at our method and our approach, which I think on this topic really needs to be highlighted because there's so much speculation out there on the last days. And it's not that's not the way Scripture guides us to approach the topic. Uh number three, we'll look at the practical goal. We've already touched on that too, but the practical goal of this Is discipleship. The practical goal of studying this topic is discipleship to grow in living out our duties before the Lord. And finally, this will be the actual study. We're going to try at least to prove from Scripture, because it's not just a few obscure verses. It's uh It's many verses that prove and show clearly from sh from Scripture that we are in the last days. And what will happen is as we do that, as we look at these different verses in the New Testament that um say that we are in the last days, what starts to happen is the different characteristics of this age start to emerge off the page. Because you don't turn to a a page of scripture and it just says in total isolation, okay, we're in the last days. But it's in the context of other things that are being said. And he's talking about What's going on in this church age? And he's gett and the author of Scripture in different books. That's why I said he, but it's it's God in different books. Of Scripture, giving pastoral guidance, guidance to the Christian in specific ways, teaching about the last days. Let's do an overview definition. It's uh this is the way I said it in the past. I try to make it as simple as possible a definition of these last days is the last era of history before Christ returns. Is that Is that simple enough? That's doesn't say anything about, you know, what's going on during that era of history. We've we've already said God's climactic revelation in his son. But the last days, what are they? It's the last era of history, of redemptive history, of history at all, before Christ returns So if you read back through the Old Testament, there's different eras in history of God working out his plan, the era of the patriarchs, the era of Israel as a nation. And the covenant promises develop throughout history, but it comes to its fulfillment in these last days. This is the last era of history before Christ returns. He returns to consummate his kingdom. And it'll be the full the fullness of judgment, the fullness of redemption and uh the new creation, the new heavens and the new earth, and our resurrection bodies. But we are in the last era of history before all of that happens. Another way to say it would be it's the era between Christ's first and second coming. Turn to Hebrews 9. We are going to look at other books tonight. Turn to Hebrews 926. Hebrews 9, 26. Give you a second to get there. So my approach, and I'm pretty sure it's based on my my study on this topic, um, is Christ-centered. A Christ-centered approach to the last days, and a discipleship-oriented study of the last days. I believe that's how Scripture approaches the topic. This is about understanding what God is doing in Christ and understanding what that means for us and how we live. Hebrews 9 Twenty-six. Picking it up in the middle of a a sentence here, but you'll see the relevant statements. This is talking about how Christ only had to make one sacrifice for the forgiveness of sins. For then you would have had to suffer repeatedly since the foundation of the world. But as it is, he, that's Christ, he appeared once for all at the what does it say? End of the ages. So you have the ages. This is the end, the end of the ages. In the fullness of time, God sent his son, born of a woman, born under the law. Once for all at the end of the ages to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself , just as it is appointed for man to die once, and after that comes judgment, so Christ, having been offered to bear the sins of many, will appear a second time. Not to deal with sin. Why not? Because he's already done he's already done that. He's he's referring to Dying for sin, but to save those who are eagerly awaiting him. Alright? To consummate the kingdom that he's already Established and begun. He's going to bring it to its its uh fruition. And so let me allow me to draw a diagram on here. The thinking of the last days, we've already said three important things. One that w the defining marker here is this is God's climactic revelation of his son. If we if you don't remember anything else If we don't think about anything else, that's w that's where we need to be. This is about seeing God's revelation in Christ And being saved by him. We've said this is the last era of history before Christ returns. We've said this is the era between his first and second coming, Hebrews 9, 26. And following. He came once to deal with sin, and now he's coming again to bring salvation. Here's a little diagram. So let's just say this is history. And just a line to symbolize the first coming of Christ as a whole, which climaxes in his redemptive work Death on the cross and resurrection. That's just a crown of glory that symbolizes his resurrection and ascension. And then he pours out a spirit on the day of Pentecost. The church has been growing and spreading ever since. And he's going to come again. Let's just put that here. He's going to come again. So first coming, second coming These are the last days. And we're just looking at the first coming of Christ broadly speaking. As the marker of when the kingdom comes, right? The kingdom of God is the hand. Repent and believe the good news. Um technically you could put this at the day of Pentecost, when when um The exalted Lord pours out his spirit. But either way, we're just looking generally. These are the last days. Now, typically what happens here on our discussion of the last days Not ours, I just mean generally speaking. Almost all of the debate and discussion focuses focuses here. Right. The time right before what exactly happens when Christ returns, and then what happens After Christ returns, what order does it happen in? What what are the um what's the time frame that it happens in when it's happening in that order? Almost almost I Just by my observation, I haven't done a sociological study on this, okay? But just in my observation, almost all of our energy is going here. But the way the New Testament talks about the last days, consistently, clearly, it puts the focus here. Here. And you're a Christian and you exist here. The message and the teaching of the last days is for you, for you to understand and be able to apply it to your life. It's the phrase I always use and you've come to tease me about it is it's intensely practical. It's n the study on the last days is not meant to be like some mystery that no one can figure out. It's only for experts to even try. That's not the way the New Testament teaches about the last days. Not even close. Are there things that are difficult here exegetically and theologically to figure out exactly what's going on? Yeah, but first of all, not the main things, not the main things, just some of the details. Yeah, of course. We can say that about um many doctrines Many doctrines. I mean, do you comprehend exhaustively? That's redundant, right? Comprehension implies exhaustive understanding. The uh the Trinity, how God could be one essence and three persons Immutably, eternally, that's beyond our comprehension. But we don't take that and go off into rabbit trails of speculation that are confusing and almost glorying in the confusion and the mystery and start speculating on different ways we think this can make sense. The same thing about how Jesus is Truly and fully man and truly and fully God. That's beyond comprehension. But God has revealed it in its word, in his word, in a clear fashion. How the Bible can be a book that is really written by humans with their hands and writing instruments on Different kinds of paper, but also really and truly authored by God in the supernatural work of inspiration. That's beyond comprehension, but we believe it And it's and it's clear in the main things. And so I wanted to say something about this tonight. We will look at um the things that happen here. Okay, we'll talk about the rapture and look at that passage and try to let Scripture speak to us about that. We'll look at the second coming of Christ, the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. And we'll look at the different events that happen on that day and things that might happen after that day. We'll look at things that have to happen before his return, the great apostasy. The revealing of the man of lawlessness, the thousand years of Revelation 20. We'll touch on all these different things. But before we get to those things and those details , Whether we live in this era that happens when Christ actually does come back, we don't know. Whether we live in in this area right here, we know. For sure. We know. And the bulk of New Testament teaching is in that vein. These are the last days. Here's how you ought to live. So what I'm trying to do is go overboard here and taking out taking some of the mystery off of the table That can so often distract us. And this leads us right into our method and our approach. It's going to be exegetical. It's going to be exegetical. That means out of the text. To exit means to go out of the room. To exhume something means to take it out of the ground. To expel someone or to exile someone means to send them out. Of this land or of this group. We want to be exegetical. We want the things we believe and the things we focus on to come out of the text of Scripture. So I'm not going to draw a little picture here, but if I were to do that, I would just draw a little book that's open and then arrows coming up out of it Right? That's the way we want to study this topic. The exegetical. And I just want to challenge us, and it's the same challenge I give myself. Let's work hard in our own hearts to allow the text to create our beliefs on the last days and to shape our mindset about the last days. Let's be unashamedly exegetical and let's be I had a professor who used to say this Let's be radically non speculative. Radically non -speculative. Okay? Because our minds. And our uh our mind's ability to interpret current events or or our mind's ability to do anything is not the source of ultimate truth on any doctrine. And it's not on this one either. Okay, so there we give a we gave a basic working definition, the last era of history before Christ returns. So we're going to begin proving here in just a minute or so. We've looked at our approach to be exegetical, to not be ashamed of that. Scripture actually has a lot to say about the last days. Lots of say that's clear. The goal is faithful Christian living. The goal is faithful Christian living living, discipleship. And in the verses on the last days It's not only personal discipleship, but it's the body life of the church and the health of the local church that's always in view. Always in view. And a clear understanding of what's happening in the church age Helps us in those areas. So faithful Christian living is the goal. Mark twelve twenty-nine Mark twelve twenty-nine. Hmm No, that's that's wrong. I wrote that I wrote that incorrectly. I mean maybe it's thirteen I just scribbled. Yeah, it is thirteen. So when Jesus is talking about the end times and his Olivet Discourse Here's one of the things he says, and we can't get into the into this tonight, and I'm not even sure if I'm going to dedicate a class to this discourse. But anyway, the long and short of it is Jesus is talking primarily about the destruction of Jerusalem that's going to come in A. D. 70. And in 13 29 just cherry-picking one thing he says here in that context. So also when you see these things taking place, you know that he is near At the very gates. He's near and he's at the very gates. Now be a good Berean and go study this in this context. And I'll do the same. But it but what's happening in the context, what he's saying is uh judgment is going to come upon Jerusalem, the temple's going to be destroyed Ultimately that happens in A D seventy. Now w once that happens and after that happens the way they are to view things is that He is near. He is standing at the gates. He's on the threshold of returning I'll just re read it again. And again, I I know I'm taking it out of context, but go and look at it. So also when you see these things taking place the the judgment and destruction of Jerusalem and the and the temple, you know that he is near at the very gate. So that's a sign That now you are to count Jesus as near and at the gates, about about to return at any point. And you see that language in the New Testament too, first century believers, that they are to live as if Jesus is coming soon. That he is near and there to be ready. The message was never to them, you know, he's not coming for a long, long, long time. No, the message was he is coming back. He's at the gates. Be ready. And so from A D seventy, the destruction of the temple forward, every day since then Any Christian who is alive was to count Jesus Christ as near, at the gates, ready to return at any moment. Now there's the qualifications you have to put on there, of course, because there are other scriptures that teach, okay, but this has to happen first And this has to happen first, for the apostasy, the revealing of the man of lawlessness, the the main thing would be, you should be able to get this, but I won't put you on the spot. the taking of the gospel to all the nations, the discipling of the nations, which has been happening throughout the church age. But even so, even so the message to first century believers was he's coming soon and you need to be ready for his coming. And and s and right to this day we're to have the same exact mindset. What mindset? He's near. He's at the gates. He's coming soon. Be ready. Apathetic Christianity, halfway devotion is not what he's looking for. We need to be ready. We need to be serving in his kingdom faithfully. And there's other things I mentioned at the beginning. One more passage here, 1 Thessalonians 5, 1 through 6 And then we'll look at the actual verses that talk about the l these last days using that phrase or phrases like it. Now this is an introductory course or class. This is the first class of a series So that's why we're going through these different elements. All the other ones, they'll be more like traditionally what I do on a Wednesday night. Have a main passage and work through it. But since this is the introduction class, we're taking our time to map out some of this with a little more detail. 1 Thessalonians 5, 1 through 6. Now, concerning the times and the seasons, brothers You have no need to have anything written to you. That's interesting. He's telling them you guys basically you know what you need to know, is what he's saying there in differ in different words. You don't need to have anything written to you. You should know this. For you yourselves are fully aware that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night. While people are saying there is peace and there is security, then sudden destruction will come upon them as labor pains come upon a pregnant woman, and they will not escape. And that is what people say: peace and security. I'm okay, you're okay, God is loving. Just be sincere. There's multiple paths to God. Yes, Jesus saves, but He can save He can save all those who are sincere. And I mean just on and on and on the list of rationalizations to say we can have peace and security. Verse four But you are not in darkness, brothers, for that day to surprise you like a thief, for you are all children of light, children of the day, symbolic there for holiness and godliness. We are not of the night or of the darkness, symbolic for wickedness, sinful living. Verse six So then let us not sleep as others do. Let us not just mosey through life Not really caring about these things like others do. But let us keep awake and be sober. For those who sleep sleep at night, and those who get drunk are drunk at night. But since we belong to the day, let us be sober. Having put on the breast the breastplate of faith and love, and for a helmet the hope of salvation. What I wanted to point out in this verse is he goes immediately from talk about the return of Christ and what your general mentality should be: be ready, be awake, be sober, to a Christian ethic. The Christian ethic of what you of how you should be living and what you should be focused on. You should be awake and sober. Having the breastplate of faith and love and the hope of salvation. Faith, hope, and love. This is about how we live. This is about how we live. This is not intellectualism. This is not for speculation and just really cool, really interesting interpretations or take on current events. This is to help us live for Christ in a world of darkness. Okay. Let me stop here at the at just over the midway point. For the rest of my time that I'm taking, we're just going to go through a series of passages. Series of verses that show, I believe without question, that we are in the last days and that that's where we need to camp out first, before we talk about any details. That's where we need to be. We need to get our mindset there. We're in the last days, and I need to be ready, and you need to be ready. And let's encourage each other and let's exhort each other. And what's going to hold us together? The gospel of Jesus Christ. Okay. Any Questions or uh thoughts on anything we said so far tonight on things we're talking about tonight tonight, not these things. We are going to get there, but that's not the topic tonight, so put those in your back pocket All right. So hopefully, hopefully, if nothing else Um, it's come across that w what my heart is and what my passion is on this topic I believe that comes from Scripture, but you you hold me accountable and you check me on that if I'm wrong. But my passion in my heart is to be unashamedly Christ-centered. in our approach to this topic. I think that should be our approach to every topic because because Christ, the person of Christ and the work of Christ is the centerpiece of God's revelation to us. That's the definitive marker of the of these last days that we're in. God has made himself known in Christ. That's that's our point of departure for anything else. And I'm tr I'm really I hope I'm doing at least a mediocre job of this. I'm trying to take the study of the last days out of this realm that I so often see where it's where we don't really know that much and it's kind of off It's really up for debate. Nobody knows. Um s you need to be an expert to even read this into the point where many, many Christians today are intimidated to read Revelation as a book, just for one example. And and maybe don't even consider going to the book of Revelation for the devotions because that's beyond me. I could never understand that. Revelation said, Blessed is the one who reads these words and keeps them. It's supposed to be a blessing for you. And by the way, the title of the book is not the concealment. The title of the book is not The Obscuring. The title of the book is the Revelation. It's making known to us things that we don't know. It's not obscuring things that we already know, but it's making it more difficult to grasp. It's trying to make sense of things, to help us in our Christian life. So I just want you to know this is accessible. This is accessible. It's intensely practical. And we need to be Christ centered in this. Alright. Last chance. Well, at least at the midway point. Any questions? Alright. Mm. Nope. Pastor? He wa he was sitting like this and he went like this. I thought it was gonna go up. Okay. Alright, let's start with um we've already looked at Hebrews 1, so we can cross that off. I uh Where the the last days is defined by God's climactic revelation in His Son. I have three practical points that I put under that. So our lives should be focused on loving Christ. on preaching Christ and on longing for and waiting for Christ to return. That sort of maps out. I mean of course there's other things to the Christian life, right? But that's where we need to that's where we need to start in our hearts Do you love him? Do you love him? Do you seek daily fellowship with him? Do you speak to him through prayer? Do you seek his voice in Scripture? Preaching Him, longing and waiting for Him, serving Him and His church. Christ Is everything. Acts two, sixteen and eighteen. Here we go. Now we're getting into it. Acts two, sixteen through eighteen. The first sermon in the church age. Peter is preaching on the day of Pentecost. The Spirit has been poured out. The disciples are speaking in tongues, which means they're speaking in different languages that people from different places can understand. And they were accused of being drunk. Peter to defend against that accusation And to simultaneously explain to the crowd what was happening, preaches a sermon , From the text of Scripture, first from Joel, but also from Psalms, to explain what is happening on the day of Pentecost. Acts 2, 16 through 18. But this is what was uttered through the prophet Joel. And in what's the next phrase? The last days, in the last days it shall be, God declares, that I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh. What that means is not just for the nation of Israel, but the Spirit will be available through faith and repentance to all nations. And your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams. Even on my male servants and female servants, in those days I will pour out my spirit. And they shall prophesy. Peter, first of all, is preaching. This is the very first thing that's preached in the church age that we're in the last days. We're in the last days, and we know that because God has poured out his spirit and by doing so has brought salvation in the fulfillment of his promises. This is the day of salvation. This is the day of salvation. And so it the prophets prophesied, summing it all up, that God will come and save Israel. And bring full salvation from their enemies and forgive their sins. When that's fulfilled God comes and brings salvation to all the nations. It's available to all the nations. That's what the Great Commission is for, to bring the gospel to all the nations. But he saves through a special anointing of his Holy Spirit. And you see here that everyone who is saved. has the Holy Spirit. That's why it's uh that's the emph the prophetic emphasis. Daughters will prophesy, young men will see visions, your old men will dream genes, even though my male servants and female servants Even in those days I will pour out my spirit. The point there is who has this special anointing of the Holy Spirit of the last days? Every believer. Every believer. Not just in the old covenant, the priest would have a special anointing. Or the prophet would have a special anointing Every believer has a special anointing of the Holy Spirit, the Spirit of the risen Lord. But we're in the last days. That's what he says. In the last days it shall be. So what Peter is doing is is Explaining from the Old Testament that what they're seeing is the inauguration of the last days. It's the inauguration of the last days. And the whole sermon is about that and how Christ is the one who brought that about. And he's the one pouring out the Spirit. He's the one who saves. And he doesn't just save Jews. He saves Jews and Gentiles. He gives the Holy Spirit to Jews and Gentiles. He gives the Holy Spirit to whoever comes to him in faith, which itself is a gift. So today is the day of salvation. And so we work together as a church, and in our own lives, however God calls us, to teach the gospel, to preach the gospel, to explain the gospel, to urge people to believe the gospel, to call people to repent in light of the gospel, to come together as a church and sing the glories of the gospel, to be transformed. By the gospel because today is the day of salvation. It is the last days. First Peter 1 20. First Peter 1 20 I was not kidding when I told you we're really gonna Ease our way into this and take our time because I'm I I know it's true for listen, it's true for me too. We so want to get here But we've got to see the big picture. We've got to. And I believe that's driven by Scripture. First Peter one verse 20. Talking about Christ, Peter says he was foreknown before the foundation of the world. Right, this was God's eternal purpose from before the foundation of the world, but was made manifest in the last times. Almost the same thing as the author of Hebrews says in Hebrews 1, 1 through 3. He's made manifest in the last times. The author of Hebrews says in these last days he's spoken to us through his son. It's the same thing. This is the defining marker. God has spoken through his son. Christ has been made manifest. Guys, that's a really big deal. For the sake of you, for the sake of you Who through him are believers in God who raised him from the dead and gave him glory, so that your faith and hope are in God We have a clearer knowledge and a fuller salvation than any people who've lived before these last days. In this age of fulfillment, the gospel is not only God's way of redeeming sinners, it's his way of most clearly revealing his Trinitarian nature. He is Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. And this is the knowledge that we have. But the point here is he was made manifest in the last times, the last times, the last times. Not the third to last times, not the second to last times, the last times. He was made manifest. God's revelation of his son, the age of fulfillment. And then also in 1 Peter, go to chapter 4, verse 7 and 8 In case you thought I was being dramatic earlier when I was on this uh rant about we need to live as if The end is near. He's coming soon. Verse 7: The end of all things is at hand. You know what that's another way of saying? The end of all things is upon us. The end, the end of all things is a hand, therefore be self-controlled, be sober-minded For the sake of your prayers. And above all, keep loving one another earnestly. I told you this was about discipleship. Since love covers a multitude of sins. Be self-controlled, sober-minded, devoted to prayer. Love one another earnestly. And be gracious to one another, covering a multitude of sins. We need to be radically focused on the kingdom of God and on kingdom living. And on a kingdom love, a gospel, humility, and compassion toward each other. But the point there is the end of all things is at hand. The end of all things is at hand. All right, second Peter chapter three. Second Peter chapter three, verse two That you should remember the predictions of the holy prophets and the commandment of the Lord and Savior through your apostles. Knowing this first of all, that scoffers will come in the last day with scoffing, following their own sinful desires. Why is Peter writing that to them? Because scoffers had come scoffing, following their own sinful desires. And he's telling them, well, you remember this was prophesied. This was prophesied. The prophets said this was going to happen. The apostles said this was going to happen. In the last days, scoffers will come. One of the Marks of the last days is scoffers, mockers, haters And that even it happens within the church. Uh Jude 18 is a cross-reference on this one. Jude 18. The page before Revelation. Unless you have a study Bible. A lot of times in study Bibles, Revelation will have a seven or eight page introduction, just going through all the different views and methods of interpretation. But Jude is that book right before Jude 18. Well let's start in seventeen. But you must remember, beloved, the predictions of the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ. They said to you in the last time, the last time, right? The last time, there will be scoffers following their own ungodly passions. Disease who caused divisions, worldly people, devoid of the Spirit, and on and on. Last days. So the defining mark of the last days is God's climactic revelation in his son. One of the other marks of the last days is scoffers, even scoffers within the professing , within professing Christianity, false believers. Now, James five. We're still going. James five, verse three. Right after Hebrews. James five, verse three Your gold and your silver have corroded, and their corrosion will be evidence against you and will eat your flesh like fire. You have laid up treasure in the last days. Now when did they lay up treasure? In the last days. It's not a trick question. Sometimes you think I'm asking trick questions. No. Trying to see if you're still awake. But it's r it's just flies off the page here on it over and over again. They were in the last days. They were in the last days. And the ad the The exhortation to them or the admonishment to them here is based on the fact that you're in the last days. Why are you storing up treasures that will rot, that you cannot keep, that mean nothing? Why is that your focus? Um laid up treasure in the last days. And now if they were in the last days in the first century , stands to reason that we are in the last days. Today. Alright, also go down to verse 7. Same same chapter, James 5, verse 7 through 9 Be patient, therefore, brothers, until the coming of the Lord. See how the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the earth Being patient about it until he receives the early and the late rains? Will you also be patient? Establish your hearts for the coming of the Lord is at hand. He doesn't say anything that could a ever be remotely interpreted as saying, don't really worry about it. He's His coming is not at hand. His coming is far off. His coming is at hand. His coming is at hand. The coming of the Lord is at hand. So I love this phrase that he uses. Establish your heart. Establish your heart fixed on Christ that we might live in light of his coming. Alright, I have just a few more here. And I think we'll have time for general comments and questions at the end. Although you guys are quiet in the middle, so I don't know. Second Timothy three one. Second Timothy three one But understand this that in the last days there will come times of difficulty They were experiencing times of difficulty. Ministering to them, understand this: in the last days there will come times of difficulty, times of trial, aka tribulation. Um sp times of spiritual darkness in the world and spiritual warfare. There's always spiritual warfare, but there's seasons of a peculiar and heightened spiritual warfare, persecution. Understand this that in the last days there'll come times of difficulty. And then there's a long list of sins that will be prevalent in the last days. And you can skim over those. It begins in verse 2, lovers of self, lovers of money, proud, arrogant, and on and on and on. But I want you to key in on this one. It's beginning of verse 5, having the appearance of godliness. All of those, and then he ends with this one, but they have the appearance of godliness. This is talking about false believers, false prophets, false teachers, have an outward form of godliness. But denying its power. They don't really have the presence and the power of the Holy Spirit. So this is within Not within the true church, only believers are part of Christ's actual body, his true universal church. But within the visible church, within professing Christianity, is much ungodliness that brings much difficulty. There's a form of godliness that's not true godliness Anyway, the point is that's one of the things that marks the last days. We shouldn't be surprised at that. We should be ready for that and on guard and sober to deal with it properly. But not shocked by it. And just flip a few chapters back to 1 Timothy 4. 1 Timothy 4. 1. So all these passages about the last times, coming of the Lord's at hand, the last days, the last hour we'll see on the last one. It's pastoral. It's for discipleship. It's not meant to be confusing. It's meant to stir us up to devote ourselves to the Lord daily and passionately and soberly. And diligently. That's what study on last times is for. For discipleship. Okay. 1 Timothy 4. 1. Now the Spirit expressly says that in the later times, another way to say last days, some will depart from the faith by devoting themselves to deceitful spirits and teachings of demons. Okay? Apostasy. So one of the other things that marks the last days is apostasy. And at the end of the last days is a great apostasy. Okay? But that's one of the things that exists in the last days, along with rampant ungodliness, even within professing Christianity, a form of godliness. Um that's not true godliness. And here you have apostasy and trial comes with trials are brought on by all of these things. And now our final one, first John 2. 18. 1 John 2, 18. And we do have five minutes. Although I always go over, so we probably have seven minutes left. But 1 John 2, 18. John uses a different phrase, a slightly different phrase with the same exact meaning For the last days. First John two eighteen. Children, it is the last hour. Hour they're representative of this age. It's not obviously it's not literal because The world didn't end an hour after he wrote that. That's a way of s referring to this age. Or the last days. It's the last hour. And as you have heard that the Antichrist is coming, so now many Antichrists have come. Therefore, we know that it is the last hour. So if if this were an official class and I gave tests and I were to give a test on this. The first question would be, do we know that it is the last hour? And your answer would be yes. And then you would quote John and say, We know that it is the last hour. And here the point is, one of the ways, one of the one of the other markers of the last days, one of the ways we know are many Antichrists. And just like the there's apostasy throughout the church age. And then a great apostasy, toward the end of the church age, you also have many Antichrists. That Antichrist spirit is at work. And then toward the end you'll have one definitive Antichrist figure. Okay. Oh see I didn't mention that earlier when I was talking about the rapture, the thousand years, the return of the Lord, um different things like that. One of the other studies is The man of lawlessness. Oh no, I did say that. Yeah, the man of lawlessness to be revealed. Antichrist, but there's even debate on that. Are they different figures or the same figure, right? The beast of Revelation, the man of lawlessness in Paul's writings, the uh the Antichrist here in John, are the different figures in one figure. There's all kinds of things you debate and get confused on with the details. We'll talk about those. But the point here, again, the point tonight, and it's over I didn't count how many scriptures that was, but that was quite a bit of scripture. We're in the last days. We're in the last days. Here's what's going on. Here's what's going on. The definitive thing is Christ is Lord. We need to be ready for his coming. He's He's at the threshold. He's at the gate. His coming is at hand. The end of all things is at hand. When John the Baptist preached the kingdom of God is at hand, he what he meant was, it has come and it's still coming. It has come and it's still coming. It hasn't totally come yet. But it's it's here. And so Christ's return is about to happen. It could happen any moment. Again, we balance that out with other scriptures that teach about these other things need to happen. But at the same time, no one knows the hour or the day. Alright, I have one more thing to say. Questions or comments from you. Now you were so quiet during the middle, I almost hesitate to pause. But , Pastor? Well, I mean we first P uh first Timothy Second Timothy three realize this that in the last day difficult times will come. When I read that, and I think it's fair to say a lot of people read that they would think that Paul is looking at something that he I I'm not disagreeing at all with your premise that we were in these last phase. But could we be thinking of something in the future there that I think he's pastoring them based on what they're experiencing. And and measuring it against the other passages that clearly say we are in the last days. in this stretch of time. I mean, uh I I just wondered if he could be talking about something. Yeah, well he's pretty consistent when he talks about what's going to happen here in the future, he's he flags it what by the day of Christ, the day, his coming, his appearing, his the r the revelation of of Christ. But he's pretty clear on saying ex the future Yeah, right, that was prophesied. He says that was prophesied, that that will happen. He's not prophesying that there to them like it's going to be future. He's saying remember what was prophesied and promised. Second Peter three, he doesn't mention prophecy. So that but that's what you're saying that is a prophecy, I'm not sure. Well that was in a bunch of the cross references. Remember the prophecy? This one doesn't seem to I wonder my question was a simple one. Could you be looking at something that could be happening toward the latter times? I would say yes, because guess what? The latter times is still included in the church age. Yes. Yes. Right? So I don't think it precludes the future. I was just noticing that you said these last days. It seems that Paul is using the phrase the last days as something not that he's not in it, but something else he's pointing to in these last days, he's calling in the last days. I I sometimes It's hard. This is why people have difficulty because of the quicker phrases. And he's using a verb that would mean future will be. Yeah. Which one are you pointing out? Okay. I mean I'm not against saying that it's talking about the future, but I but I would say if we make that exclusively something that ha hasn't begun to happen, but it's gonna happen at some point in the future. Uh second Timothy three. As a pastor, I'm wondering, is he warning Timothy of something that's out there? Something that Timothy will experience? Yes. Or something that he won't have to experience? You know, more difficult times than Mark. Nothing 's not good enough. I guess one way to look at this We would think that things would continue to get worse. Correct? As we go forward and continue to get worse, but also the kingdom will continue to spread. So it depends how you measure I mean two things are happening in this age, right? Uh The um spirit of lawlessness and the Antichrist spirit and all of Christ's enemies waging war against the light. But Christ is building his church and the gates of hell will not prevail against him. Uh he is I mean the Christianity has grown since the first century all over the nation. So it's it's better that more people are saved. rather than worse. I think at the very end, yeah, things get some things get worse. Uh persecution get worse, the apostasy will get worse, but also There'll be a mass conversion of an of ethnic Jews as I as I understand Romans Nodula. So bad things will happen, good things will happen But I'm not totally pessimistic of it's just everything's gonna get worse and worse and worse and it's just gonna be like just a landscape of hell when Christ returns. I don't s we have these side conversations guys. We we apologize. Um yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So I yeah, so let me just give a qualification. I what I'm saying about the last days and all these different markers, I'm not saying that that doesn't apply to the very end. I'm just saying it doesn't only apply to the very end. And that the emphasis I mean that was one there were t I think there were two other in there where He he was expressly saying, don't you remember these things were prophesied that they were going to happen and now they're happening? So I I I just think the emphasis of scripture is here. These last days. You're in the last days and and I would do I would take on this topic I would take the same approach that I would take with any other topic I'm going to take the clear passages, the ones that are absolutely clear and definitive in what they say. And anything that's a little cloudy I'm going to interpret in light of the clear. I'm not going to take the cloudy and use it to nullify the clear. I I w I'm not going to do that with any topic of scripture. At least at least um you know, n knowingly. I'm not going to do that knowingly. I'm sure I do that uh unknowingly at times. So The these last days, in these last days, God has spoken to us through his son, and our number one duty is be ready. As I look out, I'm not sure I'm not just talking about our group. I'm using this in a a general sense, okay? A general sense of the landscape of the professing Christianity today. I'm not sure a lot of us are ready. I'm not sure a lot of us are ready. Because when I when I look through the New Testament and look at the commands of being sober and sold out for the kingdom of God and laying our lives down for the kingdom of God and serving faithfully in the church, the body of Christ. I think a lot of us are not ready. And I think a lot of us are living as if the end of all things isn't is not at hand. Or his return is not at hand. Whereas if we're not in the last days, there'll be another chance. It's not that big a deal. And that's why I the first the first thing I read, or the second thing I read today was Mark uh 13. I encourage you to go read uh Mark 13, 32 through 37 or 38. Jesus keeps saying, be awake, be awake, be awake, be awakened. And we use the word today. Everyone prays for it today. It's almost become a trendy thing to pray for, is revival. That means waking up. That means being stirred up and being woken up. That we would put first things first. And um that's what that's just where we need to be. So all right, let's pray. Father, we thank you. Thank you for Christ, thank you for salvation, thank you for your word. Help us in the midst of all the things we don't understand. Help us to learn from and be transformed by and be guided by things we do understand, things you have made clear. I pray you'd help us to do that in Jesus' name. Amen. All right. Thank you.