The words we'll examine this morning come out of Mark chapter 1, verses 14 and 15. Mark chapter 1, verse 14 and 15. 15. Prophet, priest, and king. Some of the titles that we give to Christ, it was his role and his function, and to this day still is. And over the next few months, this will be my morning series, is to talk about each and every one of these aspects. How he is a prophet, priest, and he is a king. And with our schedule and how we'll line up is that when I preach on him being king, it will be leading into December, Christmas time. And for whatever reason, during Christmas, it's easy for us to think about, to be reminded, that unto us a child is born, and he is the king. He is the priest. He is the prophet. So I want to use these morning sermons to help draw this out. To help us be reminded of who Christ is. To help us be thinking about what He has done on our behalf, how we are to worship Him because of His greatness. And that each and every one of these roles and functions, prophet, priest, and King, is so vital and essential for us that each one of them and each role he has taken on helps us Understand who God is and to see his glory helps us to live in obedience to Christ, and it is the mode and the method of how Christ lived to save sinners like you and I. When Matt gets back, he'll continue his series in Genesis. So we'll be working through that. But when you see me in the morning, you know that this is what we will talk about: prophet, priest, and king. The first topic this morning, the first role and function of Christ that we will address is that he is a prophet. We could put the definite article there and say that he is the prophet. He's not the final prophet. We'll see that the that prophecy and the prophetic voice is simply the one who speaks the word of God. Now we see in the Old Testament the the prophet is a class of people and they are gifted by God. And they have special revelation from God to reveal the Word of God. But even in the New Testament, we see those that are speaking on behalf of God, speaking the Word of God. So the prophet is those that speak the word of God. In the class of prophet , the role of a prophet is unique and special. of s the Spirit of God working within them to reveal this truth and to preach this truth. Don't be alarmed if you're reading some older theologians, especially the Puritans. They would talk a lot about the gift of prophecy still today. and how Christians, many Christians have and are prophets. And uh in our understanding of prophecy we get really tied up about that because when we think about prophets We only think about the prophets that predict or proclaim future events. And we think, well, wait, that's not. That's not what's happening here and we're not doing that and our pastors aren't doing that. But for the Puritans, the prophet, uh, they would often refer to the pastor. as the prophet, because that is the man of God that stands before the congregation and proclaims the word of God. And to be a prophet, you need the Word of God, right? We we live in a day that we have the Word of God written down, so I'm not saying that I'm up here with the gift of prophecy and I am Thus saith the Lord, and anything I say is from God, but I am saying that we are proclaiming the word of God when we read his word in the Bible. We preach his word. This is the only thing you should desire for your pastor to be doing, is to be preaching the word of God. And we'll see in Christ, he is the prophet. He proclaims and preaches the word of God. That's the first point that he proclaims the word of God. And there's a lot of passages I could have went to to unpack his prophetic voice that Jesus is speaking the Word of God. But what I wanted to do is I wanted to go to the very beginning of Jesus' earthly ministry. What's the first word of God that we see Jesus speaking? And in Mark, we get a glimpse of that in verses 14 and 15. So let us take a look at Mark chapter 1. Starting in verse fourteen. Now after John was arrested, Jesus came into Galilee, proclaiming the gospel of God, and saying, The time is fulfilled, the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe in the gospel. Let me reread verse 15. This is what Jesus is saying. This is how he starts his earthly ministry. This is the prophetic word of Christ. He is speaking the word of God. The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe in the gospel. Friends, the reason we must start here at this word of God that Jesus is speaking is because this is what everything is about. It's what the entire scriptures is about. It's why we gather together on Sundays and on Wednesdays and And throughout the week, it's why we sing songs of praise, it's why we cry out to the Lord in prayer, it's why we confess our sins, it's why we recognize ourselves as Christians. is because we see and we know we have faith in Christ and we believe his word that the time is fulfilled and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe the gospel If you're thinking, well, how can we be a prophetic voice in this world today? We preach this message. We proclaim to the ends of the earth that the kingdom of God is at hand. We could say it this way the kingdom of God is here. It's before you. And then when Jesus is saying, he's saying you're looking at the kingdom of God, it's in your presence. And he says, repent and believe in the gospel. This is the word of God. Jesus is a prophet because he is proclaiming the word of God. He's proclaiming the Word of God. That's what in Acts we read, but that's what Jesus' mission in ministry was, was to come and to proclaim. To proclaim to the world what God had spoken. We know in John 1:1, right? In the beginning was the Word, the Word was with God, and the Word was God. This is Jesus, then we see in John 1 that it lays it out that Jesus took on flesh, the word became flesh, and dwelt among us. The word of God came to us. Sometimes we miss this and the value of what's happening here. But recognize that God, the creator of the universe, who spoke Creatures and creation into existence loved us so much that in our rebellion, in our sinful state, He has given us His word. He has spoken to us. And this has come through Jesus, the deep love that's there. I remember when I was in basic training, we didn't have uh phones to call and we weren't allowed to to call but that that letter you would get in the mail. That that in the evenings the drill sergeants would yell out your name and then throw the envelope at you and And you were so happy to get that, and you would read the words that were on it. I never had to read or write so much until I joined the army. But here, someone had spoken to me. My grandparents had written me letters. My parents had written me letters of how much they love me and just wanted to communicate with me. My mom, she's a classic letter writer. She would be when you read her letter, she's writing it, and then she writes like she's talking to you on the phone. Uh I remember one letter it was like, well I gotta go, the mailman's coming up the driveway. Like, yeah, you don't say that in a letter, you don't have to tell me. But it's the way of communicating. It was it's m my mother's way of expressing her love for me and our care for me. Well, friends, we have a great God who loves and cares for us, who's expressing his love to us. By sending his son to proclaim his word. And we see that the word is fulfilled. We see the outworking of Christ's life and death and resurrection. Is all the proclamation of the Word of God. So he proclaims the Word of God. He tells God 's truth. That's part of the proclamation that he's honest. You cannot be a prophet of God and lie about what God has said. You should not think that maybe this is the word of God, but it contradicts everything the scriptures say. The word of God is truthful, accurate, righteous. The word of God is truthful, accurate, and righteous We don't need to think, well, maybe there's a lie snuck in here, maybe this isn't accurate, but the truth is proclaimed here And what Jesus says is that the time is fulfilled and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe in the gospel. Beloved, we must recognize that the truth is proclaimed. It's not a truth of a future hope. It's not a truth of this sounds like a good thing, but I'm not sure if it's going to happen. It's the truth that it's accurate. It's truthful. It's meaningful. It changes our lives. This first line, the time is fulfilled and the kingdom of God is at hand, can really trip us up. One of the failures of the church in modern day is that we fail to talk about the kingdom of God. And the reason we fail at it is because we struggle to fully understand it. When we talk about the kingdom of God, sometimes we just throw it out to the spiritual realm. Yeah, yeah, we believe in the kingdom of God, and he rules in heaven. And right now that's where he's at. The kingdom of God is there. And we kind of maybe taste and see the kingdom of God. But here on this earth, we can't fathom it. Well, that's not true. What does Jesus say? The kingdom of God is at hand. You can grasp it. You can see it. You can experience it. It's near to them as Jesus speaks it. So it's not just that it's a theoretical spiritual realm that doesn't have any influence here on this earth. The other temptation is that we only make it a physical realm. And there's a great danger in that. When we only make it a physical realm, we then pick up swords and we go storm to take over the society, we go and and cut down anyone, physically we cut down anyone that denies Christ. And we say, well, the kingdom of God is at hand. We're going to take force and establish it and make it known. To the world. Both sides are dangerous and not accurate. What we see is that the kingdom of God is at hand in Christ. Did Christ take up a sword and start to fight the Romans? No? Did Christ start throwing punches when the Pharisees and the Jewish leaders came to arrest him and falsely accused him before the council? No. But he's died a physical death. He physically rose from the dead, and he physically sits in heaven, having dominion over heaven and earth. The time is fulfilled and the kingdom of God is at hand. So what is the kingdom of God? I would define it this way Now I'm going to use the word political. Just hold on, I'll explain why I'm saying that, but a divine political order. The kingdom of God is a divine political order that stands over and against all the political orders of man. The kingdom of God is the divine political order that stands over and against all the political orders of men. Now, stop thinking like an American for once in your life. When you hear political, you immediately jump to political parties and the political system we have here. When historically, when we're using the word political, we're thinking of principalities and powers. You have a political power over the state of Maryland. Right? They there's a there's a an authority over Maryland. You have a political power over the school system, right? There's a school board and I don't know how Hartford County does it, but there's systems in there. There's a principle over the individual schools, right? That's the political order that we're talking about here. And here, the kingdom of God is the divine political power. It's an authority that's ordered that stands over and against all other powers and principalities. The kingdom of God is superior to all other powers and authority, both here on this earth and any kind of spiritual principalities and powers. The kingdom of God is more powerful because of the king that reigns in the kingdom of God. And it's in the title: God is King. He's more powerful than all other powers and authority. And he stands over and against any political order. So he is over all the nations, he is over every political group, he is over every spiritual enemy, and those that rise up against him. Those that are enemies of him, he is also against it. The kingdom of God is against a wicked nation. The kingdom of God is against the devil and his schemes. The kingdom of God is against those that reject the women Belief in Christ. The kingdom of God is over and against all of them. So when the announcement of the kingdom of God is at hand, What Christ is announcing is come believe, have faith in me. Come and believe in Christ. Believe that the kingdom of God is in is the most powerful kingdom, rules over all. All authorities will bow to me. Believe that, and you enter into the kingdom of God. Even if you're a principal. You have faith in Christ, you enter into the kingdom of God. Even if you are the governor of Maryland, you come to faith in Christ, you enter into the kingdom of God. You operate in obedience to Christ The kingdom of God is at hand. Beloved, we must recognize that this is true. Jesus isn't lying. Jesus isn't making a statement that's, yeah, it's true, but not yet. Jesus isn't making a statement that's, uh, if we get around to it. What he's doing is he's making a clear and definite statement. For all to come and see and believe. The proclamation is not one of if we get enough people, if we rally the crowds around us, After I've said this, after Jesus has spoken this word, he's not hoping, hopefully we get enough people to join our crowd, and then we can vote in the kingdom of God. What is he doing? He's making a definite statement. The kingdom of God is at hand. He's just making the announcement. He's proclaiming it. The kingdom of God is at hand. The kingdom of God doesn't change its power and authority if you accept it or not. You can reject it, and the kingdom of God still stands. And because the kingdom of God stands, and it's over all other principalities, it's over all other kingdoms, those that reject the kingdom of God, reject Christ, will receive the just punishment. For refusing the king. This is the prophetic word that Christ brings to his people. The kingdom of God is at hand. The truth that's there is cherished. But it's also a terror to those that reject it. The truth doesn't change by who receives it or rejects it. The truth is there And this is the prophetic voice we see throughout Scripture. One of my favorite prophets, and some of the work I had to do within school, was focused on Jonah. It's a nice short book, uh the book of Jonah. You can get through, it's just four chapters. But Jonah was a man that was called to proclaim the word of the Lord to this wicked city called Nineveh. And the Lord called Jonah. He said, go prophesy, go proclaim my word to them. And Jonah rejected it for a little bit. We know the story. He tried to flee. He then was thrown into the sea. A fish was sent by the Lord, swallowed him up, and he cried out to the Lord. The fish spit him up onto the land, and then he finally went to Nineveh with the word of the Lord. And as he enters into the city, he starts to announce this. He starts to shout, yet forty days, and Nineveh shall be overthrown. Yet forty days and Nineveh shall be overthrown. Do you think that's easy words for the prophet Jonah to speak? Obviously not. He didn't want to. He tried to flee from this command of the Lord. He wanted to reject that he was going to be a prophet of the Lord. Even though it's challenging, it doesn't change the truth of the statement. Yet 40 days, and none of us shall be overthrown. So as Jesus proclaims the truth that the time is fulfilled and the kingdom of God is at hand, repent and believe in the gospel. It shows us that it is is true. Doesn't mean it's easy. Doesn't mean we like it. Doesn't mean that the world's going to like it, but the truth of his word stands. So he proclaims the word of the Lord, he tells God's truth, but he also tells God's plan. He tells God's plan, and we'll get back to Jonah, so you can keep that in your mind. But in this one statement we see Jesus making that the time is fulfilled and the kingdom of God is at hand, meaning that the kingdom of God is before them. It's before them. Christ has brought the kingdom of God to their faces. They see it. They're experiencing it. They recognize it. It's why the Pharisees rejected him. It's why the Pharisees wanted to kill him and got him into the council and lied and got him crucified. It's because they were rejecting the kingdom of God. But he also says, repent and believe in the gospel. This is God's plan. This is where we often think about the prophetic voice throughout the scriptures. Especially the Old Testament, that the prophet comes to prophesy a coming event, either destruction or a coming reward to the people. That's what Jonah does as he goes into Nineveh. He is proclaiming, he is telling God's plan to Nineveh. He's saying in 40 days Nineveh shall be overthrown. Why is Nineveh going to be overthrown? It's because of their wickedness, the rejection of God, the rebellion against God and his law. And God's promising that if they continue in the rebellion, in 40 days, he's going to overthrow them or destroy them. That's what Jonah's going in to proclaim. He's proclaiming truth. He's also prophesying and proclaiming God's plan. Continue in your ways, you're going to be overthrown. Well, likewise, this is the type of prophetic voice that Jesus has. We see here he's saying that the time is fulfilled and the kingdom of God is at hand to repent and believe in the gospel. Beloved, do we repent and believe in the gospel today? He is prophesying. He is telling the plan of the Lord. We see this at the end of Mark in chapter 16, he says that whoever believes And is baptized will be saved. But whoever does not believe will be condemned. He is prophesying the word of the Lord. He is telling God's plan. You believe, you repent of your sins, meaning you confess your sins, you're headed towards your sins, you completely turn around, and you go to Christ, you go to God. You confess your sins, you repent, and you believe in the gospel. You believe in Christ. You believe that he died on the cross to pay for your sins. You believe that he is the Son of God. You believe that he rose from the dead and reigns in heaven. When you repent and believe, at the end of Mark we see that you will be saved. This is the plan of God. This is the prophetic voice of Christ, that He has come to preach the gospel to a lost people. He has come to proclaim the plan of God that God will save sinners when they believe in Christ, and he will condemn sinners when they reject the gospel. Do you hear the plan? Do you rejoice in the plan of God? Do you recognize that this plan is the plan that saves you and I? That Christ has come because of God's great love. God has given us His word , has promised to us hope in Christ. That when we have faith, He saves, and when we reject, He condemns. This is the plan for the entire world. The proclamation of the truth. God telling of his truth through the word of Christ and telling of his plan does not depend on if people accept it or not. That's why the plan is there. You accept it, you're saved, you reject it, and you're condemned. This is why we rejoice in Christ being a prophet, the prophet, speaking the word of the Lord to us. Bringing hope to the lost, giving eyes to see the goodness of God to those that are hurting. Bringing salvation for the dead in their sins. And showing them that God's great love has sent his word to die and to live for us. Jesus is a prophet because he proclaims the word of God. But it doesn't end there. Jesus is also a prophet because he performs miracles. Jesus is a prophet because he performs miracles. This is some of the evidences throughout Scripture. Especially the Old Testament, of the identity of the prophets. It wasn't a requirement. You don't have to say, well, if a prophet didn't perform a miracle, then he wasn't a prophet. No. But we do see often that in the Old Testament a prophet would proclaim the word of the Lord. That's the first and only definite commandment for a prophet is to proclaim to proclaim the word of the Lord, but we also see the prophets uh performing many miracles. In Sunday school, and for the young adults, we've been reading through 1 and 2 Kings. And if you know those stories and those books, there's the prophet Elijah, who's performing a lot of miracles. And this is through the power of the Lord. It gives him the Spirit of the Lord is at work. He's bringing the dead back to life. He's cleaning up some dirty food at times. He's calling down fire from heaven. I don't know about you, but all of those are miracles. We're in awe of what's happening there, and uh we see those miracles. Jesus performs a lot of miracles as well. Mark records many of these. Mark chapter 1, verse 32. That evening at sundown, they brought to him all who were sick or oppressed by demons. And the whole city was gathered together at the door. And he healed many who were sick with various diseases, and cast out many demons. And he would not permit the demons to speak because they knew him. Sound like miracles? It's miraculous. We see other instances of Jesus turning water into wine. Anyone ever done that? No, pretty mirror pretty miraculous. We see Jesus walking on top of the sea. Anyone done that? Yeah. Miraculous. We see Jesus calling out for the dead to stand up and walk out of the grave. Anyone? Pretty miraculous, right? The miracles that Jesus performs is an amazing thing. It shows his power and his might, his strength. It shows how he is commanded by the Father and He is walking in obedience, and that the Spirit's at work there. We see the triune God at work in his performance of miracles. But let me focus us back into verse 15 of Mark 1. I hope you see the miracle that he has performed in this proclamation. Since the time is fulfilled and the kingdom of God is at hand, repent and believe in the gospel And we hear the promise, and we know that when we repent and believe in the gospel, we are saved. Beloved, do you see the miracle of God? Do you see that in your salvation, that you, dead in your sin, an enemy of God, a rebel against the law of God? That Jesus died and saved you, brought you to life out of your deadness, gave you life, called you into his family and called you a child, took away your status of enemy and said, You are mine. Do you see the miracle? Do you see the wonder of our God? That out of his love he sent his son Jesus to perform miracles. And we see them all throughout scriptures. And the temptation is that we get really excited when he walks on the sea. We're wow. Holy cow. Oh my goodness. And Mark, he's healing the sick and he's casting out demons. And oh man, what a joy it would be to see that. Amen. It would be amazing. It would be awesome for us to see that. Oh, when Jesus raised Lazarus from the dead, I wish I was there. Oh, how my faith would be strengthened to witness that. And what we do is we think about these stories. And we forget about the greatest miracle of saving sinners like you and I. All of these miracles, all of the physical miracles he did, all of them were always pointing to the greater miracle of our salvation. We cannot deny that this isn't miraculous. We cannot say, well, maybe we would have gotten around to it. Maybe we could have saved ourselves by the working of our hands or by the obedience of the law. Just give me enough time. I'm going to figure it out. If I make a little bit more money and and I can give have some time away, I can I can save myself. No. It was never gonna happen It was never going to happen. No one was ever going to be saved by their obedience to the law. Not one of us. Not one of Israel was ever going to be saved by their obedience to the law. It's the miracle of God that any one of us is saved. It's miraculous. Uh it it should we should be in more impressed and more amazed when we see a sinner coming to faith in Christ and being baptized in these waters back here than if someone would regain a limb. But that's not what the world does, right? We get we become, oh well this guy, he's performing miracles, healing people, traveling around the world, performing these miraculous things and helping the lame walk. Yeah, that's that's cool. That's amazing. But the salvation of a sinner is more amazing. That's why God, that's why Jesus didn't stop after he fed the thousands. He didn't say, Alright, there you go. You see I'm God. Are you amazed how awesome I am? I've turned water into wine. Aren't you amazed? I've cast out demons. I've healed the sick. I've raised the dead. Aren't you amazed? No, what he does is he goes to the cross to perform the greatest miracle. To die on the cross, to pay for our sins, to come back to life. And to reign in heaven, to give you and I faith in him. Beloved, I want you to recognize and to see that your faith in Christ is a miracle. It's only through the power of God. It's only through the power and the working of the Spirit that any one of us is saved. We worship him. We celebrate him that he brought this truth to us. That as the great prophet, He spoke the word of God to us. He spoke the truth of God to us. He proclaimed the plan of God to us. And then he did a miraculous work in us to redeem us. As we think about Christ, we must not forget that he is a prophet. Not just in what he speaks, but also what he does for us. So as you're studying the scriptures, as you're reading the gospels, and you're seeing, oh, Christ did this miracle and he did this miraculous work and he did this miracle, I want you to see those miracles and be amazed. I want you to be amazed by them, like whoa, that is amazing, that is awesome, that is great, but I want you to see that all of them are pointing to a greater I want you to think how this earthly miracle that he is performing is just a shadow, a hint, at what is to come in his death and resurrection. I want you to see that while he rose Lazarus from the dead, Lazarus still went back to the grave. He still physically died. While he turned water into wine, that wine was drunk, drank. I'm not sure the past participle there, but it's gone But the salvation, the miracle of salvation in faith in Christ, continues to this day and will continue into the future. The miracle of salvation is much greater than any other miracle that he has ever performed. Just like the miracles that Elisha performed. They're miraculous. They're wonderful. God used them for great works. Do you think that Israel the the nation of Israel was changed just a little bit when they saw God send down fire to burn up a a bull that was soaked in water? Oh yeah. Think about how you would be changed a little bit. But you can't go too far in First Kings. You can't go too far in that narrative. And it's actually just a few verses where you see Israel continue to reject God. God. That miracle didn't save them. That miracle was miraculous. It was wonderful, it was the power of God, but it was not their salvation. And the miracle we look to the Lord, we see Christ performing, that we should be in all of. Yes, is his work on the earth, but it's his work on the cross and the salvation he's given us. Jesus is a prophet because he proclaims the word of God, and he is a prophet because he performs miracles. This brings us to our third point, is that Jesus is a prophet because he heals people. We see this We've already touched on this in Mark 1, verses 32 through 34. But look at 34 a little closer. And he healed many who were sick with various diseases. So that's the physical healing that he did. Those with leprosy he healed. We see examples of that. Those that were blind and never saw or could not see, he healed them. Those that were on their deathbed to the point of death, he healed them and brought them back to life But his healing is not only limited to those physical things. We also see the spiritual side of Jesus' healing while on earth. So he healed many who were sick with various diseases, and he cast out many demons. He cast out many demons. Uh in our context in this in the modern world, we have really limited the power and the wicked work of We've said all those demons, you know, we read those stories and we go, Wow, that's that's sad. We see the narrative of the man possessed by demons that is shackled to the rocks and his body is cut up because of his just thrashing around because of the demon possession within him. We go, wow, that's terrible. And then we we see Jesus' work here. And then we get into the the year twenty twenty five in America and we say, yeah, that's story's of old. But that's just stories. That was in the past. That was what Jesus did. And we start to minimize the spiritual battle that's happening around us. We start to say, well, you know, this this battle we have right here is we got to deal with the flesh and the blood right in front of us. The enemy is at work in the physical realm right here. But doesn't the New Testament tell us the exact opposite? Who's our battle against? The flesh and the blood? Or Principalities, the spiritual battle. And we recognize the healing work that Christ did in uh kicking out, casting out demons out of people. This shows his uh his authority over them. That they listen to his commandments. This shows his authority over the physical ailments of Christ. That when he speaks, the body is healed. The one that spoke the body into creation is also the one that speaks the body to be healed. And we see the miraculous work that he's doing there and the healing of the people that he's performing, both in the physical and in the spiritual. And now we must go back to what he's pro - proclaiming in verse 15. The kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe in the gospel. Do we recognize the healing power of the gospel? Do we recognize the healing power of repentance from our sins? And we're going to say, yes, we do. Yes, we believe in it. But beloved, I don't think we fully grasp it at times. I think we have lied to ourselves of how destructive sin truly is, both physically and spiritually in our lives. We say, yes, sin's bad. Sin's a problem. We don't like it. We know we shouldn't do it. But we're forgiven, so we don't really Think about it too much. And yeah, when we commit the sin, we just say, I'm sorry, forgive me, and we have the promise that God does forgive us, but we forget how destructive sin really is. On a physical sense. There's plenty of sins that will cause physical harm to us There's plenty of let's let's just use a prime example here. If you start to participate and take some some drugs. We see that those that are addicted to drugs, the harm it does to their body. The harm it does to them, it destroys the body. I mean there's certain drugs out there that the the the body actually starts to fall apart. The holes are just opened up in the skin. Is that a physical destruction of a sin? Absolutely. You better see it. Oh, we we can look at broken marriages. We see the the sin of a broken marriage, uh a man that doesn't uh love his wife rightly, a wife that doesn't respect her husband rightly, and there's a misunderstanding of uh the the organization of marriage that God has given us the covenant of marriage and the world has just said it doesn't really matter we can do what we want We get married, we get divorced, we just go with the whims, it doesn't matter, and and we it it has no effect on anything. Well, some of you can testify from growing up in a broken family. Now there's forgiveness. Please hear me, beloved. There's forgiveness in Christ for these things. But we can't deny that sin doesn't have a physical problem with it at times. Not every sin, but many sins. We also can't deny the spiritual effects of sin, the spiritual destruction of sin. How many stories do we know of someone that professed faith in Christ and was committed to the body and the fellowship of believers and worshiping God, and then got sucked into the temptation of some sin? Drugs, that's maybe a uh one that's common, pornography, the lusts of the world, pride, greed, and They just disappear from the fellowship. You see them a few years later and say, hey man, I haven't seen you in years. Where have you been? Oh well, I got stuck in this sin. I started doing this. I felt ashamed, so I didn't stop going to church. I haven't prayed in years. I haven't cried out to God. I haven't read my Bible. I'm not worthy. I'm not a Christian. That was just the time in my life. That's a spiritual battle that sin has brought into our lives. That's a spiritual lie that the enemy brings into our ears to believe that if you sin, there's not forgiveness. If you're a Christian, there's not forgiveness, there's no hope for you. Oh, you say Christ died for you, yet you sinned, you should just run away You're not worthy. Go far from God. Don't commune with his people. Don't cry out to him. You're unworthy. That's a lie of the devil. That's a spiritual battle at hand in your head. That's a spiritual battle that Satan wants to use against you. May we see that Jesus heals us from such spiritual battles. He heals us. He gives us the strength to fight against sin and temptation. In our newness, this is the prophetic word of God. And the prophetic actions of Christ is that he died for us, rose from the dead, and gave us the Holy Spirit. And when we are born again of the Holy Spirit, you are able. Not of your own strength, but the strength of the Spirit. You are able, and you have the desire, in the newness of Christ, you have the desire to fight against sin in your life. Don't fall for the lies of the enemy. Don't say, Oh, I can't do it. I can't do it. I'm not strong enough. You're not strong enough on your own, but in the Spirit of Christ, and the Holy Spirit working within you, you are able to fight against it, beloved. When you fail, as we all do, when you sin, don't fall for the lies of the enemy saying you're not worthy of forgiveness. You don't deserve forgiveness. This is the prophetic word of God. The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe in the gospel. And at the end of Mark, he promises those that believe in him. It says that whoever believes and is baptized will be saved. Final statement. It's not a you might be. Hopefully it works out for you If you keep at it, it may work. No, it said those who believe and are baptized will be saved. Don't fall for the lie of the enemy. Recognize that Jesus has healed us of this spiritual battle. Jesus is the one fighting the enemy right now. It's not of your strength, it's the strength of the spirit. Jesus is the one that brings the dead to life. Jesus is the one that has casted out the demons. May we recognize who he is. May we worship him. May we celebrate what he has accomplished on our behalf. May we be reminded of his goodness. In the pain of this life, in the trials of this life, and the struggles that we face, and all of us face them. Sometimes we face them more often, sometimes they're more severe. We all face them. May we keep our eyes on our great prophet, the Son of God, because of his great love, has come down and has spoken to us. He's spoken the word of God to us. He's given us hope. He's told us the truth of God that his kingdom is at hand Now, presently, not in a future sense. It's not oh sooner or later the kingdom is gonna happen. It's not just well we're we're gonna get to the kingdom. No, it's here now. There's still a battle. There's still battle happening. That's in every kingdom that's ever established. Every kingdom that's ever established, there's still rebels living within the kingdom rebelling against the king But the the law, the commandment, the word doesn't change. We look to him for hope. Let me just sit on this because this really is important. We push the kingdom of God so far away from our understanding, and we say it's impossible that the kingdom of God is at hand. It's impossible that the kingdom of God is here. Anthony, look around you. This place is a mess. This can't be the kingdom of God. And I go, y well, it is the kingdom of God. And we see that his fulfillment of it, the preaching of the gospel, advances the kingdom of God. It continues to push back the darkness. We're told that the gates of hell will not prevail. Will not prevail. Meaning not the just hear me out that the the gates aren't an attack mode. You know, if we were about to go fight someone, I would say, hey Donnie, go get the gate, we gotta go fight someone. No, the gate's a preventative message uh method. It's a defensive method. And so when we're told that the gates of hell won't prevail, that means that the gospel is advancing. The kingdom of God is going forward and the gates of hell cannot withstand the proclamation of the gospel. The gates of hell cannot withstand the kingdom of God. And you go, well, why is it so bad around us? Well, let's just put it in an earthly sense. Let me speak in human terms for us to understand. Is America a nation? Yes. Is America a nation? It has rulers, right? It has the civil authority. It has laws. And it has a constitution. Is everyone that lives in America obeying it perfectly? Yeah, you guys were fast on that one. Does it change the status that America's a nation? Because there's rebels within the nation? No. Now let's take how much greater is God's kingdom? How much greater is God's kingdom? Does it change the status that there's rebels still in his kingdom? No. Does the power of the kingdom, does the authority of God change because there's some measy creatures rejecting the king? No. This is the word of the Lord that was brought to us, that the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe. Let us have hope in this truth. That the kingdom of God is here. It's not perfected now. We will see the fulfillment and the perfection in all the rebels and all the enemies bowing down to God when he returns. But let us understand and believe the word of the Lord that the kingdom of God is at hand and he performs great miracles and he gives a great healing when we repent and believe in the gospel. He brings the dead to life and he casts the demons far away from us. This is our God. This is who we worship. This is the prophet that we look to. That he has f he has loved us by proclaiming the word of the Lord to us. Beloved, may we seek him, may we look to him, and may we have hope in Christ and Him alone. Let us go before our God in prayer. Holy God, we thank you. We thank you for sending your son as the great prophet to proclaim the word of God to us, to teach us. What you want us to know, to give us hope, to heal the weak and the broken, to bring life to the dead. To destroy the principalities and the evil in this world, to fight back the enemy. And to give us hope. Lord, we look to you. We ask that you give us wisdom. You guide us in this. I ask that you convict us of our sin. Show us the truth. Show us your goodness and your mercy and your grace. Give us the strength and the wisdom to run back to you and repent of our sin, confessing our sin and believing in you. Lord, may we trust that your kingdom is at hand. And you are victorious. We thank you for your word. We thank you for your son. And we worship you all the days of our lives. We pray this in the name of Christ. Amen.