Well, if you will open up your Bibles to Revelation chapter 2, starting in verse 12. Revelation chapter 2, verse 12. We continue our series through the letters to the churches in the book of Revelation. Being reminded of the greatness and the mercy of our God. And also seeing how he has placed churches here on this earth which we are a part of. But that we still have problems. And he addresses these problems. He calls these churches to repent. Correct themselves, look to Him for mercy and grace, look to Him for forgiveness. It's essentially the same story we hear in this letter. This letter though, and we've talked about this many times throughout this series, is we must recognize who the letter comes from. The letter has authority. It has power. Not in that it has the words written on it or that's a piece of paper. And no, it has power and authority because of who's sending it. And this morning I want us to focus and recognize that it is our great King that has written this letter. It is our great king that is speaking to his bride. It is our great King who is commending the faithfulness of his church. It's our great King who is calling them to repent of their sin, to turn from their sexual sin against him. And it's our great King that promises forgiveness and eternal gift and mercy upon us. May we not forget who our God is. May we not forget that Christ, yes, he died on the cross for us. He rose from the dead. He is our Savior. He is the Messiah. May we not forget that He is our King, who reigns in heaven over the heavens and the earth. So now, as we think about this letter coming from a king, we should start to look at it a little differently. It has some authority, it has some meaning, it has some power when we read it. And we should think about it for ourselves. We shouldn't just say, well, this is for this church, Pergamum, many years ago. It's not for us. No. Our king is still speaking today. Our King has still given us his word. Our King is still reigning in heaven today. And we must hear his words. So join me as we read Revelation chapter 12, starting in verse 12. And to the angel of the church in Pergamum, right? The words of him who has the sharp two-edged sword. I know where you dwell, where Satan's throne is, yet you hold fast my name, and you did not deny my faith, even in the days of Antipas My faithful witness, who was killed among you, where Satan dwells. But I have a few things against you You have some there who hold the teachings of Balaam, who taught Balach to put a stumbling block before the sons of Israel. so that they might eat food sacrificed to idols, and practice sexual immorality. So also you have some who hold to the teaching of the Nicolatians Therefore repent. If not, I will come to you soon in war against them with the sword of my mouth. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To the one who conquers, I will give some of the hidden manna, and I will give him a white stone with a new name written on the stone that no one knows except the one who receives it Thanks be to the Lord for his word. Let us go before him one more time in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word. I pray that your word goes forth in power this morning. We rejoice that there is preaching of your word around this world. That Christians gather together around the world today. We pray that they continue to preach the truth. We see your kingdom work here. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. So the letter of our king. I think one of the most important things we recognize this morning is just how great and powerful our king is. We must recognize that the king is the supreme. He is the great. He's over all authorities, over all power. There's no one mightier than him. There's no one that can make better or wiser decisions than him. There's no one that can trump and change what our king has decided. Our king is supreme. Why is this so important for us to gather and to think about? is because we all face trials in our lives. We all face the enemies of God coming and attacking us And sometimes, and quite often, those enemies and those trials seem to be more powerful and more authoritative than our king, does it not? Oh, when the world's attacking us When the trial is before us, that is all we can focus on. That is all we can think about. And ultimately we we sometimes fall into it thinking that that is in control of our lives. In Pergamon, God is addressing this very situation. At this time in this city This was the first city to build a temple in honor and in worship of Caesar. It was the first city that had designated itself to worship the ruler of Rome. And it's really the start of this God worship, the Caesar God worship that happens throughout Rome, and we trace it throughout the history of Rome. But it all starts right here in Pergamum. In this very town. So now start to put yourself in this city in this day. They're building a temple to worship the government and the rulers of Rome. Uh I I mean can th the power and the authority that's probably being spewed out of that temple. And I bet Rome is quite happy and Rome's probably sending money and gifts and and they're building up this city. Because the city has committed themselves to worship Caesar. As we start to understand that, we start to see why why God points out, our King points out, that Satan's throne is in this city. There's some debate if it's actually the dwelling place of Satan, if he was there in that time, that's possible. Or if it's just the recognition of the power of wicked authority in that city at that time. No matter what the case is, we do see that the church being in such a city that had such a wicked authority running it and worshiping false God is going to come under great, great persecution. And this is why the letter starts off to recognize the supremacy of our King. Notice with me in verse 12, it says the words of him who has the sharp two-edged sword. Now, when you're reading scripture and you see a ruler or a king having a sword or a mention of a sword, you should immediately recognize that the sword symbolizes authority and judgment. Authority and judgment. We see this in Romans 13. This is where the civil government, we just read this morning in Sunday school, but Romans 13, verse 4, it says that the civil government What do they do? They bear the sword. God has ordained the civil government to punish the evildoers here on this earth, and He has given them the sword. But within the civil government and the or the structure of the government, we see that's a physical sword. It's a physical sword that when there is wickedness here on this earth that the government punishes. Often putting to death the criminal. But it's not the type of sword we see our king having. If you'll look with me in chapter 1 of Revelation, verse 16, it describes, it's this image of Christ, and it's describing who He is. And John writes, in his right hand he held seven stars. From his mouth came a sharp two-edged sword. From his mouth came the sharp two edged sword. So this supremacy that our king has is recognizing that he yields the sharp two edged sword, but it's not one that slains and puts to death in just a physical sense. But it's a spiritual one. It has a higher and more powerful authority. It's one that comes from his mouth. If we know our Bibles, we'll see in Ephesians six Verse 17, it talks about how the word of God through the Spirit is the two-edged sword cutting deep. You start to see the authority in what our God and our King bears, what he carries and what he yields. It's just sharp, two, and short. It's the word of God. It's the word of God. It's his very authority. When he speaks, the world is created. When he speaks, the snow falls. And what we see here is what he is saying is when he speaks, governments will be raised up, and when he speaks, governments will collapse. We must recognize the supremacy of our King here, that he yields a sword. And we should rejoice in the truth and the fact that he yields a sword. It recognizes his authority, but it also recognizes his judgment. We see in Revelation 19, 15 that he will come and the sword will be striking people down, it will be striking down the nations. We see that as the gospel goes out, as the gospel goes forth in this world, the very words of God are striking down the nations, just like it struck you and I down. As the gospel went forth, it pierced our hearts. It cut us open. It killed off the dead man or woman that you were. And it brought new life to you. It brought an eternal life. It brought a new spirit into you. And now you became a child of God. But we also recognize that there is an eternal judgment. But as the authority of God goes out as our king has the sword that is piercing the nations, we also recognize that there will be people and nations that rebel against him, and those people will receive their just punishment. They will receive their just punishment from our Supreme King. Now, why is all of this important? Why does our letter have to start off this way? Well, beloved, it is to encourage us. Is to encourage us. As we look around the world, maybe it's in our workplaces, maybe you're in a family situation where things are not healthy and good. Maybe you can look at the local and uh uh international and national governments and see that things are not how they are supposed to be, not according to the law of God. And you think this is impossible. We cannot function. We cannot do anything. This is hopeless. What are we to do? What are we to do when times of trials face us? What are we to do when it appears as though there's rulers and kings that are more powerful than us? We are to look to the true and everlasting King, Christ. We're to look and recognize that he is the Supreme King. The governments will bow to him. Your boss will bow to him. Just like you and I will bow to him. We 'll recognize his authority and his judgment upon all of creation. This gives us comfort in times of pain. This gives us comfort when the enemy is attacking us. We see the glory and the hope that our God is king. He rules the nations. He rules the earth. He's the one that created the earth. Therefore, it belongs to him. And beloved, let me make this clear this morning that he has created you. Therefore, you belong to him. If you're here this morning and you don't recognize the supremacy of Christ, you don't recognize that you are a sinner that will receive the just punishment of your sin. If you have not come to recognize that the only way to salvation is by the sacrifice of Christ on the cross and having faith in him and seeing that he is your God and your savior. You will receive that final judgment from the king. That final judgment will be an eternal one. It'll be separation from him. My plea with you this morning, if you're not a Christian, is to recognize who your creator is. Who made you? Who do you belong to? Who then shall you obey? Who then shall you follow after? Do you recognize that your king has paid the ultimate price Do you recognize that your king died on the cross and poured out his blood for your soul to cleanse you and to make you new? If you don't know that, come to him this morning. Cry out to the Lord right now. Trust in him right now. Do not delay. Because he is a mighty and supreme king. You owe all allegiance to him and him alone. We must rejoice in the truth that he is king. But we must also rejoice that our king knows us. Look with me in verse 13. It says, I know where you dwell, where Satan's throne is. Sometimes we miss the closeness of that word I know. It's kind of just this theoretical thing that, okay, sure, it's information that God has. It's information that that Jesus has that he just holds on to. No, there's a closeness here that Jesus knows in a very personal way. Who you are and where you're at. Jesus knows in a very personal way the pain and the struggle and the temptations you have. Jesus knows in a very personal way What causes you grief and pain? While our King is great and supreme, he's also near. He's also loving. He knew you by name as he hung on the cross. He knew each and every one of your sins as he bled out for you. And now, as he reigns in heaven, he knows your pain and struggles. Go before your great king. Rest in this comfort. Know that your king knows you. May not just be a head knowledge for you, but may it sink down deep into your soul that you have a king that reigns in heaven that loves you by name. It's not just uh, oh, he loves North Hartford Baptist Church or he loves Christians. That is true, but he loves you specifically When you are his child. There's a great beauty in recognizing that our King reigns in heaven, having all authority, having the final judgment, yet knows us personally and loves us dearly. It should comfort us in times of pain. And that's our second point that we understand this letter from the king. He starts off with his supremacy and his comfort because he commends faithfulness in the face of the attacks. The king commends the faithfulness in the face of attacks. He doesn't say, oh, there's not attacks I'm king, there are no enemies on this earth. What he's doing is he's showing and recognizing that he is the ultimate king, so that the attacks of the enemy that are coming Are not eternal. They're not all the ultimate power. And when we stand faithful, when we trust Him, when we follow in His ways, the King is well pleased. Look with me back in verse 13. It says, I know where you dwell, where Satan's throne is, yet you hold fast to my name. And you did not deny my faith, even in the days of Antipas, my faithful witness, who was killed among you where Satan dwells. Christ is commending Pergamon's faithfulness in the face of trials, even in the face of death and martyrdom. We don't fully know this story or we don't have any documents to explain what happened to Antipas, but we must understand that in this city where uh there is cultic worship happening and Caesar worship happening The attacks of the enemy grew so strong that this man was put to death death for his faith in Christ And we see throughout Revelation that the angels sing praise to our God, that his creatures have gone to their death in their faith. But not only that, he commenced the church that in the face of such trials and tribulation, in the face of death, you have stood faithful to me. You have stood faithful to my word. Friends, do we have that same condemnation in our lives? Does God commend us for who we are and how we have stood faithful in trials and temptation? Praise God that we live in a country that we will probably never be faced with death because of our faith. That is a blessing from God. But that does not mean that we can just slack off. It does not mean that our brothers and sisters around this world have the same blessing. And we must examine ourselves and we must examine what our faith is actually rooted in when we are going to face those trials. Friends, if your faith or your idea of salvation, your identity as a child of God is based off of what you have done and how smart you are or how strong you are or how much time you've spent in church. Ultimately, all of that will collapse in the face of true trials. Your faith must be rooted in Christ alone Rest in that. Rest in Christ. That it is by grace that you have faith. It is by the gift of God that He has given you new life. Is the mercy of God that He has made you a new creation? Is the grace of God that you have forgiveness of your sins? Is the grace of God that you are called child of the Almighty? Praise be to God that He has given us our faith. But we must examine ourselves. I think too often many of us Subconsciously, we don't even recognize that we do it. We put our faith in something other than Christ. Uh I I I think I can s I can point to examples in my own life and the examples and and life of my friends and my family where you would say, Oh, that's such a solid Christian Oh, he's one of the best Christians. He's at church all the time. He sings in the choir. Uh he's leading a small group. And then what happens? There 's there's some trial in that man's life or that woman's life, and they just abandon the faith. They just go off the deep end, never to return. Well what happened? Did they lose their faith? Were they I they they seemed so strong they just seemed like they had it all figured out. Well no, their faith, their identity And their salvation was rooted in a lie. It wasn't rooted in the only true foundation, which is Christ May we not find our identity, may we not root our faithfulness in our jobs, in our ministries, in our titles, in our families. May we not root it in our church attendance. Our Bible reading plans, all these are good things, but if our faith is rooted in any one of those, the moment that the enemy attacks, it'll all collapse. May we rest and root our faith in Christ alone. First Corinthians sixteen, verse thirteen. Men you should already have this one memorized because it's what we talked about at the men's breakfast. Okay, nope, no one has it memorized But hear this. This is what Paul concludes this letter with. He says, be watchful, stand firm in the faith. You walks, we'll stand firm in the faith. Our salvation has come through faith in Christ. Our sanctification comes through faith in Christ. Our living as Christians comes through faith in Christ. And our ability to endure the attacks of the enemy, our ability to take on the attacks and not collapse, our ability to go to the death for Christ. Is rooted and must be grounded, and we must stand firm in the faith. And that faith is in Christ alone. We see the beauty of what that faith is through his word, through the testimony, through the gospels. But, friends, we must stand faithful to Christ. He is the King. That's why we start this letter off with that He is the supreme king. He yields the sword. At the times the enemy is going to appear more powerful. At times the enemy is going to appear better and more joyful. Oh, if we just do this, if we just forsake the Christ and we just follow after the world, it will bring us more happiness and more joy. It'll bring us more prosperity. But ultimately we know all those things collapse. In comparison to our God. Rest in Christ. You can endure the pains. You can endure the temptations. You can endure the attacks When you are rooted in Christ alone, when your faith is focused on Christ and Him, His glory, when you're focused on Christ and His work on the cross, when you're focused on Christ and His reign in heaven. You can endure the attacks of the enemy. And when our king recognizes your endurance through your faithfulness, he is well pleased. Just let us hear those words once again back in Revelation 2. Yet you hold fast my name, and you did not deny my faith, even in the days of Antipos. My faithful witness who was killed among you where Satan dwells. Yet you hold fast. He is happy about this. He is commending the church for this. In church, I ask ourselves, and we need to examine ourselves, are we standing faithful to Christ in the face of the attacks of the enemy? Or will we be ready to stand faithful when the enemy attacks? The only way we do that is when we root ourselves in Christ, when we are in his word, when we are crying out to him in the good times and the bad in prayer. But we we must root ourselves in Christ alone. This brings us to a third point. The third point that the king writes to this church in his letter. He gets off commending them for their faithfulness, but now he gives a very stark warning. He says the king warns of corruption from within. The king warns of corruption from within. He's saying, good job. You've put up the barriers. You fought back the attacks of the enemy from the outside. But you have a problem from the inside. And he's telling us, Church, if you don't deal with this problem from within, the attacks of the enemy will have no meaning because you will completely collapse. You will be completely destroyed. We understand this in today's world. We see some of the healthiest people that have a great workout plan and a great diet still get cancer. And often and uh is my understanding is that the those cancers start very small. Just it's so small you can't see it with the naked eye if you can see it on the body and then it it starts to grow and grow and if it's not caught in time often it'll overcome the body and it will completely destroy the body. Well, church, hear me clearly. Sin within the church is worse. Sin from within the church is worse. We can stand faithful to Christ in the face of attacks of the enemy, but if we don't address the sin within That cancer, that plague, will spread and consume and put to death. Look with me in verse 14 of Revelation 12, it reads: But I have a few things against you. Let's just pause there before we go. Think about the change of language there. It's commending. You stay faithful to me. I'm your great king, but here's some a few things against you. I have a few things against you. You have some there who hold the teaching of Balaam, who taught Balach to put a stumbling block before the sons of Israel, so that they might eat food sacrificed to idols and practice sexual immorality. So also you have some who hold the teaching of the Nicolacians. So Christ is pointing out their sin and their problem, and he's warning that it's going to destroy them from within. The king warns of the corruption from within. Too often our focus is just outward. We're just always alarmed of the attacks of the enemy from the outside, but we must address from what is inside. And he uses this example of Balaam and Balak. It's a quite interesting story. If you have time tonight, I encourage you to read. Numbers, numbers twenty-two through twenty-four, you'll get a majority of the story. And then you'll have to jump over to chapter 31 in numbers. to see the issue uh with Balaam. Or you can join Pastor Matt's Sunday school class, which just started studying through the book of Numbers and wait about Twenty twenty or Wednesday night, wait about twenty weeks and then you'll get there? All right. Maybe more. We all know Matt. It'll be about fifty weeks till we get there. But we see this issue, and it's a very interesting story. Balak was a king of a pagan nation, and he sees that Israel is moving into his territory, and he gets nervous. So what he does is he call he sends some people to go get Balaam, who was a prophet at the time. He wants Balaam to come and and give him a prophecy of how to deal with uh the Israelites moving into his land And Balaam, at the first time the men come, he says, No, I can. He hears and receives a word from God, and God tells him, You can't do that, it's my people. Balak doesn't like that answer. He calls Balaam again. And finally Balaam goes this time, and if you know this story, it's a fun story, because he's on a donkey riding to go see Balak, and throughout this journey, the presence of God stands before the donkey. the donkey goes off course, Balaam starts to hit the donkey. The donkey then cries out in words because he's the God has given him the power to speak. He says, Why are you doing this? And ultimately the story is that Balaam gets to Balak. This king that wants to understand how to destroy Israel, and Balaam, because of the authority of God, refuses to prophesy against Israel And while he's while Balaam's standing before the king, he actually prophesies a blessing over Israel So that's chapters twenty uh two through twenty-four in the uh Pastor Anthony Kliffner 's version. There's a lot more in there. But that's the story. And ultimately, if you get to the end of those few chapters you go, Balaam was great. Balaam stayed faithful to the Word of God Then why in Revelation are we seeing that he's being criticized and pointed out that he has brought sin into the camp? Well, friends, it's just like the church. We look around us and we often see people that are preaching and teaching and doing great ministries and and they appear to be great. And for a moment in their life they're they're fulfilling what God has commanded them and they're obeying God and there's just this appearance that everything is good and and there probably is good there. But if we don't check our hearts and if we don't recognize that there is sin within us and that we are daily confessing our sin before a holy God, and we just allow it to grow uh unchecked within our lives, it will overcome even those that appear to be great. Even those that appear to be obeying our God. What happens is at the end of 24 the story kind of goes dark on Balaam and there's a whole bunch of other events that are happening, but Israel starts to marry Balak 's people and worship false gods. And then in chapter 31 and 16 , Moses writes that Balaam is accused of a heresy. That was committed by Israel because of them worshi eating and worshiping false gods and marrying outside of Israel and committing sexual impurity. They're breaking the commandments of God. So this man that appeared to be faithful to God, who appeared to bless Israel, at some point gave instruction to Balak of how he could just sneak into the camp of Israel and start to tempt them and draw them away from being obedient to God. Most likely what Balak did was he sent his his best and his most beautiful young women into the camp of Israel And the young men of Israel weren't strong enough to fight against that temptation. They would take those women and make them their brides, and now they started to worship the gods of their new wives. Or what happened is Balak became friendly and allowed there to be some trust built between Israel and his nation. And that trust then Balak used as a way to attack and fight against Israel. And we see ultimately that the crime and the sin that's being brought up in this whole story in Numbers and with Balaam and Balak is that there has been a small stumbling block that has been placed inside the camp of Israel that has brought destruction upon Israel. And Christ uses this story to point the church's minds and our hearts to understand that it may appear to be just a small stumbling block in the church. But it's going to bring great and painful destruction to his bride. We don't know all the details of what happened in this church But we do understand that the people are being drawn to still go into the cultic worship. They're being drawn to go and worship the false gods. They're being drawn to They still have Christ, but if you just worship a little bit of Caesar, then we won't bother you. Or there's there's this draw that, okay, you're a Christian and you're obeying Christ and you're following after him, but you can you can still go into the temple and sleep with the prostitutes. You can still partake in a little bit of what the world is doing. And what Christ is doing, the king writing this letter, is he's pointing to him and saying, absolutely not. This is going to bring destruction to the church. And worst of all, it appears as though the church is approving the sin that is within its own congregation. Friends, Beloved, are we guilty of the same crime? Do you have just a little bit of sin in your life that you haven't dealt with? Do you have a little bit of sin that you're clinging on to because you don't want to give it up? Do you have a little bit of sin in your life that you think, well this is my sin, and it only happens Monday through Fridays and it doesn't matter to the church and God doesn't need to know about it. Don't be so foolish. Your King, the Supreme King, knows all of who you are, even the smallest sin that you are clinging on to Church, do we allow sin just to happen amongst us? Do it ha have we just said that it is okay for for so and so to do these things and to to sleep around and to cheat on their wives? We know about it, but we're not going to address it. That's the loving thing to do. Do we know of someone that is stealing from the work and we have said, oh, it's okay, we'll just allow that to happen? We don't need to address it. That's what they do in their workplace. We're talking about the church. Well, friends, if that type of allowance is happening, there's other sins that are being allowed within your own life. And our king has warned us that there is danger if we allow that to continue. We must fight against it. Now let us not look For my new things. May we not address the length of hair. May we not fight over the clothing style and and the colors of what someone is wearing. May we not call something of buying a new car a sin. May we not make up things. May we not become legalistic about this. But can we look to the Word of God and see that He has called certain things sin? He's called it a a a rebel against him, and his offense against him. And when we see within our church, can we lovingly go to our brothers and sisters? And call them to repent? Can we lovingly go before them and say, Brother or sister, I see and I've witnessed you in this sin, and I plead with you to turn and repent of it and turn back to our Lord. How can we do that? Well, it's because we see that our King commands repentance. It's the very next point he makes. Well, he calls out this great sin He also gives hope. He gives forgiveness. Friends, these are some of the sweetest words we hear in this letter. As we see and know that our King knows our sin, he also calls us to turn to Him and find forgiveness. Look with me in verse 16. He says, Therefore repent. Repent, what does that mean? What does it mean to repent? It means that we are going towards sin. We are engulfed in that sin, and our repentance is us turning 180. Fleeing from our sin and going into the arms of our Messiah, finding the forgiveness of that sin through Christ Sometimes in our American minds and American church minds we have twisted this understanding of repentance and made it a bad word. It's a hurtful word. You shouldn't say those things. That's mean. No, may we recognize that repentance is sweet. May we recognize that repentance is a grace of God. May we recognize that repentance brings us into the arms of our Father. Oh, what beautiful words is repentance. May we rejoice in it. The pain is to recognize that we have the sin. The sweetness is to recognize that we are forgiven of the sin through Christ. That only happens when we repent of it. It only happens when we turn to him. So, church, this morning, if you are in sin, turn to him. Do it now. Confess it. Admit it. Recognize what it is. And find forgiveness in Christ. Quite often, Pastor Matt and I talk about this: that we are regularly praying for this church in ourselves that if any of us in this building, if any of us in this church Are snared in sin that the Spirit convicts you and convicts us of that sin. And then we turn to Christ immediately Because we recognize the beauty and the sweetness of that forgiveness. We recognize the freedom that comes with repentance But we also recognize the destruction that comes for to those that do not repent. Look with me in verse 16. It says, therefore repent if not. I will come to you soon and war against them with the sword of my mouth. I don't know about you, but I do not want to war against the living God. I don't want a war against the one that created all of creation. I don't want a war against the one that defeats Satan and death and sin. I'm pretty strong. Okay, thank you. That's true, John. I'm pretty strong. But I will never be able to stand before a holy God and fight against him. I don't want a war against him. If you don't want a war against the creator of the universe, if you don't want a war against God, the only answer you have is to repent. And this is good. You know why you're not going to war against him when you repent? It's because you become his child. Through Christ you are called. God looks at you and says, You are mine. You are mine. You belong to me. You are my child. A father and a child do not war in a healthy relationship. And when you are in Christ, you are in the healthiest relationship you can ever have. Turn to the Lord. Church, I command you now, if you are in sin, to turn to the Lord and find sweet forgiveness in the arms of God. Recognize that Christ has paid the penalty for your sins. Recognize that Christ has died on the cross for your sins. He took on the wrath of God that you deserve. For your sins he died. For your sins he was buried. And he defeated your sins when he rose from the dead. He defeated your sins as he sits in heaven now. And now when you go in prayer, now as you enter into the presence of the Father, you go under the authority of your great King Christ. Find forgiveness in Christ. Turn to him. What is the benefit of going to him? What is the benefit of being a child of God? What is the benefit of repenting of your sins? This is our last point. The king promises a glorious reward. He promises a glorious reward. Verse 17 he says, Who has an ear? Let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To the one who conquers I will give him I will give some of the hidden manna, and I will give him a white stone, with a new name written on the stone, that no one knows except the one who receives it. Beloved, I have no problems this morning saying these are some difficult verses. And I don't have all the answers. I can't lay out exactly what the hidden manna is and the the white stone with the name on. But I do understand the principle or the symbolism of these two things. The hidden manna we must understand is the provision that God has for us. He's our provider. Recognize that the reward of being a child of God is not only in heaven. It's not only in the eternal, but it's also in this earth. He is our provider. Philippians 4. 19 talks about how he provides all things to us. We have all things because of our Messiah. Recognize that the fact that you woke up this morning with breath in your lungs is a blessing from our God. The jobs we have is a blessing from our God. The finances, the cars, the family, the list goes on and on. This very church is a blessing from our God. He has provided all that we need, even in the face of trials. But the second one, the name written on the white stone is maybe one of the most complicated verses in all of Scripture, and uh what we must see from this is that there is a specific name to a specific person. And with that, we recognize a deep and personal relationship. So, what is the reward that our king promises to us? Is that we have a personal relationship with our God. Oh, may we see the beauty of what that actually means. It's not just a friendship that's casual. We'll say hi if we see each other in town. It's not just a working relationship that when we have to be at work, we'll be friendly to one another. No, it's a deep and personal relationship. Scripture actually uses language similar to the language of a marriage. The intensity, the uniqueness, and the closeness of our relationship with our God should blow us away. We should recognize the beauty of what that reward is Because we were enemies against our God before Christ. But in Christ, we are now his children. In Christ, we are now his family. In Christ, we commune with God. Revelation 21, verse 3 and 4 magnify the beauty of what it means to be a child of God. It magnifies this relationship we have with our God and how sweet of a reward it is. And we'll finish on this reminder. Revelation 21, verse 3. It says, And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people. And God himself will be with them as their God. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes. And death shall be no more Neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain any more, for the former things have passed away. What a sweet reward we have in Christ. Friends, may we hear the words of our King. As we face the trials of this world, as we face the temptations of this world, as we fight against sin within our lives, within this church. Rest on this beautiful truth, that we will sit in the presence of our God forever. He'll wipe away our tears, the language of the Comforter. Death will be no more. Have you felt the sting of death in your life? The reward is that that will be gone. There shall be no more mourning. No crying. The pain of this fallen creation, the pain of this fallen earth will be completely gone. And we will be in the presence of our King forever. And he will look at us and say, You are my child. May we rejoice in our King. May we follow after Him. May we fight against the sinner lives. And may we look forward to the day that we are in His courts forever. Let's go before Him in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you. We thank you that you reign in heaven. We thank you that you reign over all. Lord, we thank you for our salvation. The power and the might of how Christ has redeemed sinners. How Christ has made us children of the Holy God. Lord, I now ask that anyone that has sinned in their lives that is unrepentant to convict them this morning. May the Holy Spirit convict their hearts and their souls that they confess their sin with joy, finding sweet forgiveness in God. We pray all this in his name. Amen.