Today we're in Ephesians 1, 1 to 2. Now, last week we did an introduction to the series on Ephesians from chapter 3, verses 20. To 21. Does anybody remember what the topic of that sermon was? God's glory in the church. God's glory in the church. Amen. Give him a door prize on the way out. Yeah, to him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus forever. Forever and ever, right? In every age and then forever and ever. God's glory in the church. And that's always a good time to be reminded that everything is about God's glory. Our salvation is about God's glory. The local church is about God's glory. Remember, there's different aspects to God's glory, but remember this aspect we pointed out last week that it has to do with a display of God's wisdom, grace, and power in our lives and in the church. Putting on display what's great about God. That's God's glory. And then we respond in praise to Him. And I hope that For every passage, for every sentence, for every sermon in Ephesians, that would be ringing in our ears God's glory in the church. God's glory in our lives. It's all about God 's glory. Amen. Now, today is Ephesians 1:1 -2, blessing the saints Ephesians 1, 1 to 2, blessing the saints. I'm calling it blessing the saints because these two verses are part of the greeting of Ephesians. Alright, Ephesians is one of the Apostle Paul's 13 letters, also called epistles. Alright, that's from Romans. To Philemon in your New Testament, the 13 epistles or the 13 letters of Paul. And his writings take the form of letters. So part of that is a greeting or an opening. And in the greeting of the letter, you see, most of the time you see the author and you see the recipients. And then you'll see a blessing. Alright? The author, the recipients, and then the blessing. So in our you you don't see the word blessing in our verse. But there is a blessing in our verse, or in our passage rather. There is a blessing in our passage that is really the core of Paul's heart when he's writing. To the church at Ephesus. So, with that in mind, let's go ahead and read Ephesians 1:1 to 2. Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus, by the will of God. To the saints who are in Ephesus and are faithful in Christ Jesus, grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. So in this greeting, you see, what do you see first? You see the author. It's the first word. Paul. Paul the Apostle. And then what do you see after that? You see. The recipients. Basically the church in Ephesus, or the Christians who are in Ephesus. And then in verse 2, what do you see? You see the blessing. You see Paul speaks a blessing. He writes a blessing over the church. He wants them To receive God's grace. He wants the grace of God to be poured out in their lives. He wants the peace of God to be experienced in their lives. But that can only come from God. And you see that in the way Paul says it. It's not something that he's trusting them to provide for themselves. But he says, grace to you and peace from From God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. If you want more of the experience of grace in your life, I hope you want that. I know I want that. But we need to understand that that only can come from God Himself. Personally Supernaturally, into our hearts, into our minds, God giving us grace. And if we want more peace in our lives We want to experience and enjoy the peace we have with God. If we want to be peacemakers in our relationships with others. If we want peace in our hearts, if we want peace to rule in our hearts, like the New Testament tells us, let peace rule in our hearts. That can only come from God. Let's be a people who every day wake up and are seeking grace and peace from God. Yes? Let's be that people, a needy people. A desperate people, a praying people, a crying out to God people, a calling upon the name of the Lord people. Give us grace. Give us peace. And help us to be gracious to others and help us to be peacemakers with others. This blessing is a really big deal. I didn't want to just race over this just because it's the greeting Or many many people would say, well, this is the introduction, but then he gets to the important stuff. The whole thing's important. We need this blessing. I need this blessing in my life. Grace to you. I'm not just reading it now, I'm saying it to you. Grace to you. And peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. And in your heart, you can speak that blessing to me. Don't do it out loud, it'll get crazy in here But let's speak a blessing over each other. Let's pray blessings over each other. God will build up the body that way. Blessing the saints. To bless. Means to show favor and kindness to, or to speak a word of favor or kindness over. That's very simple, right? It's the opposite of hurting somebody. It's the opposite of cursing someone. To bless is to show a kindness. It's to show favor, to give a gift, to build up, not to tear down. So showing that favor or kindness, or speaking a word of favor or kindness over someone, we need God's blessing to direct us in our lives. That's number one. We need the blessing of God to direct us in our lives. Number two, we need the blessing of God to define our identity. The blessing of God in a particular way to define our identity. And number three, we need the blessing of God dispensed to us by the Holy Spirit Alright, the blessing of God to direct us, to define us, and then finally dispensed to us. We need God's blessing in our hearts, like our bodies need oxygen. First of all, we need it really, right? It's not an illusion, it's not just theory. It's something we really, practically, concretely, absolutely need: oxygen for our bodies And we need the blessing of God for the well-being of our hearts and souls. And we need it daily, and we need it perpetually. We need the blessing of God to give us wisdom, endurance. Strength to persevere in hardship, to strengthen our faith, to grow us in our love for God, to grow us in our love for others, to remind us, to assure us Of the sufficiency of the blood of Jesus Christ to erase all the guilt of our sin and bring us to heaven. We need God's blessing. I want to throw a few Bible verses out for us just to highlight how important the idea of God's blessing is in all of Scripture because it's all over. If you were to do a Bible study and look up all the verses with the word blessing or the idea of being blessed, man, it would take you years because it's just all over Scripture. Genesis 1. 28. All right, just miscellaneous verses on the idea of blessing and how important it is in Scripture. The first thing that's said after God creates man, after he creates man, literally, in Genesis 1. 20, the first words, the first sentence after the creation of man is this. And God blessed them. And God blessed them. To Abraham in Genesis 12, 3. Abraham was promised that from him would come a nation, and that nation would inhabit a land, that nation would be in special covenant with God. But all of that would lead to this. This is Genesis 12. 3, part of God's promise and covenant to Abraham. In you all the families of the earth shall be Blessed. This important part of God's plans. The first word said to mankind, it's the culminating and central word In the covenants of promise to Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Israel, that all the families of the earth would be blessed. That means salvation will go to everybody. And then Genesis 3226. Remember, remember this highly mysterious encounter of Jacob wrestling with God in the appearance of a man. And toward the end, Jacob says, I will not let you go unless you bless me, which is symbolizing and showing us. Prayer and striving in prayer. And what Jacob notices, what he's really he's He's feeling, it's not this intellectual thing. He's feeling it. He's experiencing it. He knows that he needs the blessing of God upon his life. Amen. And that's where we need to be. It's not a side issue. It's not a garnish just to make the plate look good. This is it, brothers and sisters. Seeking the blessing of God and growing in our experience of His blessing. Psalm 115:13. He will bless those who fear the Lord, both small and great. That means rich, poor, commoners, the elite. He'll bless those who fear the Lord. That's the common denominator. Doesn't matter if you're small or great, doesn't matter if you're rich or poor, doesn't matter if you're known or unknown, doesn't matter if you're a Or the king. The question is, do you walk in the fear of the Lord Do you acknowledge his authority over you? Do you have a sincere respect and reverence before God, who made all things? He will bless those who fear the Lord. Do you fear the Lord this morning? Do you walk in the fear of the Lord? Well then be happy because, friend, the blessing of God is upon you. Of all the things we strive after in life, make sure you strive after the blessing of God that comes through fellowship with Christ. Strive after the experience, the deeper experience, the growth, the wonder of the blessing of God through faith and fellowship with the Lord Jesus Christ. There's lots of things we strive for in life. Striving after a career, it's not a bad thing, that's a good thing. Strive after, pray for a career, a calling, a vocation. Striving after a spouse, praying for a Christian spouse, a faithful spouse. Having hobbies, striving after hobbies, maybe staying in shape, or maybe hunting and joying God's creation, traveling and seeing God's creation. It's not wrong to do that. Striving after friends, praying for, seeking, good friends, faithful friends, striving after good grades, or Accomplishment and success in whatever your endeavor is. But make sure you're striving after the blessing of God upon your life. Don't be a materialist. Don't live just for the temporary. But strive after the blessing of God. And that comes through, and it's enjoyed by faith and fellowship with Christ. You know, if we uh if you plant a garden and then you lay a thick tarp over the garden, Don't complain that it's not growing and bearing fruit. If you're not diligently striving After the blessings and enjoyments of the blessings of God in Christ, don't complain that you're not growing and bearing fruit. Strive after him in prayer. Wrestle with him like Jacob. Call out to him. Cry out to him like the psalmists. And strive after in prayer and through the Word of God for the greater and deeper and broader experience of the blessing of God in our lives. We need the blessing of God to direct us To define us and who we are, and then we need it dispensed to us by the Holy Spirit in an ongoing manner. Now, number one The blessing of God directs us in our lives and service to God. And what this we're looking at, the first part of verse 1. Paul, the author. Alright, that's how we're going to do this. The author, the recipients, and then the blessing. Just outlining it from a practical perspective rather than that Just the straight up content perspective. The blessing of God directs us in our lives in service to God. Verse 1 Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God. Paul was guided and directed in his life by his calling By God's calling upon his life. He was saved, and he was called, he was appointed in the office of apostle and preacher of the gospel, and that is the thing, those are the things that guided and directed. his life. Now, I've not been called to be an apostle, but I've been called to let the will of God direct my life And you've not been called to be an apostle, but you have been called to let the will of God direct your life. And that's what he says. Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus. By the will of God. In other words, it wasn't Paul's idea. He didn't get up that day and say, you know what? I really want to be a faithful Apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ. In fact, when God intervened in Paul's life and saved Paul and called him to be an apostle, what was Paul on the way to do? Murder Christians, imprison Christians, ransack their homes. He was leading the charge, actively involved in persecuting Jesus Christ But in grace, here comes Jesus. In mercy, here comes Jesus Jesus called Paul. Jesus saved Paul and appointed him to be an apostle. And it's by his will. What is it that guides you in life? What is your lighthouse? But your eyes are fixed, and that's where you're going. What is it that guides us? Is it the will and the values of the world and culture around us? Is that what should be guiding us? Is it our own subjective desires? Is that what guides us? Is it just tradition? Whatever's traditional. Just tell me what to do, tell me what to say, tell me where to go, train me in the external things of religion. Is that what's guiding us? Get me plugged in. Sign me up for a ministry. Is that what's guiding us? Not that those things are bad, but what's the lighthouse? What's guiding us? It has to be God's will, and where is God's will expressed? In His word. Amen. You don't have to whisper it, you can just say it. Declare it. Declare it in the assembly. He's apostle of Christ Jesus. Now an apostle is one who is sent. An apostle is an official representative. It's like an ambassador. You're a legal representative. Ambassador, you're an official representative of one country when you're in a different country. And that's what an apostle is. It's an official representative and authorized messenger. Of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Paul was the 13th apostle. Now in Mark 3, you can read about the Twelve original apostles that Jesus appointed in his earthly ministry. And then You know what happened to Judas Iscariot, the betrayer? And then after his treachery He committed suicide. So now you have 11 apostles as the gospels come to an end. And as the book of Acts begins, you have the eleven. In Acts chapter 1. Matthias is appointed, not that Matthias over here, the old Matthias, the OG Matthias, was appointed to replace Judas, so now you have 12 again. And then in Acts chapter 9, you can read about Paul's conversion and Paul's being appointed as a 13th apostle. Alright? Mark 3. I know that some of you were were thinking about that on your way to church today. I really hope he gives us the passages for the history of the apostles of the early church. Apostles are very important. There's only thirteen. foundational office for the first generation of the church. We don't have apostles anymore. They were in place for the founding and establishing of the church on earth. And there were also New Testament prophets in the early church as well, when they didn't have the New Testament, but new revelation was being given. Once that new revelation is complete and compiled, The apostles, the office of apostle and the office of prophet in the early of church, they fall away Because there's no longer the giving of new revelation. There's the preaching of completed revelation and the expounding and applying of completed revelation, but no longer the giving of new revelation. That's why your Bible's not getting bigger. Okay. He says apostle of Christ Jesus, then he says, by the will of God. There's two General ways that the will of God is used as an idea. First of all, the will of God is what God wants in our lives. Now we all need to be in tune with the will of God in our lives. This is what he wants. Think of like the will of a parent for their child. The will of a parent for their child to be respectful Or even just in a specific thing like do your chores. That's the parent's will. Please clean your room. It's very simple. It's what the parent wants. Or what a coach wants from his players, or what a teacher wants from her students. The will of God is what God wants in our lives. And he wants faith. And he wants repentance. And he wants worship. And he wants us to love him. And he wants us to love each other. The will of God is what God wants in our lives. Maybe your conscience this morning knows that there's a change in your life that God wants you to make. Maybe you've been putting it off. Maybe you've been coming up with rationalizations. It's the biggest word I've said in like four or five weeks. Rationalizations, making excuses But God's will is what He wants from us. And very often, God wants us to make changes in our lives. Maybe it's a change of heart, mindset, hobbies, relationship. Whatever. But go to God in prayer and ask Him for the faith and the strength to do His will. To make the changes that he's calling you to make. We can't run off and try to do it in our own strength. We talked about that in Sunday school. We're not trying to serve God and live for God in our own strength. No, we're seeking God to help us do His will in His strength. If we do it by our strength, we get the glory. If we do it in God's strength, God gets the glory. If we strive to do it our way, we will crash and burn. If we strive to do it God's way, depending on God, we'll flourish and thrive. That's one way for to think about God's will. Now another way to think about God's will, both of these are in Scripture. Another way to think about God's will is simply what God determines to do. Do. That's his will. It's what he determines to do, what God does. He does his will. We know this in our lives. We're thinking that one thing would be the best thing to happen And then it doesn't happen. And we'll struggle with that for a little bit maybe. Maybe we get upset, maybe even a little bitter. Maybe a little upset. At the very least, just confused. Why didn't it work out this way? That wasn't God's will. The thing that did happen, that's God's will. That's God's will. It's not always easy. It's often quite painful. And God takes us through hardship to strengthen our faith, to give us endurance, to thicken our skins, to toughen us up. To humble us, to break us down, toughen us up, strengthen us in faith, I mean. Not to make us hardened, but to strengthen us in our faith and humility before God. Things don't always go as we plan it, do they? But whatever happens in one way or another ultimately is God's will. How did Paul become an apostle, or why did Paul become an apostle? Was it because Paul was great? Was it because Paul was good? Was he better than other people? Was he smarter than other people? Was he more naturally more spiritual than other people? I see that I hear these kinds of things preached. Like there was these leadership qualities And God saw these leadership qualities, so he had to get a hold of Paul and use it. Are you kidding me? God needs Paul's natural leadership qualities in order to use Paul for his purpose? That's absurd. God uses the weak. God uses sinners. God uses uses the unable. God uses the poor and pathetic. God uses the outcast so that his glory and his power and his wisdom would be displayed, not man's natural abilities and leadership qualities. Never Paul became an apostle by the sovereign grace and mercy of God, aka by the will of God. Turn to Ephesians 3. It's just. One or two pages over, depending on the font in your Bible and whether it's a study Bible or not. Ephesians 3, 7 to 8, look how Paul talks about His ministry and what it's based on. Ephesians 3, 7 to 8. Of this gospel, I was made a minister according to the gift of God's grace, which was given me by the working of his power to me, though I am the very least of all saints. This grace was given to preach to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ Do you see it, brothers and sisters? How does Paul think about his ministry? How do I think about my ministry? How do you think about your ministries? Listen to this. Sovereign grace. Divine power. Paul knows if God didn't intervene in his life In mercy and grace and power, he'd still be lost. He'd still be persecuting the church. He'd still be under the wrath of God But God came in mercy and grace and power, and everything that God does in Paul's life is to magnify God's glory. And everything that God is doing in your life is to magnify God's glory. And church, we've got to have that mindset. I mean, this idea has to flood our hearts and pour out of our hearts that it's all about God's glory. and his grace and his power and his wisdom to pathetic sinners. That's what the Bible's about. By the will of God, never let ministry Become more important to you than God. Live for God. Come to church for God. We need the blessing of his calling and grace to direct us But we also need it to define our identity. Now the two are connected, right? Because we can't be directed in a proper way unless we are certain of who we are in Christ. But we need the blessing of God, the favor, the kindness of God. To define our identity, to tell, in other words, to tell us who we are. Isn't that an easier way to say? Maybe I should have just said that. To tell us who we are. Let God and the blessing of God in Christ say to your heart, here's who you are. Here's why you're important. Here's where a sense of meaning and fulfillment and purpose will come from. Who you are in Christ. So now we move from author to recipients to talk about how the blessing of God defines our sense of identity and purpose in the world. The rest of verse 1. Back in Ephesians 1, the rest of verse 1, to the saints who are in Ephesus and are faithful in Christ Jesus. The saints faithful and in Christ Jesus. What is it that defines our identity? What is it That defines the sense of worth and security in our lives. Is it how much stuff we have? Is it how much money we have? Is it how much people like us? Boy, they really think I'm cool now. Is it what people say about us, people speaking highly of us? That means we have a good identity and we and we should be secure, but when they're not speaking well of us, now we're not secure anymore and we don't know who we are Is it indulging the natural lusts of the flesh? Is that where we find our identity? Because brothers and sisters, that's the number one message of the culture around us. That's how you be who you are. Indulge your natural, perverse lusts of the flesh, and that's how you'll live your authentic life. God tells us the opposite. Put that to death through faith in Christ. How is it that we're finding and seeking after a sense of identity? Because we're all looking for a sense of identity. We 're all looking for something. We're all looking for something inside that makes us feel secure about who we are and tells us Who we are and therefore how we should live, and therefore how we should feel about ourselves and our purpose and place in the world. We're all looking for that. Where are you looking for it? Is it in how much religion we do? Oh, that's an easy one to do. You see it all throughout scripture. Just do the outward things of religion. But if you don't know God, it means nothing. Well, actually it does mean something. It's reprehensible to God. It's not neutral. Saints Faithful in Christ Jesus That's the recipients. Saints, faithful, and in Christ Jesus. Now, saints means holy ones. It's people who are set apart by God to live for Him. And in being set apart by God to live for Him, they also are being changed by the power of God. To reflect God in the world. That's what saints means. To be set apart and to be made like God. Picture a harvest of 10,000 apples. Now, 9,500 are going to the commoners for everyday use, everyday common purpose 9,500 common apples for common use. But 500 of those apples are being set aside for a special use. And they are going to the great and glorious king. And they are going for a special purpose to be used at the grand wedding feast of the king's only son. They're set apart for special use. That's what saints are. Set apart in the world to be used of God in a special way. Set apart in the world to shine forth the glory of God in a particular way. Saints. Saints is not a small group of elite Christians. Saints is not something we vote on and decide on who the best Christians or most accomplished Christians are. Every believer in the Lord Jesus Christ is a saint. Period. You have been set apart by God. You have been filled with the Holy Spirit of God. You're being conformed to the image and likeness of God. You are God's Holy One. Church, we're God's holy ones, set apart for special use. Are you glad about that? Would you say amen? What do we want to go back to? Slavery to sin? The misery of sin? God has set us apart. 1 Peter 1, 15 and 16, but as he who called you is holy, you also be holy in all of your conduct. Since it's written, you shall be holy, for I am holy. Be holy in my conduct. Can I just learn about holy things in my head? Can I just like holy things in my heart? Now We should be learning about holy things in our heads. And we should like and delight in holy things in our hearts. But what does that look like in our lives? Holiness in speech, and holiness in conduct. There you go, there's a book outline for you right there, Vince. Write this book. It's only has to be four chapters: holiness in mind, holiness in heart, holiness in speech, holiness in conduct. I guess you do a fifth chapter too, in all areas of life. That's not just church life. That's home life, work life, friend life, school life Sports life, help me out on these, how you do your finances life, stuff you watch on TV life, stuff you joke about and talk about with your friends life, everything life Holiness. We're saints. Aren't you happy that we're not saved by how holy we are in this life? Amen. We're saved by the perfect life and the sufficient sacrifice of Jesus Christ on a cross. Brothers and sisters, we gain access to God because of the righteousness of Christ. Because of the holiness, because of the obedience of Jesus Christ. That's our ticket. Not to be crashed, but it really is. That's what grants us access. That's our ticket. It's our access to God. We're not saved by our holiness. That's not Christianity. But we are saved unto holiness. I know Anthony's going to kill me on that gesture. It's the first time I did. We're not saved by our holiness. If you believe that, that's wrong. We're saved by grace. It's a free gift. Holiness comes later. The starting block is free gift of grace. That's how we're saved. But then the race itself involves holiness. Saints. Not a special class of believers. All believers are saints. Now, everything I just talked about, we understand that's not natural stuff, right? That's supernatural stuff. This is God doing this in our lives. You have been set apart to know God. Not like knowing math But like parents knowing their children, or like a husband knowing his wife, or like God the Father knowing God the Son. Or like God knowing Israel and binding Israel to himself as a covenant nation. It's a relational knowing. It's walking in fellowship with. You've been set apart to walk with God. You've been set apart to love God. And love others and love his people. Love the church. Love his word. Love prayer. You've been set apart to worship and serve God. Let's lead the charge. In gathering to worship God, set that example, prioritize it. Brothers and sisters, God deserves to be worshipped. Did you forget that's the first reason we worship? He deserves to be worshiped. He must be worshiped. We are obligated by the fact that we're human beings. We are obligated to worship God Now when we're lost, we don't recognize that. And so we're always rebelling against that. But when we're saved, we embrace that. And we say, yeah, that's great. Sign me up. What time are we meeting? I want to gather because God deserves to be worshipped. We're set apart to worship God and to worship Him for the right reasons. But He not only says saints, but He also says our faithful. Faithful. Keeping their profession of faith and not giving up. That's what faithful means. Boy, we need to pray for that. Let's not try to persevere on our own strength Let's not try to endure by our own wisdom. But let's lean on God and pray to God that He would enable us to be faithful, to keep our profession of faith, to not lose heart. Church, do not lose heart Let your heart take courage. Let your soul find strength. Be strong in the Lord and the strength that He supplies. Let your soul find rest in Christ. Be faithful. Not only keeping our profession of faith and not giving up, but also has the idea of standing firm in God's truth. Standing firm in God's truth, a little experiment, imagination experiment. Imagine if we decided that we're going to continue as a church. We'll continue to be faithful as a church. We'll continue to call ourselves Christian. We'll continue to worship, we'll continue to give money to different ministries, but, but we're no longer going to do so on the foundation of God's truth. Good or bad? Right. So it's not just this inner Subjective, remaining faithful, not giving up. Yes, it's that, but it's also a firm conviction That we are working from and preaching from and teaching from and living from a foundation of God's truth. That's what faithful means. I can't lose my voice right before the point that's literally in Christ Jesus. You've been waiting all week to preach on this phrase, John. Anthony, real quick, just write a conclusion to this sermon. Just be glad I didn't try to preach on three verses. Saints, faithful in Christ Jesus, that means spiritually united to the risen Lord. That's what that means. In Christ. He's He's our covenant representative. He's our representative before God. We're spiritually united to the risen Lord. There's nothing better. In the human experience, in this age or in the age to come, there's nothing better, nothing greater, nothing higher, nothing more enjoyable than spiritual fellowship with Jesus. It's the best. Brings joy and hope and meaning and forgiveness and future with God in Christ Jesus. In fact, the whole next paragraph, which would be the next sermon. That's the main concept that threads the whole verses 3 to 14 is those in Christ and how they got there and what it means. The reason we're in Jesus is because Jesus, broadly speaking, did two things. If you're awake still, would you say amen? If you're not gonna be too distracted by the anguish you see that I'm in trying to fight through, losing my voice, say would you say amen? Broadly speaking, Dave, Jesus did two things so that we could be in him. First, he accomplished salvation, and then he applied salvation to our hearts. Now, if you were ever to teach a semester of the doctrine of Christ or the doctrine of salvation, that would be within the first five minutes of your first lecture, the first meeting of the class. You would give this broad outline that Jesus accomplished salvation in his incarnation, his righteous life, his death and resurrection. He accomplished salvation, but that alone doesn't get a sinner in Christ. The second thing Jesus did was He came into our lives through the gospel and He applied salvation to our hearts. He brought the promise of the gospel into our lives, the proclamation of His incarnation. The proclamation of his righteous life, the proclamation of his sacrificial death, the preaching, the proclamation, the teaching, the explaining of his resurrection, and how, if you put your faith in him, you can be saved. By grace, through faith, when we believe that gospel, what's happening there behind the scenes? Now you can't see it because Jesus isn't visible to us right now, but what's happening there, brothers and sisters Jesus, through the Spirit, is applying salvation to hearts, to the hearts of dead sinners. Here comes Jesus on earth through the gospel, saving sinners for the glory of God. He accomplished it in the past, but then he applies it in our lifetimes. And if you're not saved, you can be saved right now. If you believe in Jesus. Based on his life, death, and resurrection, believe in him, and you're saved. And you'll be in Christ Jesus. You'll be a saint. And then you'll continue, you'll start on this road of being faithful to God by his grace and power. Now, don't be afraid. Because we still haven't talked about the blessing of God dispensed to us by the Holy Spirit. We can talk about this in a minute, I promise. Somebody time me. Lorna, time this. See if this is a minute, okay? Verse 2, grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. We need God's grace, we need God's peace. We need other things, but that's that covers a lot. We need to feed on God's grace. We need to be crying out for God's grace and striving after his grace. And by and large, the way you do that is you give yourself to his word, you give yourself to prayer, and you give yourself to worship. The word, prayer, and worship. Give yourself to those things in all kinds of different ways, in various ways, creative ways. The word, prayer, and worship The word, prayer, and worship. That's how you drink. That's how you feast on the grace of God. And he administers grace and peace to our lives by his word. Through prayer and by worship. That's what needs to be shaping and driving us. The blessing of God to the saints of God. What a wonderful thing it is. Let's pray God, thank you for Jesus, all that He's given, all that He promises to give, and for the way He daily watches over us and guides us We pray that for each one of us here we'll receive your word and seek to respond in our lives in the appropriate way. It's in Jesus we pray. Amen.