The words we'll examine tonight come out of Jonah chapter two. Jonah chapter two We continue our journey through this short book, this minor prophet in the Old Testament. And tonight we'll examine. What the posture, the heart, or status is as we cry out to our God. So we cry out to our God, you may have uh the worksheet, the handout, the outline. Keep it. It has space for notes. But I won't be working directly off of that. I told Jen this was my third attempt at an outline, and uh we're now on my fourth attempt of an outline an outline. But the idea is still there. The posture is still the same. But crying out to the Lord. If you're like if you're fortunate and and like me, I had wonderful parents growing up. Still are wonderful parents. But I got to experience it more as growing up. And I knew that at any moment I could call my parents. They would answer. They would take I had this great uh Jeep Wrangler. It was the greatest vehicle ever. It was rusted out. It was wonderful. But the gas gauge was broke. Right. And so I just assumed that I could drive and just know when I need to get more gas. But the amount of times that I just ran out of gas, usually like not too far from home, but too far for me to walk. And I could call up my dad, and he would show up with a little red can, fill it up with gas, he'd make a few remarks. But I knew that if I would call my father, he would be there. And hopefully you have someone in your life that's like that. You just know that you can call them at any point in the middle of the night and they'll be there. Maybe you have to call on a few times to wake them up, but ultimately, if you need something, that person is there for you. Well, friends, our God 's even greater than that person. Our God is ready to respond. Our God is present, caring for you. Our God is the one that can heal and fix and solve every problem that's brought before Him. And unlike our our friends or our family that we have to call on the phone, you know, we have to dial, we have to make sure they answer, we don't have that fear with God. We know that we can cry out to Him and He hears us. But one of our problems, even as Christians, is we're concerned that maybe we don't have the right to go before God. What's in your life that has just caused you trauma or a situation and you just feel unworthy to go before God? I can think of uh uh honestly, almost any moment in my life, if I really would pause and think about past deeds I've done or thoughts I've had, I would go, yeah, I have no right to go before God. He's he doesn't want to hear me right now. I'm the last person that he would want to hear a prayer from. But friends, this is not what we see in Jonah's cry, and it's not what we see throughout Scripture. There's not this standard of, well, you've got to better yourself. You've got to make sure that all your sins are in order. You solved all of your problems, and then you can go before God. It's actually quite the opposite with Jonah. Here's this man who has received a direct command from God to go to this land and preach. Go, arise. It says arise and go. And what does Jonah do? Arise and go the exact opposite direction. He flees from God. He flees from the commands of God. He attempts everything he can do. He attempts every action to get away from God, as far away from God as he can. And here we'll see that now he is in the belly of the fish. He has no right to go to God. He has no right to pray. Yet he does. He has all the sins that are blocking him. Every offense against God he has committed, he has done. But that does not prevent him from crying out to the Lord. What we will see tonight is the only thing that prevents us from going to the Lord is our failure to submit. to him. Our failure to recognize who he is, our failure to see that he is the sovereign one who has redeemed our souls Jonah's not doing that. Jonah's not failing to submit in this moment. He had, right? He fled from God. We saw him failing to submit. But now. In the depths of his sin, in the darkest hour that he has, he is now submitted to the Lord and is crying out to him. So join me as we read. I'm actually going to start in Jonah chapter 1, verse 17, and then I'll read through chapter 2. And the Lord appointed a great fish to swallow up Jonah. And Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days and three nights. Then Jonah prayed to the Lord his God from the belly of the fish, saying, I called out to the Lord out of my distress. And he answered me. Out of the belly of Sheol, I cried, and you heard my voice. For you cast me into the deep, into the heart of the seas. And the flood surrounded me. All your waves and your billows passed over me. Then I said, I am driven away from your sight. Yet I shall again look upon your holy temple The waters closed in over me to take my life. The deep surrounded me. Weeds were wrapped around my head. At the roots of the mountains I went down to the land whose bars closed upon me forever. Yet you brought up my life from the pit, O Lord my God. When my life was fainting away, I remember the Lord, and my prayer came to you, into your holy temple. Those who pay regard to vain idols forsake their hope of steadfast love. But I, with the voice of thanksgiving, will sacrifice to you What I have vowed I will pay. Salvation belongs to the Lord. And the Lord spoke to the fish, and it vomited Jonah out upon the dry land. Before we dive into this, we have verse 17 there explaining what God has done to save Jonah. If we just remember last week we saw as Jonas trying to flee from the Lord, he gets onto the ship to flee to Tarshish , and God hurls down a great storm, and the sea is is going wild and the sailors are scared, they're terrified, and finally they come to the conclusion Jonah's the problem and finally he convinces them to throw him overboard. And the moment he gets into the sea, God calms the storm, and we see the sailors then worshiping God. But that's not the end of Jonah's story. We see God, while Jonah's still rebelling against God, God sends this fish to swallow Jonah up. This is a mode of salvation for Jonah in the sun. Mode of historical salvation. It is saving his life that he is swallowed by this fish. And then we see in the imagery that the fish then goes into the depths of the sea. So that's the stage that we see Jonas crying out in. Also in verse 1, we will not unpack the verse 17 and verse 1 right now, or verse 17 really. I think next week we'll unpack verse 17 and talk about the sovereignty of God. I mean all these actions. We've got to see how God is the one orchestrating each aspect of it. But also this verse here, verse 17. is cited in the New Testament. So I want to give proper time to that. So if you're really frustrated because I didn't address the sign of Jonah that Jesus talks about, calm down. We'll get to it. All right, Dennis, I know we talked about last week. I don't want you harassing me, but we will come back to it because it's it's so important. It's such a beautiful uh imagery that Jesus used. But tonight I want to focus in on Jonah's prayer. The man that doesn't have the right to go before God. None of us do, right? None of us have the right to go before the Creator of the universe. Not on her own accord. It's not like, oh, just we are really good. He likes us. We have accomplished so much in our lives. We've broken only a few laws, the ones that don't matter. We work really hard. You know, we worked hard with our hands and we're good people. We have the right to go before God. Absolutely not. None of us have the right. But because of our identity in Christ, now we have the access to God. This is what Hebrews was telling us. That we with confidence draw near to the throne of grace. With confidence, because of our new identity, because of our great high priest, Jesus, now we have direct access. This is amazing. I mean in the Old Testament, we don't see quite this imagery of the direct access to Yahweh, to God. You know, in the in the Old Testament we had the tabernacle and the temple, and there was some kind of ceremony and some kind of worship of God there. But then only the priests got to go into the actual facility and and conduct the worship of God inside of the tabernacle and temple. But then only the high priest, after the right ceremony, after the right cleansing, only then once, one high priest once a year could it enter into the Holy of Holies. and atone for all of Israel's sins and to commune directly with God. Moses himself we see that when he is communing with God in these unique ways, there's always a cloud, there's always some kind of barrier between them. And when he wants to commune, when he wants to see God, he's not prepared for it. He can't endure and see God. But even after he gets a glimpse of God, he's transformed. But here we are Broken vessels, sinners that now have direct access to the great God because of the work of Christ. But we fail to appreciate our position to cry out to God. Maybe I'm just on my own here, I'm just talking to myself, and that's fine. But sometimes I doubt that God's hearing my prayer. Prayers. Sometimes I just go, I'm not feeling it right now. This isn't the right time for me. I got too much work. I got all the stress in my life. I don't, I mean, maybe this is you. Maybe you have this feeling of, I've just, like, today has just been a mess. Sin. I haven't read my Bible. I've gotten frustrated. Today's not the day for me to go before God in prayer. Honestly, we could put those categories on Jonah. You think he had a busy day in a storm and at sea and explaining the whole situation being thrown overboard? You think his life is a little stressful? He got this command from God, he didn't like it, it scared him, he ran away. Do you see any sin in Jonah's life that we could say, yeah, actually Jonah, you're probably right. You shouldn't go. But that's not how Jonah approaches this. If you'll look quickly with me, in verse 8, he identifies the only thing that holds us back from the Lord. Right there in verse eight, the only thing that holds us back from the Lord is our failure to submit to him and our worshiping of false gods. Verse 8, he says, Those who pay regard to vain idols forsake their hope of steadfast. Love, those who pay regard to vain idols, those who worship false gods. Now, remember, we don't see Jonah praying. After God gives him the command to go to Nineveh. We don't see Jonah praying while he's on the ship, going to Tarshish. So we don't see Jonah praying to God as he's in the storm and the chaos is all around him. Why is that? Is because in this moment, Jonah is paying regard to Vain Idol. Himself. His own pride. He's all focused on himself. I don't want to go to those people. They look different. They sound different. There are enemies. I know what God's going to do. And it's It's good and righteous, and I don't like that. It's all about himself. The reason we don't see Jonah crying out to God is because he's worshiping himself. How often are we in that situation? We're focused on ourselves. What about me? My career, my happiness, my comfort. I think comfort's our number one idol today. I just want to be comfortable. Don't upset me. Make it easy on me. And we forget to pray to God because we're not submitted to Him. We're submitting to ourselves. We're paying regard to us as our great idol, which is vain and worthless in the grand scheme of history. And what happens when we do that is we forsake the hope. There, he says they're forsaking their hope of steadfast love. Now, I just, this language here is important to see, and I want to play it out a little bit. Forsake their hope of steadfast love causes me to assume I may be wrong here, but it calls me to assume that the hope of steadfast love that is found in God is for everyone. Right? There's not a category where here's here's the Israelites, they have the hope of steadfast love, and over here is these pagans that are worshiping a false God. There's no chance of them having a hope of steadfast love. Know that hope is universal. Anyone, anyone that submits to God has the hope of God They will receive the steadfast love. The steadfast love belongs to them. It's God's love towards them. We see this today, that this this hope that we have, the gospel that we're preaching to the world is for all people. We're not making categories like, well, we're not going to preach the gospel here because there's not a hope for them. No, we don't have the eyes to see that. We don't have the the eternal glasses, right? The eternal heart glasses to look at someone say, uh actually that person they won't ever be in heaven, so we don't need to. No, we're preaching the gospel of hope for all people. And we're living a life and we're preaching a gospel as though we actually believe any and all people will come to this hope. That they will receive faith in Christ through the work of the Holy Spirit and they will taste and experience the steadfast love. That Jonah talking about. But it's when we do not submit to him that we have forsaken that hope that is readily available to us. That love that God has poured out in Christ is taken away from us. So the only barrier, the only barrier between us and God is submission to Him, a failure to submit to Him. And we see this, uh I think about the woman in at the well in John 4. Right? She has all these arguments and they're talking deep theology and They're talking church history or or uh Jewish history at that time. And she's going back and forth and And then Jesus starts to talk about living water and having a drink that will never thirst again. And what does she want? I want that. I want that. How can I drink of this? This well is too deep. I'll get thirsty once the sun continues to beat down on me. But here Jesus tells her, right? He starts to draw out her sin. So it's to draw out how she has not submitted to the Lord, how she has offended God. And he calls her to turn from her sin. And to submit to him. And we actually see a rejoicing that happens in her submission. That she's rejoicing that she has now experienced the living water firsthand. And this is what we are saying, this is what we believe, that you want to cry out to the Lord, how can you cry out to God? How can we know that the Lord will hear our cries or please submit to him, brother and sister? Submit to him. Recognize that he is king. On Wednesday night, the youth was the verse I told you guys to memorize. Sarah? Romans 10? Good job, sorry, thank you. If you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe that God has risen him from the dead, you will be saved. Cold stop, brother. It's done. That's the gospel. That's the the message right there. But recognize the submission that happens there. You're confessing that he is Lord, that he is King, that Christ is your Redeemer, that Christ is the ultimate. There's no one higher than him. And you believe that he has died and rose from the dead, you will be saved. And now Because of this high priest, this great high priest, you now draw near to the throne of grace. And now you can cry out to the Lord. Now let's start in the beginning of Jonah's prayer and just see his posture towards the Lord. Jonah knows that he doesn't deserve for God to hear his prayer. Friends, likewise we know that as well. I think that's part of our posture. It's part of what helps us actually go to the throne of grace. It's what helps us go to the Lord in prayer is first recognizing that we don't deserve it, yet out of God's mercy and his grace, he has given it to us. Look in verse 1 or verse 2, excuse me. Jonas says, I called out to the Lord out of my distress, out of his pain, out of his anguish. And a little bit farther down says, out of the belly of Sheol I cried. This imagery of Sheol is really the place of death. So there's we can say Jonah's either in death, like he has died, or he is as close as you can get before you cross over into Sheol. That's a dark place to be, not just physically. I'm not saying it's probably very dark in the belly of a fish, I'm assuming, but the darkness of his soul in this time. This is probably the lowest point he has ever been in his life. He's probably never felt spiritually farther from the Lord than he is right now. Isn't it quite interesting that in this moment, Jonah has received exactly what he wanted when he fled from the Lord? He wanted to get away from God. And here he is at the very depths of death, feeling the anguish of the farness away from God. And he's called crying out to the Lord in this moment. Really, in his darkest hour, this is now when he cries out to the Lord. But notice that each time I called out to the Lord out of my distress and out of the belly of Sheol I cried, that there's a response. So when he calls out of my distress, and he answered me. And Jonah's darkest sour. When he has no right to be before the Lord, when he has committed the most and greatest amounts of sin in his life, the Lord has answered him. When he is in the grips of death, he is wrapped up in the belly of this fish. He's maybe on his last breath. And he cries out there at the very end of verse 2. And you heard my voice. Friend, this is the hope that we have in our Lord. That in our darkest hour When you feel the least worthy, when you have maybe you have you've reached that point that you're not sure if you will be able to face tomorrow. And your last breath, your last spiritual breath you have, and you cry out to the Lord, and he hears you. He hears you. And he answers. He responds to you. It's not just, oh yeah, he writes that down in his notebook. He'll get around to it when he makes time. No, he hears his children's cries and he answers them. But verse 3, it continues on. We see this dichotomy that happens here. As Jonah's crying out his great pain and anguish, he's recognizing he deserves this punishment. He's recognizing he doesn't deserve for the Lord to hear his prayer, but then he knows and believes that God hears him and responds. So verse 3 says, For you cast me into the deep, into the heart of the seas, and the flood surrounded me All your waves and your billows passed over me. Such an interesting perspective here in verse 3 is this is part of Jonah's submission to the Lord. This is part of his submission that he recognizes he deserves this discipline. He deserves to be swallowed up by the sea. He deserves to go to the grave because he has fled the Lord and the Lord has sent the storm and cast him into the sea. He deserves all of it. And in this moment, he is submitting to the Lord, recognizing, I deserve this. This is what I have gotten for myself. Your wrath and your punishment. This is all mine. This is what I wanted when I fled from you, and this is what you rightly should give me. That's a submission. Friends, we have to be in that posture at times. As sinners, we must recognize that we deserve death and hell. We deserve the eternal separation from God. God, it would be just as we stand before him. He looks at us and goes, you have sinned against me. You have broken my law. Be gone. He cast us into hell in the lake of fire. He has every right to do that, and that's what we deserve. And as we recognize that, it draws us in to worshiping and loving him more. Because that's not what he gives us. Look at the very end of Jonah's prayer. He says salvation belongs to the Lord. We'll get to verse 9, but there's this recognition that he knows He's submitting to the reality that he could die in this moment, and God is just and doing it, but in the very same breath, he is crying out to God for salvation And this is how we go before the Lord. God, you have every right to put me to death because of my sin. But in this moment I cry out to you for forgiveness. In this very moment that I should deserve and I should be destroyed, I'm crying out to you for hope. The ailments we have should destroy our bodies each and every time we get them. We're sinners. We're broken. We're all corrupted in our sin. And so as often when we lay in the hospital beds, as we feel the pain of this life, we should cry out and say, I deserve this. This is right for me to have, yet you being the great God can redeem, can heal, can take away pain. That's how Jonah's crying out here. It's a very submissive position that he is in in this moment. Verse 4 then says, Then I said, I am driven away from your sight, yet I shall again look upon your temp your holy temple. This is that hope that Jonah has. He's submitting, recognizing he deserves this punishment, he deserves destruction, he deserves to never be in the presence of Yahweh again. But here In his recognition of this, his submission to the Lord, he also knows how gracious our God is. Wasn't this Jonah's problem in the beginning? This is why he fled from going to Nineveh? Because he knows that God is a forgiving God. And he says that one day he will see the Lord in his holy temple. This is that posture we have before him. So as you go into prayer at times and you just feel unworthy, you feel as though you can't, you don't even have the words, you feel as though everything's crumbling around you, and that's maybe the case. You know that you have the calling to God to say you are so good and righteous. No matter what happens in this life, I will see you face to face. Not because of what I have done. Jonah can't say that on his own. Accord, one day I will see you again. I will look again upon your holy temple Because I'm such a great Israelite? Because I'm a wonderful prophet? No, he knows that the only way he will ever see the Lord again is if the Lord saves him. And that's our hope. It's not of our doings, because the only hope that we have to ever see the Lord, to ever enter into glory, is because of what Christ has done on our behalf. Jonah continues with this cry of desperation but hope. Verse 5, it says, The waters closed in over me to take my life. The deep surrounded me, weeds were wrapped around my head. At the roots of the mountains I went down to the land, whose bars closed upon me for ever. This language here is just showing his depravity. I think it's very poetic, but also a bit cartoonish, just so we really get the image. You know, now you're starting to picture Jonah with seaweed all wrapped up around his head. And he can't even see. Like even if he wasn't in the belly of the fish, he still has this this wrapping around his head and it it just shows that he has not just gone into the depths of his depravity and his separation from God, but he has gone into the depths of the sea, which down to the very base of the mountain, and the very depths of creation, which is imagery to show that he has gone as far away from the Lord as possible. And this language of the bars closing in around him. This is this sense that there's no way out. Right? If you ever go to jail or prison, in that moment that the door shuts behind you, and you hear that lock, no one's ever going to experience that. But in that moment You you have this feeling of like this is this is it. There's not a way out of here. I'm not gonna I can't dig my way out. I can't try to escape. But here you just have to hear hear Jonas plea And here the sense in his his language that this is the end. This is his this is the end of his life. This is the end of his existence. But then look what happens at the very end of verse 6. Yet you brought up my life from the pit, O Lord my God. Verse 7: When my life was fainting away, I remember the Lord, and my prayer came to you into your holy temple. Friends, may this be our posture in praying We just we have so much hope and expectation that the Lord is good and powerful and mighty and sovereign and And king and gracious that even when we don't deserve it, even when we can't fathom it, we cry out to the Lord for hope If on the handout I have this quote here, prayer is not for God's information, but the creature's submission. We pray that we may have his leave or his permission. In this old fancy way of saying his permission, his will. We're fulfilling his will in our prayers. That's our plea here. In our prayers. I so often people say, well, how do I pray? What's what's the format? What's the structure of my prayer? When I close my eyes to pray, I just fall asleep in my bed. Or I just kind of get lost, or once I start praying, I think about all the things I have to accomplish for the day. Friends, when we go before the Lord in prayer We would just cry out to him. What's your passions? What's your wants? And you're going to anthem me right now, my passions and my wants. They're not righteous. They're not God honoring. Cry out to him. In that prayer, even if it's unrighteous, in that prayer, you will submit to him and he will start to shape in and change your life. He will start to shape and change what you are wanting and desiring. He will start to align you with his will and you will start to receive his leave. You will find his mercy. You will be refreshed. You will have a hope that is not fathomable that when your friends ask you, how can you be okay in this moment? You lost your job, you have you have a terrible ailment, your family has departed you, how can you have any hope if you It's because you are communing with the living God and you know that there is a hope of steadfast love into eternity. This is this kind of prayer that we see coming out of Jonah reminds me of how David prayed. David commits a great sin against God. He cheats with Bathsheba, gets her pregnant, he then murders her husband, he lies about it, thinks he covers it up. The son is born, and then the Lord disciplines him, causes the son to become ill. And then the son dies. If you remember that, that's in 2 Samuel 12, you see, this time of David's mourning, and he's weeping that his son is sick. His son is sick, and then the very moment that he finds out that his son has perished and died, what does David do? He stands up, he eats, and he Praises the Lord. Psalm fifty-one is actually the Psalm we believe that David wrote out of that anguish and that situation. And he's crying out to the Lord, admitting his wrongdoing, admitting that he has sinned against him. But then worshiping him as the Savior and the Redeemer. And that's Jonah's approach here. Recognizing his faults, recognizing his sin, recognizing that he deserves God's judgment. Yet worshiping God and having a hope that He is going to be saved. And we see this unfold, and this is our posture in prayer. So we see that that Jonah knows what he deserves, yet we see the grace and the mercy of God. We see that he is showing mercy when Jonah doesn't deserve it. He is showing and giving salvation when Jonah doesn't deserve it. This also reminds me of the story of the blind man sitting outside the city, and as Jesus is entering, we see this in a few accounts, he cries out to Yahweh, or he cries out to Jesus and says, Son of David, Have mercy on me. That blind man doesn't. He can't even see, physically see who's in front of him. He he has no he doesn't deserve to be healed. It's not like he had accomplished anything. And he had no actual hope. Like he he had never been healed before, so historically proving he didn't have this expectation But in this moment, he has faith that the man he is crying out to can have mercy upon him. And what do we see just doing? In this moment, he heals the blind man and gives him mercy. physical sight. But so much more than that, we see his faith giving him salvation and a forgiveness of sins. Is this us? When we're blind, when we're in the depths, when the pit of death has surrounded us, do we cry out to God saying, I don't deserve it? Yet, God, have mercy on me And do we expect him to do it? And will he be faithful as he has been throughout all of history and he promises to be? To his children. We must submit to him. We must recognize his right position on his throne. And we must have hope that he is good. So then brings us to verse 9, which will actually be our last one for tonight. So we see this posture of Not deserving, receiving God's mercy, believing God is good, even when we don't deserve it. He then shows in verse 8 that those that do not submit to him will not taste and see, will not receive. Or they have forsaken their hope of steadfast love. And then here's Jonah's final cry. Remember, Jonah has no knowledge that he will be physically safe. From the fish. Right? He has no knowledge of that. We get to read the story and know that he's saved. But this moment, there's every reason to believe that Jonah thinks that this is his last breath and it's worthy of crying out to God as he dies. In the fish. And verse 9, here it is. But I, with the voice of thanksgiving, will sacrifice to you what I have vowed I will pay. Salvation belongs to the Lord. Uh in my mind, this is how I kind of p picture it. Not the Veggie Tail version because they've ruined it. I'm sorry it's not right. But this this is too spacious, right? It's it's too open in the veggie tails. story. But in this mo thanks Malik, someone knew what I was talking about. But in this moment, I really picture that this is this is Jonah's last breath in his lungs. He has cried out to the Lord, and in his mind he's going, This is my last breath, and here I will die. And he says, But I, with the voice of thanksgiving will sacrifice to you. Give up my body. Give up everything I have to you. What I have vowed, I will pay, his life, and here it is. Salvation belongs to the Lord. And in my mind I I kinda just picture that this is Jonah. This is the last breath he had. It's the last ounce of anything he could get out of him was to cry out that salvation belongs to the Lord, and he pictured, he understood that in that moment he would then enter into eternity. But we see what happens here. Verse 10, and the Lord spoke to the fish, and it vomited Jonah out upon the dry land. Jonah's hope was in something he did not see or understand. understand. Jonah's prayer was in something that he could not fathom. Right? I mean do you think Jonah I just want to keep saying it because It's a great word. Do we really think Jonah thought that once he said amen at the end of this prayer, that the fish was going to vomit him up onto the land? No. He couldn't understand it. We don't see him laying out in his prayer, Well God, I have now prayed to you, I've made my uh confession of sin, I've now also given you thank God. Thanksgiving. Now what I would like you to do is cause this fish to have an upset tummy and spit me out. It's not what he does. His expect his expectations were just that God is good and merciful And whatever happens, happens. And salvation belongs to the Lord. May not even be in his physical life, but salvation belongs to the Lord. That's our posture as we go into prayer. You don't need to tell God how to solve your problems. If you could have done it, you would have done it already. Right? If we had the answers, okay, I have this problem, Lord. I have this problem with this sin that keep committing. So I'm going to pray to you, God, to help me fight against the sin and this temptation. And the best way to solve this problem is that you don't allow me to interact with this person that's causing me to sin. Well, if it's that easy, just don't interact with that person. You don't need to instruct God on how God should do his business. You don't need to instruct God on what his will should be. You cry out to the Lord, Lord, I need your salvation. I need your help. I need your strength in fighting against this temptation and this sin in my life. And I know that you are good. And I know that you have given me the power of the Holy Spirit to do it. And I trust you in it all. That's our prayer to the Lord. Don't have it all figured out. Don't have all the pieces, the timeline. Cry out to the Lord and trust and know that He is good. Believe that salvation belongs to him. And he has redeemed you of your sins, and he can redeem you from anything that is before you. But also know this. I think this is Jonas cries. He's coming to his last breath, believing that he is going to die, that even in death, he will get to meet His Savior. That's our prayer as well. That's our hope. Even in the greatest pain. The greatest pain we have. And we're crying out to God, Save me Save my physical body from this ailment. Save me from this condition of death that appears to be right upon me. Save me, Lord. Save me. I want to have another day of life. I want to breathe another breath. I want to spend another moment with my family. But if you do not, I know that I will be face to face with you. I know that I will be in the glory of my Savior. I know that I will enjoy His presence forever. When we start to have hearts Of a posture of submission to this kind of God, to pray to him in this kind of way, it starts to change and feel like we don't have the right words, we're not worthy. Go before the Lord and submit to him And see how he has driven us and caused us to cry out to him with a humble spirit, knowing that he is our Savior.