The words we'll examine tonight are out of the book of Philemon. We'll read the entire letter. If you're using a Pew Bible, it's on page 1635. It's right after Titus, right before Hebrews. It's a small letter that often you just kind of flip right over. Probably read it once or twice a year in your Bible reading plan. But what we're doing in this series is we're slowing down, we're reading this letter in its entirety each week, and we're unpacking an aspect of it. So tonight we'll be looking at Christian friendship. Often when we think about the letter of Philemon, the very first thing that comes to mind is. the issue of slavery and dealing with that. And absolutely it's there, and we'll address that in our next and final sermon out of this letter. But one of the things that drew me to examine this letter and to preach on it was how important and how much information and details about Christian friendship can be found in this one. Simple letter. Friendship. I feel as though it's an idea we we know, we talk about it, we all have friends, but we don't often address it from a biblical Christian. Christian point of view. What does it mean to have Christian friends? What should Christian friendships and relationships look like? It's so interesting that God uses this letter to explain it. to us. This letter that's dealing with a cultural issue. This letter that's dealing with problems. This letter that's addressing a very personal situation. We get insights on what Christian friendship should look like. Think about one of your best friends. For some, this is amazing. For some of you, you have that high school friend that was your best friend since third grade, and you are still close friends with them today. I don't have that. I have a good friend, uh, that we're still friends, but I don't have that elementary school all the way up just because of moving out of my hometown and and Leaving. My best friend Andy Hauk. Love that guy. We uh we played hockey together. He lost a tooth playing hockey. I introduced him to his future wife without that one tooth, so he's one of my best friends still still to this day. But a lot of my close friends, and I think about this deep, meaningful relationships, naturally goes to where all my stories end up, the military. You had farming or military. It's kind of your two options. Options here. But these deep friendships that you build with people in times of struggle. And if you know that, you you think back to these I I have this image so clear in my mind. I'm in Hohenfels, Germany, which is called the Siberia of Germany because it's always cloudy, it's always rainy, it's always cold, even in July. And you go out there for a month on end, no showers, limited food, little sleep. And you're just tested on being a good soldier. I have this clear image. And we're just sitting in mud, you know, that's where we're living. We've dug in We've dug these holes and we're living in there and it's raining. We actually paused because there was lightning and someone got struck by lightning, so we couldn't train. So we're just sitting there. And we have this bag of sour Skittles. And it was uh it came from the MRE, so it's probably about fifteen years old at this point. And nothing brought me more joy in that moment than taking this bag of sour skills that we had to break apart, so and we Each took one and just passed it around. And I remember in that moment looking at these guys, and in a weird way I'm like, there's nowhere else I'd rather be right now. I stink, I'm frustrated, I'm tired, I'm hungry, but this sour skittle and these guys that I've just spent my life with, man, there was something special there. And one of my problems is not a single one of them was Christian. Not a single one of them cared about Christ. Yet I have such a deep and meaningful relationship. with them. I think often what happens in our lives is that we come to church, we live this Christian life and walk in obedience. And we have friends, but we don't have these deep, meaningful Christian relationships with people that we are in the same spiritual family with. We often say, well, no, they frustrate me. They said something that offended me. They I can't deal with them. They sing off key and I don't like it. And we just never build those deep, meaningful relationships, but we're so quick to do it with our friends from the world. And what I want us to do is see that we really need Deep, meaningful Christian friendships. See the quote at the top of your outline. It says, A true friend is another self. A true friend is another self. What true words this is. I mean in your in a time of need, who do you call? Your enemies? In your time of need, when life is just crumbling around you, you're uncertain of what tomorrow will bring, who do you call? The bank teller that you interacted with that morning? No, you call your friends. You call your friends. It's just another person. It's another extension of who you are. You can trust them. You go to them. Well beloved, I want us to have Christian friends. Not only. I'm not saying don't have any friends outside of the church, don't have any friends that aren't Christians. But when we recognize the value of friendship, the importance of friendship, what God does through friendships, we want to have godly, godly Christian friendships. Friends, to speak into our lives, to love us, to care for us. And also, here's what I want to do tonight. If you have this type of friendship, I want you to leave here and praise God for that relationship. Thank God that He has blessed you with a friend. Thank God that He has put someone in your life That you can commune with, you can talk things through about and with, you can address issues with. They can call you out when you need to be called out, and they can love you through it all So let us read this letter of Philemon, seeing the example of what a true Christian friendship looks like. So starting in verse one, Paul, prisoner for Christ Jesus, and Timothy our brother, to Philemon, our beloved fellow worker. And Aphia, our sister, and Akepus, our fellow soldier, and the church in your house. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. I thank my God always when I remember you in my prayers. Because I hear of your love and of the faith that you have toward the Lord Jesus and for all the saints. And I pray that the sharing of your faith may become effective for the full knowledge of every good thing that is in us for the sake of the Christ. For I have derived much joy and comfort from your love. My brother, because the hearts of the saints have been refreshed through you. Accordingly, though I am bold enough in Christ to command you to do what is required, yet for love's sake I prefer to appeal to you. I, Paul, an old man, and now a prisoner also for Christ Jesus, I appeal to you for my child, Anessimus. Whose father I have become in my imprisonment. Formerly he was useless to you, but now he is indeed useful to you to you and to me. I'm sending him back to you, sending my very heart. I would have been glad to keep him with me. With me, in order that he might serve me on your behalf during my imprisonment for the gospel. But I preferred to do nothing without your consent. In order that your goodness might not be my compulsion, but of your own accord. For this, perhaps, is why he was parted from you for a while, that you might have him back forever No longer as a bondservant, but more than a bondservant, as a beloved brother, especially to me. But how much more to you, both in the flesh and in the Lord So if you consider me your partner, receive him as you would receive me. If he has wronged you at all, or owes you anything, charge that to my account I, Paul, write this with my own hand. I will repay it. Say nothing of your owing me even your own Yes, brother, I want some benefit from you in the Lord. Refresh my heart in Christ. Confident of your obedience, I write to you, knowing that you will do even more than I say. At the same time, prepare a guest room for me, for I'm hoping that through your prayers I will be graciously given to you. Paphras, my fellow prisoner in Christ, Jesus sends greetings to you. And so do Mark, Artachus, Demas, and Luke, my fellow workers. The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Do you hear the language of just love for his fellow brother? As Paul writes this letter to Philemon, he's demonstrating what a true Christian friend Does. He's demonstrating how a true Christian friend communicates to his beloved friend. He's showing us the example. Even in a hard time, even in a, let's be honest, an uncomfortable situation. He's demonstrating Christ's love and how we are to be friends. So how did Paul learn to be so good at being a good friend? How did Paul do it? Like sometimes we forget about that. Like, well it's Paul. We're reading his letters. Of course it's valuable. It's in the Bible. He's just He's a brilliant man. But we can't just take it for granted that Paul just was born intelligent. We can't take it for granted that Paul just wrote a good letter and it happened to be inspired by the Spirit, and here we are. The reason that Paul understands how to be a Christian friend is because he has experienced the ultimate friendship from our beloved Savior Jesus. Jesus Christ. He has experienced true friendship in Christ Jesus. Now, friends, hear this. If you are a Christian, so have you You have experienced the definition of friendship. John 15, 15, Jesus is talking and he's saying, You're no longer, he's talking to his disciples. He says, I no longer call you servants. He says, but now Jesus says, I call my disciples friends. No greater friend have we ever experienced than in Christ. Well, if this is the case, then we understand what true friendship looks like. And now we are just walking in the example that we have already experienced in Christ. And that's what Paul is doing. Yes, Paul is a brilliant man. Paul is special because God has used him in a very unique way to write a lot of the New Testament. But he's just doing what we should be doing, is walking in the likeness of Christ. So as we look at our outline here, we're going to talk about what are some traits of Christian faith. friendship. I don't think this is a a totality. I don't think this should be a checklist for you, like, all right, you check off these five things and then you're good to go. You're the perfect friend. And I'm also recognizing we're not dealing, I'm not addressing When hardship happens within friendships. News flush, it's going to happen. Even the best friendships, there's some conflict. But what I want you to see is some of the traits that we see in a Christian. And we'll see that Christ has demonstrated this for us, and Paul's life is an example that we can live in. So, the first trait, I think this is base, most important, is unity in Christ Unity in Christ. This is my issue. Some of my best friends have no unity in Christ. We're unified on something completely outside of Christ. We're unified in just a similar trial and background. We're unified in just being at the same place at the same time. We're unified with a pack of Skittles But what we need to be is unified in Christ Jesus. That must be what brings us together. It must be what bonds us to one another. It must be when we look at our spiritual blood and our spiritual DNA that we don't see O negative, O positive, European background, South American background, but we see Christ in his blood. We see that Christ is what has brought us together. And Paul lays that out. I mean, you can't hardly go a few sentences I mean he starts it right off from the very beginning. Paul, a prisoner for Christ Jesus, and Timothy our brother. To Philemon, who our beloved fellow worker. And you see just a little bit farther in verse 3: Grace to you and peace from God, our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ. Jump down to verse 6. Verse 6, and I pray that the sharing of your faith, your faith in who? In Christ. The sharing of your faith may become effective for the full knowledge Of every good thing that is in us for the sake of Christ. Once again, his relationship, his unity, his friendship with Philemon is based in Christ. Look at verse 9. Yet for love's sake I prefer to appeal to you, I Paul, an old man, and now a prisoner, for who? For Christ Jesus. But we miss this sometimes when we're reading Paul's letter. Paul could have made an argument based off of being a leader and an important figure in society. Paul's argument and rationale for this letter could have been based off of the reality that he is a Roman citizen. Paul's argument, and we see that right here that in verse 8 he says, accordingly though I am bold enough in Christ to command you to do what is required. The reason for this letter is that Paul could have said, I am of a higher authority. I am an apostle in the new church. You're going to listen to me. But that's not what Paul does. He relates to his friend because of Christ. We see this in verse 20 as well, just continues. I mean, it's peppered throughout the entire letter. Yes, brother, I want some benefit from you in the Lord. What is it? Refresh my heart in Christ. It's not give me more money. Refresh me, make sure I get a meal in prison. It it's not about okay when we get together we gotta make sure we cheer for the right uh the right uh team in some sports complex. No. What he does is it's all about Christ. And then verse 25, how does he conclude this letter? The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. It's all about Christ. The unity must be in Christ. Now, I think we can understand this. I really do. If we would look around right here, we would say most of us know each other. Actually, let's make this simple. The only reason any one of you knows me and my family is because of Christ. Right? I I'm not from Jarretttsville. I'm not a hawk. Uh as the North Hartford Hawks, right? You know that's not why why we're united. It's not why we know each other. We know each other because Christ has brought us together in this building to worship him. In this community. Christ brought me to Jarrett's Hill, right? Christ brought me here. And for many of you, that's the case. Like the only reason you know each other is because of our unity in Christ. Well, let us let us rejoice in that. Let us seek to build our friendships and our relationships based off of that. That we are unified in Christ. Now think about this. This is Paul's story as well. You can put a bookmark in Acts 9. I may be flipping back and forth there, but we'll stay in Philemon for the most part. But in Acts 9, we see Paul's conversion. Now remember who Paul was, what who Saul Paul was in right before chapter 9 of Acts. He was the one going around persecuting the Christians. Actually, the reason that Saul of Paul was on the road of Damascus was because he was on a mission to go persecute the church. He was on a mission to find any of those that were speaking the name of Jesus Christ as the Savior and imprison and put them to death. And what you would see in Acts 9 is this radical shift in all of history. This radical shift that the Lord brought Saul to his knees. Blinded him, called out his foolishness and his wickedness. And in that moment in Acts 9, we see this This transformation that Christ appears to Saul, convicts him of his sin, blinds him physically for a moment, and sends him to go and find a Christian Christian to disciple him. And here we are that that the only reason Paul is now writing this letter to Philemon is because of what happened in Acts 9. the road. It's all about Christ. Friends, may that be our unity. We're going to offend one another We're going to push each other's buttons. Many of you that have grown up here know how to push one another's buttons very well. Stop it. It's not fun. It's not. It's not good. But we must we must unify in Christ. In the worst of times, and some of our biggest arguments, our biggest fighting Maybe we go back and just remind one another, like, hey, just I know we disagree on this topic and this is a big deal, but let me just remind that I love you because of Christ. We're in this together because of Christ. I need to hear that when I get emotional, when I get into a tense situation, may we be unified in Christ Jesus. Of course, the Christian friendship must have that as the basis and as the foundation. Christ must be our unity. Now, the second trait that we see in a Christian friendship, friendship is what I put down as mutually beneficial. Mutually may not be correct, but what I'm saying here is that our benefit is to one another. It's not a one-way street Now one of my issues with mutually is it sounds like if I get you a gift, Miss Lorna, you're going to get me a gift of equal, probably greater value. Right? And that's how we're mutually. That's not what I'm saying here. But what I do want us to see is that a friendship should not be only one side beneficial for the other. And Paul makes that clear throughout his letter. Look at verse 4 with me. Look, oh, I love this language. Hear this language. What Paul is writing to his friend. Oh man, if we would talk this way to one another. I thank my God always when I remember you in my prayers. Wait. I mean, just just hear the mutual benefit in that very statement right there. Paul is encouraged and grateful for his friend Philemon. And now Paul is praying for his friend Philemon. He continues on. Because I hear of your love and of the faith that you have toward the Lord Jesus. and for all the saints. And I pray that the sharing of your faith may become effective for the full knowledge of every good thing that is in us for the sake of Christ. Christ. Just see that love for his friend. He's been he's been blessed by his friend Philemon, and now Paul is just rejoicing and celebrating. He's praying for him. Look at verse 15. It continues like this. For this perhaps is why he was parted from you for a while, that you might have him back for forever. No longer as a bondservant, but more than a bondservant as a beloved brother. especially to me. But how much more to you, both in the flesh and in the Lord. So if you consider me your partner, receive him as you would receive We've got to remember Paul actually had the right to keep Onesimus. He didn't have to send them back. But here's just this unity that now Paul's saying, I love my friend Philemon. I'm sending back his servant, his slave, but this is a new man. This is a useful man because he's come to faith in Christ, and it's going to be a blessing. It's going to be beneficial to Philemon. Onesimus is going to be beneficial to Philemon. And so we see this mutual benefit to one another. And the last little section here, look at verse 19. It says, I, Paul, write this with my own hand, I will repay it. To say nothing of you owing me even your own self. Yes, brother, I want some benefit from you in the Lord. Refresh my heart in Christ. Are your friendships beneficial? Are your friendships beneficial? Or are they one-sided? This can be challenging for us to to think through and what does that look like? How does it how does it work itself out? You know, in in seasons, we have a you know maybe a lopsided friendship in seasons. But in general, is there benefit within our friendships? Now now I'm not saying financial benefit or where this person would come at the moment 's notice to help me build something at my house and and And provide a meal for me, and I would do the same with them. That's good. I I want friends like that, absolutely. But is there a benefit? Do you rejoice when you hear of your Christian brother or sister? Get a promotion. Do you rejoice when you see your fellow Christian brother or sister's children growing up in the way of the Lord? Does it bring you joy? Are you happy when you see your Christian friend broken by their sin but refreshed in Christ? This should be a benefit to you. Likewise, does your Christian friend get to witness any of those things in your life? Does your Christian friend get to experience the trials, the ups and downs, get to hear of the good and merciful God that you worship? Are you there for them when they need you? Are you willing to listen when there's pain and suffering in their life? Not ready to give them the answers. I'll have the answers. If they need answers, come to me. This is a joke. But are you willing to listen and hear them out in their times of need? Beloved, our friendships must be beneficial to one another. This is actually what we see in Paul's conversion. Of course, it is so easy to see how Jesus is He he supersedes. Like that's why I'm careful saying we're mutually beneficial. Of course, we have the greater benefit in Christ, right? The friend Christ. He We have salvation in him. We have new life. We are made righteous. We will be with him eternally. We are much more blessed and benefited from Christ. But there is also a joy that we provide to our Lord and Savior when we are walking in obedience to Him. Right? We recognize, we see an equation Ephesians that God looks down and rejoices in his saints. In his saints living and walking and loving one another. Brings the joy to the Lord. The Lord is well pleased with us as we confess our sins and we worship Him. Do you see this benefit? It's not a one-way street, and Paul's example of that. While he received a great benefit in his conversion, his new life in Christ, we then see that he dedicates his entire life to serving the Lord, to preaching the gospel, to advancing the kingdom. So our friendships that way. Are you seeking how to benefit your friend? Are you seeking that you have a friendship that is benefiting you? And that's why it's so important that we're rooted in Christ. True benefit will only come from those that know Christ. Your non-believing Christians will be there when you need to move. Your non-believing Christians will be there when you're going through struggles and pain. Your non-believing Christians will be there sharing a bag of Skittles, but they will not be there in the eternal spiritual sense of care and benefit. To you. You must have Christian friends. This brings us to our third trait that we should be looking for in a Christian friendship. Willing to offend with the truth. We would love to leave this one off, right? You know, our best friends are who we never fight with. Our best friends are who we never have to deal with Our best friends are those that we never have to address a sin or something they have done wrong. But we see in Paul's example that the true Christian Friend is one that is willing to address his friend with the truth, even if it hurts. Just remember the basis of this letter. Paul is writing to Philemon. Saying, here's your slave back to you. He is now a Christian. You're going to start treating him like a Christian. Here's your slave back to you. And while he has offended you, I'm asking you that you treat him as a Christian. And forgive him. Look, that's not easy. We must see that this is a delicate situation. Paul is really stepping out here And saying, I'm willing to address this uncomfortable conversation, this uncomfortable situation, because I love you in Christ. No, he's using truth. He's using truth. scriptures, using the love of God. He's not saying my opinion, off of tradition, you should have leaving. According to cultural standards, you know what he's doing is he's going to truth. Look with me once again at verse 8. And we see that we've read this a few times, but it's important. Accordingly, though I am bold enough in Christ to command you To do what is required. Yet for love's sake I prefer to appeal to you. I, Paul, an old man, and now a prisoner, also for Christ Jesus, I appeal to you for my child Onesimus whose father I became in my imprisonment. Formerly he was useless to you, but now he is indeed useful to you and to me. I am I am sending him back to you, sending my very heart. You hear that language, that is this is Paul stepping out on a limb, making a bold statement. And he says I he could make the commandment, but here he's making a statement to appeal to him, to start to love Onesimus like a Christian brother. There's reason to believe that Philemon was probably a financial donor to Paul's mission. Now you want to talk about really pulling our punches. And really not addressing issues is when we start talking to someone that's giving us some money. Oh, it's Christmas time. Christmas bonuses, Christmas checks are coming around. You start being really nice to your boss, right? Okay, I'll I'll deal I'll deal with this problem in 2026. But here we see Paul being bold in Christ, being bold with the truth of the Word of God. Knowing what we are commanded as Christians to love one another, and he's being bold to step out and to say , Philemon, I want you to take back Onesimus, not just as a slave. But as a brother in Christ. Paul's saying, I know this is going to completely change your relationship with Anesimus Paul's saying, Philemon, I know, brother, that that this will shift how you conduct your business. But I'm calling you as a Christian to Do this because we're called to love one another in Christ. Friends, are we willing to do such things? Are we willing to say, hey, hey, friend? I know, I know that's who you are. I know you're known as the guy at work that just flies off the handle, gets upset, cusses out the boss, and haha, then we can all joke about it. Is that really how you should be acting as a Christian? Is this how you should be conducting yourself in the world? Teens. You know, at school, oh I know, like, yeah, I get it. Like you just cheat your way through. The internet now writes your paper. Right, so all your all your friends, even those that are going to church, that are writing their papers using the internet. You go look, is that really how we should be conducting ourselves as Christians. Now we've got to recognize that when we take those statements, when we take a bold stance, that could ruin a friendship. That's why we must be unified in Christ. This must be our basis. You're not saying all about, you know, I want you to look cooler, I want you to be better, I want you to um to to like me more. No, you're just going, you know, I love you so much in Christ that That according to his word, this is a problem and we need to address it. It's a hard thing. I want to embolden us and strengthen us that we must be willing to offend with the truth. out of love. Which brings us to our fourth trait, which is encouraging growth. If you have a true Christian friend, you should want them to grow. And if you have a true Christian friend, you should want them to want you to grow. Right? This is what it's all about. We want to continue to spur one another on in love and good works. I don't know, it's an idea. It's all the Hebrews. To spur one another on. It's why we gather together, to drive, to stir up, to motivate, to grow in our likeness in Christ. And that's what Paul's doing with Philemon. He's desiring for his friend Philemon to grow, to grow in his love for Onesimus. To grow in his understanding in this weird relationship with his servant that has offended him most likely and now is coming back as a Christian. Paul wants Philemon to grow and mature and understand how he should be treating him. Look at verse 21 with me. Confident of your obedience, I write to you, knowing that you will do even more than I say. Paul's just saying, I know that you're going to grow. I trust that you're going to mature. Why is because they're unified in Christ. Wise, they're looking to Christ as their ultimate God. Verse 22, at the same time, prepare a guest room for him. So Paul is saying, I trust, Philemon, that you're going to receive Onesimus, which means that you are maturing as a Christian. You're about to love your slave in a unique way that you've never done before. And at the same time, Paul is hoping and asking Philemon to pray for him so that Paul can be released from prison. And that they can be reunited. There's an encouragement there. There's an encouraging to grow and to mature. That we're not, we haven't, we haven't made it. If you're still here on this earth And you are, if you're hearing me right now, you're not finished growing. And you should want a friend that's going to encourage you, and you should be a friend that is encouraged. Your friend to grow and to mature more and more in the likeness of Christ. You look at verses 4 through 7 again. I won't reread them. That's what it's all about. Seeing the growth and being excited. Excited, wanting that growth to happen and encouraging it. Encouraging one another to pray for each other. Encouraging one another to keep going. Keep in the fight. Keep maturing. Don't give up. It's not time to quit. If you have breath in your lungs, we keep fighting. We see this in Paul's life If you look all the way at the end of Acts, so we get Paul uh redeemed and saved in Acts 9 on the road. And then at the very end of Acts we see him in I love this imagery at the very end. We see Paul in prison in Rome, and it just ends with kind of like this figure at the end of a movie, this old man just sitting around teaching. And proclaiming the gospel. And now we live after Paul and we say, oh, we know what happened with Paul's life in Rome. But in this moment we just see Paul sitting there saying, As long as I'm here, who cares if I'm in prison? Sure, I'd like to be out of prison, but as long as God has given me breath, I'm gonna preach continue preaching the gospel. I'm gonna continue Teaching how to walk in the likeness of Christ. There's not a quitting bone in Paul. Likewise, we should be that way. And as Paul writes to Philemon, he goes, I love you so much, brother, that I want you to grow. I want you to I want you to mature. grow I want to continue celebrating all the good things I hear about you. And brother, I ask you to pray for me. I ask you to encourage me in my growth as well. This brings us to our fifth trait that we have in Christian friends. And this is hope. This is hope. I believe we lack this very much in modern evangelicalism. We lack the hope that people can change and grow. We lack the hope that our friends aren't going to be the fools they were in middle school. Right. Or what has happened is often our friendships that we've had for a long time, we hold on to some foolish thing they said to us twenty years ago. years ago and we never let it go. And it's still kind of in the background. Or or we say, you know what, I'm just not going to address this issue with them because I don't think they'll actually change. I don't think they'll they'll hear me out. I don't think there's any hope of them listening and caring of what I'm saying If Paul had that idea, if Paul didn't have hope in the work of God in Philemon's life, if Paul doubted and said, you know what, I don't think Philemon's going to change. He's rich. He's got his life all figured out. He's not going to change. We would not have this letter today. The very reason we have this letter is because Paul looked at the situation. He looked at his brother in Christ and said, I believe that the God that saved my friend Philemon It's the same God that is sanctifying my friend Philemon, and it's the same God that can do a miraculous work in my friend Philemon and bring him to the point that this slave master can love his slave in Christ Jesus Do we have that kind of hope for our friendships? Look, I know they're not easy. I know they're messy. I know they're broken. But I want us to be people that say, I have hope. I have hope that this relationship will will grow. I have hope that this this awkward time and may this season of just drama and fighting will pass. I have hope that my friend will grow and be more and more like Christ Friends, we have this mindset with the world, right? It's funny, we're real quick to say, yeah, we have hope for the world. You're saying, uh, do we? Yeah. We preach the gospel, don't we? We always talk about evangelism. Why do we s why do we talk about evangelism? Why do we uh address it? Why do we pray for it? Why do we go out and do it? It's because we have such a great hope that God will redeem Sinners and make them saints. But for some reason, often we drop that hope once they become saints. And we say, okay, you're saved now, but you're never going to mature. I'm always going to have to deal with the same problem. You're always going to be the same way. No, let's have hope in one another. Let me ask the I'll just I'll make this plea. Friends, I hope that you have hope in me as your pastor. I know I'm not perfect. I'm close, but I'm not. I saw your Christmas letter, said how great I was, Miss Lorna. But I have hope, right? And I want you guys to have hope that if you continue to pray for me. and my family and my studies that I will grow more and more. I do the same for you. I pray for you guys that you continue to grow more and more. That's the kind of friendship We want. We trust that God's not done yet. Even in the biggest mistakes we make, the greatest sins, God's not done yet. May we have that type of friendship. May we seek that for one another. Friends, as we look at this letter of Philemon, I hope you're encouraged. I hope you take time to read this letter a few more times this week and to seek See the type of friendship Paul has for Philemon. Try to imagine yourself writing a letter, addressing an issue with one of your friends. And use the language that Paul uses. Try to envision maybe some of the nerves that Paul could have had while writing this. But because of the unity in Christ, the indwelling of the Holy Spirit, as Paul wrote this. We see the example of a Christian friend. And in times that we doubt, in times that we're uncertain, how can we be friends? How should this look? Look to Christian. Christ. You've never had a greater friend. You've never had a friend that has laid down his life for you You've never had a friend that has seen all of your filth, all of your sin, not just on the outside, but also what's inside, what you're thinking. Your motives that have seen all that and said, I love them so much. I want them to, they will be my friend and I will die for them. Beloved, look to Christ as your example. Take that example of what a true friend is and seek to be that type of friend to others. Let us go before the Lord in praying and then excuse me, let us go before the Lord in prayer, and then we'll translate Holy God, we thank you. We see what it means to be a friend Lord, I pray now that you bring friends into our lives. I pray that we can see this example and that we yearn for Christians that we can have friendships with. Lord, I ask that you heal broken friendships. Restore them in Christ. Lord, I ask that you strengthen the current friendships we have. And that's all to your glory and your praise. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.