The words we'll examine this morning come out of Hebrews chapter four, verses fourteen through sixteen. Hebrews chapter 4, 14 through 16. Christ the high priest My morning sermons, I'm doing a mini-series of Christ as prophet, we did last month, Christ as priest, which we will examine this morning. And Christ is King. We'll look at next month. This is leading us up to Advent, the coming of Christ, which we celebrate in Christmas. The Son of God came down from heaven and took on flesh to be among us, to be like us. To die on the cross for us. As we're coming into the season of Advent and Christmas, we must be reminded of who he is and what he has accomplished on our behalf. As we're celebrating Christmas, it's a joy to celebrate with light lights. And decorations and cookies, that's a great joy. And the season, the atmosphere of the season. But if we are mitzing and if we have become void or numb to the reality that we are celebrating the birth of our Savior, well, beloved, we have missed the whole point of the season. And as we are leading into this, I want us to be reminded of what this little child lays in a manger, that he is a prophet, a priest, and a This morning we must examine what it means and what benefit it is that Christ is the high priest. What is the role of the priest? It's a good question if we're talking about what a priest is. Christ is the high priest. What is the role of the priest We saw last month that the prophet, a prophet is the one that speaks the word of God to the people. So we see in Christ that He has come and revealed God to us. He has revealed salvation to us and he has spoken the word of the Lord. But a priest, we could say, goes the opposite direction. Well, the prophet's coming with the word of the Lord and speaking to the people. In the reverse, the priest is taking the people and representing them before God. In the Old Testament, we would see that there were many priests, and the priest would conduct the work within the temple, the different sacrifices and ceremonies and prayers within the temple. But there was only one high priest at any one point. There was only one high priest, and the high priest had a very specific and special role That in the Day of Atonement, he would sacrifice the animals. The blood would be on him, and he would then go into the Holy of Holies. into the presence of Yahweh in a very unique way, and he would represent all of the people of Israel. And he would represent all of the sins of Israel. Only one man could go into the Holy of Holies. Only one man was considered the high priest. And then the moment that he left that Holy of Holies, Israel continued to sin, and the next year he would have to go back into the Holy of Holies. Of Holies on the Day of Atonement. He would have to continue to cut and bleed out the animals for the sacrifice. He would have to continue to cleanse himself because he was a sinner. But here, this priest would go in with blood on his clothes and represent the sins of Israel before Yahweh. Christ is the perfect, ultimate high priest. Beloved, do we recognize That none of us, including myself, none of us have the authority on our own account to walk into the throne room of God. None of us have any right to go and stand before the Creator of the universe and cry out to him in prayer. None of us on our own work have any right to go in front of the creator of the universe and say, here I am, Lord. Talk to me, interact with me. Why? Because all of us are made dirty with our sins. All of us are guilty of sinning against the Holy God. And that sin deserves the just punishment, which is death and eternal separation from God. That's all of our case. None of you can escape it. None of you can say, well, I've been pretty good this year. I've I've attended church pretty often. I've I've given as the offering plate went by. I've read a lot of the Bible. I know a lot of good answers. I can pronounce all those Old Testament names. I'm a good person. I say that because I can't do that, as the young adults have learned in Sunday school class. What are you going to take before the Creator of the universe? You're going to say, Here I am, Lord? Answer my prayers because I've been nice to my spouse. Here I am, Lord, answer my prayers because I just got promoted in my job. Here I am, Lord. Answer my prayers because I went to VBS as a kid. I walked down the aisle. I was baptized. Here I am, Lord. Listen to me. No. None of that will get you entrance into the kingdom of God. None of that allows us to enter into the presence of Yahweh. The only way that we can enter into the presence of God, the only entrance we have into the kingdom of God, the only hope we have for the forgiveness of our sins. Is through the great high priest, Jesus Christ. Beloved, may we keep this on our minds. May this be who we think of when we think of Jesus. May this be who we preach when we proclaim the gospel. That Christ the great high priest has gone before the Father on our behalf, has paid the sins on our behalf, and is our representative. on our behalf. So let us read Hebrews chapter four, starting in verse fourteen. Since then we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens. Jesus the Son of God. Let us hold fast our confession. For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are. Yet Without sin. Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need. Those last words is what we will focus most on, is verse 16. Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in the time of need. But before we get there, let me help us understand who Christ is and what he has accomplished. The author of Hebrews starts in verse 14 by saying, Since then we have a great high priest. This is a theme throughout this entire book. Oh, I love the writing of Hebrews and how he works through this. I believe that Hebrews is probably a sermon that has then been written down for us to read. But in this book of Hebrews, what he's doing is the author is constantly and continually causing us to think about something in the world and then showing us how Christ is superior to that. He does that with kings. He says the civil magistrate, how mighty kings are and how they rule the nations. But But Christ is over the nations. He does that with angels, how how mighty the angels are and and they're spiritual and they're unique and as we as As humans look at angels, we're in awe and we're amazed as who they are and what they do. But Christ is superior to the angels. And then this theme of the high priest is woven throughout this entire book because what the author is doing is the author is pointing back to the Old Testament. To remind the people of what God has instructed on how to worship God in the temple and with the sacrifice of the animals. He's reminding the people of how the priests would kill the animals, cleanse themselves of their sins, and then go before Yahweh in the Holy of Holies. And plead for mercy and forgiveness for all the sins of Israel. And a good Jewish person would have understood this and would have had a very high respect for the high priest. That is the ultimate religious figure in society. No one is superior to the high priest. No one has a closer relationship to Yahweh than the high priest. So the author is using this language, and then he's showing that we have the ultimate high priest who is Christ Jesus. This word here, a great high priest. Maybe the superior high priest, the greatest high priest. Now, if you have the great high priest, the best high priest possible, are you ever going to be looking for another one? Are you ever going to be hoping, well, I love that we have Jesus? I'm just hoping that there's another high priest that's pretty good that can come in and help at least supplement what Jesus has done. Absolutely not. What the author is doing is he's showing that Christ is the ultimate high priest and beloved Christians. We have no need for another earthly high priest. We have no need for more sacrifices in the temple. We have no need for the blood of animals to be poured out, and that this would bring us salvation and bring us forgiveness. Why? It's because the great high priest. Has already arrived. The great high priest has came down from heaven and took on flesh. The great high priest has already sacrificed the ultimate sacrifice. The ultimate blood was poured out from his side. And his wounds as he hung on the cross. The ultimate sacrifice was already put to death on our behalf. And the ultimate price has already been paid. The great high priest is showing us that we have no need for another priest. We have no need for someone else to come in on our behalf. Why is this encouraging? Beloved, you don't need someone else to go on your behalf before Christ. For salvation, for faith in Christ, you don't come to me. You don't come to Pastor Matt. You don't come to a Christian friend or to a priest. You go straight to the cross of Christ Christ is your priest. Christ is the one that is interceding on your behalf before the Creator. Christ is the one that is pleading to the Father on your behalf. There's no earthly institution or structure that you must come through. This should be encouragement. If you're in here this morning and you're saying, I. I I I believe in Christ, but I gotta go talk to the pastor. I've got to go through a whole system. I gotta go through the ceremony. He's gotta talk to me, and then I gotta be baptized, and then finally, finally I will be made righteous and I will be saved. That is a lie, beloved. Right now, if you believe in Christ right now, you cry out to Him You have faith in him. You believe that he died for your sins that you deserve to pay for. You believe that he rose from the dead, giving you the eternal life that is only found in him. You believe right now that he is in heaven at the right hand of the Father. mediating on your behalf. He is your great high priest. There is no other. Do not look for another. The author continues on. He says, we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens. This plural language is very important for us to see. You know, there's there's the heavens, which we could sometimes say is is the sky. You know, you look up to the heavens and you see the sky, and then at night that heaven or those heavens get bigger. So you start to look at stars. That's one of my favorite things that I get to do as a father is uh My daughter Dorothy loves to go look at stars. I think it's because she knows that'll delay us going to bed. But it's worth it to me, and we go look up and and you just s In awe and in amazement of the universe around us that is so far off, yet we get to see it and witness it. But then we see he's going even through that. He passes through all of creation and enters into the throne of Yahweh. And we know from Acts that he sits at the right hand of the Father. In the heavenly places, that He's already in the sanctuary, currently on our behalf. Beloved, we must see the supremacy of Christ And what he has done. While he left those heavens to come down to earth, he then ascended back to those heavens to his right place with the Father. He is mighty, he is powerful. This is an amazing truth. But then he uses this title. This is one of few places that this full title is given to Jesus. It's Jesus, the Son of God. Jesus, the Son of God. I don't know what closer relationship you want for your mediator. How much closer do you want your mediator to be? The Son of God, as we understand it, the second person of the Trinity, the second person of one being. The author is trying to just lay out and make it clear, there's no one better. He's just a great high priest because there's no better option. It's not like we're waiting for someone else to arrive onto the scene. It's not like, well, maybe we hold out and someone someone better, or maybe I'll just get my life figured out and I can be the great high priest. This is Jesus, the Son of God, that is our great high priest. He says, let us hold fast our confession. Let us hold fast to Jesus. Jesus Christ, the only way of salvation. Jesus Christ, the Son of God, that left heaven on your behalf. Jesus Christ, the Son of God, who died the death that you You deserve to die. Jesus, the Son of God, who defeated sin and death by raising from the grave on the third day. Jesus, the Son of God, who sits in the heavens as your great high priest. Do not be ashamed, beloved. of this truth. I loved last week as uh the the doctor, I forget his name now. Doctor Robb is his first name, but he was talking about creation and how we shouldn't be ashamed of creation and Don't be ashamed of what the Bible says because if you compromise and you change on creation, you still have to deal with a man raising from the dead. You start to deal with a man that feeds the multitude with the minimum amount. You start to deal with a man that walks in water, brings the dead to life, heals the leopard. So don't compromise. And beloved, we can't compromise. We should not be ashamed of who Christ is and what He has done. In fact, hold fast to your confession because this is what will give you strength. The reality that Christ died for you and is mediating in the heavens for you should encourage us. It gives us strength today. Now, if you're sitting here, you should be asking this question, and that's what the author is going to address. The question is: sure, Christ is in heaven mediating on our behalf, but he's also the Son of God. So, does he really understand my pain? That's a good question, right? Does Jesus, the Son of God, really understand the trials and the temptations you face? Does Jesus, the Son of God, really understand how hard it is to fight against sin? Does Jesus, the Son of God, really understand this whole thing with sin? Well, Scripture has the answer for you. So I read that section out of chapter 2. So as he repeats it here, he also says it again in chapter 10. Verse 15 says, For we do not have a high priest Who is unable? We don't have one that is unable. We don't have a high priest that can't can't feel for us. We don't have a high priest that doesn't understand us. He's not far off. In fact, he's not unable to sympathize with us in our weakness, but he's one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin. Beloved, this is why I'm doing this before the Advent season and the Christmas season. Because we must be reminded that this little baby that we celebrate being born and set in a manger, crying He's the Savior of the universe. But this imagery and this understanding that Christ came in the form of an infant out of a woman's womb reminds us that he is just like you and I. In every way. He took on flesh. He is fully God. Yes and amen. He is the Son of God. Truly, fully God. And at the exact same time, he is truly, fully man. There's no excuse to say, well, it's unfair. Jesus didn't do it like I have to. Jesus didn't experience life like I did. This is a trick question, and you don't have to answer it. Were you born? I'm looking at Ruth. She's like, yeah, I was born and I've dealt with some births. Yes. All of us were born. All of us lived in this world. Is there pains in this world? Is there trials, hard times, is there loss in this world? We sometimes forget that Jesus lost his friends. Either through betrayal, death. We see Jesus mourning for the loss of Lazarus, even though in just a moment he's going to raise him from the dead. This is the uniqueness of the God man that we see in Christ. That he's understanding. Do we mourn in the loss of our friends and family? Absolutely. And here's Christ, your Savior, your high priest, who has experienced life just like you have. Well, maybe you're saying, but it's not fair. He never sinned. Was he able to? Was that was it before him? Was the temptation before him to sin? Absolutely We know that after his baptism, he then enters into the wilderness. This is where we see a clear example of Jesus being tempted by Satan. But there's no reason for us to assume that there was never another temptation for Jesus. Jesus. But here in the wilderness we see forty days he is tempted by Satan. He is promised good things. He has promised great power, great fame. He has promised that he won't have to face trials and the pain that is before him. And Satan seems to be Genuine. There seems to be some genuineness in Satan that this will happen. You can accomplish this. And here we see Jesus resist him. And while he was tempted, he was still without sin. Why is this encouraging for us today? Well, one is that we have a perfect high priest. Well, the high priests of old in the Old Testament, they had to go through a long ceremony and process because they had to be purified themselves. Why? is because they were sinners. So they would go through a cleansing process, and then once they were cleansed, then they could go into the Holy of Holies in order to cleanse for the sins of all of Israel. We see there was a multiple steps. They had to be cleansed, and then they could go on behalf of Israel. But here, our high priest doesn't have to be cleansed. That's why he's the great high priest. That's why he's the supreme, the ultimate high priest, is because he has no sin. Once again, what greater priest do you want? He has no sin. But the other encouragement that comes from this is that we too face temptation. Right? We true face temptation. And we too, through the new birth, through faith in Christ, the new spirit alive within us, have the ability to fight against that temptation and not to sin. Recognize that the temptation is not the sin. Alright, so right now, if if you are tempted by some sin, a lust, a passion, anger, if that temptation is there, that's not the sin. Jesus faced a similar thing. That's not the sin. So recognize that the temptation is before you and you recognize it, you see the temptation, you're feeling the temptation To go in on this, let's use anger. You feel it, you feel the anger coming on, you feel the temptation to burst out in anger, and you are able to resist it through the work of the spirit. You didn't In sin. Praise God. This is an opportunity for you to praise God for the work of the Spirit within you. When you resist temptation, you are not in sin. This is This is clear. James talks about it. When we fight off our temptation, we don't give in to it, then we have life. We see that that's the work of the Spirit within us. But when we give into the temptation and we sin , That sin not dealt with leads to death. That's what James 1 is telling us. So what happens as sinners? Yet redeemed by the blood of Christ. When we are tempted and we don't resist it and we fail and we sin against God, what should our response be? Run to the cross of Christ because your high priest is mediating on your behalf and confess your sins. No excuses. No, I'm sorry, but none of that. Just go before Christ and apologize. Confess. Recognize that you have broken the law of God and then receive the sweet, sweet forgiveness that is only found in Christ. That's our only hope, beloved. The only way that we can be forgiven is that we have a perfect high priest who never sinned, yet died for our sins. atoned for us and now represents us before Yahweh. This is what we must recognize is that our great high priest is without blemish, and this brings us encouragement to live our lives as Christians. In obedience to him. And confessing our sins with joy. How often do we think about confessing sins with joy? Not often, because we're saddened, we're hurt by our sins. We can go into the throne room of God, confess our sins, and know, no, 1 John, know that we are forgiven. He's faithful and just and forgives us of our sins. If that doesn't bring you joy, that the creator of the universe has forgiven your sins, I don't have any answers to bring you happy joy. happiness and joy. I have nothing other than Christ that you are forgiven. And in that forgiveness, in that new life, there's there's eternal hope and eternal joy. All right. We all understand what a priest is, the high priest. We have that figured out. Let's get to our outline. That was just my intro. Christ the high priest allows the saint to what does he allow the saint to do? Now just to answer this, what is the saint? A saint, as Paul describes, is anyone that has been redeemed by the blood of Christ, and this is evident through faith in Jesus. Alright, so if you are a Christian, you have faith in Christ, that He is your Savior, the only way of life and forgiveness, if that is true, then you are a saint. Good to know, right? You may have never heard that. You are a saint. So, what does Christ, the high priest, allow the saints, allow the Christian to do? He allows the saints to draw near Oh, I hope we cherish this language to draw near. But what are we drawing near to? Look in verse 16 with me. Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace. Who sits on the throne of grace? God. Who rules all things? God. So, how are we able to draw near to God? It 's only by the work of Christ, our great high priest. Why is this such sweet news for us? Beloved, before Christ, in our sinful state, We had no possibility of ever, ever drawing near to God. It was impossible. It was impossible because of our sin. Our hearts were corrupted, they're broken, they're they're stone. Also, we have no desire to draw near to God. Outside of Christ, you have no desire. Outside of the new birth, you have no desire to draw near to God. Your desire is after your own passions, your own flesh. You don't even realize that's the case, but outside of God, outside of salvation in Christ, you don't care anything about God. Any inkling, any thought about Christ, any idea about salvation and being interested in who God is and Christianity and the Bible and the hope of salvation, any thinking that happened. before that time of Christ is a grace and a mercy and a blessing from God. He is the one that has given that to us. But we must recognize that we have no hope to come near to God without Christ. Now, what happens when we come near? Well, friends, we must recognize that we want to be near those that love us and those that we love, right? I hope you want to be near your spouse. Don't get too close. Vince, I saw you look over. I don't need you any closer right now. But right, that's a natural response. A loving relationship with a spouse. You want to be physically but also emotionally near your spouse. Connected, communicating with one another. Also, if we draw near to God, we recognize that He is powerful and mighty. His strength. is to those who are close and nearby him. Protection. Who's going to harm Yahweh? Who's going to harm the creator of the universe? I'm going to want to be near him. I want to be as close to God as I can because I know that he keeps us safe Jesus uses that imagery of a mother hand trying to keep her peeps underneath her. And if you've seen that, you see she puffs up her wings and all the peeps run underneath her. And she She comforts them and covers them and conceals them underneath herself. Are those peeps near their mother? Absolutely. Can't get any closer The closeness there. Likewise, we should desire and want to draw near to God, to know Him. To see him, to understand his character, to experience his love, we draw near. The only way this can happen is because Christ is our mediator. James 4. 8 says, draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Okay, we see this double response. If we draw near to God, he will draw near to us, but how do we draw near? It's in Christ. It's the new birth. We now have access into the throne room of God. Ephesians 1 says that we are in the heavens already. We are in the presence of God. And because we have been drawn near by Christ, the Father draws near to us. Hebrews 10, 22 Says, let us draw near, how? With a true heart in full assurance of faith Beloved, do you want to draw near to the creator of the universe? Do you want to draw near to the God that loved us so much that He sent His Son to die in our place? Do you want to draw near to the God that brought Christ out of the grave and gave him life? Do you want to draw near to that God? The only way that happens is In faith. Through faith, through faith with a true heart. The time is now. Draw near to God now through faith in Christ Do not delay. Do not think, well, I'm going to get better. I'll improve. Let me get some things in order. Let me fix this sin issue over here. Absolutely not. Draw near to the Father now through faith in Christ. Hebrews chapter eleven, verse six says, Without faith, without it, it is impossible to please him, meaning the Father. It is impossible to f please Him. For whoever would draw near to God, all right, here's the answer. How can we please him? How can we draw near? Whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists and that he rewards those who seek him. So you must believe God exists. He rewards those who seek him. How can we find him? It's in the revealed Christ. Do you see this? That Christ is our only answer. He's the one who has brought us into the presence of God. And beloved, we must see that there is sweet, sweet blessings that come from being in the presence of God. So Christ the High Priest allows the saints to draw near, but Christ the High Priest also allows the saints to receive mercy. We see here that they are drawn near, we draw with confidence, draw near to what? The throne of grace. It is the very basis of which God sits on. The throne that shows his might, his authority, his power. And the throne is of grace. And we'll get back to that word grace, but then it says that we may receive mercy. What is mercy, beloved? Simply, it's the benevolent or compassionate. It's the compassion or benevolence one has to someone that is in suffering or in need. It withholds punishment for the sinners. Benevolence, compassion to someone suffering or in need. Beloved, are we suffering? I think the answer is yes. How much more were we suffering before Christ? The pain of the world, the uncertainty, the lack of hope that we had without Christ? Oh beloved, were we in need before Christ? Absolutely. We were dead, wretched, wicked enemies of God. The wrath of God was stored up for us. We had the greatest need ever. Life. We were dead. We were dead in our sins. The greatest need we had was life. We needed new life. We needed a new heart. We needed breath breathed into our lungs that gave us a living spirit. Our greatest need was before Christ was that we needed to live. We were sinners, we deserved the punishment of God. It was just for Him to give it to us, and our great need was that we had no answer for this problem. And then Christ shows up onto the scene. And then Christ gives us the hope. Then Christ answers the questions of how are we going to get out of the suffering? And how are we going to deal with this great need of death that we have in our lives? Christ Jesus. It was proclaimed since the beginning. Genesis 3. That life was going to be found in Christ. The only hope we could have is in Christ. The eternal suffering will be eliminated in Christ. And even the historical suffering will one day end. In our great high priest Christ, because he is victorious. What about this? He withholds the punishment from sinners. That's part of our need, right? We need an answer for sin. We need an answer for our judgment, and the answer is in Christ. And we see that because of Christ, faith in Christ, as we draw near to the Father, he withholds the punishment that we He paid for it on the cross. That's the great high priest that we worship. Ephesians 2 Ephesians 2 is all about this, but it says, but God being rich in mercy, being rich in it. He's not this isn't cheap mercy. It's not like he has just a little bit of mercy. He's rich in it. It's an abundance. He's pouring it out upon us. And a passage in Ephesians 2 is my favorite section of all of Scripture. Ephesians 2, 1 through 10. But in that section, verses 1 through 3, Paul is talking about who we were outside of Christ. Dead, rebels, wicked, slaves to sin. Friends with the devil. Disgusting language is used about who we were before Christ. And it's this whole, this imagery of all this nastiness we were, who we were outside of Christ. It's disgusting. Disgusting, disgusting, disgusting. And then in verse 4, but God. In all of our nastiness we see the mercy of God. In all of our depravity and our sin, we see the mercy of God. But God being rich in In mercy, loved us and saved us through his son. Friends, we have no hope of mercy, compassion, benevolence. Someone in s giving it to us in time of need, withholding our punishment without Christ Please hear this. Please recognize that Christ brings the mercy of God into our lives. Christ is the one. He is the example of mercy. He is the reason that we are forgiven. He is the reason that we are forgiven. We have hope. The great high priest who is in heaven right now is the one that we have received mercy. First Peter 1:3 says, according to his great mercy He has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. Did you earn that? Absolutely not. Do you deserve the forgiveness? Do you deserve Christ dying on your behalf? Absolutely not. This is the mercy of God. This is why we rejoice in Christmas. Because Christ came to earth as a child to be our great high priest, to bring Christ Are the Lord's mercy upon us. He's rich in it, He's poured it out upon us. What shall we do then, beloved? We should rejoice in God. We should rejoice that Christ has brought us mercy. We should recognize that our forgiveness is in Christ Jesus, in him alone. So we see that Christ the High Priest allows the saints to draw near to the throne of grace. We see that Christ the High Priest allows the saints to receive Mercy. And lastly, we see that Christ the high priest allows the saints to find grace. At the end there of verse 16, it says that we may receive mercy. And find grace to help in time of need. This idea of grace, this is that unmerited favor, love, and care, this passion. Desire from the Father to love us, to provide for us, to sustain us, to give us forgiveness. This is grace. It's a gift. It's so closely tied with mercy. You almost trip over the words if you're trying to avoid anything that connects to mercy. And grace, you can't. They're closely united. But this idea of unmerited favor, love, and care. Which one of you earned the right to be born? Good answer. No. None of us. Which one of you earned the right to have a job and to have a bank account? Which one of you earned the right to have food? Which one of you earned the right to have friendships and a community? The answer is none of us have earned that. None of us deserve that. That is all a grace of God. This is what we would call the common grace of God. Even the rebel, uh, the enemies of God have received such graces. We must recognize that all good things come from God. Which one of you deserves to be forgiven of your sins? Which one of you deserves to spend an eternity with God, rejoicing in his goodness? Which one of you deserves not to be put to death for your sins? The answer is exactly the same. None of us. Not one of us deserves such a thing. But the grace of God, the grace of Christ, that we have life. The grace of Christ that while he rose from the dead, we too one day will raise from the dead. That while Christ hung on the cross paying for our sins, we have forgiveness. But the grace of God that Christ atoned for our sins sits in the heavens as our great high priest. gives us the unmerited favor, love, and care of God. Beloved, do you see the grace of God in your life Do you recognize that the only way you have this grace is by the work of Christ on your behalf? Now, why is this helpful for us? Well, it's our forgiveness. It's our newness as Christians. The grace of God is the very reality that any one of us Is a Christian, is saved and redeemed. This is the grace of God. But notice that Paul takes it farther when he says, and find grace When? When's this? He's talking about unique grace here. Well, the grace of salvation and hope is all there, but then he drives it home and says, to help in time of need. Notice that the unmerited favor, love, and care of God is not just simply in our salvation, which it is, and that's an amazing Truth. That's a magnificent thing. But it's also in our time of need as we live on this earth as Christians until we enter glory within. Beloved, are you in a time of need? Are you hurting and in pain? You don't have to answer that out loud. It may not be right now. It may be tonight, tomorrow, in a few years. And notice he doesn't qualify this time of need. This time of need is only when it's a spiritual thing and the the pain and the agony and the suffering comes because you were preaching the gospel and now are being persecuted. Nope. It doesn't say, oh, it's only there for those that are sick. Or it's the time of need is only qualified for when you are mourning the loss of a loved one. There's no qualifications here. Look, it says that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need. You don't get to qualify when that need is. You don't get to qualify when God's when it's appropriate for God to care for you. You don't get to qualify when you get to go into the throne room of God and ask God for help, care, love, compassion. Favor. You don't get to say, well, this need, this is too small for God. I'm gonna I'm gonna deal with it. I'll solve this problem. But when the big needs come, when the real struggle comes, that's when I'll go before God. Beloved, I believe that too many of us, including myself, live in a sense that we have categorized when God wants to help us and when he doesn't. Pains and problems at work, that uh Anthony thing. Sorry I pointed over here. There's no pains or problems with my boss But right, we say, oh, well, let me deal with that. That's an earthly thing. That's a historical thing. That's a now. That's a me thing. I'll deal with that. But when the spiritual things happen, right? The spiritual things are way up here, that's when I'll go before God. That's when I'll ask for help in times of need. But how often do these earthly things overflow into the spiritual thing? I'm gonna raise my children how I want to do it. I can do that. I know the proper time of bedtimes and discipline and feeding schedule. I got that. And then when it comes to spiritual things, then I'll go before God. But what happens when we're void of God in the raising of our children is that they become 20-21, and now they're rebelling and hating God, and now we're crying out to God, asking for his help and his guidance. When from the entire time, in our times of need, in our times of pain and agony and suffering, we should be crying out to God, because we will find grace through our great high priest, Jesus Christ. Lother, there's no limitations to what God wants to care for. There's no limitations to the grace you'll find in Christ Maybe you're saying, well, I got to this terrible position that now I recognize is really big and I need to go to Christ, but it's because I failed and made all the mistakes that led up to this. Do not delay, beloved. Go to the Father. Find his mercy and his grace that you will receive because of what Christ has done, your great high priest. It's never too late. Yes, you may be the cause for the situation. You may be the cause for the need, but you have a father that cares for you and wants to care for you in that time of need. The grace to help in the time of need is not limited, but is only accessed through Christ Jesus. Beloved, in closing, is this your status? Do you recognize that you have a great high priest in heaven who has given you access to the to the throne room of God, that has drawn you close? that has shown mercy and grace to you. If you can say wholeheartedly, yes and amen, I know that Christ is my Savior, He's my great high priest. I am forgiven, and he is mine, and I am his. I thank God for that. And you should shall too. Rejoice in that. But if you're in here this morning, And you're saying that's not the case. Or I said I was a Christian, but it was just because of attendance. It was just because this is what I thought I was supposed to do. That's what the culture told me. That's what my parents did. But you said, I've never had faith in Christ as my Savior. I never believed that He is in heaven as my mediator. I never recognized that He is the only way of life and hope and forgiveness. If you're in here today and that's you, do not delay. Do not delay. In your heart, right now, you come to faith in Christ. Afterwards, come talk with Pastor Matt, myself, Jeremiah. But there's no delay. The high priest is in heaven. Go to him now. Find that forgiveness in him. And beloved, if any one of you in here is sitting here and you've hardened your heart for this truth, You say, I don't think this is true. I don't like that I reject it. Know this truth, that one day you will stand before the Creator of the universe. And you will be judged according to your works. And if you don't have a great high priest who has already paid for your sins, you will receive the just, just, just judgment for your sins. And be eternally punished for them. So if your heart is hardened to that, I plead with you through the Spirit to turn to Christ now. Let us go before the Lord in prayer. Holy God, we thank you for sending your Son to live the life. That we cannot live, to die the death that we deserve to die, to atone for our sins, to pay for our sins, to be the propitiation for our sins. Lord, we thank you that you rose him from the dead, giving us the promise and the hope that we too one day will be raised from the dead, that we have an eternal hope and life that is in him alone. Father, I ask that you show us Christ and His work. Remind us that He is the great high priest. Allow us to draw near to you, to receive your great mercy and grace. Give us the energy, the zeal, and the wisdom to preach this to ourselves and to the world. And may we love you all the days of our lives. In Christ's name I pray. Amen.