Well if you'll open up your Bibles to 1 Samuel chapter 18, we're going to be looking at verses 1 through 5, and then we'll jump over to 1 Samuel Daniel chapter 23, verses 15 through 18. Tonight we're going to be working in these two passages, and our goal is to see the friendship that Jonathan and David had Uh last week we talked about Saul's attacks against David and and the the brutal attacks he had and and how David continued to flee for his life but he continued to trust Knowing that the Lord was in control and even as the enemy attacked him, he trusted that God's promise would actually come true. Um and tonight we're kind of jumping back into the same scene. You know, we're covering large sections of David's life, so it's not like last week we saw all the attacks. of Saul against David and now we're coming to the end of that story. No, actually we're jumping kind of right into the middle of some of the attacks uh that Saul is committing against David Uh and we're gonna see how Jonathan is coming alongside and being this deep and meaningful friend to David and then his some of his deepest times of need. Uh when when Saul's attacks are at their their peak at times, here is Jonathan to be a friend. When David has been ripped out of his homeland and his father's home, here's Jonathan to be a deep and meaningful friend to him. And what I want us to see is that it is important for us as Christians to have friendships. It is important for us to have friendships. God has designed us to be in relationship with other human beings. Not your dog. If Kenzie was here, this would be for her. You know, some of us just love animals and love pets, and that is good. It's good. That cannot be your friend. You know, God has designed us as humans to have deep and meaningful relationships with It it's one of the beautiful aspects of the church that he has designed. When you become a Christian it's not okay you go and And go live in your house, lock your doors, read your Bible and pray a lot, and just wait till the day you die or Jesus returns. No, he actually tells us to come out of our homes, to gather together, to invite people into your homes to gather together. Because there's something very special and beautiful about friendship. So we're gonna see that clearly tonight. And I I do pray and hope that we clearly see that the only way we can be friends with other humans is because we understand the deep, deep friendship we have with Jesus Christ. As we start to see how friends are committed to one another and willing to give up. all that they have for one another and that there's a unity that surpasses our understanding. I hope all this language is causing to go, yeah, that's Jesus. That's Jesus. He has given up everything for us. He has committed and has brought us unity. We're going to see the clear imagery of friendship. So let us dive into 1 Samuel chapter 18, starting in verse 1, and then we'll go directly to chapter 23. fifteen. Eighteen one. As soon as he had finished speaking to Saul, the soul of Jonathan was knit to the soul of David. And Jonathan loved him as his own And Saul took him that day and would not let him return to his father's house. Then Jonathan made a covenant with David, because he loved him as his own soul. And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was on him and gave it to David, and his armor, and even his sword, and his bow, and his belt. And David went out and was successful wherever Saul sent him, so that Saul set him over the men of war, and this was good in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of Saul's friend. Now let's jump over to chapter twenty-three. Starting in verse fifteen, We're picking up in the middle of the scene here, but uh we just read about how uh after David had defeated Goliath, David then comes into Saul's uh uh throne room essentially and and Saul takes ownership of David and Jonathan and him become friends. Now David is on the run for his life because he worries that Saul is going to kill him and now we're going to see how Jonathan comes to David's care and comfort. Verse 15. David saw that Saul had come out to seek his life. David was in the wilderness of Ziff. At Horash. And Jonathan, Saul's son, rose and went to David at Horash and strengthened his hand in God. And he said to him, Do not fear, for the hand of Saul my father, shall not find you. You saw be You Saul you shall be king over Israel, and I shall be next to you. Saul, my father, also knows this, and the two of them made a covenant before the Lord. David remained at Horush, and Jonathan went home. So in these two stories we just see the depth of a friendship happening here. I hope you can look back and and maybe now or sometime in your life you can think about having a deep, meaningful friendship. A friendship that just kind of got you through some tough times. A friendship that that lasted and and and had a lot of meaning behind it. It wasn't just based off of being Orioles fans, that's good. But that that has depth to it, that that has a lot of meaning. And maybe for some of you, you can think back to the opposite of that. And maybe you're living in that right now of the pain of not having a friend. Have you had that void in your life where you just feel so absent? So absent, because you just don't have that brother or that sister that you can just cry on their shoulder. You can call out to them. You can talk to them. You can laugh with them. They just connect with you. They're there in your times of need. If you've lived those times of not having that friend, you know how painful that can be. I think back to uh my three years in Germany in the army were some of the hardest years of my life because I was absent of any any Christian brothers with where I worked. And it was just a very dark place. Um and and I was I was weary, I was worn out. And then one day I walked into uh another uh guy's office and on the desk across from him was this notebook with a Bible verse written on it. This is like the holy grail to me. I grabbed that thing and I was like, w whose is this? Whose is this? Because I gotta find the guy that has a Bible verse. It was Isaiah. It was Isaiah, I don't remember the exact chapter and verse but it was Isaiah and I said, whose is this? Because I got to talk to him. Because for the last two years of my life, I hadn't had a single Christian interaction at work. And I was pumped. And they said it's Sergeant So and so. And I got a little nervous. Because Sergeant So-and-so, that's what we'll call him Joe. Sergeant Joe was a new soldier to the unit, and I was terrified of him He was big, he was scary, and he was a former drill sergeant and and you're just taught that these guys are mean and scary. And I was terrified. I never even spoke to him. And I took that notebook, I took it off of his desk, which is Not a good choice. And I went to him and I said, Sergeant, is this your notebook? And I he's mad. He's like, Well yes, why do you have it? And I said, I'm a Christian. I want to know why you have this written on there And he goes, Oh my goodness, I'm a Christian. He had just become uh uh he just had faith in Christ about a year before coming there. And in Oh, I just remember that that feeling and that moment of God had provided a friend for me in this dark place. God had provided someone that was just there when times were hard. Um Um i there was this guy that he kept me accountable when times were hard. He he challenged me. But also we could we could just meet up in the literally the darkest places, but also spiritually the darkest places and we could And we had that thirty second conversation. It was some of the most meaningful relationships I had in my whole three years in Germany, but that one year that we got to be together I praise God for that. But I saw the void of not having a friend and then a true, genuine friend, that we were united in Christ. And the radical change that happened. My my joy, while not perfected and and was strengthened. My courage and comfortability of going into work where I just worked with a bunch of pagans, it changed I wasn't as worn out as I had been. Well, friend, that's what we see here. That there's an encouragement. That void is filled by a friendship. That void is filled by another brother that just lifts up the spirits of David. But we must examine what are some characteristics of a godly friendship. I have three here. Because we're good Baptists so we just work off the number three. There's plenty more characteristics. Matt would do six or twelve if he was writing this sermon. Oh I'm sticking in threes as best I can. So there's plenty more, but I think these three will be quite evident to us within our text, and and then we can talk about them within our own relationships. What so what are some of the characteristics of a godly friendship? Well the first one is that we have a deep unity. A deep unity. And that unity is rooted in Christ. We have a deep unity that is uh rooted in Christ. We see we we probably have many friends outside of church. And we probably have a decent amount of friends that aren't Christians. We connect on some other uh level. Maybe they're just old high school friends. Um maybe you really do just get along because you're sport you know you really for the same sports team, so hey, we can at least wear the same jerseys and not fight over scores. Like that is a natural friend builder, let's be honest. That's that's often brings us together. Maybe you you've had these friends because they were their kids were your kids' friends. So you just were always at parties together, always at school events together. So we might as well start talking to one another and now you're friends That's good, but there's something different about the deep unity that comes from a friendship that's rooted in Christ Let's look here at chapter 18, verse 1. As soon as he had finished speaking to Saul, the soul of Jonathan was knitted to the soul of David. Listen to that language. The soul of Jonathan was knitted to the soul of David. I'm not going to rehash the soul conversation we had this morning you got a nice understanding of what the soul is and the beauty of the soul and how it's truly the very depth of who you are. It it's it's what God has breathed into us So when we start to talk about the souls being knitted together, I hope you should start to see that it's a deep and meaningful relationship. There's depth to it. This relationship, this friendship doesn't break up the moment there's a the smallest of offense. The moment that you compliment their food or you fail to compliment their food. The moment that you have sinned against them ignorantly or even intentionally. What do we read in Scripture? That love covers a multitude of sins. This unity goes Deep. It's like a well. The deeper the well is, and the deeper that pocket of water that you can find, the more water you can pull up into your house, the more water you can draw in. And it won't run dry. It has depth to it. It has meaning. May we not just base our friendships off of earthly standards Friends, may I encourage us that our relationships to one another, while we can have similarities, we can have relationships that are based off of other things, the root of our relationships must be Our unity in Christ. This will defend the enemy's attacks against us. How can the our friendship in Christ defend the the attacks of the enemy? If Christ has forgiven that brother, You can forgive that brother when you they have offended you. If Christ has died on the cross to love them, you too can love that brother in the toughest of times. It's not gonna fade away, it's not gonna break up. Even if they move away, while that relationship may change, the unity in the root of Christ will still be there So the first thing that we must see is that a true godly friendship must be deeply rooted, excuse me, must have a deep unity that is rooted in Christ. The second characteristic of a godly friendship is a willingness to give up all. It's a willingness to give up all. Now notice the language there. It's the willingness to give up all. There's not a mandate. Alright, there's not like as soon as we become friends, you now have to give up everything you have. If that was the case I'd be making some friends with people that had nice cars, you know, nice homes, I'd be seeking out those friends. Uh there's certain cultures if uh that if you don't make compliments in it, especially in Africa, um you don't make compliments because if someone would come and compliment my watch, in that culture, the custom would be that I then have to give that watch over to them because um Um you don't want to cause that person to stumble. I don't know in Bahrain if it's the same. Yeah, th it's this culture. So I had this friend, um, he was from Africa, uh but I knew him in Lancaster and I complimented his shirt one day And I said, Sam, you know in some cultures or no, I'm sorry, he complimented my shirt. And I said, Well Sam, you know in some cultures if someone compliments you you have to give it to them. He goes, Yeah, that's how it is in my country. Alright, so then every day, every time we saw each other, we try to compliment one another real fast. But may we see that it's a willingness to give up all We we we must see that the friendship is not based off of gaining, but a friendship could involve losing. Look with me in verse four of chapter 18. So here we see that Jonathan and David become friends. Their souls are united, knit together. And Jonathan loved him as his own soul, and then right here in verse four, and Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was on him, and gave it to David, and his armor, and even his sword, and his bow, and his belt. See that immediately Jonathan looks at David, this young shepherd boy that has nothing, and says, it's all yours. I will give this all up to you Now, let's be honest, David probably, or excuse me, Jonathan probably had another set of all those items. He was the king's son But in that moment, we see that that Jonathan is willing to give it all up. There's maybe even some shame there of him taking off his own robe in this moment and giving it to David. But we see the willingness to give up all. Verse tw or chapter 23, and we'll look at this in a little bit. But may we not miss that when Jonathan comes out to David to reassure him that Saul will not put him to death, that Jonathan is committing to David that he will not put him to Take the throne, but David will. Jonathan had every right to the throne. He is the king's son. When the king dies, Jonathan would be next in line. But in that moment, notice that Jonathan is willing to give up all. He's saying, I don't need the kingship. Our friendship has moved We also see just the commitment and trusting of the Lord. He actually trusts God. But a true friendship is one that's willing to give up all. I'm sure many of us have had head or currently have friends that it feels like they're just in a relationship. to gain. They're just there to get something from you. And they can drain you out. And there is caution. Please hear me, there is caution That you should not give all that you have, that you are broken down and unable to actually care for yourselves or others because you're giving up. as someone else. But are we willing? Are we ready for that? Are we ready for those late night calls where someone has just gone through a a traumatic death in their family and they just need someone to hear their voice and hear their crying at three in the morning. Are we ready? Are you ready to be that friend that they just show up at your doorstep and they say, I need help because I'm in this situation? Are we ready to come into this church and someone can walk up to us and say, can I sit next to you? Because I just need a comforter next to me today The willingness just to give it up. It all belongs to the Lord. We talk about this when we take offering in the the church that everything we have is a blessing from the Lord. So this may be the direction that we are called to give, is to give to our friends. The character , good, godly characteristic of friendship is the willingness to give up all. The third characteristic we see is a commitment. It's a commitment Is this friend going to flee the moment things get hard? Are you going to leave your friendship and that friend the moment they offend you because they said something in correctly. Maybe they just said an insensitive comment to you. Can we be honest? That happens. Right? My best friend since high school, we have said some really foolish things to each other. It's going to happen. But a godly friendship has commitment. A godly friendship can work through the trials of that friendship. A godly friendship can work through the trials and the attacks of the enemy. from the world. It's a deep commitment. Let's look at chapter 23, verse 17. Verse 17 says once again, and he said to him, This is uh Jonathan to David, do not fear, for the hand of Saul my father shall not find you. You shall be king over Israel, and I shall be next to you. Saul my father also knows this. Do you see the commitment from Jonathan? That he actually leaves his homeland, his home for a little bit, rides out to David, who is currently an enemy of the king, Jonathan's father, and he goes up to him and he rides reassures him. He commits to him in that moment. This covenant that we see they've made between one another. They they recommit to that covenant in verse eighteen, and the two of them made a covenant before the Lord. And we just see in this moment that Even in the trials, even when the world doesn't want them to be friends, Jonathan and David are committed to one another. Really, Jonathan's taking the leap of faith here. Jonathan's stepping out of the comfort zone and going to David and committing to him. Ultimately, Jonathan could have been accused of treason. By Saul. You're going to the enemy and and you're promising that I, the king of Israel, will not destroy that enemy. I don't care if you're my son, you're a treason against me But we see that John Jonathan is willing to commit to David. He sees this friendship as valuable and meaningful, as a commitment. It'll face trials, it'll face through the temptations of the world. Friends, I hope and pray that you have friendships like this. Or you have at least experienced it. Let's be honest, not every friendship within this church is equal. It doesn't have to be. We're not called to be friends with all one hundred and however many people coming here on Sundays. We're not called to be exactly the same friendships and depth with each and every single person. A, we are not capable of doing that. I can barely remember the twenty people's names in here that we have. You know, so how much how depth can we go if I can't even remember some names sometimes. I think I have everyone's if I look around. I could do it. But we're not gonna test it tonight. But do you have that one or two friends in your lives? And if you say no, I feel for you. I feel the pain that that is. And I pray that the Lord brings that friend into your life And if you say, Yes, I have that person, I pray that you just go to that brother or that sister and say, I just want to thank you and I want to thank God for this relationship. But just it is important that we actually point out that friendship and we mark it and we say this is something meaningful. This is a friendship that that is we are committed to one another, we're willing to give up all, and there's deep unity. It's actually important that we do that in our our lives. So I encourage you to to seek that out. If you think you have that friendship uh with someone but you're unsure, do you see unity? Do you see a willingness from both sides to give up all? Do you see a commitment from both sides? If so, I would say let's let's let's celebrate that friendship and it's good. Um so praise God that we have friends. But why does God give us friendships? This is point number two. Why does God give us these friendships? We see the characteristics. Okay, I can identify it. But you know, in in this circle and in in In good Christian circles, we will say, Jesus is enough, right? There's no other works we need to do. Jesus is enough. Only by the grace of God, only through faith in Christ, only in Christ alone. Like so are we saying that you have to have something else? No, I'm saying that friendships are blessing and a benefit to us. us. Uh this morning in Sunday school we were talking about the Sabbath. And that that man is not made for the Sabbath, but that Sabbath is made for man. It's a benefit to us that God has given us. So may we not become legalistic of it, but may we become joyful and excited and thankful to God that we have friendships, that He's given this to us. So why does God give us friendships? The first one is for the joy. If your friendship does not make you happy, you don't have a friend. Alright? If you say, Man, my best friend, Billy, every time we hang out, I and miserable, he's mean to me, he makes me do things I don't want to do. Guess what? Well he's not your friend. Break up with him. He's not your friend. Move on. But we see that it's for the joy. Look back at chapter 18, verse 4 And it's the same verse we read, but let me jump up in three first. And then Jonathan made a covenant with David because he loved him as his own soul. And then the very next thing he does is he gives up all that he has. It gives us to David. Do you think David was joyful in that moment? How about the time when Jonathan wrote out to him and said, Don't worry, I'll I'm supporting you and the king will not kill you. You think maybe David's heart fluttered just a little bit with joy? And I know mine would. We see the joy of a friendship. We see that it actually brings us life, it brings us excitement. We must also remember that David in chapter 18, David was ripped out of his homeland. Look at verse 2, and Saul took him that day, speaking Of David took David that day and would not let him return to his father's house. He's just a teenage boy. Because he had won the victory against Goliath, Saul now has essentially taken Now if we look back and we're reminded that this was the promise God gave the people, as they cried out, Give us a king, give us a king. One of the warnings God said was that the king will take your sons away from him. Boom. We're seeing it right here. So as David has been ripped out of his homeland, taken away from his family, everything he's ever known has been removed from him, here comes John Jonathan to bring him joy. It's a blessing from God. It's a blessing from God. David, uh excuse me, Saul could have had a miserable son just like Saul is Right? That's that wouldn't be that hard to believe that the if the king is wicked and mean, his son's gonna be wicked and mean too, right? We see that pretty often in our lives. The the son 's followed after the father's footsteps But that's not what happens. God blesses David by having a man like Jonathan come and love him and then become friends. I mean we see the joy that a friendship brings. This is why I believe it's so important that we have friendships because the Lord uses them to bring us joy in times of pain. pain and sorrow. Uh how many of us have faced trials, have faced death in our families, have faced divorce, have faced uh the our children walking away from the Lord, and that list goes on and on. Man, that friend that just comes alongside of you, puts her arm around you, physically or spiritually, and just loves you in that time. Doesn't resolve the problem, but it does strengthen us. It does it does lift our spirit. Spirits up and it helps us to remember the Lord at work. It is for our joy that we have friends. The second reason that God gives us friendships is for comfort It's to comfort us. That section we read out of uh chapter 23, that's what that's all about. David's worried. He's fleeing from his life He has this idea that at any moment Saul could ride in with an army and kill him. Now, yes, David's trusting the Lord. We see that that evidence throughout the stories But even the strongest trust of the Lord still has to be in the back of David's mind that maybe he's going to get me. Maybe this is going to end badly I'm trusting the Lord. I know it's not, but but what if it does? Let's be honest, we struggle very similarly. Yes, I trust in the Lord. Yes, I believe in a future glorious presence with the Lord. Man, sometimes I just I get worried. Sometimes this world just is is is crushing me. Well guess what? That friend, the the godly friend that God has given us is there to comfort us at times. Jonathan rides into David and just comforts him, sets his anxiety at ease. Do not be alarmed. I am your friend. I'm here with you, for you. His language there actually says, you're going to be king, and I'm going to be right next to you. Just a brotherly hug in that moment. Like everything's going to be just fine. And you're going to be victorious in Yahweh's promise. And that's what happens here. It's just this comfort idea. Just like when when Jonathan takes off his robe and puts it on to David, the comfort that just comes from that. Brothers and sisters, this is the comfort we should want and have with friends. We should recognize that God has given us friends to come in those hard times, put their arm around us To bring us joy, to cry with us, to mourn with us, to laugh with us, to rejoice and birth with us and every aspect of our lives. I I some of my favorite memories from uh my friend Andy who I've been friends with since high school and even to this day uh is We would just take these long road trips up to um Potter County, Pennsylvania. Anyone ever been up in Potter County? Yeah? You guys doubled the population if you were both there at the same time. It's just a small uh forest land that we would go hunting in, and it would take about three and a half. Uh we would make it five because we would would get distracted and pull off the side of the road. But we would just drive in an eighty-eight Toyota Corolla and we would drive this car up the Susquehanna River. And we just had this one Um and and really there was not a specific issue that we would deal with, but we would just talk and and we would see that man we would just And even in that time we could see God growing us as men, as Christian men, godly men, but we also see God growing our friendship that has lasted for a long time now. But in the most mundane thing of just driving in the car, we were actually carrying and loving. one another. Supporting one another. Uh I mean we were we were dating girls at the time and we could talk through that. Uh and we actually married good girls because of Some of the conversations we had there, but we see that there's in the most mundane of things, the friendship comforts us. God has given us friends to comfort us. us and then take that to the extreme. The most painful times of suffering and loss. God has brought a friend into that. time to comfort us and and I hope and I pray that you have that friend and you experience the blessings that God brings from that friendship. So we see that a friendship is for joy, it's for comfort, and then the third thing And I think this one's possibly one of the most important aspects of a friendship, is that a friendship is for the day of trial. It's for the day of trial. Because that day's going to come. 100% guarantee that we will all face trials in this lifetime. We'll all face the pains and suffering of this world, and the friend is there for that day. That's why they can come in with comfort. It's why they can come in with joy It's because when things are tough, the Lord has given us friends for those moments. It's still the Lord's work. Please hear me. It's still the Lord that brings us joy. It's still the Lord that brings us comfort It's still the Lord that gets us through the trials. But he's often using the mechanism of a friend in that moment, a godly friend that points us to the Lord. We must see that the Lord uses these friendships for joy, for comfort, and for the day of trial. If I may, let's turn to 2 Samuel chapter 1. I know we've gone over a lot of chapters here. 2 Samuel chapter 1, verse 27. If you know the story and if not come back for the next two weeks you're gonna hear some more of this story, but ultimately Jonathan goes back to fight with his uh fight alongside of his father Saul and they're they go off to battle and the Philistine army starts to surround them a and crash in along around around them and ultimately the Philistine army kills Jonathan And then gets up on the hilltop and kills Saul. And we see that this is promised by the Lord. This is how the Lord is going to establish David. King. But we pick up in 2 Samuel. We're not going to read all of the chapter. There's one verse. But David gets word that his friend Jonathan has been killed. And hear David's response to this godly friend, this man that God has sent into David's life to Care for him, comfort him, bring him joy, get him through the hard times. Listen to how David responds to this. And this is David crying out, I am distressed for you, my brother Jonathan. Very pleasant have you been to me. Your love to me was extraordinary, surpassing the love of a woman. Woo I hope you see the depth of that friendship there. Now there's there's some modern uh quote unquote theologians that are trying to take this passage and say that Jonathan and David were had a sexual relationship in some form or fashion. And let's be honest, it's quite foolish in so many ways. But but we don't have to take this. He's not saying you love me like a woman. He's saying it surpassed it. Let's take what's the deepest relationship you have? It's probably your spouse. Right? Like your spouse is is your deepest relationship. for for many reasons. Um but what David is saying is that Jonathan and his relationship was so deep that actually surpasses the depth of relationship that David has. with a woman. Not in a sexual sense, but in the the the unity of their souls. We must recognize that um part of what God has used the marriage bed for was to to unite us, to make us one. Right? Have we ever heard that language? Two become one? Am I making it up or is it out of scripture? It's out of scripture, okay. Multiple times. So we see that in Mary, suh two become one. So we see that unity, right, and that depth that happens. What David is crying out here is he's showing the unity and the depth of his friendship with Jonathan and the pain that it brings that his friend has died. But he says it is very excuse me, my brother Jonathan, very pleasant have you been to me. He's remembering the good things, the good friendship That him and Jonathan had, the depth of their relationship and their friendship, and the joy that it brings to him. Your love to me was extraordinary. Friends, I hope and I pray that you have a friendship like that. this. It may be your spouse. I'm not saying it can't be your spouse. But I do believe that there's also a very healthy uh relationship that one has with a person outside of their marriage. Yes and amen to your spouse, and yes and amen, you should have a deep, meaningful friendship with someone outside of your marriage. And that someone outside should be of your same gender and Sex. I I don't think that's radical for anyone, but let me say it to make it clear. Because that's where the depth can come in and God can use both your marriage and your friendship outside of marriage to grow you and to glorify God more and more. But friends, we must see that God has given us friendships for joy, for comfort, and even for the days of trial. And I I pray that you have that friendship. So lastly, let's conclude here. Just an easy statement I put there. Jesus is the ultimate friend. Jesus is the ultimate friend. I hope as you've heard uh preaching through this, you've heard the relationship between David and Jonathan, you're going, yeah, a lot of that sounds really familiar. A lot of that sounds like what Jesus did. Let's look at John 15. There's a lot of different passages we could look at to see the the friendship of Jesus, the depth of uh his love for us. But I think uh John fifteen, uh we'll start in verse twelve, we'll show us uh what a true friend looks like And how Jesus is the ultimate friend. So any friendship we're looking and seeking to have should emulate Christ. Alright, that's how we should be looking at this. That we look at Jesus and how he relates to us, the rebels against God, that he has died for and made us children of God, has made us friends of him. We should be looking to him and say, if he does that, this is maybe how I should be interacting with my brothers and sisters here on this earth. So let's look at Jesus' Jesus example in John 15, starting in verse 12. This is my commandment, that you love one another as I have loved you. I'm going to pause there. I don't think we can meditate on this verse enough in our lives. Because the idea that we uh uh imitate, we follow the commandment, that we love one another. We love one another just as Christ has loved us. It's tough. Because we can all think of someone in this church in our past that's a Christian. That's really hard for us to love. Amen? And we go, well, how do we do that? It's only because we see the love Christ had for us. But let's continue on. Verse 13. Greater love has no one than this. that someone lay down his life for his friend. You are my friends. If you do what I command you, no longer do I call you servants, for the servant does not know what his master Friends your fruit should abide, so that whatever you ask the Father in my name, he may give to you. These things I command you, so that you will love one another. Oh friends, I hope we see how Jesus is the ultimate friend, how he has commanded us to love one another, how he has commanded us To be friends with one another in a deep and meaningful way. To have the death of a friendship that lasts, that's committed, that brings us joy and comfort and unifies us. We see here in verse 13, greater love has no one than this, that someone lay down his life for his friends. This is ironically the number one tattoo you will see in the army. It's ironically also the number one verse of the Bible that they have no understanding. of what it means. Because what we see, what they're saying, is they're taking it from the very earthly focus that I'm willing to lay down my life for a friend. But they're missing that it's Jesus the one that's saying it. Because he's about to go for the to the cross for his friends. He's about to go to the cross and bear their sins on the cross We cannot actually emulate Christ to the fullest in this moment because we cannot bear the sins of our friends. But Christ did Christ died on the cross, took our sins, so that we could be forgiven and have peace with the Father. Christ died on the cross and was buried in the grave and resurrected from the grave so that we too could raise from the grave. Christ rose from the grave and sits in heaven so that we too can reign in this kingdom. Oh friends, do you see th what kind of friend we have in Christ. And he was willing to give up all. He left his place in heaven to come down and live in in this earth. He left his place in heaven to take on flesh, to die the death that we deserve. Oh what a friend we have in Jesus. Can we just give a glimpse of this to our neighbors to the left and right of us? Just a hint of it. I think We would do very well for one another if we started to to think and act so a little bit like Christ in this moment. But he continues on. He says, could you imagine hearing these words out of Jesus You are my friends. You are my friends. Could you imagine hearing those words come out of the mouth of Jesus? And then the very next line he says, if you do what I command you. Now you're like, well I want to be friends with Jesus. What beautiful truth that is. But this command, like, oh now we're back to workspace. Now we have to earn something again. Like, come on, when are we going to get out of this workspace thing? And and notice exactly what he follows up with in verse fifteen, No longer do I call you servants, for the servant does not know what his master is doing, but I called you friends. For all I for all that I have heard from my Father, I have made known to you. So we're going to get to the commandment he gives there. But see, he identifies them as friends, as friends. There's a unity there. We know that he's willing to give up all. He goes to the cross. We know he's committed to them. He's going to go all the way to the cross. But notice that he's also giving. He 's giving and giving. He's giving all that he's heard from the Father. He's giving the truth of the gospel. He's giving the beauty of God to them. He's been teaching and teaching and revealing the beauty of God to them. He's giving all. His commitment to them. As friends, even in their weakest state, he's committed to them. And he's giving up all that he has. Verse 16, You do not choose me, but I choose you and appointed you that you should go and bear fruit, and that your fruit should abide, so that whatever you ask the Father in my name, he may give to you. to you. These things I command you so that you will love one another. So the commandment is to love one another. And he's saying, if you're my friend, you will love one another. Now is he saying that to become his friend and become a child of God, you must love one another? No. He's saying, Because you are a child of God, he says, I have chose you. You did not choose me, but I have chosen you and appointed you. He's saying, Because you are mine, because we are friends, this is now the proper and right response to someone. That is filled by the Holy Spirit is to love one another, is to be friends with one another. It's the only thing we can do So the only way that we can love one another, the only way that we can truly be friends, is if we have faith in Christ. We have been washed by the blood of Christ. We are forgiven before the Father, and we are indwelled by the Holy Spirit. That's when we start to produce fruit because now we are a new tree. And this is what we are called to do. Brothers and sisters, I hope that you saw tonight the beauty of friendship and how God has called us to have friends. I hope even more that you see that our only and best example is Christ and Him alone. Look to Him. Study His life. Study who He is. Study all of God's Word, and you will understand how to love one another. When times are hard, when you hurt one another, when you've offended one another, when the the world is attacking us, the only way we will be able to be friends and to have meaningful, godly friendships is by studying his word. and committing to one another, not because of who we are, but because of who we have become in Christ. Let us go before God in prayer. Father, I thank you for your word. I thank you that you have made us in your image. You've formed us. You've given us life. And while we rebelled against you, you gave us your son to die in our place. Father, you filled us with the Spirit. You gave us faith to believe. Lord, I now pray that you continue to grow fruit out of us. Lord, I pray for those that do not have a godly friend in their life. That they find that person. You send that person into their life. May they see them, may they love them, may they grow and be sanctified through that relationship. And Lord, for those that do have that friend, I pray that you strengthen that relationship. today. You reassure them of that relationship. You allow them to encourage one another, to bring joy and comfort to one another. Allow them to commit to one another. And Lord, may we do all of this to your glory. May we go into the world proclaiming the glorious friend we have in Christ. We pray this in his name alone. Amen.