Matthew 1, verse 1, the book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham. Abraham was the father of Isaac. And Isaac, the father of Jacob, and Jacob, the father of Judah and his brothers. And Judah, the father of Perez. And Zirah by Tamar, and Perez the father of Hezron, and Hezron the fat the father of Ram, and Ram, the father of Aminadab, and Aminadab, the father of Nashan, and Nashan, the father of Salmon And Sammon the father of Boaz by Rahab, and Boaz the father of Obed by Ruth, and Obed the father of Jesse, and Jesse the father of David the king. And David was the father of Solomon by the wife of Uriah, and Solomon the father of Rehoboam, and Rehoboam the father of Abishah, and Abishah the father of Asaph. and Asaph the father of Jehoshaphat, and Jehoshaphat the father of Joram, and Joram the father of Uzziah, and Uzziah the father of Jotham And Jotham the father of Ahaz, and Ahaz the father of Hezekiah, and Hezekiah the father of Manasseh, and Manasseh the father of Amos And Amos, the father of Josiah, and Josiah, the father of Jeconiah, and his brothers, at the time of the deportation to Babylon. And after the deportation to Babylon, Jeconiah was the father of Sheel Tel, and Sheel Tel, the father of Zerubbabel. And Zerubabel the father of Abiod, and Abiad the father of Eliakim, and Eliakim the father of Azor, and Azor the father of Zadek And Zadek the father of Akim, and Akim the father of Iliud, and Iliud the father of Eleazar, and Eleazar the father of Methan and Mithon, the father of Jacob, and Jacob, the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom Jesus was born, who is called Christ So all the generations from Abraham to David were fourteen generations, and from David to the deportation to Babylon, fourteen generations. And from the deportation to Babylon to the Christ, fourteen generations. Um We're not going to expound on the significance of the number 14 this week. Most interpreters take that to be uh A symbolic number that represents David's name. If you take the numerical value of the letters of David, David's name from the Hebrew spelling, it adds up to 14 So it's a number of royalty. Either way, that's what Matthew uses to structure out this genealogy. So he gives us that structure in verse 17. All the generations from Abraham to David. So that's the uh first division or the first section of the genealogy, Abraham to David. And you see that in verse 1 and 2. The book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham. Abraham was the father of, and on and on and on. And then you get to the end of verse 6. Or just verse 6, and Jesse the father of David the king. So the royalty of David is highlighted, but this first section goes from Abraham to David. That's what he said in verse 17. So all the generations from Abraham to David were 14 generations. And then he says, and from David to the deportation to Babylon, 14 generations. This is the second section. So Matthew structures out the genealogy to give us the overall significance, the redemptive historical significance of the genealogy. Um the second section is the is verse six. Jesse the father of David the king and David the father of Solomon And so forth and so on. And then if you scan down to verse 11, and Josiah, the father of Jechoniah and his brothers at the time of the deportation to Babylon. Which is the exile. So around five ninety seven. I mean there were some exiled in six oh five, but the first major siege And uh major exile was 597. Oh, I didn't say Abraham, you know, most Most biblical scholars will put Abraham, generally speaking, around 2000 B. C. or around 2200 B. C. David's reign was 1010 to 970. So you see from Abraham to David, and then from David to the deportation to Babylon, and then go back to verse 17. For the third and final section of the genealogy, from the deportation to Babylon to the Christ, fourteen generations. And you see that in verse, uh the end of verse eleven, deportation to Babylon, and then verse twelve, after the deportation to Babylon, Jechaniah, and so forth, so on and so forth. And then verse sixteen The last verse of the genealogy, and Jacob, the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom Jesus was born, who is called Christ. So from Abraham to David the king. Uh, then from David the king to the exile, really the doing away of that kingdom of Israel, there would have been a provisional restoration back to the land, a rebuilding of the temple, a rebuilding of the city, a uh reinstituting of the sacrifices, a rebuilding of the walls, a provisional restoration of that kingdom after the exile. But The third section of this genealogy is from the exile to the Christ to bring that eternal kingdom, that redemptive kingdom. So , some pretty cool names in the uh in the genealogy, huh? Some of you forgot about us. Yeah. Some interesting again, I said at the beginning, there's some interesting things there. If you have a good study Bible or Get your hands on a good commentary from Matthew. There are lots of interesting and meaningful tidbits from within the theology, but I want to focus on the overarching significance. Proving that Jesus is the legal heir of David. No, he has to be the legal heir of David for him to be the Christ. And Joseph did adopt Jesus. So this here is Verse 16, this is a genealogy, really from Abraham to Joseph. And then Jesus is the son of Joseph. Uh of Jesus of whom Jesus was born, who is called Christ. Luke will give a genealogy too, but it's world history. It goes all the way back to Adam. This is Israel's history, proving that Jesus is the promised Christ, the Christ that was promised to Israel. And Jesus is the legal heir of David. Christ is the one who establishes God's eternal and redemptive kingdom, which would be synonymous with the new creation. The Bible begins with the story of creation. The Bible ends with the bringing about of the new creation. But as those in Christ, we are already partakers of the new creation by virtue of the what that dwells within us. Well, the who. The Holy Spirit, right? We're partakers of the new creation because we have the resurrection spirit of Christ within us. And so we're to say that we belong to the new creation or to say that we're partakers of the new creation is the saying the same exact thing that of we're citizens of the Kingdom of God, citizens of the kingdom of heaven. We've been redeemed by the blood of the Lamb. Um, I do want to review some things. I didn't mention last week why I'm doing this. After Daniel. Remember, Daniel, the central prophecy is that God was going to set up his kingdom, set up his eternal redemptive kingdom in the days of what empire? In the days of the Roman Empire. Right. And so when you get to Matthew, what when any any of the gospels, you see the fulfillment of that promise. Daniel two 44, case you have forgotten the thousand times I read it last class. And in those in the days of those kings The God of heaven will set up a kingdom that will never be destroyed, nor shall the kingdom be left to another people. It shall break in pieces all these kingdoms and bring them to an end, and it shall stand forever. Verse 45, just as you saw that a stone was cut from a mountain by no human hand, and that it broke in pieces the iron, the bronze, the clay, the silver, and the gold, a great God has made no made known to you the king. What shall be after this? The dream is certain, and its interpretation is sure. And we come to the New Testament and it is Jesus the Christ who establishes this kingdom. Of course, you had this Really important figure who comes on the scene before Jesus, who's the forerunner to the kingdom. Who is that? John the Baptist, the last Old Covenant prophet who's unique among Old Covenant prophets. He's the forerunner of the Christ. He paves the way for the Christ. And then Christ comes and establishes the eternal redemptive spiritual kingdom. Matthew 1:1 The book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, Son of David, the Son of Abraham. So let's just start with this. Son of David, Son of Abraham. We talked a little bit about this last week. That means Jesus is the uh the heir to the covenant promises. He's the fulfillment of the covenant promises made to David and made to Abraham. Now the section of God's covenant with Abraham is a long section. It goes from Genesis 12 to Genesis 22. It's a major section. It's such an important section of the Bible. So forgive me for summarizing it all and trying to put it in a nutshell Because there's more to it. I don't want this it's more to it than what I'm about to say, but I do believe this is a good summary of God's promise, his covenant promise to Abraham. From Abraham, God will create a nation. And that nation will be what? You know it. It's not a true question. Israel. And then from within that nation will come the Redeemer And that will be Christ. And then that Redeemer will bring blessing to all families of the earth. And it'll have a multitude of descendants of spiritual heirs, who were heirs by faith, not by works, not by bloodline, but heirs of the promise Through faith. If you don't believe me on that, just read Galatians tonight before you go to bed. Paul will convince you. We're heirs of the promises made to Abraham by faith in Christ. Christ is the heir. The promise was made to Christ. Christ is the heir, and then in spiritual union with him, we too are heirs, heirs by faith, not by bloodline. So God promises Abraham From that nation, a savior that will bring salvation to the world. God promises David that that savior will come from his line It is an heir of David, the lion of the tribe of Judah. It's an heir of David that will be the Christ. That's really the as the promise of a redeemer develops from Genesis 3. 15 is where you get this initial promise of a redeemer. From Genesis 3. 15, the promise of the Redeemer develops and develops and develops, but really the high point of that development is the Christ, the heir of David. And this will be this will be the uh Jesus Christ, the son of David. The one who will set up God's eternal kingdom, and the son of Abraham, the one that will bring bring salvation to the nations, not just to Israel, but to To the world. The Savior comes from and within, and he comes first to Israel and then to the nations. Any questions on any of that? Broad historical picture. That's the point of the genealogy, to give this broad historical picture of the redemptive The redemptive story from Abraham through David to the arrival of Christ. Any questions? Okay. I don't know if that's good or bad. Alright, good. Yeah. Um So, let's just let's talk discussion style. Let me find a writing utensil so I can keep up with what is said. And let's see if we can hit some of the uh my pens and pencils are gone. Does anyone have a a pen thank you. Well, don't you need it? I have one. I have a bad first. In Genesis three fifteen, God promises a redeemer to the world who will destroy the works of the devil. Um and restore the relationship between man and himself All right. And then God's that promise historically is worked out Through Abraham. By the time you get to Genesis eleven, the world is covered. in darkness. It's covered by rebellious nations, led by wicked kings, given to idolatry, given to violence, given to sexual immorality. This is the world of Darkness, the world of lostness. Out of that context, in that world, um God calls Abraham and promises that the Redeemer will come from Abraham. And then in uh in Deuteronomy eighteen, I'll give you a little hints. find this. There's an there's a further development. Actually no, I skipped one In Genesis 49, there's another development. Let's go to Genesis 49. There's another development specifically to where that Redeemer will come from. from. This is the point of the Old Testament in a general from a general view is where is this Redeemer going to come from? In Genesis 49, we find out something that's more narrow than just Abraham's lineage. From the lineage of Abraham in the do you know? In the tribe of Judah. That's right. So in the line of Abraham from the tribe of Judah. So now he's narrowed down where the Redeemer will come from. And then Deuteronomy 18. Deuteronomy 18, we find another development, not necessarily lineage, but just telling us something about the Redeemer. Deuteronomy eighteen Uh look from look Yeah, yeah, yeah. Great. Excellent. You want to read that for us? The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among you Excellent. And then uh read verse eighteen too. It's basically the same thing. Thank you. So it will be the Redeemer of the world who will come and destroy the works of the devil and reconcile sinful man and God. Um will come in the line of Abraham from the tribe of Judah. He'll be a prophet like Moses. Moses was a powerful prophet. Um Moses was a redeemer figure, and Moses was a m the mediator of a of a covenant. That's right. He was a covenant mediator and he was a redeemer figure. So the the Redeemer capital R, the Redeemer of the World, will be like that. Moses is a type, or he's a shadow, of the Savior who will come. be a redeemer and he will mediate a covenant and it'll be the same kind of covenant or a different kind of covenant? A different kind of covenant, right? Better covenant or worse covenant or equal Better covenant, right. Better covenant because it's based on, as the author of Hebrews says, better promises. Better promises The promise of the law was your promise to obe you're promised to reward based on your obedience. The promise of grace, the promise of the new covenant is your promise to obedience based on the gift of life. Right. Believe in Christ, and you have life, and that life will lead to obedience. Obedience. It's not con life is not conditioned on your obedience, basically, in the new covenant. Which we know ourselves, we know our hearts. That's the only way we could be saved. That's the only way we could be saved. We the only way we could be redeemed. The only way we could have the gift of life is if it's given to us as a gift of grace that's not based on, that's not conditioned by us. So this is the scripture. All we're doing is tracking through scripture, right? Genesis 3. 15, a savior of the world is promised. Genesis 49. 10. Or Genesis 12, rather, this Redeemer will come from the line of Abraham, Genesis 49, 10, from the tribe of Judah, Deuteronomy 18 He'll be a prophet like Moses, but much, much greater than Moses. It's another thing the author of Hebrews says that Moses was a servant within God's house, but Christ is is the sun over God's house. And then you get to 2 Samuel 7. And this narrows down even more. Not only will be from the tribe of Judah a prophet like Moses, but it'll be a prophet. In the line of David, in the line of David. The Christ who will come will have to fit all those qualifications. And Scripture narrows and narrows and narrows who the Christ will be, and then Jesus comes and Jesus is the Christ. And again, as we looked at last week, this was the burden of apostolic preaching through the book of Acts to prove that Jesus is the Christ. And to prove that the Christ is Jesus. So using the Old Testament scriptures and preaching how Jesus in his life, death, and resurrection is the Christ that was promised. So there you go. There's the significance. Genealogy, therefore, is very, very important because Jesus is not a legal heir of David in the line of David. He can't he doesn't qualify to be the Christ. Of course, that's hypothetical. He is. He is the Christ. But this is very, very important. Alright, let's look at some I don't know if to say intriguing or controversial. I don't think they need to be controversial, but they have been. And understanding that Christ is the heir of David that has established the kingdom of God. So let's look at uh some things about David's throne. David 's throne represents David's rule. David served, David reigned on an earthly throne. It was uh part of the kingdom of Israel, as he was the king, the greatest king. Turn to Acts 2. 25 Acts 2. 25. Part of the covenant promised to David is that one of his heirs will sit on his throne forever. That's the establishing of the kingdom. The promise is given in the form of type and shadow. The promise is given in the form of the old covenant type, David's throne. But the New Testament tells us about the fulfillment of that , the substance that the type was pointing to. Acts 2. 25. We look at quite a big portion here. 2. 25 all the way down to 36 For David says concerning him. Obviously, if you know the context, you know the hymn refers to Jesus. Just look at verse 23, the first two words, and verse 22. The first part of it. This is about Jesus. David said concerning him. So David's prophesying about Jesus. I saw the Lord always before me For he is at my right hand, that I may not be shaken. Therefore my heart was glad, and my tongue rejoiced. My flesh also will dwell in hope. For you will not abandon my soul to Hades Or let your holy one see corruption. You have made known to me the path of life. You will make me full of gladness with your presence. So just notice the first personal pronouns, particularly in verse 27, where David is writing, you will not abandon my soul. And then in verse 28, you've made known to me the paths of life. And then also in verse 28, you will make me full of gladness. But as Peter just preached in verse 25, David is saying this concerning Jesus. Makes me think. Of the book of 1 Peter, where Peter teaches that it was the Spirit of Christ speaking through the prophets, predicting his own sufferings and glory. So that's what's happening here. Even though David, from his perspective, the human author perspective, is writing in the first person, he's prophesying about Christ. It's the Spirit of Christ. through him predicting his own redemptive work. Verse 29 gives us further confirmation of that. So Peter's not only preaching the first Christian sermon, he's giving a paradigm for Christian hermeneutics, right? How we interpret the old in light of the new. In verse 29, he says, brothers I may say to you with confidence about the patriarch David that he both died and was buried, and his tomb is with us to this day. And inside his tomb would have been his Body. Right, so this was not fulfilled. That's his point here. This was not fulfilled in David physically, literally Being therefore a prophet, he's talking about David, being therefore a prophet, and knowing That God had sworn him, had sworn with him an oath that he would set one of his descendants on his throne. Now let's just stop there, just camp out on that. David knew. That God swore to him that one of his descendants would sit on his throne. This is how David knew that The Christ would be risen. That's the connection here. The resurrection of Christ. And the connection David's making is that's the fulfillment of God's oath that one of his descendants would sit on his throne verse 31 clarifies that for us he foresaw so David David foresaw and spoke about the what The resurrection of Christ. That's the topic. That's what the throne promise is about. It's about the resurrection of Christ. um this psalm and of the hermeneutics or the interpretive principle through which we should read it Now so that it's not so choppy, let me start again in verse thirty. Being therefore a prophet, knowing that God has sworn with him an o an oath that he would set one of his descendants on his throne, he foresaw and spoke about the resurrection of Christ, that he was not abandoned to Hades, nor did his flesh see corruption. This Jesus, God raised up, and we are all witnesses. Being therefore exalted at the right hand of God, that's the throne. You see, that's the real throne of the kingdom of God, the eternal kingdom of God. David's earthly throne in the kingdom of Israel was just a type and shadow of this throne of God in heaven. Jesus This Jesus God raised up, and we're all witnesses, being therefore exalted to the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit. Spirit, he has poured out this that you yourselves are seeing and hearing. For David did not ascend into the heavens, but he himself says, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. Let all the house of Israel know, therefore, for certain, that God has made him both Lord and Christ, this Jesus whom you crucified. So we're not waiting for the throne promise uh that an heir of David will sit on sit on his throne. We're not waiting for that to be fulfilled. That's been fulfilled in the resurrection and the Ascension of Christ. The throne, the earthly throne of David was a type and shadow of this heavenly throne of Christ. Look at look at verse 34. David did not ascend to the heavens. But he himself says. So just stop right there. Okay, so look at what he what he begins by saying, David did not ascend into the heavens, but he himself says. So, whatever he's about to say is going to be about someone ascending into the heavens. David did not ascend into the heavens, but he says. The Lord said to my Lord. So the first Lord is God the Father. The second Lord is God the Son. So this is David's heir, who's also greater than David. David's Son who's greater than him. The Lord, God the Father, said to my Lord, God the Son, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. This is the Father installing the Son to his right hand to reign over his kingdom. It parallels with the vision of Daniel 7, where the Son of Man, this glorious Son of Man, is ushered into the throne room of God and receives the kingdom and receives dominion and receives authority over all things. This is Jesus ascending to the heavens, being seated at the right hand of God. And it's the fulfillment of This promise, this oath, God swore an oath that one of David's descendants would sit on his throne. And so the promise, the prophecy initially is given in the form of type and shadow, so David could understand it. And the fulfillment comes With the heavenly substance, the actual throne of God in heaven. And if we were in heaven, we would see That vision, that revelation of God's glorious throne. At different points in the Bible, prophets are given a little glimpse, a little window into God's heavenly throne room, this glorious, radiant, all-powerful, unbelievable throne. The difference now that we would see would be like what John saw in Revelation, the incarnate ascended Christ is there at the throne with the ancient of days , where he says Serves as our priest. And it's a good thing he does, too. It's a good thing we have a mediator there at the throne who represents us before God and who's made propitiation for our sins. Because this way it's a throne of grace where we can approach with confidence and boldness and be accepted by God. Other than that, if it's just God's holiness and just God's law and just God's commandments, there's only wrath and only condemnation. So the Savior there enthroned with God is really the thing that enables us to be saved. One more on this, and then I'll stop for questions. Luke 1 thirty two and thirty three. Luke one thirty two through 33. And then I'll tell you why I get so fired up about this. Luke 132. He will be great. He will be called the son of the most high, and the Lord God will give to him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end. eternal kingdom, the heir of David, the Christ, the Son of the Most High. So we're called to seek first the what? The kingdom of God and his righteousness. We can't seek first a kingdom if we don't if we don't know what it is or if we don't believe it exists. All right. Um in Colossians 1, Paul writes that we've been transferred into the kingdom of God's beloved Son. Later on in Colossians, Paul and those who minister with him are called co-workers in the kingdom. Kingdom of God. It's the kingdom of the Son, the kingdom of God. In Philippians chapter 3, Paul writes that we're citizens of heaven. Our citizenship is in heaven. We belong to the kingdom of heaven, the kingdom of heaven, the kingdom of Christ, the kingdom of God exists, and we've been brought into that kingdom and that's what we're to seek first, seek the advance of the kingdom, to seek the ethic and the character of the kingdom in our lives, in our actions, in our words. Um to be servants in the kingdom in the local church who care for each other and strive for peace with one another and strive to um bring the gospel to The dying world with one another and for the sake of Christ, for the name and glory of Christ. The kingdom of God is a real thing. And at the center of the The power source of the kingdom of God is the ascended Christ, who advances his kingdom by his word and by his spirit, through his people, through his church. So this is why I get so fired up about it. Questions, comments on anything so far? Told you I was going broad tonight. Broad significance of this genealogy. One one thing that I've always tried to find that for me was very was a because the wood was a real eye over there was um you said you said in there that um that um Peter was teaching in Acts 2 and talking about the risen Lord and he said who you crucified, speaking to the Jews. If you go to John 19, 20, it wasn't very long before that. They were up in that meaning of crowded and had to scare to death. And so to me that was the real revelation of they had to have seen the resurrected Lord. They wouldn't have had the power or the ability for him to say that at that time, unless they knew they had seeing a resurrected woman. Don't you send out O Roma to see them in a place where they were um scared to death and now he's telling me Yeah. Yeah. They've been prepared for this day. So you're right, they had the eyewitness experiences, and there also was ministry training and teaching. During that time, we learn in Scripture Jesus spent much time teaching them about the kingdom of God, teaching them hermeneutics. Um, and then still, even after all that, on the day of Pentecost, they need the revelation of the Holy Spirit to give them the substance to preach and um and teach. So there was a receiving of Of Revelation. But it is uh it's a such a a wonderful and unique time of history, this from the resurrection, well, from the crucifixion when they're afraid and they scatter. And then you have the resurrection and everything that happens in that forty days before the ascension, and then after the ascension, ten more days till Pentecost. It's uh a whirlwind. Wow. What a spring Quite a season they had. And it's all God setting up his kingdom. Setting up his kingdom on earth. Anyone else? David's house. So he looks at David's throne. Look at let's look at David's house or David's tent. Acts fifteen. A tent just represents his family, where they live. His house. Those he rules over, those he represents. R really the way of talking about the kingdom in general. Acts fifteen Verse twelve Oh, I'll tell you another reason why I get fired up about this. Because Jesus is not only Is he a merciful Savior? Of course. But he's also an Almighty King who rules over everything. He rules over all things in heaven and on earth. He is the sovereign Lord over all things. And so a really a truncated Christology or a truncated, that just means cut off, cut short, gospel , is very popular today. Limiting it to the proclamation of Christ as Savior, and then even watering that down, and all kinds of things are said about that. Christ is Savior, merciful Savior, gracious beyond imagination, an incomprehensible love for unworthy sinners. But he's also the highest authority, the supreme authority in the universe of All things over all things, over all nations. All throughout the Old Testament, who is sovereign over the nations? God is. Alright. Who's sovereign over the nations today? Same. It's just now that that that same reign of the same God, the only difference is that reign is now mediated through the incarnate and ascended Son. But it hasn't changed that God is sovereign over all things. It's so important to remember that because it's connected to the heart of what we have to proclaim to each other and to the world that we are all accountable. To God. We're all accountable to God for the lives that we live. This is his earth, not our earth, it's his earth. The food we eat is his food. That's why we say thank you. That's why we say grace before meals. He gave us this food, he gave us this air. He gave us life and we are duty bound to love and obey him. And it's because we've not done that to God then. And comes as a merciful Savior. David's house, Acts fifteen, twelve. And all the assembly fell silent, and they listened to Barnabas and Paul. As they honor God's changing of Saul's name to Paul , Barnabas and Paul, as they related what signs and wonders God had done through them among the Gentiles. There's a guy, a mission report. Verse thirteen. After they finished speaking, James replied, Brothers, listen to me Simeon has related how God first visited the Gentiles to take from them a people for his name. That's his topic. How God visited the Gentiles and took from them a people for his name. What does that mean? It means he saved some Gentiles. That's all that means. He snatched up some Gentiles for his own name, for his own glory. God saved some Gentiles. And with this, with what? With that very thing. God saves people from Gentiles. With this, the words of the prophet agree. So he's going to quote a prophecy. That predicted God saving Gentiles. Does that make sense? Am I going too fast? No, that makes sense. Does it make sense? So, whatever prophecy we're about to read is a prediction of God saving Gentiles. And here's the prophecy. After this I will return, and I will rebuild the tent of David that has fallen. I will rebuild its ruins, and I will restore it. That the remnant of mankind may seek the Lord, and all the Gentiles who are called by my name, says the Lord, who make these things known from old. So again, the prophecy is given in the old covenant form or the type or the shadow. So if you if if I were to insist on a literal fulfillment, it would just be the the reconstituting of another old covenant kingdom. But these things are fulfilled in the new covenant. David's house is rebuilt and its ruins are rebuilt and it is restored by God saving Gentiles under the new covenant, saving them by the blood of Christ. It's the same pattern as the throne prophecy. The type and shadow is fulfilled in the heavenly substance. Of Christ reigning at the throne of God, and the type and shadow of David's house or David's tent is fulfilled in the substance of salvation coming to the Gentiles. Anyway, that's James's argument at the Jerusalem Council. Telling you Acts Wr is it well, probably Hebrews first, but also think second secondly the book of Acts teaches us how to properly understand prophecy and everything in the Old Testament, especially Dealing with the nation of Israel. Um David's nation. David's nation or David's kingdom? Either one. The nation was the kingdom. The nation of Israel was the kingdom of God under the old covenant. Um Ephesians two Don't know if you've noticed this, and I don't know if I'll always stick to this. But uh during sermons, during the worship service, I try to take those down to the most personal heart level as possible because that's important for discipleship. That's the core of discipleship God administering His grace through the gospel to our hearts and dealing with us and in our sanctification. I try to go more broad and zoom out and see what God is doing because that's the context for discipleship. If we ever lose contact with this grand work that God is doing. Our discipleship will will be shallow. It'll be disconnected, and it will be boring, and it will be dull. It will be all about me. It'll just be the religious version of the me story. And my works and what I'm learning and my knowledge and all this stuff. But when we take our eyes off of ourselves and just step back and see what God is doing and grow in understanding what God is doing On his earth, for his purpose, for his name. That's the thing that can get us really, really grounded in our growth. David's nation or David's kingdom. Whichever you prefer. Now, uh, we'll start in Ephesians 2, 11. So obviously, you know, we're talking about Israel. Therefore, remember that at one time you Gentiles in the flesh called the uncircumcision by what is called the circumcision. Which is made in the flesh by hands. Remember that you were at that time separated from Christ. Obviously, that's all it is before the gospel. Separated from Christ. Now look at what he says. Alienated from what? Alienated from the Commonwealth of Israel. And what else? Strangers to the covenants plural of promise singular That promise of a redeemer that was worked out in progressive covenants. Specifically here, that's I I believe 100% that's referring back first to the covenant made with Abraham. Abraham, where the nation is promised, and then the Redeemer is promised from that nation. So the Gentiles were at one time Not only separated from Christ, but alienated from Israel and strangers to her outside means you know nothing of. You know nothing of the covenants of promise. Having no hope and without God in the world is the worst place to be. No hope and without God. But now, verse 14, but now in Christ Jesus, you who were once far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ. Now he is not talking about, and he cannot be talking about, they are brought in and made citizens of old covenant commonwealth of Israel. He's talking about being brought into the new covenant by the blood of Christ. That's what it means to have been brought near by the blood of Christ. So in in a way of fulfillment, they're no longer alienated from the Commonwealth of Israel. They're no longer strangers to the covenants of promise. But they've been partakers of the fulfillment of the He himself is our peace, verse 14. He himself is our peace who has made us both one. That's uh the circumcision and the uncircumcision. The Jew and the Gentile, he's made us both one, and has broken down in his flesh the dividing wall of hostility. By abolishing the law of commandments expressed in ordinances, that he might create in himself one new man in place of the two, and so making peace What in the world is that all about? Well the picture actually is pretty easy. What was the dividing wall between Israel and all the other nations? It was the Mosaic Covenant. That's what he says here. Um the but the way he's broken down in his flesh the dividing wall of hostility was by abolishing the law of commandments expressed in ordinances. Abolishing, bringing to an end, making obsolete, as the author of Hebrews says, this old covenant, that he might create in himself one new man in place of the two, so making peace. Verse sixteen, and might reconcile us both to God in one body Through the cross. It's all made possible by the cross, by the blood shed on the cross, thereby killing the hostility. And he came and preached peace to you who were far off, and peace to those who were near, for through him we both have access in one spirit to the Father. Verse 19 So then you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets. Christ Himself being the cornerstone, in whom the whole structure, being joined together, grows up into a holy temple in the Lord. An architectural temple? No The thing that the architectural temple foreshadowed. That's what the church is. That's what Christians are involved in. The holy temple in the Lord. In him you also are being built together into a dwelling place for God by his Spirit. A dwelling place. A dwelling place. So my people. It's talking about the church. Jews and Gentiles. So those who were now who were once Alienated from Israel have now been brought in, but brought into the new Israel. The uh brought into the heavenly assembly, not the old covenant, yes. This is an aha moment to the apostles coming from James through Scripture to let them know that the Gentiles are now going to become into the fold of the covenant So that there's unity of them agreeing to this new thing, the Gentiles coming into the comments. So we call them. The Gentiles have free access to God. And so this is coming. No distinction between Jew and Gentile. In the words of Scripture. Go Google this tonight. No distinction in the New Testament. No distinction between Jew and Gentile. There's equal access to covenant life and to worship. Well I don't know if this in particular, but the age of the apostles, this revelation was given through them and through the prophets. That's why it says here on the foundation of The prophets and the apostles, Christ being the cornerstone. So new revelation was being given. Obviously, it became the New Testament. So this is where they learn these things from God, not from themselves. I would say this whole era is the aha moment. And seriously, and it needs to be the aha moment for us over and over again, and how we understand The Bible, how we understand the gospel, how we understand how we fit into God's plan. I like that phrase, aha moment. You know, key keys to understanding, really, keys to understanding how to interpret scripture. Anyone else I do have more here. Romans ten. Yeah, go ahead. Obviously Muhammad Hinduism, blah blah blah. But I don't need I remember ever hearing any sort of even remotely comparable claim to a Messiah ever anywhere ever, right? Other than this. This is so overwhelming. Yeah. The evidence is so re it's ridiculously overwhelming And yet these guys are waiting. I mean you would think rabbis might have heard a good portion of this. Yeah. There's nobody else It's not even like a runner up anywhere. It's like, you know, no Messiah, whoever. No. The runner up, Messiah, he's pretty close. There's nothing. There's no silver medals, bronze medals, nothing. This thing's Total total over and there's no one like Jesus. And it's not only his claims. I mean other people have claimed some crazy things, but His character, the witness of his life, the power that attended his life and ministry. The earth has never seen power like the earthly ministry of Christ. Um so you of course you have miracles throughout the Bible and miracle miracle working men here and there scattered sporadically. But Jesus' ministry was just a show of power that was Yeah, it's all about him. Just it just Ties it all together. It's like unless the spirit changes the mind and we know this for ourselves, unless the spirit changes the mind to see these things, second Corinthians three, s t even to this day when the law is read, a veil remains. So it's only and this is so important why we don't turn to another strategy to win souls. Just because people people aren't immediately changed by the gospel or in the natural flesh don't like the gospel, we don't we don't change to something else we don't change the message to change their minds. The gospel is the only thing that can change the mind. Like the Bible never tells us to try to change someone's worldview to prepare them to be better equipped to be saved. We preach God's law. Praying that God will bring sinners to unto conviction and see their need for a savior, and we preach the gospel, the life of Christ, the identity of Christ, the sacrificial death of Christ, the resurrection of Christ, the eternal life. Forgiveness, all that Christ offers. We preach Christ. And if Christ Himself doesn't change the heart, the heart won't get changed. So this is uh it's such an important practical ministry. point uh that you're bringing up. You know, you look at all the different versions of unbelief and s how wild they are. But meth in terms of our method, we just need to be stranded on the word. The word the word is what can Change the heart. Let's look at Rome. Oh yeah, Neil, go ahead. because this is the sovereign only the wills of men. And so when men come to Christ, or women come to Christ, it's because of his sovereign will and his Holy Spirit and the Christ. process and all these things together so it comes back to that sovereignty. It's his control, it's his universe. Which should give us peace. Right? We shouldn't be upset at that. Like in a like in the book of Acts. All who were appointed to eternal life believed and were saved. God is sovereign over salvation. We're just stewards. We're just mouthpieces. We d hopefully we know we don't have the power to go in and change your heart, but we serve an all-powerful God. And we just um worth the effort. Yeah, amen. Yep. Knowing that he's working with us being angelized. Yeah. Such a great reminder, brother. It really is. Um What you're saying makes me think of some things at the beginning of First Corinthians, if you want to read this in your home your homework. this week in First Corinthians and in the first sex the the very beginning of First Corinthians like chapter one and two and then the first half of second Corinthians Paul refers a lot to his method and to his approach to ministry. And over and over you'll see things like straightforward speech. Speech, not eloquent wisdom, clear presentation of the truth, that this is how he commends himself to the conscience of men and and with intention integrity before God, just straightforward communication of the truth and trusting in that. Um Yeah. And We don't need to be clever or creative. Now we want to put effort and work into communicating, of course. We don't want to be bad communicators, but we want to be straightforward and we want to be trying to Oh man, we have three minutes. Well, I'll give you these for homework. Alright, ready? Romans 10, 12 through 13 And then Romans eleven, seventeen to eighteen. And it's really just talking about how the promise, the promises of salvation that God made to Israel are fulfilled first in Israel. Apostate Israel is cut off Right, but Gentiles are grafted in. So it's just another metaphor from in Ephesians where Gentiles were alienated from the Commonwealth of Israel. Israel, then they're brought near through the blood of Christ. In Romans ten and eleven, the illustration is an olive tree. The faithful remnant of Israel is the olive tree. Apostate Israel was cut off. But Gentiles are grafted into that olive tree of the faithful remnant, and that becomes the New Testament church or the New Covenant people of God. People with the the Holy Spirit, those who partake of the new creation. Now I'm going to give you one more and this probably is the most important and I think in So there you go. This is gold. It's the most important and it's the easiest. On the promise of the old covenant. The promise of the new covenant, rather, the promise of the new covenant in Jeremiah 31, 31 to 33. Jeremiah 31. Thirty one to thirty-three. In fact, we have two minutes w we're gonna look at this. Because I want you to s I want you to see this. I want you to see it's so easy to see and it's so important. You get this, all these other details will fall into place. The throne, the tent, the whatever, the temple and and all these types of shadows. And this with this interpretive lens, it'll all fall into place if you get this. Jeremiah 31, 31. Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with whom? Who does he say? Read it out loud. Oh, okay. So that means Gentiles can't partake of it, right? It doesn't say Gentiles. It's a new covenant with the house of Israel and the house of Judah. Not like the covenant I made with their fathers on the day. So we don't have time to look at all that. But it's not going to be like a law covenant. It's not going to be a covenant of law. It'll be a covenant of grace. But you see that the covenant was promised to the house of Israel and the house of Judah. Now turn to Hebrews ten, twelve through eight So sometimes what you'll hear if you listen to enough TV or radio or If you read books, eventually you'll hear this. It's not uncommon. Um but that means that that that that passages like that will be used to teach that therefore it can't be fulfilled in the church. It's not fulfilled in the church. That's not fulfilled yet because it's this is to Israel, not to the church. It's to Israel, it's to Judah, not to the church. Hebrews 10, first of all, the Lord's Supper, when Jesus institutes that, should put that to rest. But we'll just look at Hebrews 10, 12 through 18. But when Christ had offered for all time a single sacrifice for sins, he sat down at the right hand of God, waiting from that time till his enemies would be made a footstool at his feet. Subduing his enemies, subduing his enemies. For by a single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified. And the Holy Spirit also bears witness to us. For after saying, This is the covenant that I will make with them, after those days, declares the Lord, I'll put my law on their hearts and write them on their minds. And then he adds, I'll remember their sins and their lawless deeds no more. Where there is forgiveness of these, there's no longer any offering for sins. The new covenant that was promised is fulfilled in Christ. It's established in Christ by his life, death, and resurrection. And it is fulfilled To Israel and to the house of Judah first and then to Gentiles. Salvation comes first to the Jew, then to the Greek. That's the order that the kingdom comes. That's the order that the gospel comes. The covenant is fulfilled through Christ with the faithful remnant, and then Gentiles are grafted into that very same new covenant people. It's both and it is fulfilled in Israel, to Israel, true Israel. Those who are a Jew inwardly, Romans chapter 2, not just outwardly, but they're a Jew inwardly, circumcision of the heart, not just of the flesh Is what makes someone a true child of God. So , promise of the new covenant to Israel, the fulfillment of the new covenant through Christ. In Israel and then to the Gentiles. Very, very simple. But that's the pattern. That's the story of the New Testament. And it's why today we can say that we know God. Because the message of Christ's sacrifice came to our hearts and changed our hearts and grafted us into the new covenant people, made us partakers of the new creation in Christ, made us partakers of the Holy Spirit. Spirit. Let's pray. Father, we thank you. Thank you for Jesus. Thank you that in the midst of all that's going on in the world, you have uh a story and a work and a plan and a purpose that's so much greater than what the world has to offer. And I pray that our hearts Would be further captivated by what you're doing. And filled with a deeper and deeper affection for Christ and for all that is in him. It's in his name we pray. Amen.