Your Bibles and turn to Genesis chapter one. Today, Genesis chapter one, verses nine. Simply calling this message days three to five. That's the passage that we're in. The creation week today, looking at days three, four, and five. And today we come face to face again with the most basic truth about the world. The most elementary truth, 101, when understanding the world. The world is created and ruled by God. There you go. That's the truth that once again is before us. As we read this passage, Genesis 1, 9 to 23, it's a longer passage. Want you to try to focus in on one simple thing this first time through. Just notice that God is doing everything. God is the subject, and then you'll have the verb of action. And it's God doing this, God doing that, God is doing everything. Of course, that's the way that it has to be God is the Creator. There are no other beings to do anything at this point. There's no other options. But as we go through this first time, this first reading, draw your attention to the fact that God is doing everything. So Genesis 1, 9 to 23, days 3 to 5. And God said, Let the waters unto the heavens be gathered together in one place. And let the dry land appear. And it was so. God called the dry land earth, and the waters that were gathered together he called seas. And God saw that it was good. And God said, Let the earth sprout vegetation, plants yielding seed, and fruit trees bearing fruit in which Is their seed, according to its kind, on the earth. And it was so. The earth brought forth vegetation. plants yielding seed according to their own kinds, and trees bearing fruit in which is their seed, each according to its kind. And God saw that it was good. And there was evening and there was morning the third day. And God said, Let there be lights in the expanse of the heavens to separate the day from the night, and let them be for signs and for seasons, and for days and years. And let them be lights in the expanse of the heavens, to give light upon the earth. And it was so. And God made the two great lights The greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night, and the stars. And God set them in the expanse of the heavens to give light on earth, to rule over the day and over the night. And to separate the light from the darkness, and God saw that it was good. And there was evening, and there was morning, the fourth day And God said, Let the waters swarm with swarms of living creatures, and let the birds fly above the earth across the expanse of the heavens. So God created the great sea creatures, and every living creature that moves, with which the waters swarm, according to their kinds, and every winged bird according to its kind And God saw that it was good. And God blessed them, saying, Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the waters and the seas. And let the birds multiply on the earth. And there was evening, and there was morning, the fifth day. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you. We ask that we would come to you humbly. Humble us under your word. Help us to see what it is you have for us this morning I pray if there's any barrier in our hearts to hearing your word and being open-hearted or open-minded to your word, we pray by your Spirit that you would destroy those barriers. We pray that you would minister to us the power of your word. Show us your authority and your power in creation. Show us your holiness and your righteousness. Show us your grace and your mercy that's in Christ alone. We pray that the preaching and the hearing of your word would be done in faith, would be done in such a way that we're trusting in you and not ourselves That we're not trusting in human wisdom. We're not trusting in clever schemes or clever tales. But trusting in your word. Trusting in your teachings Trusting in what you preach, trusting in the internal work of your spirit. That's what we're asking for. That your spirit would be at work within us as we come under your word. And it's in Christ that we ask these things. Amen. Now I'm going to quickly go through the whole passage and survey that thing I asked you to keep an eye out for, all that God is doing. That God is doing everything. God the subject and then the action verb. So see if you can keep up. Verse nine. God said dot dot dot And it was so. Verse ten. God called the dry land earth. You have God saying, and then it comes into being, and then God naming it for what it is. So God said Verse 9, God called, verse 10, and then the end of verse 10, God saw that it was good. Of course it's good because God made it and it's not corrupted by sin yet, but this is a way of God declaring that the thing he made is good. God declaring that the thing he did is good God said, God called, God saw. Verse eleven, and God said, the very end of verse twelve, God saw Verse 14, God said, and the end of verse 15, and it was so. Do you see the power of God's word is a really big deal here? God says it and it comes into being. Things that don't exist obey the voice of God and come into existence. The power of God must press down heavy on our hearts this morning. God is bringing things into existence that did not exist. God said, God called, God saw. God said, God saw, God said, verse 16. Verse 16, and God made. God made, God created. And then verse 17, and God set them in the expanse of the heavens. God put them where God wanted to put them. In verse 18, again at the end of verse 18, God saw that it was good. The word good is one of the most important words in Genesis chapter 1, one of the most important words in the Bible. A key attribute of God, that God is good, and that which God creates is good. Verse 20, and God said, Verse 21: God created Verse 21, the end of it. God saw that it was good. Verse 22, a new one. A new one. God blessed. God blessed them, saying. See how God is doing everything? Sometimes we've heard this story so often, and then in conjunction with the fact that we're just so consumed with the things of this world. And we get so distracted with the mundane things of the world that we can forget the incredible power of God. And by implication, the authority of God that is over the world and over everything in the world. But this is Bible 101. I mean this is the backdrop of every other teaching. In Christianity , God created the world, and God rules over the world. What is the center and what is the high point teaching of the Bible? Well, the center and high point teaching of the Bible is that God is our Savior. Through the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. Amen. That's the center. That's the high point. But the beginning, or the alpha point Of Christianity is God is the creator of a perfectly good world, an amazing world A blessed world. God made it all. I'd like our hearts to focus on this morning One thing because I don't want just I don't want these messages from the creation account to be intellectual merely intellectual thinking about creation. I want them to speak to our hearts. I want this text to impress itself upon our hearts. And this is under introduction in your outline. I would like our hearts to focus on The fact that since the world is more than the world, life must be more than just life. The world is more than what you see. The world is more than what we experience in the here and now, in the visible, in the concrete And therefore, life must be more than just life. And I mean, we've got to do more than just coast through. We've got to do more than just make it through. And then breathe our last breath. The world is more than just the world, and therefore our lives, friends, must be more than just biological life coasting through. If the world we see is all there is. I mean, literally, try to wrap your mind around this. If the world we see The material world, this is materialism we're talking about. If the material world that we see is all there is, then we are merely animals without meaning in a world without meaning. If the world we see is all there is, then hope and purpose are just an illusion. Just something we come up with to help ourselves endure through the troubles of this life. If the world we see is all there is, then morals and ethics are also an illusion. And all the debating about right and wrong and all the diff different issues of what's right and wrong in society, what kind of laws are good, what kind of laws are bad, what's the right way to treat people, what's the wrong way to treat people Brothers and sisters, it's all an illusion. If this world we see is all there is, if life under the sun in the material world is all there is, we human beings are merely animals. Without meaning in a world without meaning. That's not the biblical picture though, is it? That's a picture of despair. That's a picture of meaninglessness The world in fact is made by God. And the world, in fact, is given purpose by God. Humanity Zooming in now on humanity, humanity has a unique God -given dignity. Humanity has a unique God-given conscience. Humanity has a unique God-given role in the world. And therefore, hope and meaning are not an illusion But, brothers and sisters, hope and meaning are true, and they are worth finding. It is worth finding true hope and true meaning in this world by faith in God. Therefore, also morals and ethics are real and they are worth knowing. Issues of justice Issues of crime, issues of oppression, issues of abuse, right, wrong. Goodness, wickedness, evil, these are real issues, not an illusion. It's not busy work. The soul, the afterlife, accountability before the Creator These are real things, and above all other things they are worth contemplating. Isn't this the very thing that we need to be stirred awake to? Stirred awake to the reality of our soul. This is what we would call an awakening. If there's a widespread awakening of people being stirred awake to the reality, I have a soul. To the reality I have an afterlife. To the reality I'm accountable to God and I will stand before Him and give an account. These are real things, you see. Now this is what we mean when we say the world is more than just the world. There's more than just what we see. You're more than just a body. You're more than just molecules in motion. You have a God-given soul. made in the image of God, a unique dignity, a unique role, a unique calling, a unique purpose. The world is more than just the world. And therefore life must be more than just life. And I am calling you this morning. To contemplate these things if you've not already. And if you have to contemplate them deeper. Jeremiah 29, 13, God says, You will seek me And find me when you seek me with all your heart. That's a promise from God, friend. If you seek God with all your heart, you will find him. And you can take that promise to the bank because it's God who reveals himself, God who makes himself known To those who seek him, seek him this morning. Seek him through faith in Christ. Seek him in his word. Seek him through prayer. Matthew eleven twenty eight, Jesus says, Come to me all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. And that's a spiritual rest. That's a rest for the soul. That's the peace. Peace that comes from being reconciled to God. That's the rest that we all need. Amen? Peace for the soul. Not the counterfeit peace. That the world sells. True peace for the soul. True rest for the soul. One more. John 10, verses 10 to 11, Jesus said this, the thief comes only to steal And kill and destroy. I came that they may have life and have it abundantly. I am the Good Shepherd. And the Good Shepherd lays down his life. For the sheep. That's a nice little glimpse of the gospel, isn't it? Jesus laying down his life so that sinners could enjoy abundant life. Life in communion with God. Life having the forgiveness of sin. Life having rest for the soul, life that is now enjoying God given purpose and meaning and hope through faith in Christ And that's what God calls every single one of us to, to live life in communion with God through faith in Jesus Christ. I hope that my heart, by God's grace, and I hope that your heart also by God's grace We'll be able to understand more and more that since the world is more than just the world, life has to be more than just life. Brothers and sisters, could we not just coast through on our way to eternity? Let's live life in communion with God through faith in Jesus Christ, and let's grow in those things as the day approaches. Now, onto this outline, you'll see Nice alliteration in your outline this morning. We're going to look at this in four sections: land, lights , life, and then lessons. To look at days three to five. Land, lights, life, and then lessons. Really on that lessons it should just be singular. I just have one reminder when we get there. So cross off the S if you want to. It's just one reminder, but probably there's multiple lessons that you could draw from this one reminder. But that's what that's the outline. There now you have the roadmap. Try to keep this as simple as we can. Land, lights, life, and then some lessons. Some takeaway applications. Alright, number one, land. Are you ready for land? Alright. Good. That was 11. I like that. That was nice. On day three, God formed the seas so that dry land would appear. And then he called plant life into existence. That's verses 9 through 13. We already read it, and we'll look at some verses again. But you can for now just glance at it. You'll see on day three, God formed the seas. so that dry land would appear, and then he called plant life into existence. Verses 9 to 13 First of all, look at how he forms the seas and dry land simultaneously, verses 9 and 10. And God said, Let the waters under the heavens be gathered together in one place, and let the dry land appear. And it was so. You see that? Simultaneously, he's gathering the waters, and what appears? Dry land appears. God called the dry land earth, and the waters that were gathered together he called seas, and God saw that it was good. Now if you weren't here for the first message on verses 1 through 8, I encourage you to go to our website, go to our sermon audio page, and listen to that message that expounds. But it's actually real easy if you just want to, as I'm talking, look at verses 1 through 8, you'll see the first thing that happens with the earth. When God initially creates the heavens and the earth, the earth is covered in this sea. There's no land. The earth is covered in the sea. The sea is covered in darkness. And do you remember this? The Spirit of God was hovering over the waters. And then the first thing that God does, he speaks light into existence, but then after that he separates the waters, but not this way. How does he separate the waters in verses 1 through 8? He separates the waters this way. There's waters above the expanse and there's waters below the expanse. But below the expanse you have less water, but still the earth is just covered in waters. And remember the whole storyline that's going on here in the creation account, what started as an unlivable situation that was completely void of life, God is step by step Bit by bit, God is making this more livable, and then he's going to fill it with life, which we get into this morning. But that's the story in your mind's eye. He's making the earth more livable, and then he's going to fill it with life. It's a story with a direction. It's a story with a purpose. So after the separating of waters this way Now you've got to take the next step. You separate the waters this way so that your eye land appears, and that's a huge step in making this earth more livable. Yes? Because now you have dry land. Dry land. And um, of course, God's not constrained By not having dry land. You see in our passage, he can make life for the sky, he can make life for the sea. But but you and I, knowing the end of the story. Knowing the crown of God's creation, humanity, we need dry land. And so that's what you see. Day three He forms the seas and the dry land, making this earth a bit more livable by separating the waters not vertically but horizontally. And then verse 11 to 13. He fills the dry land with vegetation. And this is a kind of life. Certainly not humanity yet. It's not animal life, but this is plant life. Verses 11 to 13. God said, let the earth sprout vegetation. Plants yielding seed, and fruit trees bearing fruit in which is their seed, according, each according to its kind. on the earth, and it was so, and the earth brought forth vegetation, plants yielding seed according to their own kinds, and trees bearing fruit in which is their seed. Each according to its kind, and God saw that it was good, and there was evening and there was morning the third day. Now if God didn't say what God said in verse eleven You wouldn't get the vegetation that's brought forth in verse 12. Obviously that's the main point. God speaks it, and it is so Lazarus would have never come out of the grave unless Jesus spoke a life-giving word to Lazarus. Remember this, John 11? Or Jesus tells Lazarus to arise and come out of the tomb. There's a huge problem with that. Lazarus has been dead for four days. But the life-giving word of God brought Lazarus to life, and Lazarus could obey. Not because of power that Lazarus had, because of power that God has. The power of God's word If any one of us is saved in this room, and many of us are saved in this room, it's because God spoke life into our hearts through the gospel of Jesus Christ. In fact, Paul uses that illustration, Paul makes that point, comparing salvation in our hearts to the creation , God's powerful word in creation, 2 Corinthians 3 and 4. four. He forms the seas and the dry land, fills them with vegetation, and then declares it good. Verse twelve. That saw that it was good now. Not going to try to say everything about this word good right here. We'll come back to this repeatedly. We'll see this word good repeatedly. But two overarching points to say up front. And um why this is good, what good means. Uh first of all, it's good because this moves the earth closer to God's goal for the earth. That's what makes it good. Because it moves God's purpose forward. It moves God's plan forward. Like if you're rebuilding an engine or something thing and you have one major step, one major part that you ordered, you have to wait for that part and you you've got to do the hard work of putting it together and and you will have this overwhelming feeling when that's done. Like this is good because it's now a major step that you've accomplished. So that makes it good. This is good because it moves the earth closer to God's goal for the earth. You can make personal application on this point. The things in your life that move you closer to God's goal for your life are good. Those are the things you want to pursue. Now things in your life that bring you deeper into God's will for your life are good. Those are the things you want to pursue. Things that move God's plan forward. Things that come nearer and nearer to God's purpose. Will, goal, however you want to say it, those are the things that are good for us, brethren. Those are the things we want to pray for. Those are the things we want to pursue, that which is good for us, that which God says is good for us, not what the flesh says is good for us. Things like Bible reading. Beloved, that's good. Give your time to Bible reading. If it's hard for you, schedule it out. If it's still hard for you, set an alarm. Do it with the right heart. Not that you're doing Bible reading to earn God's love, but certainly doing your Bible reading to grow deeper in God's love. Because Bible reading is personal communion between God and you. And also prayer. Prayer is good. Prayer. Bible reading Congregational worship. These are things that move God's goal for our lives forward. These are things that move people nearer and nearer and more deeply into God's goal. That's what makes them good. That's what something is good. So here this is good. This is good that this happened because it's moved The earth closer to God's goal for the earth. And I exhort you, brothers, sisters, friends. Push ever deeper into God's goal for your life, which is to live in communion with Him through faith in Jesus Christ. One more overview point on what makes this good. First, it's good because it moves the earth closer to God's goal for the earth. Second, because it reflects the goodness of the one who made it. It reflects the goodness of the one who made it. It's called general revelation. It's the way that the created order reveals and shines forth the glory of God. And the wisdom of God and the ability of God. And what you make does shine forth your your ability. Think of my earlier illustration. I don't know the first thing about building an engine or rebuilding an engine. I probably could name just if you gave me enough time, like two or three parts. Like a belt or something like that. I don't know. But if you are out there and you're sitting here today and you have the knowledge and the wisdom and the skill to be able to build an engine that works Good for you. And that shines forth your knowledge and your ability and your wisdom. God's creation is like that. God's creation reflects the glory of God. It preaches, it teaches, it shines forth God's wisdom and power. It reflects the goodness of the one who made it. Number two, the lights. Lights. We did day three. That's the land. And some foundational work and understanding goodness. But now lights on day four. God created the sun, moon, and stars. to give light and to order life on earth. That's why God created the sun, moon, and stars. To give light And to order life on earth. It's almost like a government for the world. It governs how the world world functions. So we can keep track of days. If you read that passage again, verses four fourteen to nineteen. You see, this is for keeping track of days. It's not always going to be light. It's not always going to be dark. There's going to be evenings. There's going to be day mornings. There's going to be Days there's going to be nights There's going to be seasons. There's going to be signs. You'll be able to keep track and order life on earth. It is to give light, but it's more than that. It's to order life on earth. That's verses 14 Through nineteen. And again, verse eighteen. Good. It's good. God saw that it was good. And just highlighting verse 17 and 18, you get this idea of ruling over or governing over life on earth and ordering it. Verses 17 and 18. And God set them in the expanse of the heaven to give light on earth To rule over the day and over the night and to separate the light from the darkness. And God saw that it was good. Now it's a bit more livable. There's a way to keep track of days and nights. And so and seasons and signs for seasons and years. It's good. It moves the earth closer to God's goal for the earth, and it reflects the goodness of the one who made it. By the way, this personal application on that too. This aspect of goodness as reflecting the goodness of the one who made it. Things in our lives, brothers and sisters. That reflect God's character, those are good things. A forgiving spirit is a good thing. That reflects the character of God. Are giving our hearts and giving our lives over to things that contradict God's character is bad. Which is the opposite of good. And over here is good and holy, reflects God's character, having a forgiving spirit, being patient with others. Loving others. We'll go back to my toddler illustration from earlier in the sermon. Loving people more than things. Worshiping the one true God rather than a man-made God. But an unforgiving spirit. giving ourselves to sinful lusts and sinful passions , a spirit of pride, a spirit of unbelief. a spirit that uh makes things more important than people or money more important to God. Those things contradict God's character. That's what makes them bad. They're not arbitrarily good and bad things. Things that contradict And defame God in the world is bad. Things that reflect God's character in our lives are good things. And brothers and sisters, that's the fruit of the Spirit. And those are the things that we should pray for. And those are the things that God looks at us and says, This is good. These are good things. Um, life. We looked at land, we looked at lights, it's day three, day four, now life. Number three, life. On day five, God created life in the seas and sky. This is verses 20 to 23. And you can skim over those as I talk. Verses 20 and 23. We already read it. You can skim over it, but it's a new kind of life. And it's a new command and a new blessing spoken over this life. This is more than vegetation. Uh ver look at verse twenty two And God blessed them, saying, Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the waters and the seas, and let birds multiply on the earth Now you saw with the vegetation there was an element of multiplication with the vegetation because you had the bearing of fruit and then the seeds which was in the fruit. There's some kind of multiplication, but this is different. This is procreation. This is a higher form of life. This is a different kind of life. This is animal life. It's different than plant life. And see in verse 22 Because this would be very important when we get to the creation of man later on in the chapter. See the link between the phrase God blessed them And the phrase: be fruitful and multiply. Because that's the blessing. To be made in such a way that you can be fruitful and multiply is the blessing. God bless them. Saying, be fruitful and multiply. They go together. They go together. That's the blessing that's spoken. And again, what does God say in verse 21? It shouldn't surprise us. God saw that it was good. It's good because it moves the earth closer to God's goal for the earth. Those are the kind of things we should pursue in our lives. We need to understand that about the creation account, but that's to help us understand the things we need to pursue Things that move us closer to God's goal for us. Things that bring us deeper into God's goal for us. Things that help us grow in what God's goal for us is, God's will for our lives. Also reflects the goodness of the one who made it. Just a spoiler alert for where this story is going , Obviously by now we know that the things God is creating are good. The things God is doing is good. It's a good thing, good thing, good thing. It's good, good, good, good, good. All of this, spoiler alert, this whole good world and all the good things that fill the world, God is going to give as a gift to mankind. That's where this is going. It makes the whole world. Sets this whole world up. This beautiful, glorious, good world Full of life, full of food, full of things to enjoy, full of good, fruitful work, to join God in doing this work and ruling over his earth. God gives the whole world as a gift to mankind. What is sin? What is sin? It's saying, no, thank you, I don't want this gift. In fact, this gift is more important than you, the giver. I'll love the gift more than the giver. That's what sin is. When you treat the gift as the ultimate, when you treat the world as if the world is all there is, there's no God who gave it to us, we just do whatever we want. When we treat the gift as better than the giver. We treat the gift, things in creation, as more desirable than the creator. It's incredible, isn't it? The most beautiful being, the most glorious being, God Almighty, made the world, gave it as a gift. And we say, we prefer this over you. In fact, that's what idolatry is. It's using things in the world as an excuse to not worship God. The most natural thing that human beings can do is say, Thank you, God, for the good gifts you have given. We love you. We worship you. We trust you. Thank you. But sin does the opposite. rejects the world as the creation of God, and rather treats the world as a self-contained ultimate. And it's not a self-contained ultimate. There's a God beyond. There's a purpose beyond. There's a soul within. There's a afterlife on the other side. Since the world is more than the world, life must be more than just life. Number four, lessons, and I told you before, this is just one simple reminder. One simple reminder, the most basic of basic of basic of Bible truths, God made the world and rules over the world as Almighty King God made the world and he does rule over the world as the Almighty King. Psalm 47, verse 6 and 7. Sing praises to God. Sing praises. Sing praises to our kings. Sing praises, for God is the king of all the earth. Sing praises with a song. When we're lost we live as if we're kings. For over half my life I lived as if I was the king The natural person, the natural man, the natural woman, we all live life as though we're the kings and queens. Um but God calls us to repent, doesn't He? Doesn't God call us to turn around from that? You're going this way, I'm the king, I'm in charge, it's my world, it's my life, repentance is turning around. Saying God's the king, God's in charge, it's his world. This life I have is a gift from him. That's what repentance is. And the way we repent is by looking to Jesus in faith God has made this possible because He sent Jesus to be our Savior because we're all lost in sin, naturally speaking, and we need a Savior. We need to be plucked out of that darkness. We need to be plucked out of rebellion. We need the Spirit of God to give us the gift of repentance. And when you hear the preaching of Jesus dying on a cross, that's meant to change the direction of your life. That's meant to change your heart. That's meant to infuse new loves in your heart that Jesus died on a cross for your sin. And Jesus rose to eternal life. And Jesus has a gift to give also. And it's better than the world. Jesus gives the gift of God Himself. Jesus Reconcile sinners to God. That's the Bible's central message. That's God's central proclamation over our hearts. And he has provided a Savior to give us the greatest gift ever, God Himself. By his blood, Jesus reconciles to God every single person who turns to him in faith. So I close this morning by saying this. Would you turn to him in faith? Would you turn to Jesus Christ in faith and receive the greatest gift ever? God, the Almighty Creator. the righteous king who rules over the world, and the gracious and merciful Savior who has an infinite love for sinners who are lost. Let's pray. Father, we pray for each one of our hearts, minds , lives, and eternal destinies We pray that you would take them and make them your own. And that our lives would be full of thanksgiving and rest. Enjoy and worship. Love for you above all things. Love for others. Above ourselves, above things, above money, take our lives and make them yours. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.