Briefly, let's review the main point from last week was from chapter two, verse 26, and this was an overview of the main point in James. For as the body of this is James 2, 26. For as the body apart from the spirit is, can you fill in the blank? Dead, so also faith apart from what is dead? Works. Vivid illustration, simple point, James calls us to both true faith and true works. A true trust in God for salvation, a trust in Christ alone for salvation, but that true faith in our hearts will always produce the fruit of good works. Of course that's by the power of the Spirit. not by our own power, but this is the overview point of James, that we're called to faith and works, not one of the other, and we're not to set those two things in opposition to one another. But simply just pursue both by trusting in God. Tonight's study, chapter two, enduring Trials. Enduring trials, I should call it enduring trials in a fruitful way. That's it. We don't want to just make it through, but we want to make it through in a fruitful way. We want to grow Spiritually through our trials. We want to grow in our relationship with the Lord through our trials. We want to have our hearts severed from Love of material things as we go through trials, enduring trials. James 1, 2 through 18. So a big passage. This is the first major section of James. This is the first specific pastoral issue that he deals with enduring trials. 1 chapter 1 verses 2 through 18. I'm going to start right now by reading the whole passage And then we'll go through and I have six specific points in the passage. Count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet Trials of various kinds. For you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness or Endurance or faithfulness, and let steadfastness have its full effect, that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing. Those are words that are referring to maturity during trials that lead to maturation Spiritual maturity. Verse 5. Now, if any of you lacks wisdom, that verse has always been funny to me Because I've alwa I always think as soon as I read it, if if any of us lacks wisdom Because we all know that we all lack wisdom. But the reason he says that is because I think he's referring to if there's like a specific situation. Okay, if you lack wisdom here, if you lack wisdom for this situation, if any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask God. Obviously, ask God for wisdom, who gives generously to all without reproach, and it will be given to him. But let him ask in faith, without doubting. For the one who doubts is like a wave of the sea that is driven and tossed by the wind. It's all over the place. Verse 7. That person must not suppose that he will receive anything from the Lord. He is a double-minded man, unstable in all his ways. Let the lowly brother boast in his exaltation, and the rich in his humiliation, because like a flower of the grass, he will pass away. For the sun rises with its scorching heat and withers the grass, its flower falls, its beauty perishes, so also will the rich man fade away in the midst of his pursuits. Blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial. For when he has stood the test, he will receive the crown of life which God has promised to those who love him. Marvelous verse right there. Verse 12. This beatitude of verse 12. Let no one say when he is tempted, I'm being tempted by God, for God cannot be tempted with evil, and he himself tempts No one. Obviously, we'll have to talk about the difference between testing and being tempted Because clearly there's a testing that goes on in this passage that's positive, but there's a tempting. Don't and it says don't say the God tempting you. So we'll talk about the difference between being tested and being tempted. Verse 14, but each person is tempted when he is Lord and enticed by his own desire. And then desire, when it has conceived, gives birth to sin. And sin, when it is fully grown, brings forth death. Do not be deceived, my beloved brothers Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of Lights, with whom there is no variation or shadow due to change. Of his own will, he brought us forth by the word of truth, that we should be a kind of first fruits. of his creatures. That's a good uh verse for when we're talking about being born again. Of his own will, he brought us forth by the word of truth. It's by the word of the gospel. That we're born again. Peter uses almost the same language. It's definitely parallel language in the book of 1 Peter. We've been born again through the Word of God. So enduring trials, but not just enduring trials, how to behave, how to act, how to think as we're enduring trials. And as we're enduring trials, to understand what is God doing, what does God want from me in the midst of these trials Very relevant point for the Christian because we all face hardships. We all suffer loss. And go through trials and temptations, which he deals with in here. And we experience situations where we just don't have the wisdom to understand what's going on or to know what we should do or to know what we should say. When we should say it, we there's just things we don't know. So there's all kinds of different trials and difficulties for the child of God. But God gives us counsel and helps us. So enduring trials. I think there's a a general cultural application that could be made just as a reminder um that God 's will for his children on earth is not that we would have a life free of trial, free of suffering, free of hardship, free of um free of sickness. There's a popular false gospel today, I'm sure it's around in every age in one form or another, that tells us, or that will that will tell people that God's promise for them is a life without suffering or hardship or trial, if you have enough faith and if you do the right things. It's often called the prosperity gospel or the word of faith gospel, but it is a false gospel. We will have trials. We will face difficulties, but we can face them with faith, and we can grow through them. Enduring trials. And number one on our outline is that believers can endure trials with joy in what God is doing. This comes from verses 2 through 4. We can endure trials with joy in what God is doing. Just like any fruit of the spirit, and just like any Virtue of Christian living, we will not be perfect in our joy on earth, but we can still have true joy. We can have joy in knowing Jesus no matter what's going on in our lives or in the world around us. We can endure trials with joy in what God is doing. Verses 2 through 4. Count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds. The trials aren't the joy. The trials are not the joy. Well we can we can count it joy. Verse 3 tells us why. For you know, here's the basis of the joy, for you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness. That phrase always reminds me of the narrative of Abraham in the Old Testament. He gets the series of testings. Series of trials. God is growing his faith. This is exposing Abraham's weakness. That'll help Abraham to trust less in himself and more on lean more on God. But he's growing Abraham, and Abraham becomes the example of faith. He becomes the father of the faithful. And in the book of Romans When Paul is writing about salvation and Paul is writing about saving faith, he uses Abraham as the paradigm, as the historical example of saving faith. It's Abraham. But Abraham went through a series of testings. Trials. For you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness. And let steadfastness have its full effect that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing. So first of all, there's trials. Trials of how many kinds? Various kinds. All kinds of trials You meet trials of various kinds. You can still have joy. Now, why can we still have joy? Because we know that this testing of our faith is going to strengthen us in the faith. It's going to produce in us Endurance for the Christian walk. And the Christian walk requires endurance, or we will give up. We need to be matured. It may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing, which is the full effect of the steadfastness or the faithfulness, the endurance. The testing produces the steadfastness. But then there are other effects that the steadfastness will have. Let steadfastness, verse 4, have its full effect. So here's the effect, here's the impact, here's the result. You may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing. That's the goal. Spiritual maturity and strengthening that comes by enduring trials As we walk with the Lord and trust in the Lord with our eyes fixed on Christ, not on earthly things, not our own circumstances. So we can we can endure trials with joy in what God is doing. Now can we do that perfectly? No. Well that's part of the trial. To maintain joy when we're in the midst of something that's s bringing severe suffering, maybe emotionally, spiritually, physically in a relationship, which per maybe it's persecution, which is the context of the book of James. The uh Christians had been persecuted and exiled from their homes of where they were still persecuted and outcasts. We can have joy. We can but it was going to require for certain prayer Right. It's gonna require for certain uh keeping our hearts fixed on Christ and His salvation and His reward for us. So it'll require prayer, it will require a gospel mindset. requires personal effort, fellowship with God, fellowship with God in his word, sticking with the fellowship of the church, to be strengthened by other believers, to be strengthened by the congregational worship. It'll take effort and it'll take doing. So the message is not of of this section is not simply Make it through. The message is you can make it through with joy, and you can make it through growing in your faith. And you can make it through, and at the other end of this, you'll be maturer than you were at the beginning. We're not just floating along just to make it through, but we want to grow. God is conforming his people to the likeness of Christ. God is doing that. Hebrews 5. 8. I have two cross-references I'd like us to look at before we move on to the second one. Hebrews five eight, keep a marker in James one This is a verse about Jesus. Well we'll look at seven and eight. Because verse seven brings out the nature of The sufferings of Jesus. And then verse 8 ties it to him advancing in obedience. In the days of his flesh Jesus offered up prayers and supplications, a little window into Jesus' prayer life, with loud cries and tears. Alright, so now we're seeing a little bit of Christ's prayer life on earth. He offered up prayers, he offered up supplications with cries and tears. To him who is able to save him from death, and he was heard because of his reverence Although he was the son, he learned obedience. Here's an operative word here. Through. Through what he suffered. He's going through sufferings. Where Christ advanced from one stage of obedience to another. He didn't have to repent and learn and move from disobedience to obedience, but he learned obedience. He experienced and matured in his obedience from one step to the next Through suffering, by enduring suffering, and trusting God along the way. And he grew in wisdom and favor with both man and God. As to his human nature, there was growth. There was moving forward in obedience. We can think about our obedience. We need to think about our obedience in a parallel way, of course a different way, because we have to move from disobedience to obedience, right? We repent, we continue repenting, and God sanctifies us. That Jesus didn't need to repent, he didn't need to be sanctified. So, but we're growing in obedience. There's two things going on. The one the one area is repenting. Being made holy, but the other area is just moving forward in what God has called us to do. Advancing in what God has called us to do. Becoming more and more. Committed to and passionate and focused and diligent in what God has called us to do will move forward in obedience. Status quo is not the mindset in the kingdom of God. We are laborers in God's field. Paul s writes to Timothy to fan into flame the gifts that he had received, his pastoral gift. Fan it into flame, so you can picture a fire and The flame is burning low. You need to fan the flame. Get it going again. You can't let it spiritual gifts Lay stagnant and expect God to work through them. So there's an advancing in obedience. And it'll come that too will come through suffering. Because we we're so worldly in ways that we don't even recognize until God sanctifies us to a next stage, and we can look back and we can say What was I thinking? Who was that person? Well, it's because God has grown us and He's matured us. Now as mature, now we can see. Back then we couldn't see. So we we have to be uh almost obsessed with spiritual growth. Trusting in God, imitating Christ, leaning on the Holy Spirit, given to prayer, given to the word, given to service in the kingdom of God. Jesus, as a son, learned obedience through what he suffered. He had to go through suffering. One more passage. On this point, second Corinthians one, eight through eleven. Second Corinthians one eight through eleven I believe there are many different specific ways We can grow as God preserves us through trials and brings us through times of testing to increase our faith. I think there are many specific ways we can grow. I think the foundational way we grow is learning to depend less and less on ourselves and more and more on God. I think that's The concrete slab, if you will, that the whole uh the whole house of uh maturation will grow upon. Learning to depend less and less on ourselves and more and more on God. Second Corinthians 1, 8 through 11. We don't want you to be unaware, brothers, of the affliction. We experienced in Asia. We were so utterly burdened beyond our strength. That's important. Beyond our strength. We couldn't take it. We couldn't do it. This is beyond us. That we despaired of life itself. Indeed, we felt that we had received the sentence of death. But that was to make us Rely not on ourselves, but on God who raises the dead. It had a purpose. God had a purpose in it He delivered us from such a deadly peril, and he will deliver us. On him we've set our hope that he will deliver us again. He also must help us by prayer. So that many will give thanks on our behalf for the blessing granted us through the prayers of many. Something to be said there for the impact and the effect. of prayer on the ministries here of Paul and the apostles, but of the ministries of the church, the ministries of the word. Your ministries, your life, your service. There should be a foundation of prayer support behind it. Key verse is the end of verse 9. All that suffering he talks about in 8 and 9, then he says, but that was to make us rely not on ourselves, but on God who raises the dead. We're not born again and then the next week we're 100% trusting in God and not ourselves. Spiritual growth is gradual. The word of God is powerful beyond imagination. But it works slowly. And the Holy Spirit, through the Word, will minister to us slowly conforming us. to the likeness of Christ. Paul says in 2 Corinthians, well we're right here, we can look at it. 3. 18 Being transformed into the same image, the image of Christ, from one degree of glory to another, for this comes from the Lord who is the Spirit. One degree of glory to another. Beholding Christ, becoming like Christ, enduring sufferings, hated by the world, battling temptation, battling sin daily, going through trials, various trials, but God is growing us. God is working. Don't doubt it for a minute. God is working in his church. He's working in his children, conforming them to the likeness of Christ through trials, through sufferings. And one thing I didn't even point out in that verse is 2 Corinthians 1, 8 through 11, was Paul's resurrection hope. He knows. His destiny is fixed. He is going to dwell with Christ in resurrection glory forever. He knows that's the end No matter what happens between this point and the end, that's the end, and nothing can take away the inheritance that Christ has secured for him in heaven. That should be our mindset. That's the mindset of Christian hope. Hope in Christ Depend learning, learning. Well I know it's painful. If you're learning this, you know it's painful. Learning to trust in God and not ourselves. Learning to hope in God and find meaning in God, not material things. Not what other people think, but God and what we have in Christ. We can go back to James 1. So believers can endure trials with joy. In what God is doing. If you are a child of God, Jesus will never leave you. He will never forsake you. The Holy Spirit will never leave your heart, will never leave your mind. We if there's a problem in our growth, the problem is in us. We can get apathetic, we can get lazy. We can be lazy in prayer. We cannot give ourselves over to the word. We can be lazy in repenting from sin. The problem, if there's a problem in our growth We step back to look at our lives, our lives from a bird's eye view. The problem is in us. But God hasn't left the church. The Holy Spirit hasn't left the church. Pentecost will never be reversed. The Holy Spirit fills the Church of God on earth. We are the temple of the living God. So you can endure trials with joy in what God is doing. Well, I I like that first point so much. I mean I get to the other five. What time is it? It's too late. But it's so true. I mean that just Oh fight against, fight against the root of bitterness. Fight against the woe-is me victim mentality. Find joy. Strive for joy in Christ. It's part of our witness. It's part of our witness. We should have a joy that transcends earthly circumstances. People will see that. Wonder about it. Number two, believers can endure trials through genuine prayer. Genuine prayer. This comes from verses five through eight. I I really just find it hard to imagine any child of God would be able to endure trials. Apart from prayer. Really? I mean you might make it through and live through it physically, but will you grow through it? Will you honor God through it? Not apart from prayer. If you lack wisdom, if you need wisdom Ask God. That's something we should be asking for regularly. Wisdom. God help me with this. God help me with that. Give me the words. I don't know what this is. I'm not smart enough. I'm too weak. I'm too sinful. Help me. I don't know what to do. We should be praying for this all the time. If you lack wisdom, ask God, who gives generously to all without reproach, and it will be given to him. So the point is about the generosity of God. If I were preaching a sermon on this, and I'm not, although I'm tempted to. God is generous would be the first major point. God is generous. It's on the basis of God's generosity that we pray. And we must believe that God is generous. He wants to hear our requests. He wants to answer our requests. And he always answers our requests according to his will and in his timing. But we have to believe that God is generous. Verse 6: Let Him ask in faith. That means trusting. With no doubting. For the one who doubts is like a wave of the sea that's driven and tossed by the wind. But the person must not suppose that he will receive anything from the Lord. So if you don't have true faith, if you don't have faith in God's generosity, you can't he says here, don't expect God's going to answer that. And as one who doesn't have faith in God's generosity, you've already admitted God's probably not going to answer this prayer of just maybe hoping He'll throw me some scraps. But if you don't believe, then you then you shouldn't have any expectation. The expectation that God is going to answer our prayers is rooted in our trust in God, our faith in God, our belief in God, and His generosity. He's such a like a wave, you're all over the place. Do you believe or do you not believe? He is a double-minded man, unstable in all his ways. Verse 80. He's he's a double-minded man He believes, but he doesn't believe. He prays, but he doesn't really believe God's going to give him anything. We pray with faith. We pray with expectation. Should be praying with power. The power of the Holy Spirit, that is. God loves his children. God cares about his children. God ministers to his children and takes care of his children. And he answers our prayers. But I put genuine prayer. You know, just going through the motions of a prayer. Maybe this person here that's illustrated as double-minded is one who prays because he knows he needs to, but he doesn't really believe in his heart of hearts that God is good enough and kind enough to answer his prayer. Double-minded man. Believe. We must believe. Believe in God. He is good. He wants to hear and answer our prayers. Number three, believers can endure trials by keeping life in perspective. This comes from verses nine through eleven. He uses some specific examples of A lowly brother, which is a poor person, and then the rich, which is a rich person. But you'll be able to see where I'm getting this I'm extracting a general principle here of keep life in perspective. Listen man, we're here and we're gone In the grand scheme of things, life is a snap. We'll all in the grand scheme be gone soon. That doesn't mean life is meaningless. No, that makes us uh not take for granted the life that we have. We should be living every day, every moment, seeking God's will. Verse 9: Let the lowly brother boast in his exaltation. I believe that means his status in Christ. He's a priest and king in the kingdom of God, the kingdom of heaven. And he can he can boast in that because of Christ. He didn't get in there by works, he got in there by grace through faith. Let the lowly brother boast in his exaltation, and the rich in his humiliation. His humiliation in that we're all on the same level in Christ. See you in a from a worldly perspective, the rich would be higher up than the lowly brother. Lowly brother, the high brother, the rich brother. But in Christ, everybody's in the same playing field. Everyone's saved by grace through faith in Christ. So the lowly brother can boast in his exaltation, the rich in his humiliation. So what the rich person should not boast in his earthly riches is the point. Don't boast in your earthly riches. Boast in the cross of Jesus Christ that's reconciled you to God. That should be his boast. Because like a f why? Why should that be true for the lowly brother? But then for the rich for the rich, he gives a reason why he should boast in his humiliation. He says, Because The middle of verse 10, because like a flower of the grass. Don't just picture grass. What are you picturing? A flower in the grass. Just it's an important detail. Just kidding. Flower of the grass, he will pass away. For the sun rises With its scorching heat, and withers the grass, the grass is withered, the flower falls, its beauty perishes, it's gone So also will the rich man fade away in the midst of his pursuits. The flower standing in the midst of all this grass all around them. The flower they're in beauty in the context of the grass, and the sun comes up and scorches the grass and the flower face. Like the grass, all of these pursuits. He's in the the rich man is in the midst of his pursuits, it says, at the end of verse eleven. All of these pursuits are going to be taken from him, and the rich man is going to fade away like that flower. It's going to he's he's going to be Dead, like the flower is dead. The pursuits will be gone, like the grass is gone. It is a powerful and sobering image. It's supposed to be a sobering image We don't live for earthly pursuits, we don't live for earthly riches, we don't live for earthly beauty and what others think about us when they see us like a beautiful flower and a beautiful Field of grass. It's all going to be gone. It's all going to be gone. The thing we need to boast in Is our status in Christ. We boast in Christ. Christ is our boast. We sing songs about Christ. We find our identity in Christ. The thing that gives us meaning and and purpose and all these words you hear today is Christ. Christ alone. Christ is all we have. And what we have in Christ will last. See it's the complete opposite. The blessings that we enjoy in Christ now, not only will we have them forever, but we'll have them in greater degree once we leave This earth. We go into the presence of God. All sin and all temptation is taken away from us. Things get better when we leave this earth in terms of spiritual blessings. Then better yet when Christ returns and we receive a resurrection glory and live in the new heavens and the new earth So the earthly riches will be gone. And you know what's so intriguing to me? It's not Take a swig of water. Make sure I say this correctly. The real problem with earthly riches is not that we only have them for a little while. As if if we had earthly riches, if we had um all earthly riches for eternity, as if then they could fulfill us. They still couldn't fulfill us. It's not the length of time that we have the earthly things. It's the earthly things themselves. They can't satisfy us. They can't help us. It gives us the illusion that they can help us. Properly seen and properly approached, good things, pleasurable things on earth, riches or whatever, are to be seen as gifts from God, and we return thanks to God for them. But even if we had an infinite amount of earthly riches for an infinite amount of time, if we don't have Christ, we don't have anything. Because Christ is what reconciles us to God. And God is everything. Does that make sense? It's not just the amount of things, it's not just the amount of time we have things. Guys, it's things. It's stuff. Plastic, metal, wood They can't help us. Number four. Is there a vein popping out of my forehead? I feel like there is now. Vince, I know that look when b brother, when you get that look, I like, okay, I'm losing it. Oh, but man, it's one of the hardest things to fight in our spiritual walk. It's to not be so enthralled and devoted to stuff and accumulating stuff. What are we doing? We're going to number four. That's what we're doing. Believers can endure trials by fixing our hope on Christ and our inheritance in Him. Now I've been saying this, and I told you earlier, I love this beatitude in verse 12. Blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial, for when he has stood the test, he will receive the crown of life which God has promised to those who love him. It's a way of saying being crowned with life, the life in the presence of God. The crown of life. The reward Of living in heaven with God. That's the reward, the crown of life. It's incredible. It's incredible. For when he has stood the test, he'll receive the crown of life, receive the reward which God has promised to those who love him. God made a promise. To those who love him. That promise is eternal life. So blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial, who doesn't give up. For when he stood the test, he will receive the crown of life, which God has promised to those who love him. Brothers and sisters, there's an end goal to all this We're not just doing church just to keep ourselves busy till we die. Or it's not just a hollow religion to give ourselves a a shallow and superficial feeling of meaning and spirituality. No, no, no. We are eagerly awaiting our our reward, crown of life. So we can endure trials by fixing our hope on Christ. And our inheritance in Him. Number five, believers can endure trials by trusting God, not blaming Him, which is always a temptation, or often a temptation, I should say, to blame God for the trial. Rather than the first point James made is to having joy in what God is doing through the trial and in the midst of the trial, we can endure trials by trusting God, not blaming him. This comes from verses thirteen through fifteen. You've heard this. Maybe you've done this or been tempted to done this, but I'm sure you've heard this of uh often Christians blaming God. Well n no non Christians do it too, but I've heard Christians Blame God for trials and difficulties as if God is doing them harm or God wants something bad for them. Believers can endure trials by trusting God, not blaming God. Verses 13 and 15. Let no one say, okay, so this is a warning of what you shouldn't say. Don't do this. Let no one say when he's tempted I'm being tempted by God. God doesn't do the tempting. Forces of evil do the tempting, but it's not only forces, it's not forces of evil that are the root problem here. Let's keep reading. Don't say it's God tempting you, for God cannot be tempted with evil, and he himself tempts no one. But each person is tempted when he is Lord and enticed by what? Someone yell it out His own desire has a problem's our hearts. The problem has always been our hearts. We have sinful hearts That's what the law of God exposes. Let me read verse 15, then I'll go back to that point. What the law of God exposes. Don't let me forget that Verse fifteen uh the what happens after we're lured away and enticed by our own desires? Desire, how about this illustration? Desire when it's conceived Gives birth to sin. You see that is the desire in the heart gives birth to sin And sin, when it is fully grown, brings forth death. It's the complete opposite trajectory of the first paragraph, which was in the midst of these trials, we should be growing, growing in our steadfastness, growing in our maturity, growing in our trust in God. This is going the other way. Because it is true that when we're going through trials, we're weaker than we normally are. We are more prone to give in to temptation than we normally are. And that's part of the uh the strengthening and part of the humbling process that we experience when we go through trials. But we are weaker mentally Spiritually, emotionally, we're weakened often by trials. And part of it is God's humbling us. But we do not blame God. We do not blame God. And say he's tempting us. Now, when God tests us, and we're going through a period of testing, that's the way of talking about how God uses those trials to grow us in our faith and to increase us. in our dependence upon Him and help us to mature. That's what attesting is. But attempting is A seduction unto evil. It has evil intent behind it. To seduce or trick you To do what is contrary to God's will. The testing is to help you advance in God's will. A temptation wants you to run away from God's will. They're completely opposite things The intent is different. The source is different. The end goal is different. Temptation is something is an influence, whether it comes from your heart. or from the world or from the devil. Temptation is something that wants to move you toward evil and away from holiness. Testing, a testing from God wants to move you away from evil and toward holiness. They're opposite. Lean on God more, not lean on God less. That's what the temptation will tell us Temptations. So in times of trial, tempt the temptation, probably the overarching temptation will be to stop trusting God. Stop trusting in His goodness. Because why would He let this happen to you? You see, God's not good. He doesn't care for you. He's not with you. This is the temptation, the overarching temptation. We've got to fight against that and fight by prayer and looking to Christ as our example and as our helper. I mean we can't do any of this without Christ. We can't have joy. without Christ or growing our joy without Christ. We can't have true prayer without Christ or growing prayer without Christ. And this one too. You know, we'll never be able to fight this uh this temptation of it to blame God and get bitter at God and get angry with God apart from Christ. He's the only one who could help us. He's the only one who could help us. Believers can endure trials by trusting God, not blaming him. And he again he points out The source. If we fall prey to the temptations that we face In the midst of trial, or when we're not in the midst of a trial, if we fall prey to the temptations we face, who's to blame? Well, we should know this. Who's to blame? We're to blame. It's the desires of our own hearts, end of verse fourteen. Lure us away We're lord away. We're enticed by our own desires. Lord away from what? Trusting God. Lord away from what? Looking to Christ. Lord away from what? God 's will. The thing I did not want to forget, and praise the Lord, I I just remembered, the purpose of God's law, to expose that our hearts are sinful. And God's law Gives God's commandments, right? God's requirements for us is commandments of what what we must do and then what we must not do. This is his moral law, his commandments They reflect his character, and then by way of contrast, they show us our character. They show us that we're sinners. But the law is spiritual. It reveals not just that we commit sins, but it reveals that our hearts are sinful. Is there a pen there? How'd that get there? It reveals that our hearts are sinful. So the law of God doesn't only show us the the things that we do that are contrary to God's will it shows us that our hearts have desires. By nature our hearts are filled with desires that are contrary to God's will. And the thing that ex the thing that teaches us the thing That spiritual point about our hearts is the fact Paul talks about this in Romans 7 most explicitly that God, when God forbids something from us, it actually stokes in us a desire to do that very thing. What does that reveal? It reveals that our hearts are sinful Right. God says don't do A. Now my heart hears that and my heart all of a sudden the only thing it wants to do is A. Don't do B. Now all of a sudden my heart wants to really r is really interested in B It exposes the nature of our hearts that it's contrary to God's will for us. It's contrary to God's holiness. So that's why we are lured away and enticed by our own sinful desires, because even as children of God and even as filled with the Holy Spirit and living um Led by the Holy Spirit, we still have indwelling sin. Our hearts have not been fully sanctified. We still carry around in these mortal bodies sin and a desire to sin. Sanctification process is the remedy for that. Alright. I'm gonna quickly rehearse all of them and then we'll finish with six. Number six. Our believers can endure trials with joy in what God is doing. That's number one. Number two is that we can endure trials through genuine prayer. It's never a bad day to commit yourself afresh to prayer. Number three, believers can endure trials by keeping life in perspective. And number four, believers can endure trials by fixing our hope on Christ and our inheritance in Him. That future inheritance is the focus there. Chapter 1, verse 12. Crown of life that we'll receive is our reward. Number five, believers can endure trials by trusting God, not blaming him. Be I would exhort you Brethren, to be proactive in not blaming God, but rather trusting in Him no matter what And proactive in repenting of sin that dwells within our hearts and will jump at any opportunity to lure us away. Number six, believers can endure trials by counting our blessings and thanking God. This will help us. This will help us. If each day there comes a point in the day, whether it's 30 seconds or 30 minutes. We stop. Stop thinking about all the concerns of the world, concerns in our lives And just meditate on the blessings that we've received from God. And then express thanks to Him that will help the heart. It will train our hearts unto gratitude. And it will help us greatly. We can endure trials by counting our blessings and thanking God. Verses sixteen through eighteen. This is the opposite point of he said, Don't do this, don't blame God. Well now here's what we should do. Do not be deceived, my beloved brothers. It's good gifts and perfect gifts that come from above, coming down from the Father of lights. Good things come from God, basically. Don't blame God. The temptations don't come from God, the good things come from God The perfect things come from God. Holiness comes from God. Encouragement comes from God. Steadfastness comes from God. Any good gift, the perfect gifts, they come from God above, not temptations. Not things that are going to hurt you and do you harm. Every good gift and perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom there's no variation or shadow due to change. Talking about God doesn't change. Verse 18, of his own will he brought us forth by the word of truth that we should be a kind of first fruits of his creatures. Those who share in resurrection life in the inner man, not to the outer man yet. But we are alive in Christ. We are New creations in Christ, new creatures in Christ. We are citizens of heaven, even though we dwell on earth. What is it that brought us forth? Or what is it that gave us birth? The word of truth. The word of the gospel. It is the gospel that gives life. The law explains us. Exposes our sinfulness, exposes our sinful hearts. Well then where do we go? Do we just collapse into a pit of despair with no hope? No, we look to the cross of Christ for forgiveness. We look to the power of the Holy Spirit for sanctification in our hearts. He brought us forth. It's really the same imagery In a d but in a different way when he talked about the temptations, the things that are inside us give birth to something. Remember what he said? The things that inside us naturally give birth to sin, but it's the word of God that gave birth to life within us. God 's word gave us new life. Of his own will he brought us forth by the word of truth. It tells you something about the nature of his will. He's merciful. He's gracious. He was not obligated to do this. It 's out of his own will. His own free will that God brought us forth by the word of truth. We can endure trials by counting our blessings, which he calls here good gifts and perfect gifts. And giving thanks to God for those blessings. And of the central blessing is going to be the blessing of, we all know this, salvation. Of course, salvation. We're united to Christ by faith, and all the blessings of salvation are found in Him. Brought us forth by the word of truth. Um I'm gonna pause for just questions and comments because we have about eight minutes left. My final word is gonna be a word of application on that. If it's the word of truth that brings forth New life and sinners, shouldn't we have a great, great urgency to preach and teach and disseminate this word of truth in our neighborhood and our communities? Yes, we absolutely should. We do not need to go to the other side of the world to have an experience of missions in the nations. We're in the nations. We're in the Gentile nations. Anything that's outside of Israel is the nations. All nations, all tribes, all tongues, starting from Jerusalem, then Judea and Samaria, then to the ends of the earth, the uttermost parts of the earth. We're in that area. We're on the mission field. We're in the harvest field. We don't need to go out to be On mission for the gospel. There are tons of lost people around us and in our midst. We should have that urgency. We should have that urgency out. That's not really strong enough though, is it? We must have that urgency. We must have that urgency. That urgency should define local churches. It's part of the burden a local church should have. It's to be a gospel witness where God has put them. Alright, any questions or comments on any of the points? We talked about from James 1, 2 through 18. What you said about counted all joy meaning the count being like the counter command and to don't be let the root of bitterness count Count it all joy as opposed to letting yourself get whatever. I like that. Yeah. Basically the whole thing saying count it joy, don't Which which would be the natural impulse. When you said you know the problem has always been our sinful hearts, my first thought was don't eat that fruit. You know, so it started from the very beginning. Enticed by a lie. Yep. Calling into question God's word, calling into question God's goodness. And r at least a rebellion against God's word, which gave birth to death, right? In the curse. Yep. Interesting how we um say that we uh trust in God all the time and we don't. And that um we we can pray and say, yes, I'm gonna believe that this prayer is gonna happen, but it doesn't And so you got a different direction there in some way, shape, or form, because God doesn't always answer our prayers. Not how we want them. He always answers prayers. No. Yeah, that's right. That's right. And just because we don't see the answers to the prayer or maybe n never even hear about it doesn't mean God hasn't like we should never assume God like God it God's just ignored me, should never be in assumption. I know that's not what you're saying, but um you know to to maintain trust no matter what. That's the battle. I mean that's is the battle to live by faith and not by sight. The people will leave the fact that they don't God doesn't answer the prayer to them denying. Mm-hmm. I mean Yeah, and that's what the illustration is. They're double minded. They're all over the place. Right? They're like they are like that wind. You just described the w or the wave tossed by the wind. So you're praying, you trust, you believe, and then phe two weeks later you're over here. Dad didn't care about me, yeah.