Let's open our Bibles to the book of Second John. I believe the page number is in the bulletin. But if you don't have a bulletin , and you don't know where 2 John is, just go to the book of Revelation, which is the last book of the Bible, and start going backwards a little bit. You'll find it very, very quickly. The book of Second John. It fits on one page in most Bibles. Unless you have a study Bible with like huge portions of study notes at the bottom, this book fits on one page. I have a large print Bible up here so that I can see the words, and it fits on one page in this little Bible. But it's an important book, and it is God's word to us. Today we're looking at 2 John verses 4 through 6, calling this message evangelical obedience. Now, if you've never heard that phrase, Evangelical obedience, or if you've heard it but aren't quite certain what it means, one of my goals, if not my central goal this morning, is that if you're here you will hear and be able to grasp and understand what evangelical obedience means. Second John verses 4 through 6, evangelical obedience Let's begin with a reading of this passage. I rejoiced greatly to find some of your children walking in the truth. just as we were commanded by the Father. And now I ask you, dear lady, not as though I were writing you a new commandment, but the one we have had from the beginning. That we love one another. And this is love. That we walk according to his commandments. This is the commandment. Just as you have heard from the beginning, so that you should walk in it. Let's pray to the Lord. Good Lord, gracious Lord, Almighty God, we come to you in prayer. We bow before your throne. You are glorious. You have the power for what's needed to happen can really happen. That you would minister to our minds. That you would minister to our hearts for the working of your Spirit. I pray that you would reach us In the deepest recesses of our souls and turn us to Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior. Whether it's for the first time or for the thousandth time or for the ten thousandth time, this morning would you show us Christ. And all of the blessings and all of the wonder and all of the beauty that's bound up in Jesus Christ, your Son and our Savior. And not only our Lord and King, but the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, the one who reigns over all. Father, I pray you would show us Christ. Show us Christ in a way that comforts us, encourages us. saves the lost, sanctifies the saved, gets us all back on track to where we need to be in life. All we have is Jesus We pray that you would minister to us by grace and by mercy and by your spirit we pray. Amen. 2 John four through 6, evangelical obedience. The greatest pursuit in our lives should be evangelical obedience. for the glory of God. That's the greatest pursuit we ought to have in our lives. Evangelical obedience for the glory of God. Friends, it's not the only pursuit, but it's the supreme pursuit. You'll pursue other things this year. Maybe you're pursuing a raise Maybe you're pursuing a different job. There's nothing wrong with that. But the supreme pursuit, the most important pursuit, is evangelical obedience for the glory of God. Maybe you need new hobbies. There's nothing wrong with hobbies, provided that they're God-honoring hobbies, not not self-defiling hobbies, amen. Maybe you need increased health. And you need to pursue that. Maybe you need better friends. Maybe you need a whole lot better. Maybe you need a whole new set of friends who 'll be a better influence on you. There's many pursuits, but the supreme pursuit, the most important pursuit, is evangelical obedience for the glory of God. Evangelical obedience is obedience created by the gospel. Evangelical obedience, we'll just start here But we're going to camp out here. I just noticed the first five pews in the middle are completely empty. That's never happened before. There's usually two or three who have the courage to come this close to the crazy preacher. Everyone's like Yeah, yeah. This is what we're gonna camp out here before we get to those points on your outline, alright? So because we have to understand what evangelical obedience is to grasp the nature of Christianity. What kind of faith it is? What kind of religion? What kind of life are we talking about? Evangelical obedience is obedience. Created by the gospel. Evangelical is just an adjective. It just means of or according to the gospel. That's all that means. Evangelical. You've heard words Evangelism, evangelical. It comes from the Greek word ewangelion, which means the gospel, or it means the good news. So we put that into an English version and it comes out evangelism or evangelical. It means of the gospel. Obedience created by the gospel. Now, first of all, before we get into that word, evangelical. And what it means to for having obedience created by the gospel. Let's just be square on what obedience means. Obedience means submitting to your authority and following your commands. That's what obedience is. If you are my teacher and I'm your student and I'm going to be an obedient student, what a kind of student will I be? I'll be one who Submits to your authority, who recognizes your authority, and then follows your rules for the classroom. Follow your commands, submit to your authority, follow your commands. That's what obedience is, yes And what's an obedient child? Submits to authority, obeys commands. And what's an obedient player? Submits to the coach's authority. Obeys commands. That's what obedience is. It's the glad, well not glad, I see now I'm getting ahead of myself. Evangelical obedience will be glad obedience. You all know there's different kinds of obedience. Different kinds of obedience. It's the recognition of an authority. And then following commands. Now, key words. Key word number one. Be command or commandments. So first, look at verse four toward the end. Just as we were commanded by the Father. So whatever else is happening in this passage, we're going to deal with something God the Father has commanded, commanded by the Father. And then go to verse five, right in the middle, commandment You see it? Not as though I were writing you a new commandment. Commandment. But the one we've had from the beginning. And then you can see what that is. Love. But twice already now, once in verse 4, commandment from the Father, and now in verse 5, it's not a new commandment. It's always been there. God's always commanded this. And now all now move down to verse 6. And you let me know afterwards if you agree this should be a key word or or not. Verse 6. This is love that we walk according to his commandments. Well there's obedience. According to his commandments. Most of my life I lived in disobedience, not according to God's commandments According to my commandments, according to my authority, according to my desires, according to what I thought was right, to what I wanted to pursue. Disobedience, that's disobedience. But here's something different according to his commandments. And then again in verse 6, right after that, this is the commandment. So would you all agree that this is a key concept in this passage? Commandments. Verse 4, verse 5, twice in verse 6, and discussional keyword 1. Now, enter discussional keyword. O key concept number two. Walking. Walking. Let me ask you something What in the world good would it do me to know all all of the commandments but not care at all about walking in those commandments? It would do no good That's actually just one more set of sins we're I'm committing now that I know the commandments and I still refuse to obey them. But walking. Again, verse 4, I rejoice greatly to find some of your children walking in the truth. Walking in the truth. Walking according to the truth. Whose truth? Their own truth? God's truth. God's revealed truth I'm so thankful God revealed his truth to me. Not to be selfish about it. I'm glad he revealed his truth to you. I'm just saying for me. I'm giving my testimony. I'm happy. I'm delighted. That God revealed his truth to me and enabled me by his spirit to understand and embrace that truth by the power of his spirit. I'm happy for the truth of God. Otherwise my life, which was just one uh ever-growing snowball of wickedness and rebellion, would have just kept growing and growing and growing down the mountain, bigger, bigger, bigger, and then crashing into hell for all eternity If God came into my life and revealed his truth as an act of love and grace and mercy to help me, not to harm me. God wants to help you, friend. He wants to help you. 4. Walking in the truth. In Scripture, walking is used as a metaphor for living in the truth. Well you see this walking in the truth, living according to the truth Not me living according to my own standards, which is the way it 's the spirit of the age, the spirit of the world, the zeitgeist of the world around us, the culture around us. Live for yourself And live according to your own standards. This is walking, living in the truth. But that's only verse 4. Let's go down to verse 6. And this is love that we Walk according to his commandments. And then also the very do you see that? Walk according to his commandments at the beginning of verse 6, then go to the book end, the end of verse 6. So that you should walk in it. What was keyword number one? What was it? Commandments, and was keyword number two? Walking out. Put them together. Walking in God's commandments. That's obedience. In um Galatians 5. Don't turn to these. I'll just give you a snippet of each one. Galatians 5, we're commanded to walk in the Spirit. Ephesians two, we're said to walk in good works. In first John, first John Chapter 1, we're called to walk in the light, which means in the glorious light of fellowship with God. Walk in the light. In 1 John chapter 2, verse 6, it's written, Whoever says he abides in him Ought to walk in the same way in which he walked, which means walk in the way that Jesus walked, which means live in the way that Jesus lived. Which, if you want to summarize it, obediently before God and in sacrificial love toward others. You with me on that summary? That's what it means to walk as he walked. This is obedience, submitting to authority, following commands, walking according to the commandments of God or walking in his truth. Told you we were camping out here. Now what is evangelical obedience? I said earlier it's obedience created by the gospel. Give you that a little more conceptual way that I hope this will Drive at home, what what exactly is so significant about that? Evangelical obedience is not something that you do to be saved. Rather, it's something that you do because you are saved. I'll repeat this again. If you can get this point down, you have you have the nature of Christianity down. If you get this point, you understand what evangelical obedience is. It's not something you do to be saved It's not something we do to earn God's favor. It's not something we do to earn God's forgiveness. Evangelical obedience does not create salvation. Salvation. Are you with me? No, no, no, no. Are you with me? This is it. Salvation creates obedience. If we were under the law, rather than under grace, if we were under the law, we would have to obey God in order to receive the gift of eternal life. Thank heavens we're not under the law. Christianity is a message of free grace. The theological system of Scripture is a theological system of God's Free grace to sinners that you don't pay for and you don't work for and you don't deserve and you don't have to earn it The gift of eternal life as a gift of free grace that then creates in our lives obedience before God That 's Christianity. That's evangelical obedience. Not something you do to be saved, but something that's true about you because you are saved. Praise the Lord. So many Christians, I see it over and over. The mindset is a works-based mindset. That growth is pursued by way of works. And assurance of salvation is pursued by doing more works. And the sense of fulfillment is pursued by doing more works. Works, works, works, works will create spiritual life or strengthen spiritual life. That is not the gospel way. That is not the gospel way. If you need spiritual life for the first time ever, you go to Jesus Christ in faith. And he gives that life as a free gift. Are you with me? That's the gospel offer. And it's an offer that's on the table. That offer will always be on the table for you as long as you draw breath. God offers you the gift of eternal life through faith in Christ on the basis of his blood sacrifice on the cross. And now if you're already saved, then you want to go stronger in that spiritual life. And you want more maturity in your spiritual life, and you want to move forward in sanctification or practical discipleship in that spiritual life. Same principle applies. It's not by works that you'll achieve those things. You need to go to Christ again and go to Christ again. Every day go to Christ. Go to Christ in faith. Spiritual life and spiritual growth comes from Christ. So you must go to Christ. It's so easy to make things about the external religion. It's so easy to just add more events and add more works and add more to my routine, my devotional routine, and to get a mindset of works And I get so fired up about it because I'm I've seen it year after year, over and over, from young to old. It's absolutely crippling in spiritual growth. It is crippling to walk in a mindset of works. We need evangelical obedience, an obedience created by the gospel. The flower doesn't grow down into the ground and then produce a seed. No, the seed is planted. The seed of salvation is planted and it grows up out of the ground and produces a flower or produces fruit, the fruit of obedience. Obedience is the result of salvation, not the cause of salvation. Never, ever, ever In Romans one, five, Paul says that his purpose for which God set him apart For the gospel. He says his purpose is to bring about the obedience of faith for the sake of his name. Did you hear that? The obedience of faith. What kind of obedience The obedience of faith. The obedience that springs forth from faith. But if you don't have the faith, you can't get the obedience. The obedience follows the faith. The obedience flows from the faith. Faith is the seed. The seed of salvation in the heart, and faith grows from that. Romans ten ten Paul writes, it's with the heart that one believes and is justified. You see, belief in the heart. The gospel way It's utterly confounding to natural man. But the gospel way is reward first, then obedience. Isn't that amazing? God gives you the reward first. And then comes obedience. Many people, so many people, I mean it's the natural disposition of man that we think it's the opposite. We think it should be the opposite. Well obey first. And then God will reward us. That's not the Christian message. And I need to be sure that I'm saying that publicly and loudly and clearly. That is not the Christian message. That's illegal. That is not Christianity. That's not the message of free grace in Scripture. In Scripture, the free grace of God is this: reward first. Come to Christ in faith. Reward, reward first, then obedience. Now is this really such a big deal? Yeah, it's really a it's really big deal. There's Two kinds of obedience. Evangelical obedience, the reward of life at first, and then glad obedience that comes from that. It's evangelical obedience, and then there's what's called legal obedience. Legal obedience. And here the i it is legal obedience is obedience first, then reward. Evangelical, reward first, then obedience. Legal, legal obedience. You obey, and on the basis of your obedience, here's the reward. Something you do to gain or keep a reward could be out of fear of punishment. A vandal is standing with a can of spray paint about to deface a building and out of the corner of his eye he sees a patrol car. Turning onto the road and coming in this direction, and he darts out of sight and changes his mind about what he was going to do. He decides not to break the law. Let me ask you, was that because all of a sudden his heart just became overwhelmed and filled with love for the police officers that he saw coming down the street? No. It 's not evangelical obedience. In the metaphor, it's not evangelical obedience, a glad obedience born out of love. It was a legal obedience. It's very simple. It's not advanced philosophy here. He just didn't want to get in trouble He did not want punishment, fear of punishment, a desire for a prize or a desire for a privilege. You have a rebellious child that's rebellious through and through, but if a certain prize or a certain privilege is put on the table on the basis of obeying a couple of rules, it'll Force himself to obey those rules to an extent to get that prize or privilege Pride of accomplishment. Pride of accomplishment. You see this throughout scripture with a religious hypocrite who can put together some form of outward obedience. Outward obedience out of pride. That 's not true obedience. The desire to appear good in front of others. This is all people everywhere. You do certain things in private that you won't do in public You'll speak one way in some places, but you won't speak in other places in public around people. Out of what Just you want to appear good in front of others. The best that legal obedience can do is produce outward obedience from a wrong motive. It can produce outward obedience from a wrong motive. And that is not what God desires. God does not desire sacrifices and offerings. God desires obedience from the heart. God desires love. God desires our affections. God desires gratitude. Evangelical obedience. Is true obedience in the heart, in the inward parts, with the right motives that obedience is created by the gospel. Legal obedience is not created by the gospel, it's created by law. In one way or another, it's created by a law and the punishments that come with those laws. And the best it can do is produce outward obedience, and it produces it from the wrong motive. Fear of punishment, desire for prize or privilege, pride of accomplishment, or to appear good in front of others Evangelical obedience, isn't it a happy thing, Church, that we're no longer living for the approval of men? Isn't it a happy thing that we're worried about God's approval and that God's approval comes by grace, not by works? Praise the Lord. It's a great situation to be in, to be reconciled to God, to be liberated, liberated from the ruling power of sin in our hearts. Doesn't it make you glad, church? Doesn't it make you glad that not only is God has erased all of your guilt from all of your sin based on the blood of Christ, but He's also dethroned sin as a ruling power in the mind And he's dethroned sin as a ruling power in the heart. Praise the Lord. Glory. Alleluia. Sin is not our master because of the Lord Jesus Christ. Are you with me, Church? Would you say amen? We don't live for the approval of the world around us. And we're not living under the dominion of Satan. In other words, God has blessed us with the gift of evangelical obedience, obedience created by the gospel of Jesus Christ. We've got to move on to these these uh overarching points on your outline. Do you have any questions? Do you want to simplify it even more? You want Bible verses to prove all these things on evangelical obedience? or on legal obedience, any of this stuff, please, please contact me. Not this week. This week is Spiritual Renewal Week. You contact Pastor Anthony this week. And next week, Wednesday, next Wednesday, not this coming Wednesday, next Wednesday, you can email me or contact me. But I'm serious. This is what we're here for, to work through these spiritual things. Let's get to that outline. Connecting the dots of biblical obedience or connecting the dots of evangelical obedience with brethren should be our greatest pursuit. Now here's what we're going to do. I'm going to go uh 1, 2, 3, and then we'll back up and go through that A, B, C, D, E, F. That's all under number one. I just want to do one, two, three first. I'm saying this so that you don't get lost along the way. We're gonna do one Two, three, main headings, and then we'll cycle back, or we'll circle back rather, and see if we can do A, B, C, D, E, F under that number one. So number one, let's make that connection between obedience and salvation. And the connection is, I've said this already, obedience does not create salvation, salvation creates obedience. Somebody make that t shirt, all right, or that bumper sticker, or the magnet we can put on our refrigerators. Obedience does not create salvation. Salvation creates obedience. That's the essence of the Christian nature of the Christian faith. It's the essence of the nature of Christian living. Now it's not in the passage we have, verses four and six, but if you cheat down to verse nine, there's a hint. The hint and the clue about this In verse 9 of 2 John, everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the teaching of Christ, now let me ask what would that be, obedience or disobedience? A disobedience. That's right. Um, it does not abide in the teaching of Christ, does not have God. See that? So if there's disobedience Disobedience. That's a sign that he does not have God, which means he's not in a relationship with God. He's not been reconciled to God. There's no salvation, and therefore there's no obedience. Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the teaching of Christ, that just means they're making up their own teachings, making making up what they want to do, what they want to teach, what they want to believe. Lots of so-called Christians and so-called preachers and so-called churches are on that road. Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the teaching of Christ does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching has both the Father and the Son. Has both the Father and the Son. Don't miss the wonder of what's being said there. It's talking about people who've been spiritually reconciled to God. It's people who have been bound Spiritually bound, s in spiritual communion with God, the creator of the universe, by way of Jesus, has the Father and has the Son. In fact, the way to the Father is the way is through the Son. We can't be reconciled to God the Father unless we come to and through God the Son, Jesus Christ. And that will never happen apart from the power of God the Holy Spirit working through the Scripture. Working in our minds to stir us up, to awaken us, to convict us of our sin, to convert us to faith in Christ. Salvation first, then obedience. You see that hint and that clue in verse 9. This disobedience, that disobedience is a sign they've not been saved. Now that's the connection on obedience and salvation. Hopefully we get back to it. Let's make the connection between obedience and rejoicing Look at verse 4. That's not the basis or foundation of our rejoicing, but you can't escape verse 4. I rejoice greatly. To find some of your children walking in the truth. Flip one page over to 3 John And look at verse 3. I rejoiced greatly when the brothers came and testified to your truth. As indeed you are walking in the truth. Seeing others obeying God should enhance our rejoicing. We should rejoice in each other's obedience. Not worship each other. We're not putting each other on the pedestal. But obedience in our lives, brothers, sisters, obedience in our lives is a work of God. And we're called to rejoice in all the works of God We rejoice with those who rejoice. We also weep with those who weep. We rejoice in each other 's. Spiritual growth. We rejoice in each other 's having opportunity to serve. We rejoice in each other's having opportunity to learn And you maybe wouldn't do it my way, and I wouldn't do it your way, and he may have a different style than him, and she may do it in a little different direction than her. But hey, that's okay. It's okay to be different. It's not okay to be bitter and divisive over those differences. Rejoice that you have an opportunity to obey God. Rejoice that this is a person who in their heart wants to obey God. Rejoice, rejoice. Seeing each other, seeing people, seeing people giving their lives to the Lord should enhance our sense of rejoicing in this world I mean what's the alternative? You want to be serving the Lord alone? I mean sometimes the way we act makes it seem like it, doesn't it? You want to be serving the Lord alone? No, no, no. We want to be surrounded by servants of the Lord. I know I do. I know I need that We'd give up in a second. I'd give up in a second if we if we were on our own. We rejoice. We rejoice. That's what he says. Heard their walking in the truth? He's rejoicing. He's rejoicing in the Lord over their walking in the truth. Oh, let's be happy for each other. Let's rejoice in each other. Let's be glad over each other. Because God is at work. Brethren, don't doubt it. God is at work. I know you can't see the Holy Spirit. Guess what? I can't see the Holy Spirit either And I can't see Jesus either. He's in heaven and I'm on earth. I s we see him with the eyes of faith, the eyes of our heart. And we're talking about invisible things. But spiritual things are not metaphoric things. Spiritual things are real things. And the fact of the matter is that God God's Spirit fills the church and fills his servants, and God is working, and for that work, the work of God, we rejoice. Oh, there should be such a sen a sense of contentment and peace and rest and joy in the church of God. Should there not? Should there not? And we should we should of all people on earth You want to cut where do we go? Where do we go to see a people who are content and at peace with one another and rejoicing over each other? Where do we go? Go to your local church. That's where you should be able to go. Go to your local church. And that's what it should be like. Number three, make the connection between obedience and love. The connection is true obedience is manifested in and therefore experienced In love. True obedience is true obedience toward God is manifested. That means made known. It's manifested In love, and therefore it's experienced by others, it's experienced by love or in love. First of all, first of all, look at verse 5. Look at verse 5. And now I ask you, dear lady, not as though I were writing you a new commandment, but the one we had from the beginning. Basically they're saying nothing new here. This has always been God's commandment. Nothing new. I mean there's a new development and a new understanding in what love is as you move through Scripture The the work of Christ sheds uh shines a brighter light on the nature of love. But the love has always been a commandment. This is what he says. The one we've had from the beginning that we love one another. Love one another We want to walk in evangelical obedience, which is the top pursuit of our lives. It should be the top pursuit of our lives. Evangelical obedience for the glory of God. If that's our top pursuit, it'll be a pursuit, it'll be a lifelong pursuit of trying to love each other. There you go. Now you can't be abstract about it. Now it can't now it's not just arbitrary ideas. Now it's not just external religion and going through the motions. Now it's something different. Now it's ethical. Now it's personal. Now it's about relationships. You want to walk in the light, walk by the Spirit, walk according to God's truth, walk according to God's commandments. Love each other. Love each other. Just as we rejoice over seeing each other walking in obedience, we should rejoice in the opportunity to love each other. Thank you, God, for this opportunity To walk in the footsteps of Christ, to show sacrificial love toward others. That's verse five. And now I want us to see the connection. The connection, the link between verse 5 and verse 6. So important. Verse 5, the commandment is what? Love, right. Love others, which is the second greatest commandment. You won't you wouldn't want to do that unless you're already in your heart obeying the first greatest commandment, which is what? Love the Lord. Right. You love the Lord first, and that's the fountain stream of all other obedience. But so there's a commandment of love, but now see the connection between verse 5, that commandment of love, and verse 6. End of verse 5, that we love one another, verse 6, and this is love, that we walk according to his commandments, plural. To love one another is to walk according to God's commandments. You cannot separate loving each other from obeying God. You cannot separate obeying God from loving each other. If you want to, if I want to, and you want and you also want to grow in our obedience to God, we have to grow in loving one another. Not just uh accumulating more and more knowledge about scripture, not just doing more and more things of the outward religion. I don't know what this is. I guess that's my My symbolic gesture for doing the outward religion, but not growing inwardly in our love for each other. To grow and obeying God's commands. We have to grow in loving each other. To grow in loving each other, we have to grow in obeying God's commands. You can't make those two different things. Scripture doesn't allow us to make those two different things. It's got to be based in God's truth, or it's not love. And if it doesn't lead to genuine love, you may be using God's truth But just superficially, not really and truly. If it's not transforming the heart to toward sacrificial love one for another, then it's not achieving its purpose in our hearts. You see that love. Love. End of verse 5. Love one another. And this is love that we walk according to his commandments. And this is the commandment, just as you've heard from the beginning, so that you should walk in it. True obedience is manifested in and therefore experienced through love. I'll give you a good example, Ephesians 4, 32. Paul writes, Be kind to one another. Are you still awake? Would you say amen? Be kind to one another. Don't be a meanie. Don't be mean-spirited. Don't be harsh. Don't be so critical all the time. Be kind to one another. Well, I know for me, that's a lifetime learning curve. Amen? That's a lifetime learning curve. Be kind to one another. Comma. Tender hearted. How about that? Tenderhearted. We should be tenderhearted. Gentle, not short-fused, angry all the time. Be kind to one another, tenderhearted. Forgiving one another, which is the opposite of holding grudges. This is the opposite of having an unforgiving spirit. This is all Ephesians 4 32. Boy, that verse is is ripe. Be kind to one another, be tender-hearted, forgiving one another, and the verse goes on, as God in Christ forgave you. Now, how did God in Christ forgive you? Did he make you earn it? Did he make you work for it? In any way, shape, or form, in any in any area, did he make you pay for it? Prove yourself first. Go out 30 days, prove you can be godly, or at least that you want to be godly, then come back, then you'll qualify, and I'll forgive you. In any way, shape, or form, did God require something of you first that you might Merit his offer of forgiveness. Or not his offer, just his forgiveness. No. And just forgive one another in the way that God in Christ forgave you. Offer it freely. Now that takes self-sacrifice internally. Internally. That can be a that that can be so difficult that it can actually bring physical anguish sometimes that even the prospect of forgiving those who have wronged us. I know it I am a person. I live life on earth in the midst of other people. I know what this is saying. Trust me. God forgave us in Christ the free gift of salvation that we did nothing to earn, and he didn't make us work for it, he didn't make us pay for it. And it's not and it's not even like we're after the fact, well now we're paying it off after the fact. No. No. But I gotta keep working to keep it. No, it's not based on the works. When you get a paycheck at the end of the week, that's based on your work. When you get a free gift of God, that's not based on your work. It's based on the love of God. God 's work of salvation is a manifestation of his love so that people would know his love and express Experience the joys and the blessings and the wonders of his love and then sing praises to God for his great love. If you make it into a works system, you erase all of that, and it's no longer about God's glory, but it's about man's glory. But isn't that just what we want in the flesh? Isn't that what we want? To point to our resume, to show what we did, to earn or to receive in some way We we halfway Vince joked about this a couple of Wednesdays ago. Right it it's God God does this much, he does this much of the work, but now we have to do this much of the work, so at the very least God's getting fifty percent of our songs of praise But reserve fifty percent of those songs of praise for us because he did the he did the work up front, he provided for the offer, but now I do the work on the other side, I complete this work of salvation. That's not Christianity Christianity, brothers and sisters is 100 %. Mark it down. 100% salvation is the free gift of God. You could be in here today, and you have hated God and rejected God for every moment of your life, but today God will receive you and erase all of the guilt of all of your rebellion. He'll cleanse your heart of that wickedness and he'll receive you into an eternal fellowship. You know why churches exist in communities is to deal with this kind of stuff? I mean there's so much goofy things going on in churches these days. Trying to make him trying to draw people with entertainment. We're here, brothers and sisters, we're here to deal with spiritual matters. Are you awake? We're here to deal with matters of eternity. People are created by God. People live in God's world. People will all answer to God. We'll all answer to God. We will all stand before God. People need to know the gospel. People need to prepare for eternity. People need to hear that the true nature of Christianity is not obey God and he'll reward you. But rather we need to be clear about this in in Jarretttsville. Well wherever we are. We're the buildings in Jarrettville, we're in Jarrettville, whatever. Wherever you are, you may I I understand not everyone lives in Jarretttsville. But here's the deal. People need to understand that when it comes to Christianity, when it comes to the Bible, here you go, reward first, then obedience. Reward first, then obedience. Salvation, God offers a salvation that's free based on the blood of Christ. It's free and that will create obedience I will never, Lord will and by God's grace, never tell you that if you obey God, you can procure for yourself the forgiveness and blessing of God. That's the opposite of Christianity. Reward first. Reward first. And then obedience. Let's pray. I guess I'll have to write an article on those A, B, C, D, E, F, which is fine. Father, we we thank you. I mean I thank you, Lord, for the glory of your salvation. I I remember vividly the life I was living. And I know from your scripture and from where things were headed, I know what it would have led to. So I'm thankful for your grace, for every heart in here this morning, whether Not saved or saved. I pray the same thing that you would show us the grace and mercy and love of Jesus Christ. Who died for our sins, rose from the grave, and now lives reigning in heaven, offering this free gift of salvation to any who would come. In Christ we pray. Amen.