Let's grab our Bibles and turn to Luke chapter 2. Today looking at Luke 2, 8 to 12. Thinking about the idea of joy, a true and lasting joy, finding joy in the year 2026, since we're right on the threshold of the new year. If you're visiting with us, let me just give you a warm welcome. Our normal practice here is to preach through books of the Bible Chapter by chapter, sentence by sentence, teaching by teaching. But we're doing a special Advent series for December. And today is focusing on joy. And quite simply, we're going to talk about the root of joy and the fruit of joy. The root of joy is faith in Christ. Faith in Christ. Do you expect something a little more complex or a little more innovative? Nothing new. Brothers and sisters, this has not changed, and it will not change. The root of true and lasting joy in life is faith in Christ. And the fruit of joy will be godliness. Contentment and endurance in difficult times. Godliness, contentment, and endurance in difficult times. The root and the fruit of joy. Let's read the passage, and then before we really open this up, we'll go back to the Lord in prayer. So here's Luke. 2, 8 to 12. And in the same region there were shepherds out in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night And an angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were filled with great fear. And the angel said to them, Fear not, for behold, I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior who is Christ the Lord. And this will be a sign for you. You will find a baby wrapped in swaddling clothes and lying in a manger. Let's pray. God, we join our hearts in faith. And we ask that you would open our minds to your word. And we ask that you would change our hearts by your word. I pray that you will help us. Help me in the preaching and communicating. Help all of us in the hearing and the listening and the ingesting of your word. We pray that you would show us Christ, show us his power, show us his love, show us your glory that you've revealed in him. Father, we pray that you would cultivate joy in our hearts. A joy that nothing in this world can take away or topple. A joy that only comes from you. It's in Christ we ask. Amen. Why is it that I know people whose lives have been ravaged by sickness? Maybe cancer or diabetes or some kind of horrible injury, and yet they continue to worship God And they're not complainers, and they're not bitter, and they continue to set a good example and a good witness of faith in Christ. But on the other hand, are people who are perfectly healthy and very strong, and none of those issues but are filled with bitterness, always complaining. Negligent in worshiping God, you would think it would be the other way around. What's the difference? Why is it that there are people whose Lives are filled with all kinds of problems that they didn't expect. And from an earthly vantage point, nothing is going according to plan. And yet, they continue to worship God. And they're not complainers, and they're not bitter, and they continue to set a good example of faith in Christ. But at the same time, down the street, there's somebody else. And from an earthly vantage point, everything's right on time. Everything's going according to plan. And they don't have any of those problems of that first person or that first group of people. And yet, their heart is full of bitterness. And they're always complaining. And they're negligent in worshiping God. And they're not setting a good example. You would think, from an earthly perspective, it would be the other way around. And you can be very, very sad and broken and have a heart that is overflowing with true and lasting joy. Because when we're talking about joy, we're not talking about the surface. We're not talking about a fleeting happiness. We're not talking about a veneer, thin veneer layer. We're talking about what's underneath. We're talking about an inner delight that comes from being in a relationship with God. That's what joy is. It's a gladness of heart. It 's an inward delight in the soul because you know God. It's because of this relationship that you have underneath A powerful and abiding joy, a true and lasting joy, even when you're ravaged by some of the sufferings of this world You don't turn into a complainer. Your heart's not filled with bitterness. And in that time, because of the joy that's inside of you. You pour more into worship and more into prayer and more into the Word of God because of that joy. And that's what we need. A joy, a deep inner delight from knowing God, a gladness of heart that comes from being in a relationship with Jesus Relationships do bring a particular joy based on the relationship. Because of my relationship with my parents and my siblings, there's a particular joy that we have. that we share and that I have. But then you come into my own home with my children and my wife. It's a joy in knowing them, in being in a relationship with them. We can talk about our relationship with each other as brothers and sisters in Christ, joined together in a local church. There's a unique joy, there's a peculiar joy in the Holy Spirit because of our relationships with each other. But the greatest joy comes from the greatest relationship, and that's our relationship with God. So that you can be extremely sad. And broken and hurt. And from an earthly perspective, things are going horribly. And yet your heart be full of joy so that you can endure those times. Because when you're in Christ, your hope is not founded and your hope is not located in this age, but in the age to come. And so you push forward by the strength that God supplies, you push forward in joy. The most important part of this sermon is the link that I want us to make right now. And it's a link between a phrase in verse 10. With a phrase in verse 11. The first phrase that I want us to look at is in verse 10, and it's this phrase: good news. Of great joy. Good news of great joy. So just in your mind's eye, here's your one phrase: good news of great joy And now I want us to link that with the phrase in verse 11, Savior who is Christ the Lord. Alright? Savior, who is Christ the Lord. The angel comes with good news. Of great joy. Now link that with this Savior, who is Christ the Lord. If we're to have the joy that the news is about, we have to have the Savior. That's being announced here. The Savior is the source of the joy. Now, if you want that joy You have to run to the Savior. If you want to abide in that joy and not get distracted. If you want to grow in that joy, And not fall into despair. You must cling to the Savior. This is our link. This is the heart of the sermon, the link. Good news of great joy. Savior, who is Christ the Lord. Our prayer for all is that you would come to know Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. Savior who is Christ the Lord. There are lots of counterfeit sources of joy in the world. Are there not? And they fall short on their promises, and they cannot provide what Christ can provide. A true joy, a lasting joy, not of the near surface-level joy, but a An inner deep joy of heart and soul, a gladness from knowing God. Looking to Jesus for help And leaning on Jesus for strength is the root of lasting joy. And this will be our first section on the root of joy And it comes from this link between those two phrases. Looking to Jesus for help and leaning on Jesus for strength is the root of lasting joy. I need to challenge myself and ask myself, Matt, are you looking to Jesus for help daily? Or do you still think that you can do most things on your own? Just a small category of spiritual things that you need God for? I need to challenge myself daily and ask myself the question, Matt, are you leaning on Jesus for strength? Or are you still trying to do most things in your own strength, and then a few really difficult things you'll lean on God for strength? And beloved, you need to challenge yourself with those questions as well. Because Christian living is a daily thing. Morning, noon, and night. Leaning on Christ and looking to Christ. Because looking to Him for help and leaning on Him for strength is the root of lasting joy. Now, let's work through that first. Phrase, good news of great joy. First of all, good news. It's the word gospel. It also can be translated glad tidings. It's a messenger. comes and gives a report of a great victory or gives a report of uh of a really Huge announcement from the king. Good news is brought to the village. Glad tidings is brought to the village. And it's important to realize that Christianity is not based on advice. It's based on news. It's not based on advice. It's based on news. News is what happened News is what is completed. It happened, it's done, and now it's reported to us. Advice is about what you should do in the future. And yeah, there is such a thing as Christian advice. I'm saying what's the center of Christianity, what's the basis of Christianity, is not advice, it's news Financial advice is what you should do in the future financially. Relationship advice is what you should do in the future in that relationship. Advice for college, advice in a work decision is what you should do in this situation, what you should do moving forward. Christianity is about good news. It's primarily about what's been done for you in the past. What has been done for you in the past? Jesus came to earth. to save you. Jesus died on the cross to save you. Jesus rose from the dead to save you. Jesus ascended on high where he lived as a savior to save you if you would look to him in faith. News. Done. Over. Complete. Finished. Whether we believe it or not, whether we rejoice in it or not, does not change the news that Jesus Christ came and did the work of salvation. perfectly. That's what Christianity is about. Please don't think that Christianity is primarily about trying to get you to do something for God. Now, once we're saved and once we're growing in faith, yes, our goal is to live for God and serve Him and serve others in His name. But that's not first, brothers and sisters, that's not first. That's first for you. You've got it backwards. What's first is what God does for us. Good news. Good news. Mark 10, 45. Jesus. said he came not to be served, but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many To give his life as a ransom, to give his life, to die on the cross, to purchase our souls for God. That's the first reason Jesus came. Not to be served, but to serve So be served by him this morning. Humble yourself and be served by Jesus Christ. He said that's why he came. First and foremost, to serve sinners like us. And that's what's so confounding about the gospel message. That a perfect being, an infinite being, a holy being, a righteous being would come to earth and serve us. But that's what the gospel is. Good news. Not advice. If you need Christian advice, this room is full of people who will give you Christian advice. But I'm telling you, if all you want is advice and yet you haven't believed the good news , The context it's uh the era of the Roman Empire And God's people, the nation of Israel, have been reduced to be a province of the Roman Empire, Judea. And they're waiting for their Savior. They're waiting for the kingdom of God that was prophesied in Daniel 2 would be established in the days of the Roman kings, the days of the Roman Empire. They're waiting for God to come , be their Savior. And that's what's being announced. And it is good news. It's good news of great joy. Great joy. Not small, not medium, not mediocre or common, but great. Exceeding, wonderful, profound, huge. You have bad pizza. You have average and mediocre pizza. You have good pizza. It's good. And you have great pizza. Now you have to drive if you want great pizza. You have to drive to New Jersey or Philadelphia to get a great pizza or a great cheesesteak But when I lived in those places, I would have to drive if I wanted a good crab cake. Alright? Marylander, so there you go. Different areas have different things. If you want good barbecue, you've got to go south. Great joy. Now let's be honest, that's something that you want. And that's something that you need. You would love to have more of great joy. Small things, fleeting things, can give a small joy, a fleeting joy, an appearance of joy, a feeling of joy, but only God can provide good news. of great joy, an exceeding gladness of heart that will sustain you through the harshest trials of life. Some of you have been through them If not yet, you will be. Some of you are in them right now. God is sustaining you with joy, even in the midst of harsh trial. An abundant delight in the soul. That can focus you on God and keep your focus on God even in seasons of comfort and ease. And it's equally hard to keep your focus on God in seasons of comfort and ease. as it is in seasons of difficulty and hardship. Because we we get comfortable and we get apathetic and we forget about God. We forget about how much He's given us. And we're just coasting through life. But a true joy, a great joy, and abundant delight of the soul that's rooted in our hearts will keep us focused on God even in seasons of so-called comfort and evil. Happiness, a spiritual happiness that will guard our hearts from despair, even if we fall into a season of sin That's a pretty powerful thing, isn't it? That will stop you from being completely crippled by guilt, even in the season of sin. That's the kind of joy we need. A joy that's not just an idea. A joy that has the power of God within it. To give us endurance through difficulties, to give us focus in times of comfort and ease, and to give us happiness and to guard us from despair despite our sin. Good news of great joy. Now, as we have this illustration, I guess it's a tree or some kind of plant, right, Dave? Root and fruit. There also, as I guess for the illustration, there's also things in life we could call ivy. That want to grow out and surround and strangle your joy and cut you off from the true experience of joy. There are things in life like that. So what I want us to do for a few minutes here is look forward to 2026. And I want to talk about things that will happen to us, will happen to you. in the coming year. Number one, you'll have unexpected hardship and trial. Maybe it's loss, maybe it's sickness, maybe it's injury, some kind of unexpected hardship or trial, a relationship issue. Lose your job. Will you allow this to be an ivy that strangles and lessens your joy? Or will this drive you to cry out to Christ even more to sustain your joy? Will it be Ivy Unexpected hardships. Also, what's coming next year, number two, is difficult decisions. Really difficult decisions that you have to make. With family, with job, with something. Now, difficult decisions By themselves aren't a problem, but they're never by themselves, are they? What do they bring? They bring stress, they bring worry They bring anxiety. And if those things are unchecked, if they're unchecked, what will they be? They will be an ivy that strangles out our joy. And we get distracted from what God has called us to. Unexpected hardships, difficult decisions. You know what else is coming your way in the coming year? Number three? Temptations. Temptations. And they're going to come from inside of you in your heart. They're going to come from outside of you in the world. Satan was laying traps And he's telling lies, and he's trying to allure and entice the children of God away from the will of God. Temptations are coming your way. Will the difficulty of those temptations? Will the allurement and the power of those temptations be an ivy? That strangles out our joy and our faith, or will they cause us to give ourselves to prayer even more, crying out to God for help and strength? Number four, also what's coming our way. is sin. You will sin in 2026. And then what? What does a Christian do when they sin? Just forget about it and move on. Sin unconfessed can become an ivy that strangles out your joy. You must go to God in prayer and confess your sin. Don't come to me. I'm not the dispenser of the Holy Spirit. I can't cleanse your conscience by administering supernatural grace to your heart. Only God can do that. Confess your sin. Unconfessed sin. Unrepentant sin is ivy and it will kill and strangle out your joy. And what you'll be left with is going through the motions of outward religion. And then number five, quickly, potential distractions and worries. The world is full of distractions. It's full of potential distractions, potential worries. And then what will we do? How will we respond? Will we look to God even more, cling to Christ even more, cry out for the Holy Spirit even more, or just go with the flow until these things become an ivy that strangle out our joy and we didn't even notice it. And number six, and finally, a season of comfort and ease. You probably will have one or two, or maybe three, extended seasons of comfort and ease. Well, you're not plagued or troubled or suffering from those other things we just talked about. What are you going to do in those times? Forget God? Forget that it is your duty as a human being to worship him. And further, it's your duty as a believer. To worship him and serve him and honor him and strive to honor him in all of life. What do we do in times of comfort and ease? I know what we do, because I do it, and I know what the Bible teaches about it. This is our plate. We're all prone to forget about God And just coast. And that can be an ivy. And that can be an ivy because we're not walking in close communion with Christ when we're just coasting And we will strangle out our true and lasting joy. Good news of great joy. And then this other phrase: let's talk about this other phrase: Savior who is Christ the Lord. Savior who is Christ the Lord. Looking to the Savior, leaning on the Savior is the root of lasting joy. This is the root. He is the root. First of all, he says Christ. I want to look at Christ. Christ, alright? Christ also means Messiah. Literally means anointed, the anointed one of God. It all means the same thing. Christ just comes from the Greek Version, Messiah comes from the Hebrew version, and anointed is your bona fide English version. But it all means the same thing: Christ, the Messiah, anointed, the anointed one. And it means God's anointed king. Who rules over us in great love and protects us in great power. Now that's a good thing, right? Christ is ruling over us. He reigns over us In great love, he's our shepherd who cares for us. He's our brother who stands up for us. He's our priest who represents us. Christ. God's anointed King who rules over us in great love, but he also protects us in great power. He's the divine warrior. He's the supernatural conqueror of infinite power. I am not more powerful than Satan and his lies and his schemes. But my Savior is. So if I'm going to overcome, if I'm going to have victory, Against Satan and his lies and his schemes, I must be walking in communion with my Savior, Jesus Christ. And so must you. I am not more powerful than the sin that lives within me. But my Savior is. And so if I want to repent from sin, I must lean on the Savior. You are not more powerful than the sin that lives inside of you. Stop treating it like a cute little pet. I'm not more powerful than death, but my Savior is And by his righteous life and perfect sacrifice on the cross, Jesus has conquered death. Jesus has procured eternal life And he's given it as a free gift to anyone who would believe in him. I'll just give you this for your devotions later today, Ephesians 1. 19-23. Ephesians 1, 19 to 23, for your study, for your contemplation, for your time of prayer on the great power of Christ for his people. God's anointed king who rules over us in great love, as our shepherd, as our brother, as our priest, and he protects us in great power from Satan and his schemes. and from the sin that lives within us, and he's overcome death and given us eternal life. Christ The Lord. Christ the Lord. The Lord refers back to God's proper name. Yahweh, which interpreted means I am. Jesus does not merely do things for God. Jesus does not merely bring things from God. Jesus is God. God the Son, God, the second person of the Trinity. God the Father sent God the Son. God the Son accomplished salvation. And now God the Holy Spirit applies that salvation to our hearts. That's why baptized in the name of the Matthew 28, name of the Father, and the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Lord, Jesus is Lord, Christ the Lord, I am The name of God, I am Yahweh, Lord. This means God is absolutely free and eternally Self -existent. Well that sounds pretty fancy. What was that? He's absolutely free, eternally self-existent. God is not like us He's not like created things. You see, we are not self-existent beings, and we are not eternal beings. We have to be brought into existence. And we can't sustain ourselves. We need things outside of ourselves. We need oxygen. We need to breathe. We need to eat. We need water. Right? Our life needs to be sustained from other things. But God is not like that. He's self-sustaining. He's self-existent. He was never brought into existence. He's eternal being and he's completely Three, you cannot manipulate God. He's completely independent. Yahweh, the great I am. Jesus is Lord. Hebrews 1:3 is a great verse, summarizes Christ and his power, his deity. And his work of salvation. Hebrews 1. 3. He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature. And he upholds the universe by the word of his power. After making purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the majesty on high. Hebrews 1:3. It's a nice verse, isn't it? Jesus is the radiance of the glory of God. He shines forth the power and wisdom and grace of God. And he's the exact imprint of his nature, which means Jesus is God. He's not just like God. He is God, God the Son. He upholds the universe by the word of his power. Why does the world keep going? Why does the universe keep existing? Why does everything hold together and stay in place. It's upheld. It's sustained by the second person of the Trinity. Jesus Christ. And after making purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high. I especially like this portion of the verse because it It makes us look backward and it makes us look upward. It makes us look backward to Jesus dying on the cross for our sins, making purification for sins. Where he bore our sins as his own. He bore our guilt as his own. He received the judgment of God that we deserve as his own. He made purification for sins. Then after that he sat down at the right hand of the majesty on high. He returned to heaven, where he reigns as Lord over all things. All authority has been given to him, in heaven and on earth. He reigns over all things, and he is the great high priest for the children of God. So we're looking back at the cross where purification was made. And we're looking up to heaven where our Savior and King reigns. So that's who we pray. We pray in his name when we pray. Because Jesus Christ is ministering in heaven on your behalf. Did you ever think about that? This is what Hebrews is about. How Jesus is serving in heaven. He's serving as a priest in heaven. He's serving as a king in heaven, appointed by God, on your behalf. It's a pretty wonderful thing when the most powerful being in the universe is on your side and fighting for you and pleading your case before God, representing you before God Christ the Lord. Then he says, Savior. Savior, who is Christ the Lord? Savior From what? A Savior who delivers us from sin, Satan, and the judgment of God. Sin, Jesus saves us from sin. Satan, Jesus saves us from the tyranny of Satan. God's righteous judgment, Jesus, saves us from the judgment of God. There's a lot to say about sin. It's a horrible thing. It's actually the worst thing there is. Sin is the worst thing there is. It's rebellion against God. It's a violation of God's law. Essentially, it's a twofold problem. It's a problem of corruption of the heart. This natural impulse to do our own thing and run away from God. That's part of the problem of sin. But the other problem of sin is the guilt that it brings. It brings guilt on our record before God. So we have this corruption inside that we need to be cleansed from, and we have this guilt on our record. That we need someone to erase this guilt and make us righteous if we're ever to be reconciled to God. Jesus fixes both of those problems. He fixes both of those problems. He dies in our place on the cross to rid us from the guilt of sin. And then after that, he gives us the Holy Spirit to cleanse us from the corruption of sin. And set us free from sin's reigning power. Jesus is the Savior. He delivers from sin. He delivers from Satan. He delivers from God 's judgment. Jesus is the sin-bearer. Sin bearer. Sin hyphen-bearer. It just means one who carries. He carries our sin on the cross as his own, so that we would never ever have to face judgment for that sin. That's the gospel, and that's the heart of true Christianity. First Peter 2:24, he himself Bore our sins. Right? Sin bearer. Bore our sins in his body on the tree that we might die to sin and live to righteousness by his wounds. You have been healed. Anybody in this room can be saved today if you put your faith in Jesus Christ as your Savior. Savior who is Christ the Lord. And if you come to Christ, if you come to Jesus as your Savior, your Lord, now what do you have? Among other things, you have the root of true and lasting joy in your heart. You have a relationship with God and you'll start to strive after and grow in a joy that comes only from that relationship. That's the root of joy. Looking to Jesus for help, leaning on Jesus for strength is the root of lasting joy. Do it daily. Do it daily. Now the fruit, the fruit of joy, will be godliness, contentment, and endurance. Godliness is walking in fellowship with God and being molded into his likeness. So if you want to get this point. Of godliness, just think of you have a ball of clay in your hands And then over the next two hours, you carefully mold it and shape it into something beautiful and useful. Right now, godliness, you're now the clay. You're the ball of clay. And God is the one molding and shaping you into something beautiful and truly useful. A godly man, a godly woman, a godly child, a godly teenager, a godly young adult. This is life in the modern world. Everybody has to have their own category. Walk in fellowship with God and be molded into His likeness. Godliness Contentment is walking in gratitude and satisfaction of heart because of all that God has given you. Walking in gratitude, walking in satisfaction of heart because of all that God has given you. Now part of that intercorruption of sin is is to ignore what God has given us, take it for granted, and not be overflowing with thanksgiving. And now that too will come from God, to have a heart that's Filled with gratitude and satisfaction of heart because of all that He has given us. 1 Timothy 6, 6-8. Godliness with contentment is great gain. In other words, that's what it means to be truly rich. To have godliness and to be content in heart. Rich person. On God's measure. Not the world's measure. On God's measure. If you have godliness and if you have contentment, rich. Great gain, true wealth. But godliness with contentment is great gain, for we brought nothing into the world. We cannot take anything out of the world, but if we have food and clothing, with these will we will be content. Now, am I crazy, or do we have a whole lot more than food and clothing? And that's just on the natural side of gifts. You take all the natural gifts, earthly enjoyments, earthly sustenance, then on this side, no, we should already be content. We should already be grateful. Now you add the spiritual gifts. Forgiveness of sins, being reconciled to God, the gifts of eternal life, the Holy Spirit. Godliness, contentment, and then lastly endurance. The fruit. The fruit. If we don't let the ivy strangle it out, the fruit of joy will be godliness, contentment, and endurance. What is endurance? What is endurance? The ability to keep going and not give up when things get difficult. True joy in Christ will enable us to do that. Such an interesting thing. The Bible links. The Bible links uh joy with endurance and a spiritual growth. Trying to do a triangle. Is it working? There's three things. Do I do it linear? Do I do a triangle? Three concentric circles? I don't know. The Bible links these three things. Maintaining joy as you endure hardship Joy, hardship, maintaining joy as you endure hardship as a path to spiritual growth and maturity. So just take those three things, and however you want to draw it out, however you want to remember it, the Bible links these three things: joy, enduring hardship, and spiritual growth. We don't have time, but I'm going to give you three. Verses also for you to look at in your devotions. Please look at these verses in your devotion to see how God Links these three things together. And it's such an important part of Christian living. 1 Peter 1, 6 and following. James one two and following Romans five Three and following. First Peter one , six, James one, two, Romans five, three. If we're waiting to be free of hardship before we get serious about cultivating joy in Christ, News Flash will never cultivate joy in Christ. Until you get to heaven. But that's not, you know, that's not what we're talking about here. Because we won't be free of hardship in this life. It would be like saying, I'll wait for my broken arm to heal, and then I'll go to the emergency room. I'll wait for my marriage to get stronger and then I'll start being humble and gracious and admitting that I was wrong. I'll wait, I'll wait till I turn from sin and then I'll go to Jesus for help. These don't make sense. We cannot wait till our lives are free of hardship and then get serious about cultivating joy in Christ. We must daily, we must give ourselves over daily. Looking to him for help, leaning on him for strength as a root of lasting joy. Daily communion with Christ. I told you at the beginning, this is not new This is not complex. This is not advanced spirituality. This is Christianity 101. Wake up every day and look to Jesus Christ for mercy, for wisdom, for strength. But don't forget about this one, joy. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your goodness Your great and mighty deeds, for your free grace, your free salvation through faith in Christ. We thank you for your word. We thank you for your spirit. In Christ we pray. Amen.