The words we'll examine tonight, excuse me, come out of 1 Peter 1, verses 3 through 9. 1 Peter chapter 1. Verses three through nine. If you're turning your Bibles there tonight, you're talking about faith. Very common word in the church. A word we hear a lot We talk about our own faith, talk about faith in Christ, but tonight I want us to focus in on what faith is. The multitude blessings that God has provided to us, and the avenue of how they come to us is through faith. It's all about faith. But sometimes this word is so common and so often used that it's actually lost its meaning, or we couldn't define it if you had asked us to do that. But may we recognize and see the importance of faith, not just in our salvation, but that God's mechanism, his mode of transportation to bring the blessings to us Is through faith. Thomas Brooks writes this, he says, faith has an influence upon all other graces It is like a silver thread that runs through a chain of pearls. It puts strength, vivacity into all other graces. I love that language there of this this silver thread on a on a necklace on on a set of pearls We often don't think about that necklace, do we? We just we see the the pearls or the jewels that are on it, and that's the beauty of it But you know if you've ever broken a necklace and you've lost the pearls or the jewels, how frustrating that is, how valuable that string is that holds it together. And gr faith is that string, but it's actually greater than that string. It's not a piece of wire or something that has no value, but it has great value. It's what holds all the graces Together. It's how we see and live and receive the blessings of our Father. If we talk about faith tonight, may we be filled with joy. May we look to it and recognize the beauty of what God has given to us. See His goodness and His mercy upon us, that He has given us faith, that we receive His blessings through faith. As Christians, may we never, never, never, never shy away from this word. May we never try to change it. Soften it, make it something else, but may we point to faith in Christ and proclaim the beautiful gifts that come to us through that. Now let us read our passage. 1 Peter 1, verses 3 through 9. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, according to his great mercy He has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead Who inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled and unfading, kept in heaven for you Who by God's power are being guarded through faith for salvation ready to be revealed in the last time In this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials So that the tested genuineness of your faith, more precious than gold, that perishes though it is tested by fire, may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ Though you have not seen him, you love him. Though you do not now see him, you believed in him and rejoiced with joy. That is inexpressible and filled with glory, obtaining the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls. May God bless the reading of His Word, brothers and sisters Faith, this word that's used, we see it here in the passage, the word we we see within the Protestant church everywhere, many churches or names with faith somewhere in the church name, because it's A beautiful word. It has such meaning to us as Christians, such value. But we need to wrestle and understand what this word means. So before we get into the text, I'm going to lay out an understanding of faith. That we should use as our working definition as we walk through this. If we can, turn with me to Hebrews chapter 11, just a few verses back. Hebrews chapter 11, or excuse me, a few pages back. As you're turning there, uh the young adults, you guys should set up front, because this morning in Sunday school, this is what we talked about, was what faith is and and how it deals with the works of the body we we were reading in James 2. But I want us to wrestle and have this understanding of faith in our minds so that as we're reading through our passages, we're unpacking the blessings of God. We have the correct understanding of what faith is. So let's read what Scripture says. Let me back up just one verse in chapter 10 of Hebrews, verse 39. It says, but we are not of those who shrink back and are destroyed, but of those who have faith And preserve the souls. So now we should know what faith is. Chapter eleven, verse one. Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen. Let me say again. Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen. It's not blind. It's not just uh we're gonna throw it out there as an insurance policy. It's not a meaningless uh uh faith that hopes on nothing. No, it sets on assurance of things hoped for. Now what are we talking about, the things hoped for? Brothers and sisters, we know that our Savior, Jesus Christ, has come. He's taken on flesh. Dwelled in this earth, lived a perfect life, and then went to the cross. As the perfect sacrifice, he hung on the cross, bearing your sins, taking on the punishment that you and I deserve. Then he died. He was buried in the grave. He rose from the grave, defeating sin and death. He ascended into heavens, having dominion over heaven and earth. Now he has called us. to be made righteous through him before the Father. He has called us to be His. When we have faith in Him, when we believe in Him, we then are made righteous and called children of God So there's three aspects of faith that I want us to have in our mind. And these aren't working in different times, and sometimes faith is doing this, or step one of faith is this. No, no, no. In the understanding of faith, these three things are always at work. So faith is of the mind, of the heart, and of the will I'll say it again, faith is of the mind, the heart, and the will. This is the Anthony translation, so. You try to go look this up in a book. They've stole it from me. If it's out there, but faith has these three aspects to it. Now I hope as you're hearing that, you're thinking your mind, your heart, the will, and you're realizing that it's a totality. of who the person is. It's the totality of who we are. So when I say mind, what am I talking about? Faith involves believing We believe that Jesus is the Savior. We believe that He is the Son of God, fully God, fully man. We believe that He lived a perfect life. We believe that he died on the cross. We believe that we are sinners in need of a savior. We believe that he paid for our salvation on the cross. He took our penalty. We believe that he rose from the dead. We believe that he sits in heaven. We can list through the things we believe as Christians. But brothers and sisters, that is a head knowledge. I use this example a lot. If I pass out a test of all the things we believe as a church, if I pass out and you've got to fill in the blank of the Baptist Faith and Message 2000, All of you, I trust, all of you could get a hundred percent on it. But that doesn't matter. That does not matter as we stand before the Lord. Knowledge alone does not save. Knowledge alone does not save. Who else knows and believes God but is not safe? What's that? The demons. Yeah, what did you say? The devil, yeah. We read this. The demons, the devil believe. Why do they believe? Because they know he is real. They know their loss is coming. They've known they lost at the cross. But they believe. Are they saved? By no means. So now it cannot just be our head knowledge. Faith must be more So now we travel down to the heart. The heart, it's our passions, our loves. So we come to faith in Christ. We know and believe who he is. And do you love him, brothers and sisters? Has the Spirit stirred up in you this love for God? This love for Him. Notice this is where we're starting. The love for God. The love for God, the greatest commandment: love God. Now, how do we love God? It's because we know who He is. We believe in who He is and His victory on the cross. We recognize His love for us, that the Father sent the Son to die on the cross for us. Our faith must involve believing, knowing, and also loving, having the passion for God. There's a third aspect of faith. These cannot be separated, these can't be broken apart Our faith also involves the will, the obedience, the following after our Lord and Savior Do we recognize that his law is good and perfect? Do we recognize that he has given us commandments to live as his children? Do we recognize that if we love him, we will obey him Faith involves all three of these. We believe, we love, and we submit to them. I believe this is probably the biggest problem for the demons of why they're not saved. They have the belief, but there's no submission There's no recognition that he is the sovereign, the king of kings, the lord of lords. They've downgraded it and they said, no, no, no, we want to be greater than you. We want to rebel against you. This is their problem. And friends, we see within the church worldwide and within America that often a church or our faith is imbalanced on one side or the other. We're all puffed up in our knowledge. We have all the facts and all the information, but we don't love him and we don't submit to him. Or we see this often too. There's a deep, deep love and this feeling, this emotion that's overflowing. Our love for God. We love Jesus. We write songs about the love letters we would write to Jesus. But there's no submission to his law. Or how often have we seen this side of it? There's this this over-the-top submission. If I get, I have to be perfect. Let me be legalistic. But I have no love. I have no knowledge. Friends, faith involves the totality of who we are, our minds, our hearts, and our will. So now, let us take this working understanding of faith and let's get back into 1 Peter chapter 1. We work through this. We're going to talk about the results of being born again through faith. What are the results? But maybe the better word would be: what are the blessings? Friends, I want us to leave here tonight. If you are a child of God, if you have faith in Christ, I want you to be overfilled with joy because you recognize the blessings God has given us through our faith. Alright, that's what that's my goal tonight. If you don't leave here happy because of what God has given us through the blessings, talk to me. Let us work through that. There's something blocking your understanding and your love and your submission to God if that's happening. May we be filled with joy and love and excitement for God's blessing. So let's look at verse 3. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again. to living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. Before we can get to the blessings, so the results of our faith, friends, may we see that the Lord is the one that has given us faith. He is the one that has made us new. He is the one that has brought us new life. Oh, what beautiful truth this is. Just hear Peter's words here. He says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. He's shouting the praise of God. He's recognizing his lordship. He's recognizing the Father and the Son. And then what does he say? It says, according to his what great mercy. According to God's great mercy, he has caused us to be born again He has caused us. He is the one that has brought this new life to us. Brother, may we just sit back for a moment and rejoice in that? Your salvation has been established, accomplished, and brought to you by our Lord and Savior, by our God, by our Redeemer It was not of your working. It was not of your doing. It was not that you got the answers right on a test. It's not that you worked hard with your hands. It's not that you had a feeling deep in your chest. No, it is that the Lord gave it to us. Do we recognize that faith is not something that's built into us that we just got to dig deep and scoop it out? It it's not a logical process that we can work through and by the end of the process, once we've worked through out all the logic, all the rhetoric, right, logic because it's the ways we think, then we'll come to the conclusion of faith. If that was the case, then we wouldn't need the word of God. We would just need to be good arbiters. We would need to talk well. We need to lay out arguments and defend proofs. But we see that faith comes from what? Hearing. Hearing what? Me talk? The Word of God, the Word. We preach the word. This is what we're called to, brethren, is that we preach the word because we believe that the Spirit takes the word of God and transforms the heart and brings new life. Ephesians 2. 8. But by grace you have been saved through faith. By grace, by the gift of God, he has given us faith. He's given us the knowledge, the belief, the love, and the submission to him is the work of God We should celebrate God. They should put God in the center of our worship. We should worship Him more and more. We should be excited for who God is and His work in our lives. We should also recognize that faith is not the works that we're doing, but faith is the mechanism God uses to bring this and these blessings into our life. I've heard it used and explained before that faith is like a truck It's that 18-wheeler that you load God has loaded up all the blessings he has for us and he's delivering to us. And what's he using is he's using faith. He's using faith to bring us the blessings. He's using faith in us so that we are assured of who we are. We're assured of his work. We are drawn to him in love. It's all by faith. And it is the work of God in us. Praise be to our God that He has given us faith to be saved, to be redeemed, and the endless blessings he has provided for us. Rest in this, brethren. May we enjoy this, and may we look to our Lord and Savior with joy of what he has done. So, what are these results that we see? Number one is an inheritance. We have an inheritance. Look in verse 4 with me. To an inheritance. Alright, so we're we're worshiping God. We're we're according to his great mercy has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, verse 4, to an inheritance that is imperishable. Let's let's pause on this word inheritance. Very it's a common language word. It's also a legal word being used here. What's an inheritance? It's a it's a gift, it's something you receive from most of the time it's from ancestors. It's your parents, your grandparents, you receive a blessing from them, and in our world, in our life, it's usually after they have passed, but it doesn't have to be An inheritance you can receive an inheritance from your family now. And they can be alive, you can be enjoy your inheritance with them. But it is a gift It's a gift. But the gift is tied to your identity. You hear that? Your gift, your inheritance is tied to your identity It's that you are a child of the person you're receiving the gift from, or a grandchild, or a cousin. Don't we all want those uncles that You never talk to and then one day you get that call, so and so what inherited you a farm? That's my dream. Someone inherits me a farm. Anyone wants to write a will, I'm just telling you now. Write it down. But we see this. It's an identity. So, what does it tell us? It's not just telling us that we have a great blessing, a great promise, a great reward, but it's also pointing to that we are his children, that he is our Father, and He has given us these blessings. Brother, may we be in joy with the idea that we are his children and he's given us an inheritance, but may we also recognize how great the inheritance is. The multitude of blessings, the reward we have from our Father. And you're saying, well, what could it be? Does no more sin sound pretty good? Just see oh thank you, John. He didn't have to think about that. No more sin. How about no more physical pain in your bodies? Alright, yeah, let me hear some amens. How about frustrations and temptations and and and this idea of you you're unsure of what tomorrow will bring? Can we can we want that to be gone? Brothers, may I promise you that you see, beloved, that this is the inheritance we have in Christ. That we will spend eternity with our God. You will wipe away every tear. There will be no more pain. There will be no more death. There'll be no more sin. Hey, if it's between that and the farm, give up the farm. I'm gonna go with that. We have an inheritance Let's live as Christians today while we're on this earth as though we recognize that we are his children and we have an inheritance. Let us look that way. Let us enjoy life. Let us function and and proclaim his goodness as though we believe that we are his children and we have a great reward. A great reward. What about this part of the inheritance? You're forgiven. You're forgiven. Now I know we're gonna wake up tomorrow and sin. I know it. Maybe I'm speaking for myself, but we're gonna wake up tomorrow and we're gonna sin at some point. Beloved, you are forgiven in Christ. You're forgiven. This is part of the inheritance. And we're going to talk about the the security you have there, but your inheritance is because you are a child of God, and you are a child of God because of faith. In Christ Jesus, that his work on the cross has made you righteous before the Creator. So the second aspect, result , blessing of faith. He's right there in verse 4, follows right after to an inheritance that is imperishable. That's the first one, undefiled and unfading, kept in heaven for you. Imperishable, undefiled, and unfading. Picture your bodies right now and think of the complete opposite Not defiled, not breaking down, not falling apart, not getting sick. Our inheritance, our blessings, our reward is not corrupting. It's not corrupted It's not breaking down, it's not coming lesser over time. It's like the best year in the stock market, except the better. That just keeps going up. The blessings that we have, the inheritance we have is only going to get magnified of how great it is the closer we get to God and the day we enter into heaven, into his presence. It's not going up and down. It's not getting worse. It's not dependent on who you are right now. If you are a child of God, it's not dependent on the past sins you've committed. It's not dependent on how well you have dealt with your spouse right now. Now those things need to be dealt with and addressed But God's not giving you an inheritance. You say something foolish, he takes it back, and then the next day you get right, you confess your sins, and then gives it back, and then the next moment you wake up and you have some doubt and he takes it back. No. It's secured. It's assured. This is what we want in life. Don't we? This is our biggest problem in life and what brings so much anxiety is we want assurance. We want assurance I'm going to have the same job with a pay increase. We want the assurance that our family is going to be there the moment we call them. We want the assurance that we're not going to have any problems tomorrow when we wake up. Isn't this what we seek so often? It's assurance. Well, beloved, the only eternal assurance you will have is in Christ Jesus. Faith in him is broad assurance. You are his, and he is yours. His love is not fading. It's not wasting away. It's. He's given it to us. This is why we can rest assured. It's why we know that our inheritance is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading. And kept in heaven for you. Why can we be positive of this? It's because he's the one that has given it to you. He's the one that has accomplished it. If it was our own doing, it would be defiled, perished, and ruined immediately. If it was our work, if we were the ones that accomplished it, it would be wasted. But it's accomplished by God. It's worked out by God. Your inheritance is from Him, and it will not fade away. The third aspect, the result, the blessing that we receive through faith, is salvation. Salvation. Ultimately this one is in the beginning. All these are are so intertwined and connected it's it's a bit hard to parse them out like this, but Peter lays out that we have salvation. Look at verse 5. So we go from that our inheritance is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven for you, verse 5, who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. A saving. Now we gotta we gotta understand the already not yet aspect of our salvation. The moment you come to faith in Christ, the moment that happens, you are saved. Your salvation has been accomplished. Your salvation in fact was accomplished on the cross. It's revealed through faith in Christ. It's assured within you in that time. But it is it is final. It is done. You are saved by faith. Cold stop, period. But we hear this language here of the salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. Do you think we fully understand it quite yet? Do we s do you think you fully understand what salvation is? We have a good understanding, but not a perfect one. Not a perfect one. The moment we enter into glory, the moment we enter into the presence of our God, oh how beautiful salvation will be to us. then how clear it will be how magnificent it will be it's magnificent now it's clear now it's wonderful now But the moment that that hope now becomes seen, how glorious it will be. Beloved, I want us to actually rejoice in this. For our beloved that have died already. That's a hard phrase to say, it's a hard thing for us to understand. But the saints that have gone before us Well it hurts now, and it God designed it that way, that we feel the sting of death now. We can also find joy that our love Our spouses, our friends, our family that have faith in Christ have entered into this salvation in a way that we do not understand. It's hard. But sometimes in the moments of mourning, as we're we're hurting on this side of heaven, in the loss of a loved one, may we just be reminded that they've entered into glory. May bring us a little joy in that time. It's not going to take away the pain. But it is the gift that God has given us It's the hope we have, it's what we look forward to. And the beauty is that it's God's power and it's being guarded by God so that we will see and understand it when we enter into glory. Praise be to God for his salvation that we have. Salvation from what? Salvation from our sin. Yes, but even more. Salvation from the the destruction we deserve from rebelling against the Creator We are saved from the penalty that Christ paid on the cross that we deserve to pay because of our sins. Salvation from this corrupt world. Salvation from pain and suffering into the eternity. This salvation, I cannot do it justice and This sermon. I don't believe we can do it justice if we preach about it every Sunday. The salvation we have in Christ is glorious. It's grand. The ten thousand charms then multiplied beyond as high as we can count. Friends, part of our joy is the Christians that we have salvation. List something that's bad and recognize you have salvation. Because of what Christ has done. Name it. Name whatever it is in your mind that is bad and recognize that we will be safe from it. We have a salvation through faith in Jesus Christ. Does it give you hope to live a little differently? Can it motivate us a little bit tomorrow when we wake up? Can we confess our sin a little quicker as we recognize that we have been saved by our God? Praise be to him that we have this blessing. He continues on. The fourth blessing, the result that comes to us through faith is joy. And this joy I want us to sit in that this joy is a here and now. It's on this earth. It's not just when we get to the presence of God. I I think that's that's uh easy to understand that we will have a great joy as we enter into the presence of God. of God. So we enter into glory, we'll have great joy. But there's a joy here on this earth right now. Look with me in verse 6. In this, so in all the things that he's talked about already, in this you rejoice. Though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials So that the testigeness of your faith, more precious than gold, that perishes, though it is tested by fire, may be found To result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. We're going to get to that last phrase there, maybe found to result. But let us go back from six to the first part of seven. That in this you rejoice. Now, what he does is he takes the rejoicing that we have through faith, we rejoice in God's blessings, our salvation, our new birth. Our inheritance, our assurance. We're rejoicing in all those things. But look where he roots it in. What's happening around the rejoicing that he's talking about? In this you rejoice. Though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials. Come on, Peter. Just tell me everything's going to be good, and then I'll be happy. Right? I if I win the the lottery tonight and I'm not sick ever again and and the Eagles win every Super Bowl, uh Nathan don't shake your head. We're going to rejoice, right? It's easy to rejoice if everything's as peachen on a very earthly sense, a worldly sense. Is that the joy that our salvation has? Is that the joy we have through faith? By no means. Because we know that's not the reality. We know that the Eagles are going to lose next year. We know that the world's not going to be perfect just because we believe in Christ. We have faith in Christ. We know actually that we're going to face trials. Amen, brother and sister. We're going to face trials. Maybe we're in it right now. But that word rejoice still stands. Peter still commands us to rejoice, to have joy in our salvation. How is this possible? Or why is he telling us to do this? Well what he does is he gives us an insight to what our trials are doing. And he uses chemistry, I don't know if that's the right term, or uh smelting that would be uh using to to heat up metals and You melt down metals and as those metals get really hot the the impurities float up to the top and then you scrape off the impurities and then you have the pure gold or metal within it. What Peter's doing is he's saying part of the trials we are facing, that we are called and commanded to rejoice while facing them is part of what strengthens and purifies our faith. It's what purifies our faith. It's what shows us the goodness of our God. Trials are part of what proves to us that our faith is genuine, that our God is real. That he is in control, that he is sovereign, that we are forgiven, like all of that is tested and examined, and it's strengthened in that time What Peter does is he says, well, in the gold world, if you're melting down gold and you're getting the impurities out, that's an important thing when you're working with gold. But he says even the gold is going to perish. It's gonna go away. But our inheritance, our salvation, our faith in Christ Jesus, our redemption, our new birth, our assurance Brother and sister, it's not going away. If you have faith in Christ Jesus, if it has been accomplished by God, it's not going away. Your faith will be strengthened through trials. So here's the hard part. Let us rejoice in the trials. It's easy on the good days. I don't need to tell you to rejoice on the good days. When all the blessings of God are just so evident, everything's clear to you. But when you're facing the trials, is it easy to rejoice? Is that our first thing we go to? Lord, I've I've met some of the saints here within this church and I've witnessed that as they're going through some serious trials, they are rejoicing. It is possible. This isn't just language that we throw out there, good ideas. Hey, when you we you know, we'll say it, these little sayings we do as Christians, rejoice and then the moment we face trials we can't do it. No, it's a reality. It's a reality. Now let us be clear that there's times where uh we're not rejoicing right away, we're encouraged by the word, we're encouraged by fellowship, and then we realize how foolish we've been. We turn back to the Lord. We rejoice in the time. We may face that trial the rest of our lives. But our faith grows. Our faith is purified. God uses that to strengthen us and to grow us and to make us into his image. May we rejoice even in the face of trials. And may we not flee from trials. Now, if God allows us to get out of it, let's flee. Let's get out. But may when we're in the face of trials, may our first thought not be, let's figure a way out of this. It's not what we're called to do. We're called to rejoice in it. Live it out. Let's work this out. We don't need to hunt what's God teaching me here? How's He growing me? That's gonna happen as we get through the trial. We live by faith as we're living this out. May we see that God will grow us and purify our faith. The fifth results or blessing that comes through faith Is three words there, and we saw that at the end of verse 7. It says, praise, glory, and honor. Our faith results in praise, glory, and honor. Now we could put those in the here and now. I do believe that we should be praising, we should be glorifying, we should be honoring God with our lives now. But Peter puts this as a future event. Look at the end of verse 7. It says that we'll go through the trials, the fire may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Now, I'm okay if we say Peter's studying this in the here and now, and that's what we're talking about. But I believe Peter's actually pushing this to the future. He's talking about when we enter into glory or when Christ returns. There will be praise, glory, and honor. So why? Why is this important for us to hear if it's a future event? Beloved, if we don't have faith in Christ, when Christ returns or we see him , When we are raised from the dead and stand before him in judgment, this isn't what's going to be going through your mind. If you don't have faith in Christ, the praise and the glory and honor of Christ and of God is not what's going to happen. What's going to be happening is we're going to be Trembling, terrified, recognizing that we will receive the just punishment that we deserve for being sinners, unrighteous before God But that's not the promise we have, beloved. In Christ, faith through Christ. When we enter into glory, when Christ returns, when we are raised from the dead and we stand before Him in judgment. We won't be trembling, afraid of what he may find. We know that he will find it all, and he will see that we are forgiven by the blood of Christ. He won't look at our works and say, well, there's a problem, there's a problem, there's a problem. He will look at our works and he says, these are my children because of what Christ has done and their faith in him. This is we shouldn't be worried about oh what hap what happens? I I don't know if I did if I read my Bible plan perfectly this year. What if I die and I haven't finished reading the Bible Oh no, stop being scared of entering into his presence and rejoice and recognize that we will walk in there with our heads head our heads held high because we are his, because of the blood of Christ. With great joy, we will enter the presence of God. With joy and excitement, we look forward to the revelation of Christ. We preach the gospel to the world. May we reveal Christ through the preaching of our word. May we reveal Christ through the preaching of the word so that people may join us, the sinner may become the saint The rebel may become the child so that they can join us in the praise and the glory and the honor of our God and Savior. May we proclaim this to the world. May we call the world to be in obedience to this. May we call them to turn from their sin, have faith in Christ Jesus, and join us in this adventure of worshiping our God. And may we recognize that the joy, the praise, the glory, and the honor is all part of the blessings that God has given us. You can't do this on your own. I'm not here right now preaching to you. Come on, get better. Get better. Get stronger. Figure it out. Create a plan so you're reading your Bible more. Call me every day that you sin. Please don't. I mean you can if you need to, but Yeah, I'm thinking about the back in the days where you paid for minutes. Call me on the nights and weekends so I I have the free minutes because I'll meet 'em. But we we can we can rest assured that we are his and that he has redeemed us Lord, I want us to rejoice in this, that his work in our lives is true, it's genuine, he's given us faith, and this faith has brought in a multitude of blessings. I do not believe that Peter is exhausted in his list here. I don't believe Peter thought he was exhausted. But in this time, the time he wrote this letter, he he realized through the inspiration of the Holy Spirit That the saints reading this letter needed to be encouraged in these ways. And beloved, we do too. We need to be encouraged in this. May we recognize that through faith, God has poured out all these blessings upon us. Now are we are we Christians? Are we people of faith? Yeah. Should we be rejoicing in faith? Should we be proclaiming faith? Come to faith in Christ Jesus. There's no other way. There's no other way. We can't lay out a plan and try to draw them in with something else. We can't say, well, you've got to say this prayer and then you will have salvation. No, it's faith. That's a result of faith, but we must call them to faith first. Call them to faith. It's why when when Pastor Matt preaches on Sunday mornings, I get to go up there and give this call, this call of response. I don't have to say, come and and do a somersault, do a flip, uh recite all sixty-six books of the Bible. And no. What what's our call? Yeah, maybe you guys don't even hear me. You're like, I'm trying to get home and eat. But part of our call of response at the end of each service is that if you have come to faith in Christ Jesus, it's accomplished. We come and talk to us because we want to celebrate with you. We want to help you walk through this path and what it means to be a Christian. But but they don't need to come and respond to earn anything and accomplish anything. It's by faith in Christ Jesus. What joy it is that our sovereign God planned 316 and 1 Peter 1, 3 through 9 on the same day. Trust me, there was not Pastor Matt and I working this out. We can't think that clear at times. So work through that. But that we get to have a clear call of God's love and then a clear call of come to faith in Christ Jesus. Recognize the beauty and the blessings of faith in Christ Jesus. May we celebrate as Christians, may we call the world to come in faith. And then verse 8 and 9, see, he lays out the blessings that we have through faith. He wants us to rest assured in the uncertain times, in the trials. In the temptations, whatever the world is throwing at us, whatever the trials that God has orchestrated to strengthen us, this is what he tells us. Verse 8: Though you have not seen him, you love him. Though you do not now see him, you believe in him and rejoice with joy that is inexpressible and filled with glory, obtaining the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls Beloved, I know. I know that we don't see Christ right now. I know that. I know that I can't draw out a picture or a map of your forgiveness in Christ. I know that. I know that I can't show you the deed or the will that God has written that has your name on it to promise you your inheritance. I know I can't show you that. No one can. But here's what we do rest assured on. That our faith is that promise God has given us. Have you made that connection yet? That the reason God has given us faith is so that we can be assured of all these promises. The reason God has given us faith is this is the evidence we have. It's within you. It's your your knowledge of him, your belief in him, your love for him, and your submission to him That's your proof right now, beloved. It's your proof that he has given to us. It says that though you may not see, you have not seen him You believe in him and rejoice with joy that is inexpressible and filled with glory, obtaining the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls. You don't see it now The world doesn't see it at times. They can't understand it. Oh, come on, you Christians, why are you gathering together on Sundays? Why are you reading your Bibles? Why are you not swearing? Why are you not getting drunk? Why are you Confessing sins and saying you're wrong at times. Why are you doing all of this? Show us, prove to us, prove to us that Jesus is real. We recognize we have the Word of God. He has revealed Himself and the way of salvation within His Word. But we must also recognize that He has implanted the seed of faith within us. You want to show that to the world, we love one another, we love our God, we serve Him, we worship Him. But our assurance, God has placed deep within us. Don't look for a deed, don't look for a proof. Look to what God has implanted in you. Belief of the head, the love of the Father and of our God, and the will to submit. And follow after him all the days of your life. Beloved, we have a multitude of blessings that he has poured out to us through faith. We have an inheritance. That is assured, that is not going away. We can rest assured that we are forgiven in Christ. We have a wonderful and eternal salvation. Now in this life, he's given us joy that we don't always understand, even in the face of trials. We have the promise of praise, glory, and honor as we enter into his presence. Did I did the word of God encourage you a little bit tonight? Just a little bit. That's all I'm asking. I thought you did that backy too, mate. Like a little bit. You were fixing your glasses. So some of the teenagers, but are we encouraged? May with joy we go and live. With joy may we love our spouses, our children, our neighbors, our enemies. May we preach the gospel and how we live, how we love, proclaim the word of God. Let's go before our God in prayer once more. Heavenly Father, we rejoice. We rejoice in all of your blessings. We thank you for our salvation that has been accomplished by Christ. We thank you for the faith that you have given us, the regeneration of the Holy Spirit you have worked out in us. Lord, keep this in front of us. May we recognize it, may we see it, may we rejoice in it, and may we proclaim it to ourselves and to the world. We pray all of this in His name. Amen.