Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarretttsville, Maryland. Visit us online at NorthHarford. org. Last week was Daniel one, God is in control Talking about or talking about a lot of things, but focusing on God's sovereignty. God is in control, which means he rules over all things. Even when it looks like from our perspective like he's not. Even when you may feel like he's abandoned you. Even when we feel things in America are out of control. God has it right in his hands. He rules over. He's in control. Today, continuing on that same study from Daniel 1, but focusing on that God Is at work for a specific purpose. God is at work for a specific purpose. When we say he's in control, when we say he's guiding things, it's not arbitrary. It's not as if we don't know what he's doing. I mean the details of certain things and the specifics of his providence, we don't know, but we know the big picture. It's the big picture that keeps us grounded in All the the specifics of life. It helps us deal with the different providences, good things, bad things that happen. It's the overarching thing. We know what God has purposed from all eternity only because He's told us. It's not like You know, we had uh you know committee meeting and figured that out. But we know what God is doing and we know our place in what God is doing. We are his children. We are trophies of his grace for his glory We know where the story is headed. God is at work for a specific purpose, and that keeps us on track. That is what keeps us grounded in In a crazy world. In a crazy world. So our first point in Daniel 1 was God is in control. That came from verses 2, 9, and 17. A God gave or the Lord gave Jehoiakim, King of Judah, into his hand. And Verse 9, God gave Daniel favor and compassion. In verse 17, God gave them learning and skill and gave Daniel understanding and visions and dreams. The second point is that God has not left his people. God has not left his people. I introduced this point last week. This week we'll open it up a little bit. And what I want to emphasize is God's faithfulness. His faithfulness. The overarching theme. The central prophecy and promise of Daniel is a coming kingdom. The overarching theme uh that kind of sets this context and sets the stage for that promise is the sovereignty of God. The God is in control. Otherwise, why would we believe in what God promised if God is not in control? If God's not sovereign, we don't have any reason to think that he'll be able to make good on his prophecy. So the central prophecy is the coming kingdom. The overarching theme is God's sovereignty, but it relates directly to God's faithfulness. He has not left his people. Let's look together at verses 9 through 16 God gave Daniel favor and compassion in the sight of the chief of the eunuchs. And the chief of the eunuchs said to Daniel, I fear my lord the king, who has signed your food and your drink. For why should he see that you were in worse condition? than the youths who are of your own age. So would you endanger my head with the king? So the chief of the eunuchs is afraid. He's afraid, and his inclination is what? To uh answer Daniel's request that is in verse 8. Daniel didn't want to eat the king's food or the king's wine, and he asked the eunuch uh if he could if he could not have if he could abstain And the eunuch wants to do what? He wants to grant Daniel that request or not grant Daniel that request. He doesn't want to grant Daniel that request. If it's up to him, because he's afraid. His neck is on the line. Because these these young days like fifteen or sixteen or something like that. They're young men and He's responsible for them. They're under his care. And so he's giving them what they need to eat to be strong and healthy and able to do. But Behind it all, God is at work. And God is with Daniel. So would you endanger My head with the king. Verse 11. Then Daniel said to the steward, whom the chief of the eunuchs had assigned over Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah. Test your servants for ten days. Now just ten days. It's a manageable amount of time. Just ten days, let us be given vegetables to eat And water to drink, instead of the king's food and the king's wine. Who eat the king's food be observed by you, and deal with your servants according to what you see. So Daniel does display good wisdom here. He doesn't lose it. He doesn't give an ultimatum. He doesn't get himself in trouble. He doesn't ask for too much. It says ten days, and then you decide. Daniel is trusting in the Lord. Just give us ten days, and then you decide. And sometimes we need to display A wisdom by hedging back what we want. W we want the immediate answer We want everything to be resolved in three days. And that's just not the way the world works. Things take The world works. Things take time and sometimes we've got to sacrifice a little bit and show patience. Showing patience does not mean that you're compromising. It makes it mean you're waiting on the Lord. To fix the problem. Waiting on the Lord to give an answer. Waiting on the Lord to intervene. I really appreciate Daniel's wisdom here. Don't want to get you in trouble. Give us ten days and then you decide. He's trusting in the Lord. Verse thirteen, let our appearance in the appearance of the youths who who eat the king's food be observed by you, deal with your servants according to what you see. So he listened. He listened to them in this manner, and he tested them for ten days, and at the end of ten days it was seen that they were better in appearance. And fatter and flesh. They're just healthier. They were healthier. They looked better. They were healthier. They were feeling better. Maybe they were sleeping better. Who knows? But they were better. Not worse, better. That's the point. Then all the youths who had ate the king's food. So the steward took away their food and wine they were to drink and gave them vegetables. So, short term, trusting God in the short term Got him that long-term answered prayer. This is a lesson there for us. A big lesson there for us. Now All of that, that whole story, that whole snippet, is just expounding this one phrase from verse 9 God gave Daniel favor and compassion in the sight of the chief of the eunuchs. That whole story just tells answers the question, how? How did God give favor to Daniel? That's how. God gave favor providentially from behind the scenes. He did had not left his people. He did not leave Daniel and these other three. Now why is this significant? Well they're in exile They've been de Israelis. It's not even worded. I'm just saying. Everything, the first paragraph of Daniel, if you just want to skip over it, is about how everything was destroyed culturally from who they were and where they were and what they were a part of in Judah and taken into exile But God is with them. Look at verse 1 and 2 again. In the third year of the reign of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, came to Jerusalem and besieged it. And the Lord gave Jehoiakim, king of Judah, into his hand. Israel was under judgment. They were not in exile just because Nebuchadnezzar was a great military leader. Maybe he was from a worldly perspective, but that's not why Israel is in exile. Judah, the southern kingdom of Israel, is in exile for their sin. They're under judgment. And in that context Daniel still believes in God. He still believes in God's goodness. He still believes that God is with him. He's not going to defile himself, and he's trusting in God's providence. This is where Daniel is a great man of faith. By God's grace. He's no different than you or I. If we have faith, it's by God's grace. Good cross-reference on this is Jeremiah 27, 4-7. Jeremiah 27 4 to 7. There are other passages on this too, but I wanted to give you at least one that was 4 hyphen seven. 4 to 7, not 47. Jeremiah 27, 4 to 7. If you look for verse 47, you'll never find it because it doesn't exist. I want to give you at least one more verse to highlight. And to drive this nail home, that it is God using Nebuchadnezzar as a as an instrument of judgment against his people. Give them this charge for their masters. Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel. This is what you shall say to your masters. It is I who by my great power and my outstretched arm have made the earth with the men and animals that are on the earth. That's a pretty good power, right? Made the earth. Made men, made the animals that are on the earth, I give it to whomever it seems right to me Different realms of authority and dominion on the earth are according to God's purpose and working. It's beyond our comprehension. We don't have the inside information, but we know this: this is God's earth. He's the creator, king. Heaven is his throne, the earth is his footstool. It's I Who give it, to whom it seems right to me. Verse 6. Now I have given all these lands into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, my servant. And I have given him also the beasts of the field to serve him. All the nations shall serve him and his son and his grandson until the time of his own land comes. Then many nations and great kings shall make him their slave. One of the clearest teachings of the whole Bible, not just this like one little section or this one little storyline, right? Nebuchadnezzar. One of the clearest teachings of the whole Bible is that God is in control. God is sovereign over nations, over kings. Over peoples. And he is working out his purpose. And if you follow in your marginal references or study notes, you'll see other passages that describe that same thing. God has not left his people. He is faithful. So do you still have this sheet from last week? There's a stack of them on the top shelf back there. If someone wants to get them, Mark, could you grab those and hand those out? We looked at the first section last week of God is sovereign. He rules over, and now I have another Collection of verses on God's providence, which stresses that he works in. These are two aspects of one reality And I know that I way overuse this illustration of two sides of one coin. Forgive me for it. There's just a happen to be a lot of things that are one thing with two different aspects. Alright? Two sides of one coin. These are two different aspects of one reality. God is sovereign as that he rules over. Alright? Here's the earth And uh I can't I cannot draw a throne. Heaven is God's throne, but I can draw a little bit of a crown. God is sovereignty. He rules over the earth. All right? And God's providence is That's a horrible crown, but I'm not gonna squat down to get through to get the correct angle to make you a good crown, okay? He works in. He works in. So we're not deists. D-E -I-S -T -S. We're not deists. that God created the world and then removes himself from it and he's letting things develop however it's going to develop. He is transcendent over, he rules over, he's sovereign over, and he works in, he's present in. That's how you and I can know him and have a relationship with him. He's revealed himself to us in this world. His spirit is active in this world. So God is sovereign, he rules over, and God is a God of providence, he works in. Proverbs 16:9. The heart of man plans his way. You do that, I do that, right? You plan your way. And you're probably already thinking about what you're going to do tomorrow. But the Lord establishes his steps. You know what happens tomorrow is in the Lord's hands. What happens next week is in the Lord's hands. That's why we give God the eraser. Yeah, that's right. Romans 8. 28. And we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good. For those who are called according to his purpose. All things. All things are working together for our good. For those who are called according to his purpose Proverbs 16, 33, the lot is cast into the lap, but its every decision is from the Lord. That's interesting. Do you believe that? Do you believe in the details, in the intricate details of life? Every decision is from the Lord. Isaiah 14, 24, the Lord of hosts has sworn, as I have planned, so shall it be. What do you think about that? As he has planned, shows sh so shall it be. A little bit of a tongue twister there. And as I have purposed, so shall it stand. That's even more difficult. That's four three S's. God plans it, it's going to be that way. God purposes it, it's going to stand. Genesis 5020 This is probably a memory verse for many of you. As for you, you meant evil against me. So who's that talking and who's he talking to? Joseph. to his brothers. That's right. But God meant it for good. God did not show up at the end and try to make uh lemonade out of lemons. Is that is that a saying or am I making that up? Yeah. God meant it. God planned it to bring about that many people should be kept alive as they are today. God had a good purpose. God had a good purpose. From the beginning. And that's such an important that becomes the interpretive key of understanding the Daniel or the Joseph narrative as you get to the end. Because within the narrative, what does Joseph do? He interprets He knows the dreams, he interprets the dreams, he interprets the reality, he interprets the meaning, the true meaning. And as you get to the end, the very end He it's almost as if he steps out of the narrative and interprets the whole narrative. He interprets the whole story as God is the one who meant this for good. Ephesians 1. 11. In him we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things, all things. According to the counsel of his will. The phrase is only in the verse one time, all things. I repeat it for emphasis. In Jesus, we've obtained an inheritance, a heavenly inheritance. Having been predestined, predestined according to what? Predestined according to the purpose of him , predestined according to God's purpose. That's the foundation, that's the basis, that's the source of the predestining, God's purpose, the one who works all things according to the counsel of his will. Which is important because we know if we are predestined according to his purpose um to an inheritance, we know we'll have that inheritance. That's the point. It's supposed to encourage us. Now send us all into philosophical debates or make us angry or something like our freedom is violated. It's supposed to be the strongest encouragement possible for the child of God. We know, secure, a hundred percent the inheritance that we have in Christ will be ours. It is already ours. We have the Spirit in our hearts as a deposit, as a guarantee for our inheritance. God is working in, He rules over, and He's working in God's providence. Or God's providence, God's providence in the world. You see that in various things that are going to happen in the book of Daniel, but you see it right off the bat. He's faithful. God is faithful. I do have some practical applications here. Just five of them. I wanted to use Bible verses for this. So flip with me if you can, 1 Corinthians 10, 13. First of all, God is faithful When we are experiencing temptation. God is faithful when we are experiencing temptation. 1 Corinthians 10, 13. That encourages me. I battle temptation all day, every day, there's no escape. The flesh, the inner corruption, is the cause of all kinds of temptations and wickedness and the world around us But God is faithful. First Corinthians ten thirteen. No temptation has come upon you that is not common to man. It's not overtaking you. It's not come upon you that's not common to man. God is faithful, and he will not be, and he will not let you be tempted beyond your ability. But with the temptation, he will also provide the way of escape that you may be able to endure it. God is faithful. He is the way of escape. The Holy Spirit is the way of escape. The Scripture is the way of escape. God is our strength. God is our shield. The point of that verse is not to say God's given you something and he's left and now since you have this thing you're on your own and and you can use this tool or use this weapon to fight off Temptation. No, God is your weapon. God is your tool. He is your shield. He is your rock and fortress. And he's faithful. And there is a way out. We have to have faith. We have to have faith and go to God first. So many times we want to have some kind of strategy or or uh or method. We've got to go to God in our hearts to step into the throne room of God and see Christ on his throne and see him as our faithful high priest who loves us and cares for us. He overcomes But it's got to be a step of faith. You get to step into heaven by faith in your heart. And that's the way out. 1 Corinthians 10, 13. The only way you overcome overcome temptation, which is what? Sin enticing you, right? Sin alluring you. You need to see something that's more beautiful than sin. You need to see something that's more valuable, that's going to captivate and capture your heart more than the sin. That's the person of Jesus Christ. God is faithful in temptation. God is faithful to forgive. Amen. You won't say it, I'll say it. The walls will say amen. The rocks will cry out. Because In all of our fighting against temptation we fail. We're weak, we're sinful, we fail. And we will continue to fail in one to one degree or another, in one wa one form or fashion or another till the day we die bodily and go to heaven. We do sin, but God is faithful to forgive us. He's faithful to forgive. He longs to forgive. He loves to forgive. He wants to forgive because it manifests his grace. He's not reluctant. He's not forgiving you begrudging begrudgingly and holding a chip on the shoulder like we do. Faithful to forgive. Did I even give you the verse for this yet? Or am I just ranting on like a madman? Well, if there's ever a topic to rant like a madman, it's on God forgiving my sin. First John one nine. First John one nine. Well all of it, but particularly the first chapter of First John is uh one of the good places you can go to understand the presence of sin. In the believer's life. The true believer will not live a life of habitual unrepentant sin. And not care about it. And we fall into different seasons and we get caught in the snare, but we're always restored and we're grieved by our sin and we want to repent. But we have sinned. Verse nine. If we confess our sins He is faithful, right? That's the point we're on, his faithfulness. If we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. There is a cleansing that happens. So, one aspect of this is the judicial aspect, removing the guilt or forgiveness, but then the cleansing us from unrighteousness. There is a cleansing, a progressive sanctification that happens In our lives. We we can and do grow in holiness. God is faithful. If we confess our sins, He is just to forgive us our sins. He's promised to forgive us. our sins. But we go to him and we confess. And confession should be a regular part of our prayer lives. It should be. It must be. I I I weaken these things 'cause I don't want to be too strong. It must be. Confession must be unless you stop sinning or stop caring about your sins Or have just been so blinded you don't see your sins. Confession must be a regular part, a central part of our prayer life. And it is in the Lord's Prayer, that model prayer. God is faithful in temptation. And if we fall into sin in the midst of temptation, he's faithful to forgive. He's faithful to forgive. Which means he's promised he's forgive you. He will forgive. He's faithful in the battle versus Satan. He's faithful in the battle versus Satan. 2 Thessalonians 3:3. It is not just the internal enemy of the sinful flesh that we fight, but there are external enemies. Don't make it one or the other. You fight we fight against indwelling sin, the passions of our flesh, and we fight against the devil. 2 Thessalonians 3. 3. But the Lord is faithful. That's our point, right? The Lord is faithful. He will establish you and guard you against the evil one. So now just zoom out in your mind's eye. If you're going to be established, firmly planted, right? Firmly rooted, established. This is what you want in your garden. You want your things to be established, rooted, growing. If we're going to be established and if we're going to be truly guarded against the evil one, who must do it? It's not a trick question, it's easy. God must do it. We can't do that. Sin is crouching at our door. Its desire is to have us. We must rule over it. We can't rule over it. God can rule over it. We must go to God. It's always the answer. If I were to give you tests, it'd I'd be the easiest test giver ever. Because the answers would always be the same. Go to God, go to Jesus. Believe. Believe. Believe. Go to Jesus. You can't do it. You can't do it. Go to Jesus. Sometimes you play those mind games um with conversion How do I how do I be born again? How do I get saved? Go to Jesus. Well, how do I have faith? Go to Jesus. You must go to Him. That's what faith is. That's what repentance is. Repentance is turning to Him. Faith is believing in him. Being born again is looking to him for life. Like Moses held up the serpent in the wilderness. You look to the serpent. And you're healed. You're saved. Just like that. You look to Christ and you're saved. You're born again. I brought that example up because that's in the passage about being born again So he's faithful in the battle versus Satan. I think one of the problems is we don't realize that battle or the magnitude of that battle. I think we go through most of our days and most of our day not thinking too much about that. That we are in a battle, a spiritual battle against an invisible supernatural figure. The devil and his demons, the invisible kingdom of darkness. And that's in addition to our sinful flesh. Internal enemies, external enemies And we must be mindful of both. We must go to God for victory in both. God is faithful to his promises. Hebrews 10 :23. This is a general point. I mean these all fall under that. Hebrews ten twenty-three, though, is such a favorite passage of mine. God is faithful to his promises Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering. Now that's The imperative. That's the call, the command, the charge. Hold fast. Hold steady. Plant your feet to our confession. But then he gives us the foundation of doing that. The foundation that's going to enable us to do that, for he who promised is faithful. He promised. You something in Christ. He promised you many things in Christ. He is faithful, therefore hold fast. Hold fast. You're not working to keep the inheritance. We didn't work to earn the inheritance. We don't work to improve the inheritance. We don't work to keep the inheritance. The inheritance is ours in Christ. God promised it. Here's how we hold fast: believe. Believe his promise. Believe that God is faithful. He will not revoke his promise or violate his word. He's faithful in temptation. He's faithful to forgive. He's faithful in the battle against Satan. He's faithful to his promises. He's faithful to sanctify and preserve. A lot of these have had to do with Christian living and the different battles we face and how we ought to be praying and how we ought to be thinking. And this is a summary for all that. He's faithful to sanctify and preserve. 1 Thessalonians 5, 23. 1 Thessalonians 5, 23. Sorry, I have you going backwards, forwards, all over the place, but I put them in uh like a logical order Not chronological. At least I try to. First Thessalonians 5, 23, and actually looking at 24 As well. God is faithful to sanctify and preserve. So it was the last point, right? That God was faithful to his promises. That focused on the final inheritance. Well, he's promised you something else That's not the only thing he promised you as a final inheritance. He's promised to sanctify you. He's promised to take me , a despicably vile, wicked sinner, and make me holy. And he's promised that to you too. He's promised to sanctify you, to set you apart for his purpose, to conform you to the likeness of Christ. And that's not it. That's not all. Wait, there's more. He's promised to preserve you to the end. We already talked about that a little bit. He's promised to preserve you to the end. First Thessalonians five, twenty-three, and twenty-four. Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely, and may your whole spirit and soul and body be kept blameless. at with the idea of until the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. That's just a way of saying you'll be presented before him in his presence Pure and blameless. Really and truly, you'll have no indwelling sin anymore, no presence of sin anymore as you stand before God in judgment. You'll already have a resurrection body. You'll already have the inheritance. The resurrection body. No sin completely eradicated. You'll already be perfected in holiness and righteousness before God. That's why the final judgment for believers is a is a public, it's a cosmic, which means as big as the cosmos. uh announcement, public showcase of God's redemptive grace toward his children for the praise of his glory. And then verse 24 He who calls you is faithful, he will surely do it. He who calls you is faithful, therefore he will surely do it. You don't we don't need to be doubting God that he's going to sanctify We don't need to be doubting God that He's going to preserve us. Just like we don't need to be doubting God that He's going to use His gospel to save the lost. Just like we don't need to be doubting God that He is going to advance His kingdom and He is going to build His church. We're in the business of believing. We're in the business of faith, trusting God, despite all odds, despite what our friends say, despite what the television says, despite what our own Mind says that plays tricks on us and causes us to doubt God. Let's go back to Daniel. I hope that's encouraging for you. I wanted to give Nuts to bolts, daily grind, Christian living application, because the battle is real. Don't give up. Stay in the fight. God is faithful. And you belong to him. God has not left his people. So one, God is in control. Daniel 1, first point. Second point, God has not left his people. We saw that Daniel, Daniel doesn't, Daniel's not confused. Daniel knows God is with him. Secondly, God's enemies can take a lot, but they cannot take your faith. This from Daniel 1. Uh backing up from to verses two to eight. Backing up to verses two to eight Uh God's enemies can take a lot, but they cannot take your faith. And we already talked about that the only reason God's enemies are taking these things from God's people is because God is using them. That is judgment. And the Lord gave Jehoiakim, king of Judah, into his hand with some of the vessels of the house of God. Those are very important things. In your daily reading this year. Have you read um the giving of the law and how important the tabernacle was and the vessels and the and then as you later on will get into the building of the temple and the creation of the furniture? It's basically the same thing, just a permanent building form of it. It's very important stuff. Taken. Taken. God gave them To Nebuchadnezzar. And he brought them to the land of Shannar, to the house of his God, and placed the vessels in the treasury of his God. Then the king commanded Ashpanaz, his chief eunuch, to bring some of the people of Israel, sorry, God's vessels, from God's house of worship, now God's people, both of the royal family and the nobility. youths without blemish, of good appearance, skillful in all wisdom, endowed with knowledge, understanding, learning, competent to stand in the king's palace, and to teach them the literature and the language of the Chaldeans God's people. God's vessels. God's people taken from God's land, God's city. Verse 5, the king assigned them a daily portion of the food that the king ate, so it's the king's food, and the wine that he drank, so it's the king's wine. They were to be educated for three years, and at the end of that time they were to stand before the king, or stand before the king, the people of God standing before a pagan king. Among these were Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, Azariah of the tribe of Judah, and the chief of the eunuchs gave them names, or take away their names. Took away their names. From their perspective, Daniel he called Beltashazzar, Hananiah he called Shadrach, Meshael he called Meshach, and Azariah he called Abednego. Who's the one who changes names in Bible and gives new names? God is the one and they always have a meaning, a redemptive meaning. That's what I was alluding to earlier when I used that non-word as a word, that they're being de-Israelized. They're taken away. This is this is judgment. This is God's judgment against his people. And this is what's happening by new names in a foreign land God's enemies can take a lot, but they cannot take faith. And that is a major theme as we go throughout Daniel. So just rehearse the themes already of Daniel. uh in the whiteboard of your mind. All right. The central prophecy is of a coming kingdom that God's going to Himself set up in the days of the Roman Empire. And it will be an eternal kingdom that will grow like a mountain to fill the whole earth. It'll be an eternal global kingdom set up by God Himself in the days of the Roman Empire. The whole New Testament is about how God does that. How God begins to do that. Alright. And then in that and that's all in the con that central prophecy is in the context of a major theme of God's Sovereignty ruling over all things, of God's providence working in these situations. And from the perspective of Daniel and his friends, the major theme is faith. It's trusting in the Lord. Trusting in the Lord. God's enemies can take a lot, even today, from God's people. They can take uh things, they can take homes, they can take limbs, they can take life, they can take family, they can take freedom, they can take uh a house of worship and burn it down. They can take a lot of things. They cannot take the Holy Spirit from the heart of a believer. They cannot take the promises of Christ away from the believer. They cannot take your status of a child of God. They cannot take away your hope. Ephesians 6, beginning in verse 10. I think this will be a great encouragement to you. Ephesians six, verse ten I'll say it again. The battle is real. We do not rest on our laurels complacent. And slack in living for the Lord, and then say, well, they can't take anything away from me. That's not Christian living. The apathy is not Christian living. There is a battle. There is a spiritual battle. Ephesians 6, 10, and following. Finally Be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. I want to be strong in the Lord. I want to stand in the strength of his might. I need that. Put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil. For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers. Against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness. That's talking about demons. Demons that work on earth according to God's purpose and plan to delegate to them certain things they're allowed to do in certain places That's all it's talking about. Spiritual warfare. Kingdom of Darkness is real. Demons are real. The spiritual battle is real. Spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. Therefore, take up the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand in the evil day And having done all, to stand firm. Stand, therefore. What's the key word here? Stand. Stand. If you ever find yourself teaching this or preaching a series on this, stand. Standing in the strength of the Lord. Stand, therefore, verse 14. Having fastened on the belt of truth. The belt of truth to keep everything else on and where it needs to be. Or you won't even be able to begin fighting. Look Like a moron walking out to battle. Put your belt on. Put your belt on The belt of truth, God's truth, scripture. And having put on the breastplate of righteousness, remember that you are righteous by faith. That's your breastplate. That'll protect you, that'll keep you safe. That you justify by grace through faith. The breastplate of righteousness and as shoes for your feet Having put on the readiness given by the gospel of peace. That's such an interesting one to me. That's so intriguing. It's um not putting on the gospel. You're putting on the readiness that comes from the gospel I mean it's just a metaphor, right? Your feet is what gives you a footing. The boots are what gives you a footing, enable you to fight, enable you to move, enable you to run, enable you to jump. You need this. You need this to be able to fight. You need a ready You need a readiness and urgency and alertness. You need to be ready for the battle. That comes from being grounded in the gospel, the gospel of peace. In all circumstances, take up the shield of faith with which you can extinguish all the flaming darts of the evil ones. And the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God, praying at all times in the Spirit, with all prayer and supplication, to that end, keep alert, with all perseverance. Do you see the urgency? Making supplication for all the saints, and for me, that the words may be given to me in opening my mouth boldly to proclaim the mystery of the gospel. For which I am an ambassador in chains, that I may declare it boldly as they also speak. So different elements of the Christian life, different elements of how we fight this battle. It's really all just different ways of saying, stand firm in Christ. Christ. Keep fix your eyes on Christ, as the writer of Hebrews will say. And then there's just different aspects of the blessings that we have in Christ. The means of grace, prayer, the word of God, the gospel, and God, the means by which God gives us grace and strengthens us in His grace. This is how we fight against the spiritual enemies. God's enemies can take a lot from us, and if we're not fighting with the armor of God, they will take a lot from us. Yeah, they can take your joy. They can take your joy. They can take your assurance. They can take your repentance. They can take your whole Holiness, holiness from the way you talk, holiness life. in your thought life. You know, it's not guaranteed that you're gonna have a thriving, flourishing, ever growing Christian walk. You need to abide in Christ and you need to fight the spiritual battle Alright, God's enemies can take a lot, but they cannot take your faith. And the fourth and final point in Daniel 1: the path of faithfulness is a path of suffering as a servant of God. You'll see that suffering, persecution. Maybe you're seeing it in your own life. Maybe in the lives of a friend or people you know, maybe here, maybe overseas. The path of faithfulness, or if you're a citizen of heaven, living in a corrupt world, there's going to be rejection, there's going to be suffering, but this is the path to glory. It's the path that Jesus took to set up his kingdom. He suffered unto glory. He suffered on a cross, and he was risen and ascended, and seated at the right hand of God. Where he reigns as king over his kingdom. It's a heavenly kingdom. We're citizens of that kingdom on earth. Hostile territory. Psalm 110, Christ has promised that he'll rule in the midst of his enemies. He rules in heaven, but he rules on earth in the midst of his enemies. And we serve Christ in the midst of our enemies. So we will suffer. Suffering unto glory is the path of Jesus to set up the kingdom, and it's the path that we as his servants and children Enter the kingdom, right? Now provisionally, but into the heavenly eternal kingdom in the age to come. Suffering unto glory. I'll give you homework on this. Matthew 16, 21 through 25. Matthew 16, 21 through 20, 25, and the next few verses too, but trying to keep it short. Matthew's yeah, there's a lot on the topic generally. Rom what'd you say, Romans five three? Matthew 16, 21 through 25 is where Jesus explains his work. He explains the gospel. that he's going to be rejected, suffer, die, and rise again, suffer unto glory. Peter rebuked him for it because he didn't understand the nature of how Jesus was going to set up his kingdom. But then the very next paragraph Jesus describes discipleship and says it's taking up a cross daily, is dying. It's dying, and in the eyes of the world, being a criminal. And being despicable and it's uh in the eyes of the world for public shame. That's the metaphor Jesus uses for discipleship, but it comes right after he describes that he's going to suffer and be rejected and die. Be killed. Be killed. Not just die. Be killed. So you have the gospel, and then you have discipleship. And discipleship is patterned after the gospel, the work of Christ. Bless you. All right. And we didn't have time to look at it, but that that point from Daniel I was going to take from chapter 1, verses 1 and 2, and then 17 through 21. 17 through 21 in Daniel 1, for the path of faithfulness is a path of suffering as a servant of God. Let's pray together