Well, grab your Bibles and let's open to First Peter 1, 14 to 17. First Peter 1, 14 to 17. I said a few weeks ago I wanted to do a mini-series before we get back into Genesis. I wanted to do a mini-series on holiness. We already did a message on the holiness of God. It really is at the center of our faith. It's one of those pillars of our hearts is seeing and grasping the holiness of God. So if you didn't hear that message, if you weren't here for that message, Look on our webpage, look on our sermon audio page for the holiness of God. That message was from Isaiah chapter 6. Now we move into holiness or A little more detail on this title, The Call to Holiness. God calls his children to live holy lives When we talk about God's holiness, again we talk about that which sets God apart from everything else. He's utterly unique. God is in his own category, beloved He's infinitely superior to everything else and to every other being. He's the highest. He's the greatest. He's the He's the definition. He's the very source and standard of that which is right and pure and good, God 's holiness. And the call to holiness that comes into our lives from Scripture and by the Spirit that dwells within us, the call to holiness is to imitate God. It's to be like Him, don't be like the world. Be like God. Don't be like the sinful flesh. Be like God. Don't be like the devil who is a liar. Be like a God. And as we imitate God by His grace and spirit, What happens is we reflect his character in the world. So, this morning, think of yourself as the moon And think of God and His holiness as the sun. And he is holiness. And the call to holiness is to reflect Him. If the moon Stops looking at the sun, the moon will no longer reflect the sun and will no longer be a source, in quotes, of light And we're to have the holiness of God, the character of God, reflect off of us, to be a light in the darkness. The call to holiness is a very, very important thing. Let's read this passage in 1 Peter 4, 17, or 1 Peter 1, sorry, 1 Peter 1, 14 to 17. As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance But as he who called you is holy, you also be holy in all your conduct. Since it is written, You shall be holy, for I am holy. And if you call on him As Father, who judges impartially according to each one's deeds, conduct yourselves with fear throughout the time of your exile Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, you are holy. We acknowledge that this morning. We also acknowledge that you are Almighty, that you are all-wise , that you are all-loving. That you are an ever-flowing source of grace, mercy, and tender compassion for sinners like us. And we ask you to open our minds and hearts to your word this morning. We pray that by the word of your holiness and commandments you would convict us of our sin in such a way that we look to Christ for help and grace in our time of need. We pray that you would preach the gospel to our hearts to give us rest, to give us assurance, to give us true Peace and lasting hope in the heart. Give us assurance that we are your children because of Christ. And fill our hearts with a desire for holiness A desire to see your holiness. A desire to be holy as you were holy. Father, teach us to pursue holiness as those under grace, not under law. Father, we ask that you would administer your grace to our hearts by your word and spirit this morning. Give us a hunger. Give us A rich appetite for your holy and inspired and authoritative word. It's in Christ we pray. Amen. We'll see the key phrase in verse 16, which is a reference to Leviticus 11, 44. In verse 16, Peter writes, Since it is written, You shall be holy, for I am holy. You shall be holy, for I am holy. If there's nothing else that you remember from this sermon, I hope there are other things that you remember from this sermon, but at the very least Please remember that God is holy and that He calls you to holiness. God is holy and He calls you. He calls His beloved children to holiness. You shall be holy for I am holy. Just to put it in an another way that hopefully will drive it home or make it a little clearer to us God is saying, essentially, since I am set apart above all things You be set apart to me in all things. Alright, I'll say that again. God is saying this essentially. Since I am set apart above all things, You be set apart to me in all things. Since he is holy, we are to be holy. God would say, Essentially, since I am perfect in purity, therefore you be pure God would say essentially, since I am perfect in honesty, therefore you be honest. God would say, essentially, since I am perfect in justice, therefore you be just in all of your dealings. Since God is perfect in love, you be loving. You see, since He is holy, we are to be holy. Now you'll see on your outline what I want to talk about this morning is four pillars of holiness. If you have four pillars, I guess you have a room. We're walking into a room, we're walking into a structure labeled the call to holiness. Four pillars of holiness. But before we get into the four pillars, it's very important. To talk about the key. The key to enter this room of the call to holiness. Without this key in our hands , Talking about the call to holiness can do us great harm and can turn us to legalism. can turn us to trusting in ourselves, to produce holiness within ourselves, and to looking to our own efforts to do what God calls us to do. That is not God's will for our lives. And so before we get into this room, before we enter The domain of the four pillars of the of holiness, of this call to holiness, this key that each one of us needs to pick up and grab and have this key in our hands is that Holiness does not create grace and salvation. Rather, grace and salvation creates holiness. This is critical. This is Christianity. This is the way the gospel works. We do not produce holiness, and as a result, God gives us grace and salvation. That is off the table. That is the opposite message of the message of Jesus Christ. The truth is, the shining light of gospel truth is God gives us grace, God gives us salvation, and as a result, there's holiness in our hearts. And as a result of holiness in our hearts, there's holiness in our words. And as a result of holiness in our hearts, there's not only holiness in our words, but holiness in our actions. And our attitudes, and in our ears, what we listen to, in our eyes, what we watch. Holiness is the result of grace and salvation. Grace and salvation, and growing in grace is never the result of a self-produced holiness or self-produced obedience. True holiness, true obedience is always, always, always. I do one for each section Always, always, always the result of God's grace. Amen? Holiness, obedience is always the result of God's grace. This is the key. And it's important that we have those lenses on. Now, the first pillar of holiness you'll see is cherishing God's law. Cherishing God's law. That means to love it. That means to desire it, to delight in God's law. Verse fourteen, verse fourteen, the first phrase, as obedient children. I just want that phrase to simmer in our hearts for a little bit. As obedient children, that's who we are. So, beloved, let's get our identity settled first, before anything else, through faith in Christ By the washing of his blood, you are children of God. Now, what kind of children do you think God wants? Disobedient, rebellious children, or obedient, humble, submissive children. That's what he says. As obedient children. We 're to think of ourselves according to what God's word says about us. And despite all of our struggles Despite all of our mistakes and our sins and we're slipping or slipping up, saying the wrong things, despite all of our weakness. Despite all of our ongoing, lingering sin, and despite all of our mistakes, we are God's children. And we're to strive by His grace to be obedient children. Part of that is cherishing God's law. God's children love God's law for the simple fact that it reflects God's character And it teaches us how to reflect God's character. We cherish God's law. We love God's law because it shows us what God's character is. And because it teaches us how to reflect his character. Where do you get this idea of God's law? Cherishing God's law? Because it says, as obedient children. Let me ask you this: obedient to what? Obedient to our own natural passions? Obedient to the principles and opinions of the culture around us? Obedient to what? Obedient to God's law, God's moral law. Obedience to God's commandments. Obedience to the commandments of Christ. Obedient children. Obedient children to cherish God's law and to learn from God's commandments. About his character and to learn from God's commandments how to reflect his character in the world. A few illustrations. Think of a responsible and a hard-working father He's also going to do the best he can to train his son to be what? To be responsible and hardworking, so that the character of the Son will reflect the character of the Father. Think about a compassionate A tender, forgiving mother. She's going to train her daughter. She's going to set an example. For her daughter to be what? To be the opposite? No. To be the same. To be compassionate. To be tender-hearted. to be gracious and forgiving so that the character of the daughter reflects the character of the mother. That's why parents teach wisdom and teach rules and teach morality. to teach biblical character to be a reflection of their character, which should be a reflection of God's character, which we learn from God's commandments. I 'll give you one more illustration. Think of a small business owner who has integrity and honesty in all of their dealings. How's that business owner going to train his employees? This is the same thing, with the same principles. They'll have standards, they'll have rules Procedures that reflect integrity and reflect honesty in all of your dealings so that the character Of the workers reflects the character of the business owner. This is how we're to think about obeying God. God wants us To reflect his character in the world. So he gives us his commandments, he gives us his law. And today we're just talking about the moral law of God. We're not getting into the judicial law of the old covenant or the ceremonial. priestly law of the old covenant. We're talking about morals. We're talking about ethics. We're talking about what all men and women everywhere are accountable to God to obey in our lives. That's what we're talking about. God 's commandments. And we're to cherish his law, not begrudge it. Psalm 1 verses 1 to 2. This is how the Psalter begins. Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the wicked, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits In the seat of scoffers. But his delight is in the law of the Lord. And on his law he meditates day and night. Did you catch that? The righteous one, the child of God, the believer, does not delight in the sin of the surrounding world or the folly of the surrounding world. Rather, his delight is in the law of the Lord. And on his law he meditates day and night. Why are you meditating on the law of the Lord day and night? Because you want to know. The character of God. And you want to know what God calls you to. And you want to know what does it look like in my life to reflect the character of God? So we delight in God's law and we meditate on God's law. We cherish his law because it reflects God's character and because it teaches us how to reflect his character in the world. Fourteen A as obedient children, as obedient children When you leave here today, would you be thinking, I'm a child of God, and He calls me to obedience? Would you wake up every morning and remember, I'm a child of God, and He calls me to obedience? Before you go to bed, before you close your eyes, would you remember? I am a child of God, and He calls me to obedience And that's why you still need to have your key, that key in your hand, that grace creates obedience, because if not, you'll just become a legalist. And you'll end up putting together some contrived, external, man-made obedience, and that's not God's will for our life for our lives. were to strive after the grace of God. And knowing that God's grace will create obedience. But part of that is desiring obedience. I mean, if you don't desire obedience, why in the world would you strive after the grace of God to give you obedience? Does that make sense? You have to want holiness. You have to want obedience. You have to want practical righteousness. I have to want those things. Otherwise, I will not hunger and thirst after the grace of Christ in my life. Oh, cherish God's law. Number two, second pillar. Let's look at the actual commandments of God's law. We'll look at literally The Ten Commandments that summarize God's moral law. Ten commandments that don't say everything about God's will. They don't say everything about morality, but they're a summary of God's moral requirements of mankind. Look with me at the second part of verse 14 And then verse 15. Peter writes, Do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance. That's the stuff that we loved when we were lost and living for the world, the passions of our former ignorance. It says, don't be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance. Verse 15, but as he who called you is holy, you also be holy in all your conduct. First of all, highlight the word conduct, aka behavior. aka the way I act. At work, and the way I act at home, and the way I act at polls, and the way I act Behind the driving wheel, the steering wheel, while I'm driving. The way we act, conduct. What does he say? Some of your conduct? Conduct when people are watching? Conduct at church because that's the formal religion, that's the formal worship. What does he say? All your conduct. Be holy in all your conduct. Brothers and sisters, that's what we call comprehensive. That's what we call exhaustive. It covers everything Well, that will quadruple the size of our prayer list, won't it? If God wants us to be holy in every area of life. Because then we'll have to be crying out to God all the time to produce holiness in us for every area of life. Not only conduct, but look at this word, the end of verse 14, ignorance, which means not knowing, which means in the darkness It's the opposite of knowledge. It's the opposite of wisdom. It's the opposite of understanding God's Word. In God's will, ignorance. And he says, don't be conformed to the passion of your formal former ignorance. So Don't be conformed to who we used to be, but rather, in all of our conduct, we're to be holy. Now, how do I know what that looks like? How do you know what holiness looks like? Can we go to the culture around us to learn about holiness? Can we go to the world around us to learn about what pleases God? No, I really want to know. Answer the question. Can we take a vote? Can we take a popular vote and in a spirit of democracy discern what is truly pleasing to God? No, I I know it I know how we do it. This is what we do, right? We look inside ourselves Yes, thank you. You were supposed to laugh at that. We look these are all the ways that the enemy Will seduce us, and the enemy will try to lure us to these things to discern God 's will and to learn what pleases God. So when he says, Be holy in all your conduct, how do I know? God's commandments. Not advanced stuff here. God 's revealed will. God's Will. And so what I want to do is just go through in summary fashion the Ten Commandments. You can find in Exodus. 20 or Deuteronomy 5. The initial giving of the covenant on Mount Sinai or the renewal of the covenant to that next generation. 40 years later, on the plains of Moab, before going into the promised land. Exodus 20 or Deuteronomy 5. Commandment number one. I'm going to summarize these, put these in my own abbreviated word, just so we can get through all of them. First of all, have no other gods. This is first, have no other gods, which also includes the positive command of worship only the one true God. That's it. That's number one. Worship the one true God only. And then don't worship any other God. And that's how we're to live our lives. All men, all women, everywhere, by virtue of being made by God, by virtue of living in God's world, All people everywhere are accountable to do this, to live this way. Church of God, have we forgotten that God really does require obedience? God requires obedience. Otherwise, the idea of judgment against disobedience makes no sense And if you don't have judgment against disobedience, then you completely lose the meaning of the cross. You completely lose the meaning of the cross. Because on the cross, Jesus died for our disobedience. Jesus received the penalty against our disobedience Jesus bore the wrath. He bore our sins in his body on that tree. He died as a substitute for law breakers. The doctrine of the gospel is at stake when we talk about God 's requirement of obedience. Number two. No idols. No idols. And so the first commandment: have no other gods, worship only the one true God. The second commandment is you worship the one true God. How he says so. How he reveals to worship him. Don't fashion a so-called god. Don't fashion an idol out of wood. Or out of stone, or out of metal, or out of anything else, and call it Yahweh and worship it. Don't do it. Don't make idols Worship God according to his revealed will. Number three, don't take the Lord's name in vain. Don't misuse God's name. Honor God's name and in Scripture. God's name represents God's being. It represents God's character Don't in any way, don't in any way use the lips that God gave us to deflect to defame and dishonor God. Bible has a lot to say about our speech. What's wrong and what's corrupt with our speech and what kind of speech God desires And God commands. Number four, keep the Sabbath. Keep the Sabbath day. And this show this will show up and manifest differently in the new covenant than in the old covenant. But the principle is going to be. The same. Set yourself apart unto the Lord. Set a day apart unto the Lord. Every day we have is a gift from God. Every week we have is a gift from God Every time we're able to rest, it is a gift from God. And that's what the Sabbath day was about. It was a gift of rest to the people. God wasn't doubling their burden and making life harder for Israel on the Sabbath day. The Sabbath day was rest. Rest from your labors. And then on a lot of those Sabbath days that were set apart in the yearly calendar for Israel, they were set apart for solemn assemblies and for worship. General, again, general principle in applying that commandment to those under the new covenant, where to find our rest In Christ and Christ alone. Where to find what Scripture calls rest for your soul. Rest For your soul, and rest from our labors of trying to justify ourselves before God, we rest in Christ. On the basis of his sacrifice, we find rest for our souls in Christ. Number five, honor your parents. Honor your parents. Respect them. Children, respect your parents. God commands you to respect your parents. and to honor their authority, and to not be rebellious, and to not talk back, and to not curse them, and to not slander them behind their backs To love and honor your parents and submit to their authority. Parents, that should be a reminder to us also that we're to Exercise authority and lead in such a way that honors God and that demands respect and that deserves respect. Honor your parents. Number six, don't murder. Don't murder. It's interesting in the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew, Matthew 5, 6, and 7, when Jesus Corrects the misunderstandings of the law and he corrects a legalistic application, a sort of a truncated understanding and application of the law from the Pharisees. Jesus expounds the law and he gives the underlying spiritual principle, for example, of this law. It's saying more than just don't murder. Right, to to obey this law is to, in everything, value and honor life. Value and honor life, and be kind to all because they're all made in the image of God Don 't curse people. Don't harm people. Value and protect and honor and show kindness is a reflection of God's character. Number seven, don't commit adultery. Don't commit adultery. You can say you can look underneath that to the underlying spiritual principle of that. It's saying more than just don't commit adultery. But in everything, in everything, in every way in your marriage, be faithful. Be faithful. And honor your husband and honor your wife. In the way that you think, in the thoughts that you have, and your desires, in your words, in all things, be faithful. In all things, treat your spouse as a reflection of God's character. And honor and love and sacrifice and give. Number eight, don't steal. Respect others' property. Number nine, don't lie, don't bear false witness. Whether it's a legal setting, don't bear false witness. But in everything, speak the truth. Speak with integrity. Speak with honesty And number 10, don't covet, which goes right to the heart. Be content with what God has given us. That's not easy to do, is it? Not in this culture, where more, more, more You need more, more, more. You don't have enough. You need more. You're not going to be happy until you get more. Until you get the complete set of this thing, whatever it is, you'll never have satisfaction of heart. You need more. And it's a culture of covetousness. And it's based on the premise of if I have these other things, then I'll be satisfied. There's a news flash. Those other things will not satisfy. The only thing that can bring true and lasting satisfaction to the human heart is God Almighty. So what you want more and more and more and more of is communion with God Almighty. And what you want more and more and more to search after and to Strive after is the grace and knowledge of Jesus Christ. And what we want more of, and I need more of it, I need more of it, is crying out to God in prayer and being led by the Holy Spirit. Not coveting, fleeting treasures of this world. Don't crave what others have and think it will bring satisfaction, but be content With what God has given you. Hopefully, there's some conviction going on in each one of our hearts because each one of us has violated each one of those commandments in many ways. The commandments of God's law. The commandments of God's law are meant, one of the things they're meant for, not the only thing they're meant for, but one of the things that these commandments are designed to do. It's to reveal us our sin, to convict us of our sin, so that we make a beeline to Jesus Christ for grace and mercy That's how you're to use, that's how we're to receive the commandments of God's law. Not only are they teaching us God's character, teaching us how to reflect God's character, but they're always showing us our sin. They're always showing us our corruption, and the reason is once we see our sin and once we feel our corruption, we turn again to Jesus Christ for grace and mercy. Now, how does that work? Why is that important? Because going to Jesus for grace and mercy is the thing that produces holiness in our hearts, words, and lives. So you have to have that step in there. You can we can't just learn about God's commandments, go out on our own, and be holy. We have to be convicted. We have to flee to Christ. We have to fall down before Christ. We have to receive grace, receive mercy, and as a result of the grace and mercy Holiness in heart, mind, words, and law in our lives. Number three, the character of God's law. This comes from verse 16. The character of God's law. We looked at verse 16 earlier. Look at it. Here again, in a more abbreviated fashion, since it is written, You shall be holy, for I am holy. Now I love that equation. I hope that doesn't sound too scientific or too mechanical, this equation, but I I like the simplicity of this equation. You shall be holy, for I am holy. The reason we must be holy could not be simpler. Could not be simpler. The reason we must be holy is this: God is holy. Amen. God is holy. That's the argument. That's the persuasion. God is holy. We are his children, so we're to be holy. In Romans 7 12, Paul says, So the law is holy, and the commandment is holy, and righteous, and good. And so that's how the law, and that's how the commandment of God convicts us of our sin and of our need for grace. Because it shines the light of holiness. And exposes our corruption and unholiness. It shines the light of righteousness, and it exposes our unrighteousness It shines the light of that which is good, and it exposes within us that which is evil And it convicts us. It convicts us. The Word of God talks about God's word as a hammer that crushes the human heart and convicts the human heart. And when we see our unrighteousness, we flee to Christ. And when we see our unholiness, we flee to Christ when we see Evil. And when we sense our evil and we understand that apart from God's grace, all I would ever be is evil. We flee to Christ and we cry out for grace and we cry out for mercy, and you might need to do that for the first time this morning. You don't need to do anything good to qualify for salvation. You don't need to do any good work To earn salvation, to become good enough for God to love you. God has a love. He has set the table with the perfect love For the unholy, for the wicked, for the evil, for the lawbreaker, who's unable to help himself, who's utterly unable to help herself. Pull up a chair at his table of forgiveness. For free, he forgives you by the blood of Christ. If you would just believe, believe in Jesus, and you'll be saved. Character of God's law is the character of God. Holy, righteous, good. Work to reflect that character in our hearts, minds, and lives. There's some really good application on this. We talk about the character of God's law, that becomes the character of our lives as we strive to be obedient children, never perfectly in this life, never perfectly in this life, but truly by the Spirit and by grace. We can make progress in holiness and obedience. To be God's obedient children is, by definition, countercultural. You can't have as your goal, and I can't have as my goal, to live a holy life and also to fit perfectly within the culture around me. Can't happen. You've got to choose the path. To be God's obedient children, last application on this point. To be God's obedient children is not just a duty. It's not a duty that we begrudge. It is a duty. It is a calling. That's the message, the call to holiness. But the call to holiness, to be God's obedient children, is a precious and priceless gift of God's grace. Because apart from that, all we have is the mire and the sludge of evil and sin. So if you if you have any any true desire for holiness, any true holiness, In your heart, which could just be the size of a sesame seed. Any, any true holiness or any true desire for holiness is a priceless gift. Priceless gift worth more than all the diamonds and all the gold and all the silver of the world. Because if you have holiness, glasses come off If you have true holiness, if you have a true desire for holiness in your heart, that means the Holy Spirit of God lives within you That means you've been united to God. That means you have a spiritual fellowship with God that can never end. You can't separate these two things. Through faith in Christ, you've been reconciled to God. You've been filled with the Holy Spirit of the exalted Christ, and therefore, you have a true desire for holiness. You have the true presence of holiness in your mind. Number four, condemnation of lawbreakers. Condemnation of lawbreakers, verse 17. You could have easily cut the message off at verse 16. Maybe some of you are hoping that I chose to do that. But I chose to put in verse 17, and I do not regret it because it because it brings into view The idea and the reality of God's judgment, and it reminds us that we're to walk in the fear of the Lord. Verse 17, if you call on him as Father, who judges impartially according to each one's deeds, conduct yourselves with fear throughout the time of your exile Now we're out of time, church, so I've got to summarize that. Since you know God is judged, walk in the fear of the Lord. That's all that means. You know God is the judge. You know God would God will judge sinners. Therefore, walk in the fear of the Lord, which means this reverence And this all, this, here's fear of the Lord, acknowledging God's authority over me, acknowledging God's authority Over the world. The church today needs a revival of that doctrine to be heralded, to be proclaimed that God is judge of all the earth and he will hold all to account. And if we know that, we're to walk in the fear of the Lord with an awe and reverence at the authority of God. God really does require obedience. We can never have true obedience apart from fellowship with Christ. And so Hopefully you can predict this that I would end on this note. And so it brings us back to the gospel. Fellowship with Christ through faith. Is the source of holiness. Fellowship with Christ through faith is the source of obedience. Fellowship with Christ through faith is the way we walk in the Spirit. Those who walk in the Spirit, those who walk in the fear of the Lord Will be sensitive to their sin, not numb and indifferent to their sin. Did you hear that, church? Examine yourself Those who walk in the fear of the Lord are not numb and indifferent to the sin in their lives, but they are sensitive to it, and it's always convicting them and always driving them back to Christ for grace and mercy Those who walk in the fear of the Lord are grieved by their sin. Grieved, they have a godly sorrow for their sin. That again drives them to Christ for comfort And for rest and for assurance. Those who walk in the fear of the Lord confess their sin to God and cry out for forgiveness in secret prayer. Confess. Your sin to God. I'll say it in the first person plural. Let's be a people who confess our sin to God. And cry out for forgiveness in secret prayer. Let's be a church that cultivates secret prayer like our lives depended on it Last thoughts. Those who walk in the fear of the Lord hunger and thirst for righteousness, and they hunger and thirst for the things that will produce righteousness. The Word of God and the Spirit of God. Strive after the Word. Hunger for the Word. Strive after the Spirit. Cry out for the Spirit Apart from these things, we will never grow in the grace of God and the holiness that pleases Him. Apart from holiness Nobody will see the Lord. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your goodness, grace, mercy, and power. Of course, for your wisdom, your providence in our lives. We join our hearts in faith in this moment. We come before your heavenly throne in this moment. We plead for your grace. We plead for your mercy in our lives. Stir up within us like never before a zeal for obedience A cherishing of your law, an understanding of your commandments, and a heart filled with conviction and godly sorrow that daily, daily flees to Christ and looks to him for grace. It's in his name we pray. Amen.