Well, let's go ahead and take our Bibles and open them to Ephesians chapter 1. Today we're in Ephesians 1, verses 3 and 4. We did an exposition on this passage last week. Today is not an exposition through the passage again, but zooming in on one phrase And doing a topical message on the two main points in that phrase. And those two main points are justification and sanctification. Just get your mind ready to hear those words a lot this morning. These are two doctrines that every Christian must be grounded in with a firm foundation. Justification and sanctification. Justification is God declaring us righteous in his eyes. God declaring us righteous in his eyes. That's justification. Sanctification is God making us holy by his spirit God making us holy by his spirit. Now we're in a series on the blessings of God that are found in Christ. Last week we introduced this series by talking about the source of these blessings, which is God the Father. And we also talked about the location of these blessings. Which is God the Son. And we talked about the nature of these blessings, which is a heavenly and spiritual. They're heavenly blessings. Because Christ is in heaven, and we must be united to Him to partake of these blessings, and they are spiritual blessings because they're brought into our lives by the Holy Spirit. Amen. Only the Holy Spirit can bring us the blessings of God in Christ. So the source, the location, and the nature of these blessings, tonight we're going to tonight. This morning, we'll zoom in at two of the blessings found in Christ. As I said already, justification and sanctification. Let's read the passage and then pray for our time together. Ephesians 1, 3, and 4. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him In love, dot dot dot, and then verse five will pick up on that, but that's not where we are this morning. The phrase that we're zooming in on is toward the end of verse four, that we should be holy and blameless in heaven. Holy and blameless before him, rather. Holy and blameless before him Verse three, who has blessed us in Christ? That means he has poured out his favor upon us. In Christ. That's what it means to be blessed of God. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we pray once again that you would prove to us the power of your word. Prove to us the work of your spirit to open our minds to your glorious truths, to things of heaven. The things of the Holy Spirit prove to us that you are faithful and that you will turn our hearts more and more and more to the things of your kingdom, to holy things. To eternal things. Be gracious to us. Work this power of your word and spirit in our hearts. Deepen our love for Jesus Christ. Strengthen our appetite and hunger for your word. Help us to sense our brokenness, that we might look to you for rest Help us to sense and to see our sin that we might look to you for grace and forgiveness. And help us to have discernment. To see our folly, to see our shortcomings, to see our impulsiveness, that we might look to you for wisdom, practical wisdom, and guidance We come before you asking for help. We trust that you will help us by your word and spirit. It's in Jesus that we lift this prayer. Amen. The main point is that in Christ we are both justified and sanctified. In Christ, we are both justified and sanctified And it should be clicking in our minds that if we are not in Christ, and when we were not in Christ, we were neither justified nor sanctified, but in Christ. Brethren, in Christ, beloved, you are both justified, declared righteous by God, and sanctified Sanctified, made holy, and being made holy by His Spirit. A really good way to grasp Justification and sanctification is to understand that they are a twofold solution to a two-fold problem. Does that make sense? A twofold solution to a two-fold problem. One illustration you can think of as a criminal who is caught stealing. And now he has to pay the penalty. He has a legal problem. But he pays the penalty and he goes home. And the legal problem is taken care of. He paid for his crime. He goes home and in his heart, you know what? He still loves stealing. He has another problem aside from just the legal problem. He has the problem in his heart. The condition of his heart is wrong. So he goes out and he steals again. Well now there's a harsher penalty. Now there's a harsher penalty. He has to pay for that penalty. He has a legal problem, but he pays the harsher penalty and he goes home. And in his heart, he still really, really loves stealing. Oh, the rush the flesh gets Such a rush, such a high for violating God's law. So, because of the problem still abiding in his heart, he goes out And he steals again. Now he has another legal problem on top of the problem in his heart. Spiritually speaking, before God, we have a twofold problem naturally. One, we have a legal problem. We've broken God's holy law. And we have to pay the penalty. There's a penalty owed for our law breaking. And there's another problem. We have sinful hearts. We have corrupt hearts. Naturally speaking. That means apart from the grace of God. That means apart from the power of the gospel. That means when we're alienated from God, naturally speaking, we all have this two-fold problem. We have a legal problem. And then we have a heart problem, a legal problem and a heart problem. Now justification and sanctification is the twofold solution to that twofold problem. Justification is the solution to the legal problem And it takes us from guilty to being innocent and righteous. Justification is the solution to the legal problem. Sanctification is the solution to the heart problem. Are you with me on this? Is this making sense? Sanctification is the solution to the heart problem. It takes the heart from being in rebellion against God to a heart that loves God and wants to obey Him It takes a heart that's given over to sin and enslaved to sin and supernaturally changes it to a heart that loves holiness and strives for holiness. And we won't be perfected in holiness until the soul departs from the body and is made righteous in the presence of God. But still, while we have the Holy Spirit in this age, in this life, The heart has been supernaturally changed already, no longer enslaved to sin. So, the criminal who loves stealing, What he needs is a new heart that hates stealing. Hates stealing. And that's what's going to cause him to repent and stop stealing. His heart needs to be changed. Justification and sanctification. Now in Ephesians one Verse 4. Look at it with me again. Even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be, that's talking about purpose. We were chosen for this purpose. We were chosen for this work. We were set aside, set apart, so that God would do this in us, that we should be holy. And blameless before him. Now that's two things. Holy, number one, and number two, blameless. Before him. Holy is speaking to sanctification. And blameless before him is talking about justification. Before we get into those points on the outline before you, I want to read one more verse of Scripture that talks about both of these blessings that are found in Christ, and that is 1 Thessalonians 5:23. Now, may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely And may your whole spirit and soul and body be kept blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. It is a wonderful blessing to be justified in Christ. It is a wonderful blessing to be sanctified in Christ. And God has done these things for our good. God has done these things out of love. They're for our good, they're for our benefit. That's why they're called blessings, blessings from God to sinners. But ultimately, ultimately, the purpose of these blessings is for the glory and praise of God. Ultimately, that's how we have to think about the blessings of salvation that have come into our lives. There's nothing wrong with glorying in the fact that God has done this for our good because God has done this for our good. He has done this to benefit you. He has done this to bless you, to pour out goodness for you, for your joy, for the good of your soul. But let's never forget what the ultimate purpose is. is a showcase of God's grace, as a shining forth of God's glory, so that we would praise Him for all that He is. That's the ultimate purpose. Of our salvation. In Christ, we are both justified and sanctified. Since I told you earlier this is a topical message. So first we'll look at the topic of justification. And then we'll look at the topic of sanctification. And I just want to do two things for both points to help get us all grounded in these two points of doctrine. I'll just give, number one, a fuller explanation of the doctrine using different verses, and then I'll give a personal application of the doctrine. Alright, so that we know what this means for life in the world. So first justification, we'll just look at a fuller definition, a fuller explanation, and then we'll look at some practical and personal application, and then we'll do the same thing for sanctification. So, number one, justified, justified. Looking at this phrase, blameless before him. In verse 4, blameless before him, that means that before the throne of God When you stand in judgment, there's no legitimate charge that can be brought against you. Isn't that amazing? It's amazing. Because think about the lives that we've lived. We've broken all kinds of God's law in our heart, in our mind, and our words, and our deeds. But because of our standing in Christ, when we stand before God in judgment, when we stand in that final judgment, we will literally, not symbolically, not almost Not maybe we will literally be blameless before the throne of God. It's incredible. It's absolutely incredible. No legitimate charge can be brought against you. To show that you're guilty before God because you are not guilty before God, because you have been justified, declared righteous by God. Is there someone with more authority, with more power than God, where they can overturn the verdict of God over your soul? Absolutely not. Justification means being declared, righteous by God and before God It is a once-for all verdict. It is an irreversible legal verdict about your soul and the destiny of your soul Declared righteous by and before God. You can think of a judge's gavel. The gavel of the judge of the universe Comes down with authority, with finality, declares you innocent, and declares you righteous, such a way that we can never be overturned. That's your justification And if you've put your faith in Christ, that's already happened. I'm not talking about something that maybe can happen. If you've put your faith in Christ, this has already happened. God's gavel has come down. He's made the declaration about you. You are righteous in his eyes. You are innocent in his eyes. There's no condemnation for you if you are in Christ. Is this the good news? There's this good news. Amen. So while justification and sanctification, uh they're they're They're both blessings that are found in Christ, but they're different kinds of blessings. They're different kinds of blessings. Justification is a once-for-all verdict. It's about our standing before God. It's a. Legal solution to a legal problem. A fuller explanation. A fuller explanation of this. And I've got five points on this Don't feel like you need to write all of this down. If you like taking notes, I probably would write this down just in summary fashion, but don't feel like you need to write all of this down. That's really hard with a topical message But the message will be there on the website. Just do what you prefer, certainly, if you like writing. But I think it would be totally sufficient if you just allowed the word of God by the Spirit of God to wash over you and to soak into your heart, to seep into your heart. Because there's a lot of points coming That's just the way it is with the topical message on doctrines like this. But for the fuller explanation of justification, I've got five Subpoints for us. Number one, we're justified because the righteousness of Christ is credited to our account. The righteousness of the Lord Jesus Christ is credited to our account, like money from one bank account being transferred, being wire transferred and credited, counted into your bank account. Because if we're righteous before God, brothers and sisters, that righteousness has to come from somewhere. God requires obedience He requires human obedience so that humans would be righteous before him and humans would be granted entrance into heaven, which is where we all want to go. Yes? Because God is there. Not just because sin is not there. Not just because war is not there, but because God is there. That's why we want to go to heaven. So the righteousness of Christ is credited to our account. One verse on this, and for all of these, I'll give you one. I think some of them I have two verses. But I'm trusting you to follow out the cross references, which you can find in your Bible through footnotes and through marginal references. Um on the side of the page, which is using like four-point fonts, so you might need a magnifying glass for those. But you can study out the doctrines using a good study Bible or a good cross-reference Bible. 2 Corinthians 5. 21. In him, we become the righteousness of God. That's a massive statement. In him, that means in a relationship with Jesus, we become, you become the righteousness of God. Just only in union with Christ, and because he is righteous, now his righteousness counts as yours. Are you happy about that, Church? That Christ's righteousness has been credited to your account. That's the way we are justified technically. Because righteousness just doesn't come out of Thin air. It must be attained through obedience to God above. And Jesus does that for us. He does that on our behalf. So number one, we're justified because the righteousness of Christ is credited, you'll hear the word imputed. That just means counted unto, counted to, credited to, transferred to, imputed. The righteousness of Christ is imputed to us, to our account. Number two. Justification is received through faith. It's received through faith. Romans 3, 22 The righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. The righteousness of God, a righteous standing before God, a righteousness that God approves of. Through faith in Jesus Christ. That's the way you can be made righteous. If you come in here today and you have not put your faith in Christ yet, you can be made righteous in God's eyes this very moment if you put your faith in Jesus Christ. And that's something that happens in the heart. That's not something that can happen through outward action, through outward devotion, through outward religion, through good works. The only way to be united to Jesus and therefore justified by God and before God is to, in your heart, believe in Jesus Christ. Based on his life, based on his death, based on his resurrection, come to Jesus through faith, and you'll be justified. Justification is received through faith, not by works. Not by works Number three, justification comes to us by the sheer grace of God. The grace of God got this whole thing started. The grace of God got this whole thing started and has seen this whole thing through, all through historical Jesus accomplishing salvation. And then in your own life, the Holy Spirit applying salvation is all a result of God's grace. Your salvation is an apple on the tree. The tree is God's grace. God's grace leads to our salvation. Titus 3 7. Titus 3. 7. Being justified by his grace. Being justified by his grace, we become heirs according to the hope of eternal life. Justification is because the righteousness of Christ is credited to our account Justification is received through faith. Justification is by sheer grace of God. And number four, justification, and this is what this whole series is about. Justification. comes to us in spiritual union with the risen Lord. Spiritual union with the risen Lord. Romans 3 24, justified By his grace as a gift, well that was the previous point, wasn't it? Justified by his grace as a gift Through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. Through the redemption that is where? In Christ Jesus. Right, you have to be in Christ Jesus And when you're in Christ Jesus, you receive all the benefits of his redemption, and one of those benefits is justification, justified by his grace as a gift. Sometimes Bible verses are redundant because they're talking about points that really, if you only say them once, they tend to go over our heads and we miss the point. Justified by his grace would be enough. Because we all should know what grace is. It's a gift. It's a gift that's not deserved. But he says, justified by his grace as a gift. Making sure we get the point. You're not working for this. You're not earning this. Our message to the world around us is that salvation is a free gift of God's grace. Salvation is a free gift of God's grace. We come to faith in Jesus, we're spiritually united with Jesus, and therefore we are justified. And number five, number five, in this final point on this fuller explanation of justification. It's never this this really is the application or the therefore of numbers one, two, three, and four. Justification is never, ever based on or is the result of good deeds. Never Our good deeds do not supplement the work of Christ, and therefore we're justified. Christ did this great work. He took care of 90% of our standing before God, and now we do 10% of good deeds and faithful religion and holy living, and now we're justified. No Never 0 % of your favorable standing before God is based on something that you did or something that you might do. Never ever Based on or the result of good works. Romans 3. 28, we hold that one is justified by faith apart from works of the law. Put the works of the law over there. We're justified by faith apart from works of the law. Romans 4, 4 and 5. Now to the one who works, his wages are not counted as a gift, but as his due. It's true, right? Employees? That's true. You put the hours in. The employer owes you as you are due your pay for those hours. But verse five And to the one who does not work, but believes in him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is counted as righteousness. His faith is credited as righteousness. His faith is imputed it's imputed to him that he now is righteous, but that's through faith. This is an amazing phrase. This is describing a Christian. This is an amazing phrase, describing Christians as ones who do not work But believe in him who justifies the ungodly. Now, is that saying as Christians that we don't do any good works? That we don't do anything in service to the Lord? Obviously not. That's not the point. This is talking about how you attain salvation. This is talking about how you become justified in God's eyes. And is those who do not work for salvation, but believe in Him who saves wicked sinners who cannot save themselves. That's the gospel. Justification is it's been called a hinge of the true gospel. It's been called a hinge, a pillar of true Christianity, and it is. It is if we get justification wrong, we'll get everything about the gospel wrong. In one way or another, we'll get it wrong. And we'll slip into a works-based Self-righteous system of religion. That's what we'll get if we do not stand firm in the biblical doctrine of justification. Now, for personal application, since you are justified in Christ, you never have to work your way to God or earn your way to heaven That should be a great comfort. That should be a great comfort if there's anyone out there who struggles with their assurance. Who sometimes maybe you sit maybe you commit a sin and you feel like you're not saved anymore. Maybe you keep falling prey to the same temptation. And so over the weeks, over the months, over the years, you just feel less and less like God can love you. You feel less and less less and less like you're going to make it to heaven. And what have you started to do? Well, you've started to base your standing before God. You've started to base your entrance into heaven on your performance. On your holiness, on your works, on your abilities. But that's not what your standing before God is based on. None of it is. Your entrance into heaven is based on the completed work of Christ on your behalf. Not on your life that you live for Christ. That's not Christianity. You never have to work your way to God or earn your way to heaven. Secondly, you cannot be condemned on the day of judgment. You cannot, you literally cannot be condemned on the day of judgment. For God to bring condemnation on those who are in Christ. would make him, this is theoretical, okay, don't take me out of context and misquote me here to be a heretic. This is theoretical, hypothetical. If God were to punish you for your own sins, he would be unjust. Because he already punished your sins in the body of Christ. as he hung in your place on the horrific Roman cross. Your sins are paid for, beloved. Your sins are paid for. Jesus took the condemnation. Jesus took the wrath. Jesus took the cup. He drank that cup. He drank it to its dregs. Every last The wrath of God that I deserve, he drank it all. The wrath of God that you deserve, he drank it all. There's no condemnation coming your way, child of God. Number three, which is really the therefore. Really the therefore, this whole section on justification. Therefore You can have full assurance of salvation. I know how some of you feel I I just know from experience and counseling and through discussions, I know how some of you feel like that could never be. But Trust God that He can grow you in this area. Believe that God has the power to give you assurance in your heart. He made the universe, He made the earth. He made you. He made every star. He rose Jesus from the dead. God has proven himself to us over and over and over again He has the power to do and the faithfulness to do what he's promised to do. And on the basis of God's faithfulness, on the basis of God's promises, on the basis of God's power, Believe in your heart you can have full assurance of faith. You can grow in that area. Listen, as if you weren't Listen, none of us are perfect in any area of Christian living. Amen? Right, so some of us are maybe stronger on the assurance Right. But maybe weaker in brotherly love. You may be strong in brotherly love, and all you do is just ooze encouragement on others, but weaker in assurance. Well, here's the deal. Let's all be gracious to each other for our various weaknesses. And let's all give thanks to God and glory to God for our various strengths. Amen? Because none of us are perfected in any area, but can we all just be on the same page? Can we all get on the same train and just ride off in the same direction together, just believing that God can grow us in these things? Believing that God can strengthen us in these things and move us along and bring us to maturity, conform us to the likeness of Christ, which is our next point of sanctification. So now we're to sanctified. Sanctified. And this comes from verse 4 also. Holy. Holy means set apart. Holy really is just a catch-all summarization for the character of God. God is holy, holy, holy. He's highly exalted above everything else He's infinitely superior. He's infinitely better than everything else. He's the definition of moral and ethical purity and perfection and everything that's holy. Anything else that's holy is uh is a secondary sense. It's a derivative sense. Things are holy in as much as they reflect God. And so God makes us holy. He saves us out of the kingdom of darkness, and he changes our hearts, and he Sets us apart in the world to represent Him rather than represent sin, which is what we used to do before we were saved. That's what holy is. That which reflects the character of God is holy. So sanctification means being set apart and conformed To the likeness of Christ, being set apart and being conformed to the likeness of Christ. Now, whereas justification Was a judge's gavel? The illustration of sanctification is a refining fire. It burns, you put the gold into the furnace, you burn it, bring it to this high heat where the impurities Are separated so that the gold is refined, the gold is purified, and now you can get rid of the impurities, that's sanctification. That's sanctification, getting rid of the impurities. In my earliest preaching days, because they were such the end thing at the time, I used to use the illustration of the Brita water jug that we all had in our fridges. We put the tap water in and then it had a filter in it so you always had Purified water in the fridge. It was purified. It took out the impurities. That's sanctification. So it's a different kind of blessing than sanctification. Sanctif or than justification, rather. Justification is the legal solution To the legal problem. It's the judge's gavel. It changes uh it changes our standing before God. It's a legal verdict Sanctification is a change to the condition of our hearts. It's a change to the condition of our minds. It's making us holy and purifying us inwardly. Sanctification, holy, the refining fire. And it is an ongoing work. It began at our conversion when we received the Holy Spirit and has been going ever since I thank God that He's purifying us. And it is a refining fire. Because it's a tough walk and it takes endurance. And there's ups and downs, and there's highs and lows, and there's fruitful seasons, and then there's dry seasons. But don't give up, beloved. Keep your feet planted on the gospel and with the gospel of Jesus Christ. God will continue to sanctify you and make you holy. Again, that's his purpose. That we should be holy and blameless. Now the fuller explanation, it is God's will to purify you from all unholiness. Please know this about God. It is his will to purify his children from all unholiness. Titus 2, 14, talking about Christ who gave himself for us to redeem us from all lawlessness and to purify for himself a people. And to purify for himself a people. So he's not going to gather those people and then not purify them. He's going to gather us and then purify us. 1 Thessalonians 4, 3 and 5. This is the will of God, your sanctification. That's my point. This is God's will for your life. You do not need to go by the seaside or up a mountain somewhere or deep into the woods somewhere and meditate and try to figure out the mystery of God's will for your life. His will for your life is your sanctification. To conform you to the likeness of Christ. Amen? That's God's will for your life if you're in Christ. This is the will of God, your sanctification, that you abstain from sexual immorality, that each one of you know how to control his own body in holiness. And in honor, not in the passion of lust, like the Gentiles who do not know God. But for those who know God, we know God's will for our lives, our sanctification. Sanctification also is experienced through faith. It's because of time. I'll give you the verses on these. You'll have to look them up. Just like justification comes through faith, so does sanctification. Acts 26-18, the risen Christ says this to Paul explicitly, sanctified through faith. Number three, sanctification is by the grace of God. Just like justification is, so also is sanctification. It's the fruit of God's grace. Titus 2, 11 and 12. Number four, sanctification is experienced. It's lived out experientially in union with the risen Lord. Again. It's like a broken record up here. Just as sanctification, or just as justification is experienced and received in union with Christ, so also sanctification, 1 Corinthians 1:2. 1 Corinthians 1, 2. And then number 5th, and finally, on this fuller explanation, probably the most important one from a practical standpoint We don't ever advance in sanctification by the power of the flesh, but only by the power of the indwelling spirit. Never advance in sanctification. It's impossible by the power of the flesh. That means by our natural power, by our intellect. Or our desires or our will, naturally speaking, we can only advance in sanctification by the power of the indwelling spirit. First Corinthians 6 11 says this. How this initially showed up in our lives, how this began in our lives, 1 Corinthians 6 11. Galatians 3 3. I'll read this one. Paul says to the Galatians, who'd begun to At least be tempted by, but it appears many of them falling back into a way of works. Paul says, Galatians 3:3, Are you so foolish? Are you so foolish? Having begun by the Spirit, are you now being perfected by the flesh? There's a rhetorical question. You can't be perfected by the flesh. You've begun by the Spirit. You can only be perfected by the Spirit. You were initially sanctified by the Spirit. You could only be progressively sanctified by the Spirit. And Philippians 2. 13, great verse, Philippians 2. 13. For it is God who works in you both to will and to work for his good pleasure. God who works in you. God works in us. God works in us to work out his will and purpose in our lives. Now personal application. Therefore, you can have full confidence that God will complete this work. You know, complete this work. Now, this work of sanctification won't be completed, as I said earlier, till the body dies, the soul departs from the body, and is made righteous and holy in the presence of God. But There's more to scriptures that's promised in terms of sanctification. God promises between now and when that happens that He'll grow us in our sanctification. That he'll advance us in our sanctification and purify us in our sanctification. So have confidence in God Number two, strive by prayer and strive by the word to kill sin and cultivate holiness. This is a major part of Christian living. This is this is a daily part of Christian living. Strive by prayer and by the word to kill sin and cultivate holiness. Number three, examine your heart. Examine your heart for signs of the life of the Spirit Examine your heart. God commands me to examine my heart. God commands you to examine your heart. If we don't examine our hearts, answer me this. How in the world will we know what areas we need to grow in? How will we know what kind of repentance to ask God for if we're not examining our hearts? How do we know what kind of what fruit of the Spirit we're lacking in, where we need to just throw ourselves before God's throne and beg for this fruit of the Spirit if we're not examining our hearts? So examine your heart for signs of the life of the Spirit within us. Is there a love for God? Is there a hunger for His Word? Is there a passion for God's glory? Love for others, a true brotherly love for others. Just on and on and on, a desire to grow in prayer, just signs of the life of the Spirit. Examine our hearts, and finally. Finally, and this is I put these in this order for a reason. First we examine our hearts, and then after that, finally, don't despair over what you see in your heart Don't despair or lose assurance over what you see in your heart. Because we are not based on what's we're not saved based on what's in our hearts. We're saved based on something that happened in the past and it's 100% completed the work of Christ. So when we examine our hearts And we see ongoing sin, and we see ongoing weakness, we see these vices, we see the lust of the flesh and the pride of the flesh and envy. All kinds of greed and lust and impatience and wickedness. Don't despair, but look to Christ. Keep looking to Christ and look to Him over and over and over again. Spiritual sustenance in Christ for the soul is what we need. For the for the body, you don't eat one time in life and have sustenance for the rest of your life You don't eat ten times in life, and then you have sustenance for us. You have to keep eating over and over and over again. And you have to keep going to bed at night and sleeping over and over and over again because that's what needs to happen for life and health and growth and well-being and for the soul that's looking to Christ. And crying out to Christ and going to the Word, hungry for Christ. And that's how God will move you forward as you avail yourselves of the means of grace that He has given us. In Christ, you are justified. An irreversible legal verdict. The gavel of God has come down and declared you righteous in his eyes And in Christ, you have been sanctified. You are being sanctified. And you 100% certain of this, if God's promise is true, you will be perfectly wholly sanctified. In the life to come. Let's pray. Father, thank you for Christ and all that is in him. Stir our hearts to love him To devote all of who we are to Him. Help us by your grace to live for Him and not ourselves. Encourage us, comfort us, console us, give us assurance. Strengthen us in our faith, hope, and love for your glory, for your kingdom. It's in Christ we pray. Amen.