Let's turn to Jeremiah one, eleven to nineteen Jeremiah 1, 11 to 19. As you're turning there, make a few corrections. It seems like forever ago I did that. The last message on Jeremiah And for anyone who has been tearing you up for this whole time, you've been losing sleep over the fact that I misspoke when I said the dates of Zedekiah's reign. I think I was going too fast. I believe I said 597 to 596. It's 597 to 586. So there you go. Now you can sleep easy, Lord. I know that's been bugging you for the past few weeks. I got Zedekiah's reign wrong. And then when I was talking about Josiah's reforms, at one time I accidentally said Jeremiah's reform. You know this about me, I go way too fast when I preach and teach. I know this, it's not a secret. But I was talking about Josiah's reforms because Jeremiah ministered during those days. It wasn't Jeremiah's reforms, it was King Josiah's reforms. Jeremiah 1, 11 to 19 is tonight. Judgment is coming. And the practical application I want to put on this is that we must be urgent. In local outreach and evangelism because judgment is coming. We must be urgent. We must always have our foot on the gas pedal of local outreach and evangelism. because of this coming day of judgment. Let's read the passage and then we'll work our way through it. Jeremiah 1, 11, all the way down through 19. And the word of the Lord came to me, saying, Jeremiah, what do you see? And I said, I see an almond branch. The Lord said to me, You have seen well, because I am watching over my word to performance. The word of the Lord came to me a second time, saying, What do you see? And I said, I see a boiling pot. facing away from the north. Then the Lord said to me, Out of the north, disaster shall be let loose upon all the inhabitants of the land. For behold, I am calling all the tribes of the kingdoms of the north, declares the Lord. And they shall come. And every one shall set his throne at the entrance of the gates of Jerusalem. Against all its walls, all around, and against all the cities of Judah. And I will declare my judgments against them for all their evil in forsaking me They have made offerings to other gods and worshiped the works of their own hands. But you dress yourself for work Arise and say to them everything that I command you. Do not be dismayed by them, lest I dismay you before them. And I, behold, I make you this day a fortified city, an iron pillar, and bronze walls against the whole land, against the kings of Judah. its officials, its priests, and the people of the land. They will fight against you, but they shall not prevail against you, for I am with you, declares the Lord To deliver you. First of all, you'll see the uh extent of this judgment quickly Look at the end of verse 14. This judgment will be let loose upon all the inhabitants of the land. Verse 15: Behold, I am calling all the tribes of the kingdoms of the north. Declares the Lord, and they shall come, and every one shall set his throne at the entrance of the gates of Jerusalem against all of its walls. All around and against all the cities of Judah. What a sobering verse. Verse 16. When we see why, I would declare my judgments against them for all their evil in forsaking me. And that's what sin is. It's forsaking God. God reveals his goodness. We reject his goodness and chase after other things. God reveals his love. We reject his love and chase after other things. We forsake God. And go after other things. Look at this at the end of verse 16. They have made offerings to other gods And worshipped the works of their own hands. Isn't that incredible? To make something with your own hands and then worship it as God. After all that God had done for them, after all that God had shown them, his miraculous power, the beauty of his law, the glory of the temple and the priesthood. And yet they turn to idolatry and turn to worship things that they made instead of the God who made them and who made the world. Now, the judgment that's spoken of in this passage is judgment on old covenant Israel, particularly the southern kingdom of Judah. But it's God's chosen nation. It's God's chosen people under the old covenant. They violated that covenant, so this is a covenantal lawsuit that's coming against God's people. As I make application for us today and I talk about a coming day of judgment, it's different than this. It's categorically different than this This would be a historical judgment on Old Covenant Israel. The coming day of judgment uh that I'm speaking of for our practical application is not a historical judgment within history, but the final judgment that ends history. And that will be against that will be a judgment for the whole world, not just for Judah, the southern kingdom. So I'm taking some liberty with the concept of a coming judgment. But that's one of the ways we applied Old Testament things to New covenant era. We see a typological kingdom, a typological judgment. And now we live in the last days where there's a final judgment. There's an eschatological judgment. That just means the last judgment, the ultimate final judgment coming. But either way, it's a sobering, sobering thing to think about. I mean, this should fuel us. This should light a fire in us. For local outreach and evangelism. And for more than that, too, for world missions. But what I want to focus on, because this is where God has put us, this is our mission field. We're not in the promised land. We're not in Israel. We're in the nations. We're in the Gentile nations where we are. And there's a harvest out there. And we need to be passionate about local outreach and evangelism. Because judgment is coming. Two quick things on that, and then we'll get into the meat and potatoes of the passage, all right? So when I say outreach and evangelism, those are two different things. They are connected. They go together. Outreach is anything we would do. Just to come into contact with people, just to meet people, just to have opportunity to um speak with people, whether it's an event here or h holding an event or h uh having a table at another event or having people over your house. In the back of our minds, in our hearts, we're doing this for an opportunity for evangelism. So the outreach is any effort, any proactive effort just to meet people for the sake of the gospel. With the benefit of their eternal salvation weighing on our hearts. The evangelism is the actual preaching or sharing of the gospel That we're praying for open doors for evangelism that God would bring about through our outreach efforts. Outreach and evangelism. Don't feel like we need to do everything at once. But we are proactively engaged in outreach efforts, whether it's a mailing or an event here or or anything. And then we're looking for opportunities to share the gospel. So that's the first thing. Outreach and evangelism are connected. They're both necessary. They go together. The second thing is when we talk about evangelism, there's so much to say here because that I mean that just summarizes the Christian message The good news, the preaching of the good news of Christ. The one thing I will say is what the core of that is, it's the preaching of the cross. It's the preaching of the death of Jesus Christ as a substitute for sinners. So sharing the message of the cross or sharing your testimony of the power of the cross in your life. The cross is what kills and makes alive. The cross is what brings us to faith. When the cross is put forth, when the cross is preached, we see God's response, God's wrath against our sin, and we also see God's love that brings salvation. It's the cross that brings salvation to people. Now there are other aspects of the gospel, of course. There's the identity of Jesus, there's his righteous life, there's the resurrection, the ascension. Then there's the response of faith, but just the center, the core. We must be a church and we must be a people who are preaching and sharing the cross of Jesus Christ. The message of it, and then giving personal testimony on the power of the cross to change our hearts and to humble us and be the source of salvation for us. All right. Three things on coming judgment. And we see it in this passage, and then we could we can make application for today that's appropriate for being in the church age. It is number one, personal. Coming judgment is personal. Number two, the coming judgment is providential. Providential. And number three, the coming judgment is prophetic. See in here that the The main piece of Jeremiah's calling of his ministry is to preach this coming judgment, to preach the truth that God is giving him. The coming judgment is personal, it's providential, and it's prophetic. It's personal. Look at verse 11 and 12. This means God is going to be the one doing it. And the word of the Lord came to me saying, Jeremiah, what do you see? And I said, I see an almond branch. Then he said to me, You have seen well, for I am watching over my word to perform it. So he sees an almond branch, which is a symbolic almond branch, but there's a play on words here. If you have a study Bible, you probably have a footnote on this that The Hebrew word for almond branch or for almond looks almost exactly like and would sound very, very similar to the word for watching. And so what Jeremiah sees, that almond branch, is symbolic for God watching over his word Ready to perform it. And that's what God says. In verse 12, the Lord said to me, You have seen well, for I am watching over my word to perform it. What does that mean? It means he's poised to act. It means he's made a decision. He's watching over his word, which we find out in just a few sentences, is a word of judgment And he's ready to perform it. It's a personal judgment that's coming. Sin is not just Breaking rules and violating the law. It is that. But sin is also a personal offense against God. It's the personal rejection of God. If the greatest command is to love God, then the essence of sin, the greatest sin is to hate God And that's where all sin, all rebellion comes from, that within the heart. So this is a personal judgment from a God who has been personally offended. His glory has been defaced. By people he made to love and honor him and to worship him. This is a personal judgment. He's watching over his word. He says, I am watching over my word to perform it So at the very least we know that whatever's going to happen, God will be the one doing it. God will be the one to use other agents. To do it. He'll work through people and through nations, but he's the one doing it. Um I'm not going to ask you to turn to all these passages, but I want to Share some passages with you about the final day of judgment and what all people will be accountable for before the throne of God one day. First of all, we'll all come into judgment for the secrets of our hearts. That's from 1 Corinthians 4. 5. The secrets of our hearts, all those desires you would never speak of, all those motives we would never speak of The secret thoughts, the secrets of our hearts will come into judgment. First Corinthians four five. Also every careless word spoken, Matthew twelve, thirty-six. Every careless word spoken. Can you imagine? Number three, all of our actions. Ecclesiastes 12, 14. All of our actions. Not some of them God is always watching. We're accountable for everything. So the secret things of our hearts, the inward things, the invisible things, and then our words, the audible things And then our actions, the tangible things, something that's closely related, number four, our works, 1 Corinthians 3. 13. All of our works. And then number five is really the catch-all from Romans 14, 12, our whole lives. We'll give an account for ourselves. We'll give an account for our our life, which includes all those other things So this is a real thing. Christianity exists and really the Bible exists to prepare people for this day. Right, that's why we have the Bible. It's a gift of love from God to prepare us for the coming day of judgment. To show us, number one, our sin and our need for a savior. Which God does through his holy law, right? Through his holiness, through his commandments. It exposes our sinfulness. It exposes our corruption. It shows us that we need a savior. Number one. Number two, shows us the Savior. Shows us Jesus, the remedy, Jesus, our redemption, Jesus our forgiveness, Jesus our hope. These two voices, so to speak, in the Scripture are given to us to prepare us for this coming day of judgment. Not just to make us feel better or feel spiritual in this life. but to prepare us for the day, and it's coming when we will stand before God and give an account. And on that day, we need a Savior We need a Savior. We need a righteousness that's not our own, that we can stand before God and be approved and enter into his glory and favor. And it's not just to prepare us for that day, but it's to equip us to help prepare others for that day. We have a ministry of reconciliation that we're stewards of. We're ambassadors. We're almost like an embassy of the kingdom of heaven here on earth Sharing the message, sharing the salvation of our King who sits at the right hand of God. Think about those things coming into judgment for yourself and for others The secret things of the heart. Can you imagine? Measuring, how do those measure out to God's perfect holiness and purity? Our words, our actions, our works, our whole lives. Everyone will stand before God and give an account. Therefore, therefore, we must be urgent in local outreach and evangelism. We must be. Um turn to Acts 17, 30. There are so many passages on this. I uh Picked just a few to try to put this before us from a new covenant perspective. Acts 17 verses 30 and 31. This is toward the end of a sermon Paul preaches in Athens. And he says, the times of ignorance got overlooked, but now He commands all people everywhere to repent. All people everywhere. Because What does that word because um signify? It signifies the reason he's do he does this. The reason he just he's doing what he just said. Because he's fixed a day. on which he will judge the world in righteousness by a man whom he has appointed, and of this he has given assurance to all by raising him from the dead. You know, this is what Christianity is about, preparing us and helping to prepare others for this day. So much of popular, at least what's called Christianity Today is focused on the here and now. It's focused on felt needs, or it's focused on entertainment, or it's focused on um you know just a an enjoyable social setting With a Christian theme attached to it. But there should be a weight. There should be a gravity to things of the word and to things of church. That doesn't mean joyless. That doesn't mean cold. It doesn't mean harsh. But it does mean urgent. This day will happen. The world is wrong about this. We are accountable to God. And we will stand before God. And everyone else will too. This is not a fairy tale. We must be urgent. Verse 31, he's fixed a day, a singular day, on which he will judge the world in righteousness. Judge the world in righteousness. That's just cluing us into the standard of the judgment. The standard of judgment is righteousness. God's character, God's standards. He is a righteous judge, a just judge. Then he says, by a man whom he has appointed, and of this he has given assurance to all by raising him from the dead, even though the name is not used. You all know that's speaking about Jesus. Jesus is the one who rose from the dead and he appointed Jesus as the judge of the world. He's delegated this authority to judge the world to the Son, to the incarnate ascended Son. Personal, it's a personal judgment. Turn uh forward a little bit in your Bibles to Romans 3 19. Now we know that whatever the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law. so that every mouth may be stopped, and the whole world may be held accountable to God. That's one of the purposes of the law. It tells us what God requires of us and lets us know that we're accountable to God for meeting those requirements. And knowing how we've lived. It closes our mouths. We have no argument for ourselves. We have no excuse. Every mouth stopped, and the whole world held accountable to God, for by works of the law no human being will be justified in his sight Since through the law comes knowledge of sin. That's one of those voices from Scripture. God's law, God's holiness. You know what he requires of us, what he forbids of us, and what it does is it gives us a knowledge of sin. We need a knowledge of sin. We need a knowledge of sin because if we never had a knowledge of sin, we would never know that we need a Savior. So don't turn it off. Don't go on shutdown when we start talking about sin. Learning about our sin shows us our need for a savior. It helps us to grow in appreciating our Savior and appreciating and seeing the vastness of God's love and forgiveness for us. Through the law comes knowledge of sin. But the next paragraph is one of the great paragraphs of Scripture that tells us, even though we're guilty and our mouths are stopped and we're accountable to God, tells us how we can be made righteous. In his sight. Verse 21. But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law, although the law and the prophets bear witness to it. The righteousness of God Through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. There's how we could be made righteous. Through faith in Christ for all who believe. I love the redundancy there. It's appropriate because we're so prone to forget this. We're so prone to go back to a mindset of works, thinking we earn this standing with God The righteousness of God is received through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe, for there's no distinction. All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and are justified by His grace. As a gift through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. Boy, that's a jam-packed verse. You could do a whole you could do a whole conference on verse 24 Justified means declared righteous in the eyes of God. Think about that. Declared righteous in the eyes of God. Justified by His grace as a gift. Again, I love the redundancy there. If it's by his grace, that is a gift. And if it's a gift, we know it's a gift of grace because All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. But just to emphasize the point: we can, human beings, can be justified. We can be declared righteous in God's eyes through faith in Christ. Justified through faith, by grace through faith, through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, verse 25a, we'll just look at the the first half of verse 25, whom God put forward as propitiation by his blood to be received by faith. A propitiation by his blood. That's a sacrifice that Absorbs the wrath of God, that does away with the wrath of God against our sins so that we could go free. It removes the obstacle. It removes the obstacle between a sinner and God, which is the guilt of our sin and the corruption of our sin. A sacrifice of propitiation Absorbs that wrath of God on our behalf so that we could enter into the presence of God. This is this is very, very good news. This is news that we should never be ashamed of. This is news that we should revel in and glory in. This is our hope. This is our identity. The redemption that we have in Christ. And why is it so important that we share and share and share and preach and preach and preach And tell people about this message of this only way we can be justified in God's sight through Christ and his blood. Why is that so important? Because the judgment is coming. A day of judgment is coming, and all will stand before God. And we will either stand by ourselves or we'll stand with Christ as our Savior. Personal, the judgment is also providential. Also providential back in Jeremiah 1, verses 13 through 16. The word of the Lord came to me a second time saying, What do you see? And I said, I see a boiling pot facing away from the north. Now, this is the second symbol. Don't think of a pot of pasta boiling on Just so this is not supposed to be a pleasant aromatic vision here. This is supposed to be a terrifying vision. Picture picture an enormous A God -sized supernatural boiling pot of destruction on Baltimore, but leaning toward Harford County. That's what we're supposed to picture. We're not supposed to picture a little pot boiling in the kitchen. This is God's destruction put in a pot That's about to boil over, but it's also about to be poured out and and pour out destruction on the whole land Um, like a tidal wave of God's anger. I see a boiling pot facing away from the north. Then the Lord said to me, Out of the north, disaster shall be let loose upon all the inhabitants of the land. For behold, I am calling all the tribes of the kingdoms of the north, declares the Lord, and they shall come. I'm calling this providential because we see, and we know this is going to be Babylon and Nebuchadnezzar. We see that God is using pagan nations as his vehicle of judgment. He's using that. This wasn't Nebuchadnezzar's plan and purpose. The sovereign authority in the picture is God And he's going to use Babylon, the way it's said here, the tribes and kingdoms of the north. God is calling them, and he's going to use them as his boiling pot of covenant judgment on Judah. And they're going to come, set up their thrones at the entrance of the of the gates of Jerusalem The throne just bringing their army, their forces, representative of their power and their dominion and their kingdom is going to come set itself up against God's kingdom at the entrance of the gates, which is The spot of defense. It's a shocking picture here. It's n it's no more shocking than when we read about Judah's sin, of why this is coming. But this is God using pagan nations in darkness as his vehicle of judgment against his chosen nation, Israel, apostate Israel, for their sin and rebellion. So this is why I'm calling this providential, because God is the sovereign king, he's the sovereign ruler, he puts kings in place He takes kings out of their place. He puts nations in place. He puts boundaries and borders in place. God is the one who's ordered and organized and is running this whole thing called a human history. And here he's intervening. In a providential judgment against apostate Israel. This is another place you can add it to the long list of where the world is wrong about this. God does have the right to intervene in human affairs. And he does have the ability and the authority to intervene in human affairs to do what he purposes to do. And most of the time it doesn't make sense to us. And I would say if we didn't have the Word of God, none of it would make sense to us. We have a Word of God that teaches us and illumines us. But even still, we cannot see into the secret providences of God. But we know who God is and we know his character and we know his purpose and we know where we fit into it as the local church, as his children on earth. God absolutely has the right to intervene in the world that he created. And the ability and the authority to do so. God has no shackles on his power that's hindering him from doing something that he wants to do. And here he's using. Pagan nations who were in darkness as his vehicle of judgment. Now that won't be the case in the final judgment. We already saw the verse in the book of Acts, in Acts 17. This that judgment will be in a completely different character and um category than any historical judgment. And that will be the revealing, the full manifestation of the Exalted Son as final judge. I like the contrast what's happening here with the order of things when you get to the New Testament. What's happening here is judgment is coming through the nations to Israel. This is the picture of providence. God is going to use the nations He's going to work through the nations to bring judgment to Israel. When you come to the New Testament, he brings salvation through Israel to the nations. It completely flips the order of things and the thing that's being done. Old Testament, the covenant people of God have rebelled, they've violated their covenant. Um in a million different ways inside and out. So God is working through the nations to bring judgment against them. But in the fullness of time, He sent His Son Born of woman, born under the law, to redeem those under the law, God brings salvation first to Israel and then through Israel to the nations. He's the Savior of the world. He's the Savior of the world. There's a judgment coming, and therefore we must be urgent. Have I said this yet tonight? We must be urgent. I'm trying to stay calm when I say it because it's the fact of it that should make us urgent, not me being e you know excited or putting some kind of passion on We must be urgent because there's a day of judgment coming. We must have a zeal and a burden for local outreach and for evangelism. Look at a few things in Galatians with me. Galatians 3, verse 7. Just there's also many, many verses, just like there's a lot of verses on that final day of judgment. There's also a lot of verses in the New Testament and in the Old Testament also, just in the form of promise and prophecy, but there's a lot of verses in the New Testament about salvation coming to Israel and then to the nations. Salvation is not just for Israel, it's also for the Gentiles. It's for the world. Galatians 3 7 9 7 uh 9. And that is the fulfillment of the kingdom promises of God. That salvation promises were made to Israel And all and they're fulfilled in Israel, and that salvation, that fulfillment is also brought to the Gentiles. Galatians 3 7 through 9. Know then that it is those of faith who are the sons of Abraham. Who are the sons of Abraham? Those of faith, not blood descendants of Abraham. Those of faith who are sons of Abraham. And the scripture, the scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith. Preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham, saying, In you shall all the nations be blessed. So then, those who are of faith are blessed along with Abraham the man of faith. And then quickly look at verse 13 and 14. Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us. For it is written, Cursed is everyone who is hanged on a tree, so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles, so that we might receive the promised Spirit through faith. Let's go back to Jeremiah. One last point on this coming judgment for apostate Israel. That reminds us even today that there's a coming judgment for the world. First of all, that judgment is personal. God said that He was watching over His Word and He was going to perform it. Second of all, it's providential. He's going to intervene in human history and he's going to use pagan nations as a vehicle of judgment against his chosen nation that's That's forsaken him. Thirdly, this is a prophetic judgment, which means it must be preached, it must be proclaimed, it must be publicly announced and propagated. Verse 17 through 19 Speaking directly to Jeremiah about what he's what he's going to be called to. But you dress yourself for work. Arise and say to them everything that I command you. Do not be dismayed by them, lest I dismay you before them And I, behold, I make you this day a fortified city, an iron pillar, and bronze walls against the whole land, against the kings of Judah, its officials, its priests, and the people of the land. They will fight against you But they shall not prevail against you, for I am with you, declares the Lord, to deliver you. Here's how we're going to close out on these verses, 17 through 19, really give us a good window into the mindset that we should have as ambassadors for Christ. I have an A, B, C, D, E, F. So six. I have six of these So, this ministry will require hard work. What's the first thing that he says in verse 17? But you dress yourself for work. Brothers and sisters, we know that outreach Is going to be hard work. And we know that evangelism is going to be hard work. It's spiritual warfare. We're going into a world in darkness that we used to belong to. to proclaim a coming day of judgment and to tell people they need a savior and to tell people that God has provided a savior and it's a wonderful message but the heart needs to be changed by God to see that it's a wonderful message message. Naturally speaking, this is foolishness to people. Naturally speaking, this is foolishness to people. But that's one of the reasons it must be preached and it must be shared as the core of our message because this is the only message that can change the heart. This is the message that changes the human heart. So that doesn't see that salvation in Christ is full but sees it as a blessed and glorious thing. But it will take hard work. Dress yourself for work. Secondly, well I guess if you're doing letters, this would be B, okay B, uh, it will require obedience. This is the second thing that he says. Arise and say to them everything that I command you. Now that hedges us in as representatives of Christ. Our authority is not The vote of the masses. Our authority is not church tradition. Our authority is not personal preference. Our authority What God has given us the authority to preach and teach is God's Word. God's Word is a sufficient Authority and a sufficient ministry tool to be ministers under the new covenant. It's what God has given us. Obedience. Now Whatever our practical application and outward application of ministry looks like, at the very least, that's where our hearts have to be. Our hearts have to be anchored there, that the word is our authority, that the word of God is sufficient to do the task that God has given us. We don't need our own man-made tools and traditions and mechanics and logistics. We need God's word. And with God's word and with God's Spirit, the task will be done. We're so over-resourced. Today. We have publications and resources, mountains of them, but we need the power of the Holy Spirit. We need the hand of God on our ministry. It's the word of God that equips us for our task. That's the heart of obedience that Jeremiah must have. He's not going out there, he's God doesn't send him out. You go come up with a message that you think will work No, God's going to give Jeremiah the message, and it's Jeremiah's duty to obey God and to faithfully relay God 's message. We uh we wield spiritual authority properly only when we are properly under the authority of the word. Does that make sense? But to try and wield spiritual authority without being properly submitted to the authority of the word will be a mess. It would be man-made religion or a cult. That's not what we want. A. Hard work. B obedience. C perseverance. This is the third thing he says. Still in verse 17. Do not be dismayed by them. Let's not dismay you before them. Don't be discouraged. Discouraging things will happen in ministry. Discouraging things will happen in outreach Discouraging things will happen in evangelism, but we are to not be discouraged because our trust is in God, not in what we can see outwardly, not in visible results, but in God and His promise. So we must persevere, and if we're to do that, we must be a people of prayer. Without prayer, I would have given up a long time ago. Without the Holy Spirit, without the comfort of the Holy Spirit and God answering prayers And God encouraging me and encouraging my heart and strengthening my heart, I would have been done a long time ago. But God sustains us in ministry. God sustains us in the Christian wall. God sustains us in outreach and sustains us in evangelism. Cannot do it on our own. Hard work, obedience, perseverance. D we need divine aid. Verse 18. Behold, I Which is the subject of the sentence, I, behold, I make you this day a fortified city, an iron pillar, and bronze walls. Against the whole land. All symbols of strength. All symbols of withstanding opposition and not giving up. withstanding opposition, but still faithfully preaching the word that God has given him. But look at the grammar of the sentence. The subject whose acting is God. He says, I make you. The same thing is true for us in ministry. If we're to be strong, if we're to endure, God will have to give us those gifts. He'll have to give us the strength. He'll have to give us the endurance. One of the worst things we would ever want in any ministry, not just the pastor's ministry, any ministry, would be a feeling of self-sufficiency. Or do you feel any like, boy, I'm I've really got this down? Yeah, what else do you want me to do, God? I'm really I'm we are insufficient in and of ourselves Yet always confident because we're trusting in God. Confidence in the Spirit, confidence in the Word, not timid, not afraid, not shy. Meek, yes, gentle, yes, humble, yes, hopefully, those things. But trusting in God for his strength. For his help. Hard work, obedience, perseverance, the need for divine help and for divine strength. Letter E, boldness. Boldness. There's no time to be timid. Brothers and sisters, there's no time to be shy about these things. You know the people out in the world aren't shy about their worldview Are the Christians the only people who have to be shy and keep everything private so we don't hurt anyone's feelings? And we don't want to go out looking to hurt people's feelings, but uh hopefully you get what I'm saying. You don't have to zip your mouth and keep everything inside when you're out in the world. Boldness. The second part of 18. Because he says, I'll make you a fortified city, an iron pillar, and bronze walls against the whole land, against the kings of Judah, its officials, its priests, and the people of the land. Well, it's probably the trickiest thing, probably the most difficult thing in ministry. When we preach against sin, we're not preaching against the idea of sin. We're preaching against people's sin. The kind of sin that Matt needs to repent of is Matt's sin, right? My impure thoughts My impure desires, my impure words, my selfish words, my selfish acts, my short temper. I need to I needed God through his word and through his through his church to bring into my life the message that I am a sinner and I need a savior. You can't we can't get away from this. We can't get away from this. It's It's a message that apart from the Holy Spirit changing our hearts, nobody would ever be saved. Let's just admit it. We would never be saved because naturally we don't want to believe those things. But it's against the land, it's against kings, it's against officials, it's against priests, and the people of the land. It's a message that people need to hear. People need to hear about sin. Why, why, why, why? Always keep this in always keep this in your mind. Not just to hurt people's feelings, that's not what we want. We just want people to to know that they need a savior. That's it. We just want people to know that they need a savior, and then we come to The Savior. Here's the Savior that God has provided. Last one. Hard work, obedience, perseverance, the need for divine strength, boldness, because of the nature of this task. And finally, letter F or if you're doing numbers, number six. I love you guys. You're on top of it. It requires faith. Hopefully this goes without saying. Verse 19. They will fight against you, but they shall not prevail against you. For I am with you, declares the Lord to deliver you. That requires faith. There's three incredible promises right there. They'll not prevail against you. In other words, they'll not stop your ministry. And those who oppose your ministry, Jeremiah, will not stop God from doing exactly what God wants to do through your ministry. They will not prevail. They'll oppose. They may even harm. Persecution can harm Christians, physically, can harm churches, physically, outwardly, but they cannot prevail over the church and stop God from what he's doing in and through the church. Forces of evil cannot prevail over Jesus. Not prevail against you. That's a promise. So Jeremiah, what he has to do is believe. He has to believe that promise. They'll not prevail. And then he says this, the reason why they'll not prevail, for I am with you. It's the same promise that Jesus leaves the apostles in the church with. before he ascends into heaven. I'm with you always, even to the end of the age. He is with his church. That's why we it's perfectly fine to pray for a work of the Holy Spirit or a move of the Holy Spirit or the leading or the guiding of the Holy Spirit But we don't need to pray for the Holy Spirit to be poured out. That's happened. The Holy Spirit fills the church. Jesus is with the church till the day he returns. He is with us. So opposition and persecution will not prevail. We must believe that promise. God is with us. We must believe that. And then he says, declares the Lord to deliver you. To deliver you. You know, that's just another way of saying that the persecutors, the haters, the false prophets, the ungodly leaders in in Judah. Will not stop Jeremiah's ministry. Do you know how long Jeremiah's ministry would last? To the moment that God purposed it to last. And the same thing for our ministries, same thing for our lives. How long are we going to live? Right up until that moment that God has determined we'll live to. Because He's in charge of everything, He's working out His purpose. In this world and nothing can stop him. I tried to bring that point out in the sermon. I think I think sometimes I get too wild and when I try to bring these points out, I'm not all that clear about is at least not as clear as I would want to be, but the reason the world exists, you let me know if this came through this morning. The reason the world exists is because God is working out his purpose in the world. The world is a means to an end. God's self-manifestation of his infinite love and grace. This is why everything exists. And we should think about our lives, every aspect of our of our lives. Coming into submission to that one purpose. The word really anything in ministry, really, and church membership really is just joining God in what God's doing. And that's why he can say that evil will not prevail. The persecutors will not prevail. They can take our stuff, they can kill us, they can they can hack off our limbs. This has happened throughout church history. They can they can burn us at the stake, they can throw us in prison, but they cannot stop the gospel, they cannot stop Jesus from discipling the nations. Building his church, completing his church, they cannot stop Jesus from doing exactly what the Father has commissioned Jesus to do. So also they cannot stop the church from doing what the church has been commissioned to do. Therefore, we must be urgent, and we have every reason to be urgent and to be expectantly faithful in local outreach and evangelism. So church, let's Let's do it. Let's stay on the right track and pray for obedience and stay obedient and trust the Lord, not ourselves, but trust his word, trust his spirit for the glory of God. Let's pray. Father, we thank you. Thank you for saving us. It 's uh terrifying to think where we would be without your mercy. So, Father, we end this Lord's day by saying, Thank you, Jesus. It's in your name we pray. Amen.