Let's take our Bibles. Let's get to Matthew twenty-eight, eighteen through twenty Picking up on last week's message, which was a reminder of purpose where I did an overview. If you weren't here for last week's message I would challenge you to go on the website. I'm not sure if it's up there yet, but it will be. If uh it's on Facebook, I'm sure of that still. And And watch last week's message that introduces this series on a reminder of purpose from Matthew 28, 18 through 20. Today's focus is making disciples. Making disciples. And once you have a marker or your Bible ribbon on Matthew 28. Also put some kind of marker, some kind of ribbon in Matthew 7. We have a two passages this morning. morning. Matthew 28, 18 through 20, and then Matthew 7, 13 to 14, talking about making disciples. Since we are disciples, we are called to make disciples. Alright, let's go ahead and pray. Father, we pray for our time and your word. You've been gracious to give us your word. You've been gracious to open our minds to Receive and to understand your word. You've been merciful and you've been powerful to work in our hearts and to redirect our wills. So that we would strive to live according to your word, to not be hearers of your word only, but doers of your word through faith in Christ. Father, as we come before you, we pray that. Um you would teach us. We pray that you would comfort us. We pray that you would encourage us. Overcome The corruption that lives within, and turn our hearts to the beauties of Jesus Christ. Deepen our affection for him Deepen our devotion, strengthen our devotion, our conviction to live for Jesus Christ and not for the world. It's in his name we pray. Amen. God is the great disciple maker. God is the one who takes sinners and transforms them into followers of Christ. God is the great disciple, maker. It's in his great wisdom and in his great mercy he allows us to get in on that project with him, but God is the one who makes us Makes disciples. He's the one who changes hearts. It's his word, it's his spirit, it's his gospel that captivates the sinner's heart in this miracle of salvation. God is the great disciple maker. How does God change the world? It's a good question, isn't it? It is God's purpose to make changes in this world. God loves the world He wants more peace and less war. He wants more righteousness and less wickedness. He wants more justice and less injustice. He wants more salvation and more redemption, not more of the kingdom of Satan, not more of darkness. God loves the world and he wants to make changes in the world. How does God make changes in the world? It's very simple. Brothers and sisters, God makes changes Changes in the world by making disciples of Jesus Christ. He makes changes in the world by making disciples of Jesus Christ. That's how he makes changes in our homes. He's made us disciples of Jesus Christ. It's transformed our hearts. It's transformed our values. It's transformed our purpose. And now the home is changed. And that's how it works in any profession, in any nation, in any school, anywhere in the world, if there's going to be a true and lasting change for the better, for the right, for the good, it will be because it will be because Because God made a disciple of Jesus Christ. This idea of making disciples is critical. It's central. It's not a side issue. Matthew 28 I've been saying 18 through 20, but let's just go ahead and do 16 through 20. Get that whole passage. Now the eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain to which Jesus had directed them. And when they saw him, they worshipped him, but some doubted. And Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you, and behold, I am with you. to the end of the age. Last week I introduced five aspects of a biblical purpose. Five aspects of a biblical purpose of a biblical church. I will not go through the exposition again. But here they are. Number one, to submit to the authority of Christ. That came from verse 18. All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Number two, to make disciples of Christ. That's in verse 19. And that's our topic for today. Making disciples of Christ. Number three, to baptize disciples of Christ. That comes from the end of verse 19 We have these new disciples. How do we help them move forward? What's the step of obedience? Where do you go from here? Well, we'll start with water baptism. Number four, teach obedience to Christ. That comes from verse 20. Teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And number five, to live in fellowship with Christ, to live in a blessed communion with God through Christ, through faith, because he's in heaven, we're on earth, because he's invisible. But his spirit lives within us. It's by faith that we have fellowship with Jesus now. That comes from verse 20, the very end. Jesus says, I'm with you always to the end of the age. He's talking right there face to face with the disciples, but that same the but that message is to the church, to the church, until Christ returns. He is with us. Five aspects of biblical purpose again today is making disciples of Christ. Since we are disciples, we are called to make disciples. Verse 19, just in case we missed it. Verse 19, go therefore and make disciples of all nations. You see, there's no discrimination there, is there? The indiscriminate bringing of the gospel to all nations. And that's a summary phrase, to all nations. to all tribes, to all languages, to all cultures, bring this great salvation of Jesus Christ. Bring it to everyone indiscriminately. No nation above the others, no nation below the others. Bring this gospel of salvation to make disciples of all nations. Amen indeed. That's the purpose. That's the purpose. Disciple means student. A disciple means follower. A disciple means Learner, a learner of a particular field, maybe. Some cooks will study in a specific Cuisine. Maybe they specialize in Italian cuisine. To be a student of that kind of cooking. Many people will specialize to learn, discipline themselves in one particular sport. Not sports in general, but one particular sport. And many will discipline themselves and learn an instrument. Maybe many instruments, but it has to be learned. There has to be discipline. A disciple is someone who lives in a specific way on earth. They self-consciously have become a student. They self-consciously have become a learner. What are they a student of? What are they learning? They're learning how to live life in such a way that honors God rather than rebels against God. They're learning to imitate Christ. By the work of the Holy Spirit, learning to live for Jesus. And not themselves, and not the world, and not the approval of the world, not the pleasures of the world, not the treasures of the world, but to live for Jesus. Now that takes discipline, doesn't it, church? That doesn't happen automatically. We don't roll out of bed and naturally live for God and not ourselves. We roll out of bed and naturally live for ourselves and not for God. So daily, every morning, and every afternoon, and every evening, we need God to be at work in our hearts, at work in our minds, helping us, teaching us to live for Jesus. To live in such a way that honors God and brings glory to Him, not ourselves. Another way that Scripture describes A disciple is someone who finds and enters a gate That leads to God. So that's the Matthew 7 passage. So flip backward to Matthew 7, 13 and 14. This is one of the pictures, one of the illustrations that God gives us to help us understand becoming a disciple and what it means to be a disciple. It's someone who finds and then enters into a gate. That leads to God. It's a gate that you enter. On the other side of this gate is a path or a road. And at the end of that path is a destination. And discipleship, becoming a disciple, is finding and entering this gate that leads to God. Now, before we even read the passage, you know what, or better, who the gate is. And who's the gate? Jesus Christ. Finding him and entering the presence of God through him. That's discipleship. Matthew 7, 13 and 14. Jesus says, enter by the narrow gates, for the gate is wide, and the way is easy. That leads to destruction. And those who enter by it are many. But the gate is narrow, and the way is hard. That leads to life. And those who find it are few. I don't know if this is proper or not, but it's just the the the the world of my imagination. I just picture myself in a clearing in the woods and there's only there's two ways out. Over here is this narrow gate. I mean I would have to turn sideways and squeeze all the way through to get through. It was real difficult. In fact, it was so narrow it was hard to see. It's almost as if if someone didn't point it out to you, you wouldn't see it, the way to God. But on the other side is this huge gate, wide gate, and on the other side of it this wide, clear road. It's easy to see, it's easy to go down. The question is, which gate will we ultimately find and which gate will we go through? And then of course what's the destination on the other side of that road, on the other side of that way. You see you have a gate and then a road and then a destination You enter by the narrow gates. The gate is narrow and the way is difficult. It's hard. It brings trial. It takes sacrifice. You have to die yourself. Impossible things, things that we could not do apart from God. It's God who works salvation in us. But the way is still difficult. We fight the enemies of God. Once we've once we're citizens of God's kingdom and we're s foot soldiers in God's army, we now fight the enemies of God along with God. Praise God He's given us us the word and the spirit, the spirit of faith, the armor of God, to be faithful soldiers. It's all of grace. And It's difficult and it brings suffering and it can bring great sorrow. It can bring persecution. The gate is narrow and the way is hard that leads to life. And those are few that find It. Well, that's a little bit on what discipleship is. Today, for the rest of our time, what I want to focus on is Not what a disciple is, but how do you become one? How do you become a disciple of of Jesus Christ. We've all got to be grounded in this. We've all have to have a firm foundation on what the Bible teaches about how to become a disciple. And I've broken this down into two parts. What God does to make a disciple, and secondly, what we do in making disciples. Now God is the major player here. I'll spend the bulk of the time on this first one. What does God do? We've got to understand that God is the major player. I had a professor who once told the class, it was a class on um it was either missions or church planning. But he said the first step to fruitful evangelism is to recognize that God is already working in the world. That I'm not going to be the one, and you're not going to be the one to first bring the work of God to the world. That would be a self-centered approach to evangelism. And it would bring anxiety. And we would be self-absorbed. We'd be trusting in ourselves. God is at work in the world. God is making disciples. What does God do to make disciples? We've got to know that, and then also we will at least overview what we do in making disciples. It's the great blessing and the great privilege and the great joy of being a part of a biblical church is we're we're getting on board with God in his great work in the world. We're joining God in his great mission in the world. According to his word. Otherwise we're just making stuff up. Filled by his spirit. Otherwise, we're just playing religion. But here's the great privilege. Brothers and sisters, I hope this fills your heart with joy. That God has enabled us to join him in his great work in the world. Now, if we keep that mindset, that's called a God-centered approach. A God-centered rather than a man-centered approach. Approach. What does God do and what do we do? Well let me give you the points. First, I'll give you the blanks so that you have the roadmap. Then you won't be stressed out wondering when's he going to get To the next one? Are we going to get through them all? I want to remove all distractions from your mind as we're going through. I see in the back, Bob's lifting a holy hand to that. Amen, brother. Give us the points. You know, don't overdo it on on the outline. When I listen to a sermon, most of the time I do look at the outline. I'm always taking notes, but there's a point where you can take Take it too far to notes where the notes of the outline can become a distraction because it can be a distraction to just simply absorbing the truth of God into our hearts. Just receive the word of God. Hear the word of God. Let the great truths of God's word wash over you and pour into your heart because that's what transforms us. So use the tools. I use the tools. And I'm not ashamed to say that I use those tools. But let's make sure they don't become a distraction. Letter A, God draws sinners to Himself. D R A W S. God draws sinners to himself. Letter B God convicts sinners of their need for salvation. C O N V I C T S. God convicts sinners. of their need for salvation. Let her see God converts the heart to trust and love Him. That's when you're saved When God converts the heart, it means changes the heart. It means replaces the heart. It means renews the heart. It means fills the heart with the presence of God of the Holy Spirit, the living presence of God in the human heart, that's salvation. And before that happens I remained and you remained outside of fellowship with God, but let her see when God converts the heart to trust and love Him, and that happens through the gospel. And we're saved. Romans 2, what do we do to make disciples? Letter A. We faithfully minister God's word. Faithfully minister God's word. Aren't you glad that we don't have to figure out how a sinner can be made right before God? Aren't you glad that we don't have to concoct a man-made procedure? Of making ourselves right before a holy God, heaven forbid. We faithfully minister God's word, trusting in God's word. God God's word plants the seed of eternal life. Let it be, we pray and trust in God, not in ourselves. Did you ever have you ever read any portion of the Bible where the lesson was trust in yourself, not in God? I mean anywhere. Any era before the fall into sin. The time b before Noah, the time after Noah, the time of the patriarchs, the time of Israel, the time of the church Where's where does would God ever even imply that it'd be better to trust in ourselves rather than in him? And I'll apply that to our evangelism. We're not trusting in any kind of gimmick, any kind of outward ministry, any kind of strategy, anything about ourselves, our charisma. Fun, enjoyable events. There's nothing wrong with those, but we're not trusting in those to change hearts. We have to trust in God. Trust in God. And that's connected to pray. To praying. That's why I put in B, we pray and trust in God, not ourselves. Because prayer is an exercise of trusting in God, but prayer also will help us to grow in our trusting in God. And brothers and sisters, have we forgotten? God does answer prayers. God uses your prayers to accomplish his purpose in the world. I mean, if you do anything, pray. Pray for his kingdom to come and his will to be done on earth as it is in heaven. Letter C. We call all to repentance in faith. We call all to repentance in faith. The gospel is a message. The gospel is good news. You can't change it. It happened in the past. And the blessings that are available to us are available because of what happened in the past. And because of the living Christ and the present. But the gospel is news. Now always, always, always in connection with the news of the gospel must be the invitation of the gospel. Must be the call of the gospel. We preach the good news and we we summon all sinners everywhere to come to Christ We call. There's no sense in having a banquet if we don't send out invitations. The gospel is news that must be preached. And it must be followed up with always a call to repent and believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. Now we're gonna go back and flush a little bit of this out. Okay? Are you you with me? All right. And I told you it would be the bulk of our time putting the great weight of what I want us to contemplate this morning. on what God does to make disciples. Letter A, God draws sinners to himself. Now for this one, would you please turn to John six, forty-four and forty-five, to see where this comes from. Comes from John Six Forty Four and Forty Five To draw means to bring out of, to bring up out of, or to bring something toward yourself, to draw it toward yourself. Think of crab traps that you might have in the water. Eventually you've got to go and draw them out of the water. You put salt on steak or salt on really anything. To draw out the flavors, to draw out the juices. God draws the sinners out of the kingdom of Satan. To himself. He pulls us in a secret, providential way. God draws sinners to himself. John 6 44 and 45. Jesus says, No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And I will raise him up on the last day. It is written in the prophets, and they will all be taught by God. Everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me. Well, hopefully you saw that main verb in verse 24 or 44 rather. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. There's at least two points to make on this. First of all, the drawing is absolutely necessary. The drawing is 100 % required. No one, Jesus says, no one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. Can someone come to Jesus if the Father does not draw him? The answer is no. Whatever this drawing is, whatever it is. It's necessary. And only God can do it. The Father who sent the Son draws sinners into fellowship with the Son Man, that should make you glad if you're in fellowship with the Son. To look back in your life and to say, God did that. God drew me away from sin. God drew me away from pride. God drew me to Jesus Christ. Thank you, God, for your glorious mercy. Where else were we going to go if God didn't draw us? Completely the other way. Just keep running and running and running and running, completely the opposite way. So the drawing is necessary and it happens before coming to Christ. You see, the drawing by the Father is a prerequisite or precedes the coming to Christ. The Father draws us and we come to Christ. This point we're focusing on right now is the drawing. The drawing of God, the bringing out, the bringing toward himself, like pulling up crab traps, drawing flavor out of a stake. It's a providential work of God. It's a providential work of God. You can't see it. It's beyond our vision It's spiritual. It's supernatural. It's miraculous. It's invisible. How many different ways can I say this? It's a providential work of God in our lives. It's an unpredictable work of God. You can't control it. You can't grasp it and control it. Say, God, now you come this way. God, now you go this way It's the work of God, man. The spirit is like the wind, and you can see its effects, but you can't predict it. You can't control it. But you can believe it, and you can trust in it, and you can pray for it, and when it happens, you can see it because you can discern the impact of the Spirit of God in the world. And you can praise God for what his Spirit's done. Providential, unpredictable, wonderful. Wonderful, wonderful, merciful work of God. This is when going back to that narrow gate and entering through the narrow gates when you have this wide gate and easy way on the other side. This drawing of God in our lives is when you begin to realize that there are two gates in life. And you begin to realize that there are two destinies in life. There's this way over here and this way over here. And I'll draw this out in some specific ways, some concrete ways, so that this this isn't philosoph uh abstract philosophy Different ways you can discern if God is drawing you. I got four of these for you. Number one, you can find yourself waking up to your own mortality. That's a big one. God will providentially work in your life and work in your mind to start to awaken you to your own immortality. But you will not live forever. And all the things you could gain in this life will be gone forever. In one way, waking us up to eternity, waking us up to spiritual things. Not having all the answers, not knowing quite why God is doing it yet, when it first starts to happen, you don't know where it's all heading. But when God begins to wake us up to our own mortality. He can do that through a near-death experience. He can do that through the death of a loved one. He can do that if you hit rock bottom in life. God just crushes you. And out of that, out of that pit Out of that despair, out of that loneliness, out of that hopelessness and helplessness, you cry out to God, He's awakened you to eternity. And he's so pressed upon you that you begin to have a deep, urgent sense of your own mortality. In this life. God will use that to draw you to Him. And you start to ask What is all this for? Why are we all running around? Why are we so why are we so busy acquiring? Where is this all headed? What comes next? Through a sense of our own mortality, God will draw us. Number two, do you find yourself waking up to the emptiness of worldly pursuit? You start to see the emptiness, the futility, the vanity, the fleeting nature of worldly pursuits. Things we used to used to pour yourself into. Things you used to die for and daydream about. Oh, you so much wanted these things. God , in one way or another, starts to open your eyes. To ultimately the meaninglessness, the emptiness of these things. The book of Ecclesiastes addresses this when you start to see the vanity of temporal things. If life under the sun, and you know that phrase, if you know the book of Ecclesiastes, If life under the sun is all there is, then it's all ultimately empty. God will start to wake us up to the futility. The emptiness of worldly pursuits, the emptiness of partying, the emptiness of popularity, the emptiness of the approval of others, the emptiness of riches, the emptiness of material things. We're not saying riches are bad in and of themselves, and we're not saying that material things are bad in and of themselves But if that's all there is, ultimately empty, meaningless Start to wake us up to our own mortality. Wake us up to the emptiness of worldly pursuits Have you ever experienced either of those? I mean, has God ever drawn you in a providential, supernatural way to show you The fleeting nature of your own life and the fleeting nature of worldly pursuits and worldly treasures and pleasures. And number three, God can be drawing you if you find yourself waking up to the reality that there must be an all-powerful creator. You look at the world, you look at the starry heavens, and you think about humanity, you think about issues of morality, you think about issues of conscience How a human conscience can exist, the uniqueness of humanity, that the world, that this miracle of existence God starts to wake you up to the necessity there has to be a creator. There has to be a creator Matter cannot create matter. Energy cannot create energy. If there's matter, and if there's energy, there's got to be something beyond it that brought it into existence. There's got to be a creator. There's got to be a supernatural. If there's a natural, God can wake us up to the reality. Scripture teaches that God's revelation in nature and God's revelation in the conscience does reveal to mankind. That he exists and reveals to us his infinite power, his divine nature. Romans chapter 1, 18 and following. Well God can wake us up to the reality. There must be an all-powerful creator. And when he begins to do that, again, we don't know everything about God. But that's one of the things he can use to draw us, to seek him more. And that's really the telltale sign. And this is our that's number four. That's really the telltale sign that it's God who's actually drawing you, and not just some arbitrary emotion, undefined spiritual feeling. People call anything spiritual these days. Just I mean anything spiritual If you felt it, you said it was spiritual, it must be spiritual, it must be from God. That's not true at all. It's only spiritual if God says it's spiritual. It's only spiritual capital S that the Holy Spirit's involved Number four. Ways again, ways to discern God is drawing you. The telltale sign, number four, you find yourself seeking God in his word. That's priority one. When God is drawing the sinner, his immediate purpose in that is to get the sinner to seek him in his word To seek him in his word. You find yourself, and I remember this time in my life, looking back on it, it came out of nowhere, inexplicable desire to learn the Bible. Inexplicable hunger to go listen to sermons, to attend Bible studies, to start reading the Bible, seeking God. Now I can look back on it and say, God did that God drew me out of my life of sin, out of the shackles, the slavery to sin. God drew me out And enabled me and caused me to seek him in his word. That's where we seek God. In his word. You can seek God. If you're alienated from God this morning, you can seek him. The Bible says if you seek him with all your heart, you'll find him. And the way you seek him is You seek him in his word, not through religion, not through good deeds, not through meditating by yourself in a forest somewhere. Of course, if you take the scriptures and you're meditating on The scriptures in the forest somewhere, that's absolutely yes. You seek God that way. My point is God has revealed Himself. He's made Himself known. He's made Himself knowable. And by His Word, He makes he's made a way for us to know him. A couple verses on seeking God. Just in case you thought I was making it up when I said you can seek God. I want you to know that comes from God's word too. God directs us to seek Him. He directs you to seek Him. Proverbs 8:17. God says, I love those who love me. And those who seek me diligently find me. That's a promise from God. That's a promise from God. You seek him diligently, you will find him That doesn't mean that we do that on our own strength, on our own wisdom. We understand behind the scenes God is working. That's why those who seek him diligently will find him Because God is working in that. Isaiah 55, 6. Seek the Lord while he may be found. Call upon him while he is near. And he can be found. And he is near. He's near to you. He's as near to you as your heart believing in Jesus Christ. That's the only barrier. That's the only distance is unbelief. Unbelief in Jesus. Believe in Jesus. Jeremiah 29. 13. Last one on this. Jeremiah 29. 13. You will seek me and find me when you seek me with all your heart. It's not a halfway seeking. It's not a lazy seeking. It's a diligent seeking. It's a seeking with all your heart. And God promises when you seek him in that way you'll find him. Praise God for that. Otherwise, we would never find God You can seek God. You can seek God's will for your life. You can seek out the salvation of God. The answer to all those things. The answer to your own mortality. The answer to the emptiness of worldly pursuits. The answer to who is this all-powerful creator? Where did all this come from? The answer, the answer, seek God in his word. Seek him with all your heart and you will find God Almighty. God draws sin. Now this is when you start to see you I'm back in that clearing in the woods, and there's the narrow gate and there's the wide gate. There's the difficult way, there's the easy way. There's the way that leads to God. There's the way that leads to destruction. Convicts sinners of their need for salvation is when we start to see the different gates. for what they really are. We see the need to go to the narrow gate. We see the urgency to go through the narrow gate. We s we see that we need God, who's on the other side of this way, on the other side of the gate. It's a conviction. Now for this one, I want us to turn to John 16, 8 through 11. John 16. 8 through 11. Conviction means being found guilty. We all know what conviction means. Being declared guilty. Being proven guilty. That's what conviction is. The jury's verdict comes guilty. The judge's sentence comes a conviction of our need for salvation. Is when our hearts sees our need for a savior. Now, why would our heart see a need for a savior when our heart sees that we're guilty When our heart sees that we're guilty before God, when our heart finds itself guilty, when our heart declares itself guilty. Here it is. You ready? When our heart agrees with God that we're were guilty. guilty That's conviction of sin. And when I saw that I was guilty, I knew I needed a savior. I knew I needed forgiveness. John 16, 8 through 11. When he comes, it's talking about the Holy Spirit. Jesus is talking about the Holy Spirit. When he comes, he will convict the world. Convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment. Concerning sin, because they do not believe in me. Concerning righteousness, because I go to the Father. And you will see me no longer. Concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world is judged. Now there's a lot there in verses ten through eleven. We don't have time to flesh it all out. But generally speaking, the point is that the Holy Spirit convicts sinners of their own sin, convicts sinners of the righteousness of God, and then third, convicts sinners of the judgment of God. We've sinned. Because that's what it said. Convicts the world of sin, righteousness, and judgment. So w we've sinned. God, through his word, convinces us that We've sinned. But God is righteous. So God convinces us through his word that he is righteous. Now, in light of those two things, sinful lawbreakers Righteous judge, the third one falls right into place. He also convicts the world of judgment. There is a coming judgment. Convicts the world of sin, righteousness, and judgment. And the way God does this primarily is by teaching us his holy law. Taking notes, write that down. Holy Law, L A W, the Commandments of God, God's moral and ethical standards for life on earth. Have we forgotten that? God actually does have moral and ethical standards. Standards for life on earth that we're all accountable. The poor and the rich. President and the Vice President and Supreme Court judges and congressmen and senators and kings and queens and everyone in between We're all accountable before God. God convicts us by teaching us his holy law, his moral and ethical standards for life on God's holy law reflects God's holy it's a C word. Any guesses? Character. Should give you time to guess guessing. It's not arbitrary. That's the way the world think morals are arbitrary. We're all moral relativists. What's true for you is true for you. What's true for me is true for you for me, it's good for them, that's good for them over there, that's truly good. These people disagree. Okay, so this is good for them, that's good for them. It's all relative. We think we want moral and ethical standards to be relative, to be arbitrary. But true morals, the true ethics, the true holiness, the true purity, the the good, the right, the just the righteous is all a reflection of God's character. And we wouldn't know about it unless God revealed it to us in his holy Holy law, his commandments. Just a few verses on God's law. Romans seven twelve. The law is holy, the commandment is holy and righteous and good. Romans seven fourteen, the law is spiritual. Romans three nineteen through twenty. We know that whatever the law speaks, or whatever the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law, so that every mouth may be stopped, and so that the whole world would be held accountable to God. For by works of the law no human being will be justified justified in his sight since through the law comes knowledge of sin. There you go. Through the law comes knowledge of sin. God's commandments are not bad. God's holy law is not bad. Seeking to justify ourselves by law, bad. But law, God's law? Good and holy and righteous. And pure. In fact, in Romans 2. 2, God's law is said to be, quote, the embodiment of knowledge and truth. End quote. God's law is like a light. A light. Light is something you use to find things in the dark. A flashlight, spotlights, headlights. God's law is like a light that exposes the sin within in our hearts. Shows us that we're sinners. Shows us that we're guilty. Shows us that we need a savior. Why? Why? Just to make us feel bad? To turn God wants to show us that we need a Savior so that we would seek out the Savior through the gospel of Jesus Christ. And that's letter C. God converts the heart to trust and love. Him. God converts the heart to trust and love him. He draws the sinner providentially. He convicts the sinner of their need for salvation through his holy commandments. And we see by way of contrast, our sin, our unholiness, our wickedness, our guilt, when God shows us who He is and what He's like and what He requires, we see, we can't help but seeing that we're guilty and corrupt sin. God converts the heart to trust and love, and this is when you enter through the gate. This is when we enter through that gate through faith in Christ. This is our final passage. This one is also in John. John seven thirty-eight. eight to thirty nine. John seven thirty eight to thirty nine And I plead with you to enter that gate this morning. Enter that gate through faith in Christ. Don't think you need to clean yourself up first. Don't think that you can clean yourself up. Up first. But as a sinner who needs a savior, put your faith in Jesus Christ on the basis of his blood sacrifice for the forgiveness of sins. Believe in Jesus. John seven, thirty-eight to thirty-nine. Jesus says, Whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. And then he gives us the interpretation in verse thirty-nine. Now this he said about the Spirit, whom those who believed in him were to remove received, for as yet the Spirit had not been given, because Jesus was not yet glorified. Twice it said in there, believe. Believe in him. Believe in him. And the Spirit will dwell within you. Out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. That means something very simple. The Holy Spirit will change your heart. And the Holy Spirit will live in your heart. And how does that happen? By believing in Him. Believing in Jesus. Not by works, not by religion, not by trying hard, not by prayer. But by believing in Jesus Christ, the Holy Spirit will flow like a river inside our hearts. And you see those passages for your own study on there. I'll leave those with you. The one that's not on there is that the new heart, and I've said this, but I want to tell you Close on this point. The new heart comes only by the gospel. I mean, if there's something I want to close on, that's it. The new heart comes only by the gospel. When God draws you, God convicts you of your sin. God will convert your heart by the power of the gospel. That's the death and resurrection of Christ and the free salvation that any sinner, any time can receive. Romans 1017. Faith comes through hearing, and hearing through the word of Christ. The word of Christ, the gospel of your salvation. pray. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for your work in our lives. Thank you for your work in the world. Thank you for the fact that you're making disciples That you have a purpose to make disciples, that every day you're making disciples to change the world, to reconcile sinners to yourself. And Father, we thank you for the reason you're doing all of this, for the praise of your glory. In Jesus' name we pray. Pray, amen.