Let me invite you, Church, to open with me to The book of Galatians. Galatians chapter 1. We're going to be looking at verses 11 through 24 this evening. Galatians 1, 11 through 24. Origins matter. Where something comes from determines so much about what we think about it. I know this to be true, first of all, in my own home. And when my kids are are running around, there are two questions that I have to ask a lot more often than I would like. Uh number one, what do you have in your mouth? And number two, where did it come from? The answer to that second question really matters a great deal, because if they found it in the couch, we're not confident about uh its status of the thing you should put in your mouth. There are other areas of life though where origins really, really matter. You can think about someone, you know, trying to sell a famous painting. Perhaps one of Vincent Van Gogh's 85 works that are currently either lost or missing. They're worth millions. Uh well if someone were to try to sell one of those to you, it makes all the difference in the world whether it actually came from the artists that they claimed it to come from, whether it's a forgery, or whether it's something you just printed off of Google Images. The value we ascribe has everything to do with the origin, with where it came from. In so many arenas of life, origins matter. And as we look this evening at Paul's letter to the Galatians, we're going to see him laboring to make this point about the gospel which he had preached to Galatians. Them. It matters where this gospel came from. Last week we began this letter, and we saw that these churches in Galatia were being threatened by false teaching. There were some who were deserting the true gospel that Paul had preached and were embracing what Paul calls a different gospel, which is really no gospel at all. There was this group known as the Judaizers, who were infiltrating the church and they were preaching that to be really right with God Not only do you need Jesus, but you need some works of the law. You need to follow some of the old covenant laws. They were preaching that you need circumcision. Yeah, faith might be part of it, but if you really want to be right with God, they were saying you need faith plus some works of the law. Well, Paul writes to these churches in Galatia with passion and with urgency to defend the true gospel. And if the gospel which we saw last week, he summarizes in chapter 2, verse 16. He writes there, yet we know that a person is not justified by works of the law, but through faith in Jesus Christ. So we also have believed in Christ Jesus. In order to be justified by faith in Christ and not by works of the law. Salvation, Paul argues, is by faith in Christ alone. Not faith plus anything. And we saw last week just the urgency with which Paul is pressing this point as he writes this letter. We saw last week in chapter one, verse eight. He says, If we or an angel from heaven should preach Preach to you a gospel other than the one that you received, let him be accursed. We need to see here that the stakes are high. And Paul's language here is strong. These churches, he's saying, they're on the verge of shipwreck. The strength of this language, though, that we see Paul using, it prompts a question. Uh really it kind of prompts a challenge. Paul, what right do you have to say that your gospel is the only gospel? Who made you the gospel police, Paul? You don't have to really do a lot of imaginative work to imagine that kind of question in our own day. We receive these kind of questions all the time. What right do you Christians have to say that your truth is the only Truth? To say that your way is the only way to God. Well, the point that we're going to see Paul make in this passage tonight is that this gospel, which he had preached to the Galatians, and he makes a bold claim here. He says that this gospel comes from God Himself. The originator of this message is the God who made heaven and earth. Paul is going to press home in this section of his letter that the originator of this message, the origin is everything. We're going to see in this passage Paul get pretty autobiographical. He's going to kind of set forward the details of his own life, his own story, his own conversion, to make this point that this message, which he Had preached to the Galatian churches the same message that we preach today, it comes from God, not from man. The origin of the message is the God who made heaven and earth. He's going to hold out his own life as evidence of this fact that this gospel is from God and is from God alone. As you scan down over the details of the passage, as Paul goes through his own life story, you might be tempted to ask, or you can imagine someone less mature than you asking. What does this have to do with my life, right? What does it matter to me who Paul did or didn't see in the first century? What does his autobiography have to do with my life 2,000 years later? Well, friends, what I want us to see tonight is that these details demand a response. Either Paul received this message of the gospel from God himself. Or he didn't. Either this gospel is truly from God or it isn't. Either we embrace it by faith or we don't. Either it reshapes and reorients everything in our lives, or it doesn't. But we don't have the luxury of neutrality. Either it came from God or it didn't. And with Paul, we make this same bold claim that this message that we preach of salvation through faith in Christ, it comes ultimately from God himself. In a world that's just full of skeptics and cynics, we say with a straight face that there is one way to be right with God. And that God has told us in His Word exactly what that is. Is through faith in his son. And so therefore, this message demands a response because of where this message comes from. That's the main point that we're going to see as we walk through this passage, that the gospel of salvation by faith alone, it comes from God, not man. Let's look now at the text. Galatians chapter 1, beginning in verse 11. Paul writes: For I would have you know, brothers, that the gospel that was preached by me is not man's gospel. For I did not receive it from any man, nor was I taught it, but I received it through a revelation of Jesus Christ. For you have heard of my former life in Judaism, how I persecuted the Church of God violently and tried to destroy it. And I was advancing in Judaism beyond many of my own age among my people. So extremely zealous was I for the tradition. of my fathers. But when he who had set me apart before I was born, and who called me by his grace, was Pleased to reveal his son to me, in order that I might preach him among the Gentiles. I did not immediately consult with anyone, nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me, but I went away into Arabia and returned Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to visit Cephas, and remained with him fifteen days. But I saw none of the other apostles except James the Lord's brother. And what I am writing To you before God, I do not lie. Then I went into the regions of Syria and Cilicia, and I was still unknown in person to the churches of Judea that are in Christ. They were only hearing it said, He who used to persecute a Gus is now preaching the faith he once tried to destroy, and they glorified God because of me. As we walk through this passage together, I want to draw our attention to two realities about this gospel, this God-given gospel that Paul preached and that we preach today. Wants us to see that this gospel is divine in its origin, and this gospel is profound in its impact. We turn first to see that this gospel is divine in its origin. And this is the basic and fundamental point that Paul is making throughout this entire section. The gospel that he had preached to the Galatian churches, it wasn't some man-made invention. It wasn't something that Paul made up. It wasn't his own twist on the Jewish faith that he had been brought up in. No, he's claiming that it came from God himself. That's the emphatic claim that he begins this section with in verse eleven. He says, I would have you know, brothers, that this gospel that was preached to me Is not man's gospel. Literally, he's saying it's not according to man. That is, it doesn't ultimately come from man Man. And he doesn't preach it to them merely on human authority. No, he's making this bold claim that he received this gospel. Directly through a revelation of the Lord Jesus Christ. You see that in verse 12. That's the claim he's making. For I did not receive it from any man. Nor was I taught it, but I received it through a revelation of Jesus Christ. So Paul is saying, and he's hanging his hat on this claim, the message that he had preached. The message that the Judaizers were attacking and that the Gentile believers were on the verge of deserting, it came directly from God Himself. You see here how Paul is appealing to his authority as an apostle, as one who had personally and visibly witnessed the risen Christ Jesus, which he did on the Damascus Road. But notice here how it's not really Paul's authority per se that he's holding up here. No, really, it's the authority of God himself that Paul is resting his case on. He's saying, God revealed Christ Jesus to me. So the implication then for the Galatians and for us is that if the Galatian churches reject this gospel , They're rejecting God. It's not Paul they'll ultimately have to deal with. It's God. And for any of us, if we are tempted to abandon this gospel, it's not Matt, it's not Anthony, it's not Jason that you'll have to deal with, it's God. But we should see here the urgency of Paul's tone. This whole letter is a letter where he's just urgently warning and pleading these Christian. We saw this tone last week and it continues in our passage. See in verse 11 he says, I would have you know, brothers. He wants them to know this. Down in verse 20 he says, In what I'm writing to you before God, I do not lie. Seems like the one of the things the Judaizers were doing was questioning Paul's credibility, questioning Paul's Consistency. He's saying, I am not lying to you, I'm telling you the truth. Of course, eventually we'll get to chapter three, verse one, which apparently Anthony Wilson is just so excited to shout at you. Be cool. Oh foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you? It's my best shouting for now. Paul is zealous to defend this gospel message. He sees that the very heart of the Christian faith is at stake here, and we need to see that as well. If we abandon or if we add to anything of what he says in chapter 1, verse 4. That Christ Jesus gave Himself for our sins to deliver us from the present evil age according to the will of our God and Father. If we add to or if we change anything in that message, we've abandoned Christianity. Christianity itself. If you understand that any works are a part of that formula, you've lost everything If you believe that Jesus contributes 99 % to your salvation, but you get one measly little percent that you have to to toss in as well. You've abandoned the true gospel, Paul's saying. And Paul is saying here that the authority upon which he's resting his case Is that this gospel, and only this gospel, comes from God Himself. Saying we're not dealing with human opinions. We're dealing with what God has said. Well we'll see then that in the urgency, this pleading of Paul, he's making a pretty bold claim. And like I said, either this claim is true or it's not, but we have to see the boldness Of it. It says in verse 12, I received it, the gospel, from a revelation of Jesus Christ. Down in verse 16, he says that God was pleased to reveal his son to me. He's saying this gospel message came from the very mouth and mind of the God of the universe. We see in this passage over and over again that Paul relates his own personal history And goes to great lengths to make it clear that he's not merely preaching something that he had heard from others. See how he's emphasizing over and over again his own life story and the fact that he received this gospel directly from God Himself. You see it in verses 15 and 16. sixteen, when he who had set me apart before I was born, and who called me by his grace, impact of the gospel in Paul's life personally, was pleased to reveal his son to me. in order that I might preach him among the Gentiles. God himself had done this. God himself had revealed Christ Jesus the And then notice the end of verse sixteen, into verse seventeen, he says, I didn't immediately consult with anyone, nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me, but but I went away into Damascus. He didn't immediately go to the other apostles, he's saying. No, he went away into Damascus. And then in verses 18 through 22 he says that after three years he did finally go up to Jerusalem, but he only saw two of the apostles. He saw Peter, Cephas. And James. But then he went away again. And he makes this point that he was still unknown in person to the churches of Judea. And the point he's emphasizing here is that his own person History, it bears witness to the divine origin of the gospel that he had preached. He hadn't merely received it from the other apostles. He couldn't be charged with kind of coming to the apostles, getting the gist of this gospel message from them, and then, you know, going off doing his own thing and changing the message as he went. No, see how just again and again here he's insisting that this gospel which he had preached to the Galatian churches, it came from God. Himself. And everything stands or falls on that claim. Now I want us to see that the point here is not that Paul was somehow in conflict. with the other apostles. It's not that he was preaching an ever so slightly different message from them, and that's why he's wanting to distance himself from them. He's not downplaying his role in their story because he sees himself as like somehow superior or because he thinks he's some authority unto himself. No, we know that's not true because in the very next paragraph, which we'll see next week in chapter two, verses one through ten, the point he's going to make there is that he and the other apostles were preaching the exact same gospel. In chapter two, verse two, we see that he came up to Jerusalem after fourteen years, and he privately set before some of them the gospel, the message that he had been preaching. He says, in order to make sure that I was not running in vain by preaching a different message. No, he's not trying to say, like, the apostles and I 'm on totally different tracks here. Now, what he's intending to do here is he wants to make this airtight case that what he preached to the Galatians was a message that he had received from God, not from Man. No one could accuse Paul of simply making this message up or of proclaiming it on kind of merely human authority. You couldn't claim that he was some sort of like a salesman opportunist, you know, some kind of charlatan who came in, got in good with the other apostles, got that But then when he went off on his own, he he twisted the message to make what he was preaching a little more palatable to the Gentiles. And you know, circumcision that doesn't test well with the Gentile test audiences, so we'll just get rid of that. You you couldn't accuse Paul of doing that. That seems, by the way, to be what some of the Judaizers were claiming about Paul. They they seem to be claiming Paul, he's going out to these Gentiles and he's just he's just changing And twisting things to get the Gentiles on board with this whole Jesus thing. But Paul is saying that's not what's happening. No, he's saying that he preached the exact same gospel. That the other apostles did, because like the other apostles, he received it from God. He received it by witnessing the risen Christ Jesus on the Damascus Road. Another aspect of Paul's m uh argument that he seems to be making here is not only did this gospel that he was preaching originate from God. He seems also to be making the point that it was preserved by God. You could perhaps imagine someone, you know, pushing back, questioning Paul. Okay, sure, you may have gotten this message from God originally. Isn't it possible though, Paul, that it's been kind of, you know, corrupted in your mind over time? Isn't it possible that your own thoughts have kind of muddied the waters of the message that God originally gave to you? Might it not be in your own mind kind of like the telephone game where the message on the final end is never quite what was said at the beginning, or sometimes very much not what was was said. That's a common objection, by the way, that we hear today. You hear it from the likes of of liberal gospel denying Christians, you hear it from New Age spiritualists. You hear it from Muslims, you hear a version of it from Jehovah's Witnesses, this idea that, yeah, you may have had truth at one point, but it's been so muddied over the years. But notice how Paul here is intentionally marking the passage of time in his own story. And I think that's intentional. Notice how he shows that after his conversion he goes away into Arabia and into Damascus. Three years later, he goes up to Jerusalem. And in chapter 2, verse 1, it's 14 years later that he goes back up to Jerusalem, and it's the same gospel. It's the same message. And in chapter 2, verse 9, the apostles give Paul the right hand of fellowship, he says, because they're all preaching the same thing. They're all proclaiming the same message. And the point Paul is going to make in that section is, and no one was requiring circumcision to be right with God. No one was requiring works of the law as part of salvation. So Paul hadn't muddied the waters of the gospel. No, what he received from God is what he continued to preach. And friends, 2,000 years on, we can have confidence that what the apostles preached in the first century, what we have preserved for us in the Word of God, it's the same message. The same good news that has been preserved for us by the sovereign hand of God. Well, what do we make of all this? We have not, like Paul, received the gospel by a direct revelation of Jesus in quite the same way. If any of you claim to have personally and visibly witnessed Jesus in the flesh, I'd like to have a word with you. Someone had to preach the gospel to you. With with just regular old, well not regular old, but regular old words. And we understand that that's the ordinary pattern set forth in Scripture. The gospel is preached, and people come to faith by the power of God's word. power of God's Spirit. Nevertheless, even though your story is not like Paul's, understand that today we make the same bold claim about where our message comes from. With Paul, we claim, and we must claim, that the good news that we preach comes from God Himself Oh, we say happily and we say unapologetically from the Word of God that this is God's true and inerrant message. That all of what we have here has been preserved for us, and that it bears witness to the good news of Jesus Christ from beginning to end. We claim that salvation by grace through faith in Christ that that is the only message. And we appeal to the highest authority possible to make that claim. We say that that's not just what we're saying. Like the things we say. No, we're saying that's what God says. That's what the creator of the universe has declared about how we are to be made right with him and know him. We're not just offering up our own opinion, we're not shooting from the hip. We're saying that this message is from God, not from man. And therefore it makes exclusive claims on our hearts. And on our lives. It it demands things from us. Well, not only do we claim that this gospel message is from God, but I want us to see, secondly, that because it's from God. It comes with divine power. It it changes the hearts and the lives of those who receive it. Brings us to point number two. This gospel, which is divine in its origin , is profound in its impact. This gospel is profound in its impact. You see here in this passage that one of the ways that Paul argues for the divine origin of the gospel that he had preached to them Is by relaying just the profound transformation that it had accomplished in his own life. Before Christ Jesus, he was on one path. He was on one trajectory. But when on the Damascus road he encountered the risen Lord Christ Jesus, everything changed. And everything changed in a way that was just irreversible. The gospel which comes from God, beloved, comes in power to transform sinners like you and I. This gospel message changes lives. And in this case, we see Paul holding up his changed life as one piece, one thread in this tapestry of evidence. that this gospel is from God. Now we have to be careful with this line of argument. We do need to recognize that a transformed life in and of itself is not evidence of truth. We we rightly say, from scripture and from experience, Jesus Christ has changed my life. Well beloved, I hope you can say that. But but you can just as easily imagine someone saying, Oh well Yeah, Buddhism changed my life. Islam changed my life. Weed changed my life. The Grateful Dead changed my life. Whatever it is, fill in the blank. We need to recognize that evident external change on its own doesn't prove that something is true. Nevertheless, it is right to recognize that this gospel Because it comes from God, it does powerfully and profoundly impact the lives of those who receive it by faith. And it must. We claim from Ephesians chapter 2 that this gospel brings a person from death to life. And therefore it's going to have an impact. And while that impact doesn't stand on its own as the sole piece of evidence, it is one piece of evidence that has to be dealt with. And it's one piece of evidence that we ought to leverage as we tell our own stories. It it's not something the change that the gospel brings, the reshaping of desires, the The bringing of the heart to new life, it's not something that just can be explained away by psychological or sociological factors. It's not something that can be explained Well in Paul's case we see here then that his encounter with Christ Jesus radically reshaped the entire course of his life. Look with me again at verse 13. He says, Therefore you have heard of my former life in Judaism, how I persecuted the church of God violently and tried to destroy it. Not only was Paul a Jew, he was a violent persecutor of the church. He was seeking to destroy the people who believed in the message that he's now so zealous and so passionate. To proclaim. We know this to be true from the narrative of Acts, right? That we're told in Acts chapter 8, verse 3, that he was entering house after house, dragging off men and women and throwing them in prison. In verse 14 of our passage, though, we're told that he was advancing in Judaism beyond many of my own age among my people. Not only was Paul a zealous and violent persecutor, he was climbing the social ladder of Judaism in his world. His violent persecution of the church, it was benefiting him socially. He was getting street cred from dragging Christians and throwing them in prison. It was moving him more and more into a position of prominence. Verse 14 goes on. He says, So extremely zealous was I. for the traditions of my fathers. So see that Paul wasn't like this nominal Jew who could just kind of be easily persuaded and taken in by this new Christian Christianity thing. He wasn't like low-hanging fruit. You just kind of easily get to join a new thing. No, he was zealous. I want you to notice something though. Something that's important for us as we continue in the letter of Galatians. Notice in verse 14 what he says he was zealous for. He says, So extremely zealous was I for. The traditions of my fathers. You see that? The traditions of my fathers. Not the Word of God. Not the Old Testament itself. Not the law itself that had come from God. I just see that distinction there because it's going to be significant as the letter of Galatians goes forward. Because what we're going to see Is that Paul's going to argue that the law itself points to the fact that salvation can't come from the law? The law itself points out that no one is saved by works of the law. But must be saved by faith alone in God's means of salvation. I think one of the things Paul is trying to say here, and it's a little bit under the surface, but he's saying, If I had really been zealous for the word of God I would have embraced Christ a lot sooner. Paul says he was zealous for the traditions of his fathers. So we're given this picture in these verses. Paul was this respected, powerful man on the rise in the world of Judaism. His conversion to Christ did not benefit him materially. It was not a lateral move. It's not like he was a lawyer just going from one law firm to another. No, his life became way harder after his conversion. If you just look at it from a material standpoint, he made a bad move. He went from, you know, the seven figure income in the corner office to basically being, in the grand scheme of life, the minimum wage janitor. Maybe even worse. You you read the book of Acts and you get just a taste for the kind of suffering that he endured for the sake of the gospel. One of the points then that Paul seems to be making is he kind of puts his own story out there on display, as he rehearses his former resume as a Jew, if the Judaizers are right. And if Paul were just some sort of lying opportunist trying to be somebody important, he wasn't very good at it. He wasn't doing a very good job because he had the prominence. He had the prestige and he was rising higher and higher and higher. He was a Pharisee of Pharisees, he tells us. If he were only after power and notoriety, which seems to be one of the things the Judaizers are throwing against him, he could have just stayed in Judaism. And yet we see here and through all of Scripture, through the Book of Acts, the dramatic and profound change that Look at what's said about him in verse twenty-three. They, the other Christians Christian believers, we're only hearing it said, he who used to persecute us is now preaching the faith he once tried to destroy. He went from zealous persecutor to happy proclaimer. He went from ladder climbing Pharisee to tent-making traveling preacher What accounts for a change like that? Well, we don't have to wonder. Paul tells us in verses 15 and 16. When he who had set me apart before I was born and who called me by his grace was pleased to reveal his son to me in order that I might preach him among us the Gentiles. What took place, what accounts for this change, is that Paul had powerfully and unmistakably encountered Jesus himself. Paul had been changed by the gospel that he was preaching to the Galatians. As he's pressing this point home on the Galatian believers. That this gospel is from God, and therefore don't abandon it. Don't add to it. He holds up his own life and the radical transformation that God did in his life as a witness. To the divine power and therefore to the divine origin of his gospel. Now, again, a transformed life on its own is not evidence for truth. But it is one piece of evidence that we have to reckon with. It's not something that can just be ignored or explained away. And it's not just Paul, you can think about the other apostles. They go from in the Gospels being these snivelling cowards who seem to not understand anything Jesus taught ever. To bold proclaimers who were willing to go to their deaths confessing that Jesus is Lord and that Jesus is Savior. If you read any of the uh earliest Christian writings outside of the New Testament, one of the consistent themes that you'll see Is that the transformed lives of the Christian community is one of these things that's constantly being pointed to as this evidence and powerful apologetic for the gospel that they believed in. In the surrounding culture of Rome and paganism, these early Christians they faced all kinds of false and misleading accusations. People called them cannibals, called them atheists, said that they came together and they practiced gross kinds of immorality. But these early Christian writers and apologists would constantly write and say, look at our lives. Look at excuse me. Look at the way that we care for the poor and the vulnerable in our midst. Look at how, unlike you Romans, we don't toss our unwanted babies out in the street. That was a common practice where if you are in a Roman household and you have a baby and you just don't want it for whatever reason. There were designated spots in the city where you would go and anybody could just go and pick up your baby for you. Well the Christians were saying, look, we don't do that. We we value life. We care for the poor and the vulnerable. We refuse to respond to your violence against us with violence back. Look at our lives. Look at how we're willing to die for what we believe. The transformed life of the Christian community, in contrast to the surrounding culture, was constantly being held out as this compelling witness for the power of the gospel. Well, beloved, we need to see that if this gospel is truly from God, it comes in the power of God. The gospel that saves is the gospel that transforms. Now you might kind of see this radical transformation of Paul. You might see the profound and powerful witness of the early church. And you might think that your life kind of looks pretty dull by comparison. Maybe your own story of conversion and of transformation isn't all that dramatic. Perhaps many of you are like me, and you came to faith at a young age, and you just didn't have the opportunity for lots of egregious outward public sin. beginning before your conversion. I I didn't have time, you know, to become a crack addict or a militant atheist as a young child. Just didn't. But but friend, we need to see that the gospel has had no less profound an impact on your life. Because what happened spiritually to Paul and what happens spiritually to every true believer is the same thing that has happened to you if you're in Christ. You were dead in your sin, and Christ Jesus has made you alive. You were a sinner, but you were declared righteous by faith in the finished work of Jesus. You've been made a new creation with a new living heart that is alive to the things of God. You have new desires. And he who began a good work in you. is continuing that work and will complete that work. So as you look on your own life, ask yourself Has the gospel of Jesus Christ not impacted the things I love? Hasn't it reshaped my priorities, my goals, my commitment? Hasn't it taught me to care less about some things and to care a lot more about other things that I would just never naturally care for? Oh, is the Lord not continuing this work in our midst, week in and week out, as we assemble and as Christ Jesus builds his church? And can't we see this in the lives of one another? Isn't it good when we see, brothers and sisters, we know, overcoming sin? In their lives, having their desire for the things of the Lord, for the fellowship of his church, just stirred even more? The impact of the gospel in our lives might not seem as immediate and as dramatic as it was for Paul, but it's no less profound. Christian. We can't always see it in such stark terms like Paul could. The Spirit's work in our lives is often slow. But we need to recognize that God's slow work is still powerful work. Christian, when you wake up one morning and you find that you're less prone to anger or despair than you were three years ago. You find that you have an increasing hunger for the word and a deep deepening love for those weird Christians that you get together with at your church every day. Those things are evidence of God's profound and powerful gospel at work in your life. And when you can't see those things The the solution is not just how to try to drum up a bunch of growth really quickly. The response is not just despair. No, the response is look to Christ. Christ. The response is look back at the gospel that has transformed and changed your life. The the response is press further and further into the fellowship of the local church and be served and be encouraged and be ministered to by God's people. Again, this is the kind of change that the gospel has in our lives. It always has to be tethered to what we're taught in Scripture. It can't stand on its own in isolation from the Word of God. But Paul would look at it. Paul would look at the reshaping of our desires. At the way that we, by God's grace, slowly and over time learn to hate our sin and run to our Savior, He would look at that. And he would say that that is evidence, that is one thread of evidence that the gospel that you have received came from God Himself, not from man. As we conclude tonight, I just want to give us two brief points of application. We began by considering that origins matter. And if it's true then that this gospel, this good news of justification by faith in Christ alone, not by works of the law, If it's true that that comes from God Himself, I want to just press on us two ways that that should impact our lives. Number one, this gospel demands a response. We saw this at the beginning. If this message is really from God, then indifference is not an option. If the God of the universe has spoken and has told us how we are to be made right with him. We must respond. We must embrace this message by faith. But we must look to the finished work of Christ Jesus alone for sinners to be forgiven and to be made new and to receive eternal life And so if you're here, if you're listening online and you're not a believer in Christ Jesus, the application of this sermon is to look to Christ in faith for the first time. To be made new and to receive the gift of eternal life. This gospel demands a response. Secondly, this gospel demands fidelity, it demands faithfulness. Not only must we turn to Jesus initially to be saved, we must remain committed to this gospel message. We must, by God's grace, live lives that are aligned with this gospel. That are being shaped by this gospel, and they're continually being reminded of the gospel. We need to continually set this before us. We don't graduate from it, which is why we make a big deal out of it every time we proclaim God's word. I want to encourage us that one of the chief ways that we do this, one of the chief ways that we live lives shaped by the gospel, is through our life together as a local church. Through coming together as a community of believers, a community that's created by the good news of Jesus Christ Himself, and that's sustained by the good news of Jesus Christ. We assemble together. We encourage one another. We build one another up and we point one another to this gospel again and again. Again. And so, brothers and sisters, let's see each other next week. And let's continue to spur one another on to hold fast to the hope and the good news that we have in Christ Jesus. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you that you have made your good news known. Thank you, God, that you have not left us in the dark to try to figure out and find our way to you, but you have spoken. You have sent your son. He died in our place and he rose again and thank you that we have salvation in his name. God, I pray that that message Would more and more impress itself upon our hearts. Help us, God, to live in light of this gospel in all areas of life. Help us to boldly proclaim it to our own hearts, to our friends, and to our neighbors. Help us, God, to be ready to receive and walk in. With those who are struggling. Lord, help us to be ready to walk with and sit with those who may be doubting and to point them to your word. God, I pray that you would encourage our hearts and continue as we go from here to nourish us and build us up by your word. It's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen.