Well, the words we'll examine tonight come from Luke chapter twenty-four, verses thirteen through thirty-five. Luke chapter twenty-four, thirteen through thirty-five. It's a longer passage, but it's the narrative and the the story goes along there. You'll see my my title open to us the scriptures. You may say, Anthony, how did you come up with such a great title? And I will point you to verse 32. As many of my titles as come right out of the text as best I can, but just hear this. We'll see these disciples, we'll see this story happening or unfold before us. But hear this is that after Jesus Jesus revealed who he was by talking and teaching out of the scriptures. This is what they said, did not our hearts burn within us while he talked to us on the road. Well he opened to us the scriptures. They what's their they're in awe of who Jesus is. They they recognize that they had been communing with him after he had raised from the dead and And we'll see this in the narrative. And then he leaves them. And in this moment of just excitement, they're like, oh, there's something here. Do you feel it? Our hearts were burning as he talked about To us. There was something special about him and we didn't realize it. There's something special as he taught to and taught us from the scriptures. We didn't realize until he revealed it to us. And friends, I hope that we We feel that, at least at some times. Our hearts are just burning with excitement, with joy as we read the scriptures. I pray and I hope that you have moments in your life where you just read a passage and you say I have read that 10, 20, 30 times in my life, but today the Lord has just revealed something special to me. The Lord has just opened up my mind of the depths of what that verse means, that this passage means. And I pray that we cherish the very words of Scripture that God has given us. given us that we cherish, that He has spoken to us, that He has communicated to us, and He has revealed Himself to us. And that's ultimately what this story's all about. So before we begin, we'll just pick up. We're still in the very day of resurrection. So we're still on Easter Sunday, but all the way back when Jesus first rose from the dead. And first and last time he rose from the dead, and maybe I don't want to misspeak there. He rose from the dead once, and he is still alive, but we're going all the way back to the day he rose from the dead. And we saw l last week when he He communed and interacted with Mary, and then he goes into that evening he goes into uh the the room where the disciples have locked themselves up with but in between those two stories is where we're picking up the This story that these disciples are traveling down a road and we'll see that Jesus appears to them and he interacts with them. They don't recognize who he is, but through his Teaching, through his instruction, through his communion with them. It is then revealed who he is. And then they celebrate and they actually go back to the disciples to rejoice. and what they have just witnessed. So let's take a look at this narrative. I'll read the whole passage, just a longer section, and then we'll take it uh in sections here. But let's start in verse 13. That very day, two of them, two disciples, were going to a village named Emmaus, about seven miles from Jerusalem. They were talking with each other about all these things that had Happened. While they were talking and discussing together, Jesus himself drew near and went with them. But their eyes were kept from recognizing him And he said to them, What is this conversation that you are holding with each other as you walk? And they stood still looking sad. Then one of them, named Cleppas , Answered him, Are you the only visitor to Jerusalem who does not know the things that have happened there in these days? And he said to them, What things And they said to him, concerning Jesus of Nazareth, a man who is a prophet, mighty indeed and word before God and all the people. And how our chief priests and rulers delivered him up to be condemned to death and crucified him. But we had hoped that he was the one to redeem Israel. Yes, and besides all this, it is now the third day since these things happen. Moreover, some women of our company amazed us. They were at the tomb early in the morning, and when they did not find his body, they came back saying that they had seen a vision of angels, who said that he was alive. Some of those who were with us went to the tomb and found it just as the woman And he said to them, O foolish ones, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. things and enter into his glory. And beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he interpreted to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. So they drew near to the village to which they were going. He acted as if he were going farther. But they urged him strongly, saying, Stay with us, for it is toward evening and the day is now far spent. So he went in to stay with them. When he was at table with them, he took the bread and blessed and broke it and gave it to them. And their eyes were opened, and they recognized him, and he vanished from their sight. They said to each other, Did not our hearts burn within us while he talked to us on the road, while he opened to us the scriptures And they rose that same hour and returned to Jerusalem. And they found the eleven and those who were with them gathered together, saying, The Lord has given indeed, has risen indeed. And has appeared to Simon. Then they told what had happened on the road, and how he was known to them in the breaking of the bread. An amazing story of how God is working, how Jesus is revealing himself here. Once again, just recognize the situation. Jesus' followers, they're walking towards Emmaus, and on this road, they're talking about the events of the last three days. And notice the passion and the emotion that is still there. Says that in verse 17 When when Jesus was talking with them and and it says that they s they stood still looking sad. They're still feeling the s And now they've heard the rumors about the body not being there, maybe there's a little bit of excitement, but right now there's not an understanding that That Jesus has risen from the dead. They they feel that sting. They're still saddened by that. They're hurt by it. Just like Mary was. Remember when when Mary went to the tomb, how how saddened she was and she couldn't see See Jesus standing before her because of her sorrow was all consuming. And friends, we we learn from this that uh the the pain of life. It it grips us, it has control of us. That's what we saw with Mary. But I want to take a a an approach and look at something very specific here of what these two disciples are doing on the Notice from verse 13 all the way down to verse 20 is that they are talking about Jesus. They're talking about Jesus. They're talking about the events of Jesus. They're talking about the last three days of everything that happened, everything leading up to the crucifixion. Fiction of Christ, how he's been dead, and now these new rumors that he's not in the tomb anymore. Beloved, I believe it would do us well to to examine this type of And think about are we doing this in our own lives? Are we people like these disciples that we love Jesus and are we people like these disciples that we are amazed at what Jesus Jesus has done what we have witnessed to the point that we discuss him. Just notice this is just a very casual way, this is what they're doing. Says that very day, two of them were going to a village named Emmaus, about seven miles from Jerusalem, and they were talking with each other about all these things that had happened. I mean just just try to imagine yourselves in their situation. They've probably heard Jesus teach. They've probably witnessed Jesus perform miracles. They've now Seen persecution of Jesus, the death of Jesus, and now they're hearing the rumors that Jesus' body is not there. They're just amazing. I I mean think about the current events. I I think back to like September 11th, a tragic event. But how many days afterwards were we just kind of talking? About it. We're almost numb about what happened and it consumed us. And and even today we still kind of look back and go, well, uh uh uh like where were you at when you found out and and what situation were you in? Amazing events, uh historically changing events grip us, and they're conversation pieces for us. We'd love to actually study them and go look at historical battlefields, right? Go to Gettysburg. Why is Gettysburg famous? Not for the great shoes they made, right? It's the do you I guess why the the Confederates went up there was to get some shoes and they ran into some trouble, right? Took a battalion from the Pennsylvania, just saying to turn that war around. But we see like we're amazed at it and we want to examine it and I love the battlefields of Gettysburg. I love walking them and and mapping it out and seeing the history of them There. But this is this is who we are. We do this with historical events. So imagine the disciples, they're doing this with a historical event. An amazing thing that happened in their lives. So then my question for us is Do we do this because we're amazed at what Jesus has done in our lives? How often is there just friendly conversation with other brothers and sisters in Christ about Christ? About the forgiveness we have in Him, about what we've read in His Word, about just uh uh miraculous things that God has done in our lives. And I think about some of the most meaningful friendships I have. Have longest -lasting friendships have some evidence, some have some uh example of those types of conversations. Right, it's a deep conversation. I remember uh uh a dear brother of mine who I still talk to to this day. We've just were messaging this week. Um he was one of my first roommates in the army. So this is twenty 2010. Some of you weren't even born maybe at that point, but 2010, and he was one of the first Christians that just talked about accountability and discipleship for a year. Young man and how important that was. And that was our casual conversation. Sure we we still had fun, we still did just normal normal life things and and bonfires and movies, but then intertwined into all of that was just talking about what we were reading and about the word of God and about what God had done and how we had been saved by the grace of God. And that friendship lasts to this day. But is that our natural thing to do? Or if we're walking down the road to Emmaus with our friend, the natural thing to do is complain about how hot it is. How tired we are, how bad our sports teams have done. I'm just speaking for the Baltimore fans. Right? But this is our natural, this is what is easy for us. And unfortunately, it's our comfort zone. It's where we go to in these conversations. Ah, we feel a little awkward. I don't want to I don't want to sound too weird that I'm talking about God God has done some amazing things. my life. That guy's gonna think I'm weird, so let's just stay at the surface level stuff. How's the family? How's work? What you thinking about on the on the guard golf course right now. But what about if we we get deeper? If we know that a brother or sister is in Christ, then shouldn't we have that unity? Shouldn't that be our connection? Shouldn't there be a natural ability just to conversate and talk about that? I believe that part of our issue of not having these types of conversations Is that we haven't recognized how amazing and how historically transforming the work of Christ has been in your life Right. We talk about historical battles that many of us weren't even live for, but we can't talk about how we were saved when we once were dead in our sins and now we have a heart of flesh and we're made New. And I think we we just don't comprehend how amazing this is. But these disciples, that's what they're doing. They're talking about the kind of the events that have happened. And look at verse 15. While they were talking and discussing together, Jesus himself drew near and went with them. So now Jesus joins them and starts walking with them. And verse 16, but their eyes were kept from recognizing him. We'll come back to that at the end. But just he's walking with them. They don't know who he is. And they're just continu continuing This conversation. So here's the stranger joining them, and they're still talking about Jesus. They're still talking about the events that have happened over the last three days. Because now Jesus, the stranger to them, starts to ask them in verse 17. And he said to them, What is this conversation that you are holding with each other as you walk? First off, come on, Jesus. You're really playing him. Like he's really drawing this out of them. He wants to hear the conversation continue. He wants them to express the events. He wants them He wants to hear how they feel about it. He wants to know them in this moment. He's showing his closeness here, and this is when they then stood still looking sad. Could you imagine? Just imagine if you were alive, September, let's say, September 14th, 2001. You're talking about, you know, man, what that's Still, it's just so sad, all the the destruction to continue to dig through the rubble. And I walked up to you, I'm thirty-five years old, and I go, What are you guys talking about? talking about. You feel like you where where have you been over the last four days? What what rock have you been crawled under? How do you not know about what has this Taken over the entire world over the last three days. And that's pretty much what the disciples are saying right here. Right. Look with me in verse 18. Then one of them answered him. Are you the only visitor to Jerusalem who does not know the things that have happened there in these days? Are you the only one that has been completely blind? To the most radical thing that has ever happened in our lifetime and arguably in all of Jerusalem's history. Are you missing how this man rode in on a donkey? And was praised Hosanna was sung, and then just a few days later we all were cheering for his death Did you miss how the Pharisees got together and started a coup and brought charges against him? Did you miss how he has been hung on a cross? Did you miss when it went dark the other day for hours? Did you miss that the curtain has been torn in two? Did you forget about the earthquake that happened? You see, we forget, it's not just like there were rumors of a man Jesus in Jerusalem. No, the whole world was consumed by the events that had just taken place. And they're like, how is this even possible? You must be the only person alive, ironically enough, you're the only person alive that doesn't know what has just taken place. And then he continues on. Just notice how they talk about Jesus. In verse 19, it says, And he said to them, What things? They said to him, concerning Jesus of Nazareth, a man who was a prof a prophet, mighty indeed and word before God and all the people. And how our chief priests and rulers delivered him up to be condemned to death and crucified to him. I'm going to zoom in on verse 19 right there and just see how they talk about Jesus. They talk very positively about him. He was a prophet, mighty indeed and word. So they were amazed. He was a prophet. Speaking on behalf of God, and he did miraculous works, and he also taught and spoke in a mighty and miraculous way. And they recognize some kind of position before God and man. They said, in di his deed in word before both God and all the people. So they're amazed at who Jesus was. They're amazed by Jesus. This man taught, he did wondrous works, and they're just celebrating who he was and what he had done. And they're also recognizing that he had died. So just just see this discussion here. These disciples, they've been gripped by the life of Jesus, they've been gripped by the events in history. have been gripped by the historical radical shift that has happened that they fully don't comprehend yet, and that's what they're talking about. And they're even amazed by Jesus, and they talk about him in a very positive way, a prophet, mighty indeed and word, before God and all the people. But let's look at their misunderstanding. Right? And all the goodness. This is good. They're talking about Jesus. They they were probably uh in their conversations debating about well what was happening there, who was this Jesus, if he's dead, so he can't be the Messiah, so then maybe he's dead. Look with me in verse 21 as they're misunderstanding becomes clear. And as we look at this, I just want this to help us have the conversations with the with our brothers and sisters. About Jesus. Because sometimes I think we're hesitant to talk about Jesus. I think sometimes we don't want to have those conversations and we don't want to talk about what we're reading in Scripture because, well, what if I say something? wrong. What if I just have a question? Like, I just don't I I this this word faith right here and and this idea and and when I read this passage it You know, I I have a lot of questions and I don't want my friend, I don't want my brother in Christ to think that I'm weak. I don't want them to think that I'm a fool. So then we we kind of hold back from having the conversation. Friends, can I just be honest with you? If you didn't know this, that I don't have it all figured out. I'm close. Give me another 70 years and I'll be there. Right? Jordan, I don't need that face from you. But right, we don't have it all figured out. And instead of being timid and say, Oh, I don't want to have the conversations, I don't want to talk about it, I don't wanna I don't wanna just misspeak. I want us to be encouraged that these disciples didn't have it all figured out. It's very evident they didn't have it all figured out. And Jesus even calls them out on their foolishness at times. And we'll see that it takes the very Word and Spirit of God to reveal it to them. So may we not be timid to discuss the spiritual things that are happening within us. May we not be Be timid to discuss the very word of God with other brothers and sisters. May we not be timid or ashamed to proclaim Christ in all of his wonders to the world. We don't have to have all the answers, but we must be confident in who he is. Verse 21, let's just see the misunderstandings that they have. Verse 21 reads, but we had hoped that he was the one to redeem Israel. Yes, and besides all this, it is now the third day since these things happened. Notice there, this disciple is just being very honest. He said he was a mighty prophet in both works, word, and deeds, deeds and works, or word. He's mighty. We know that. But here they're saying to the risen Messiah, they're saying, You know what though? We thought he was going to be the Redeemer. We thought we thought he was going to come in and he was going to say We thought he was going to solve all of our problems. And we just see he's showing his foolishness and his his his folly in thinking there. He's thinking in human standpoint. If we were going to have a Messiah, he was going to be victorious in battle. If we were going to have a Messiah, he was going to kick out Rome and we were going to re-establish Jerusalem. As Zion, now. We were going to be victors. We were going to have control. There was no Roman Empire that was going to be over us. He's just showing his earthly thinking, his man way of thinking. But notice this line right here. It says, and moreover, excuse me, at the very end of 21, and besides all this, it is now the third day since these things happened. You know what I think is happening here is that this disciple is maybe looking back to Luke 9 22, you can mark that down, and and there Jesus says that he will be persecuted, put to death, and will raise on the third day. And I think now this disciple knows that, maybe remembers that, and he's saying, if he rose from the dead, we all would have seen it. We would have been a witness to it right now. Jesus would be standing in front of me right now if he had rose from the dead. There's just this misunderstanding from these disciples. And just uh an unclarity of the promises that Jesus had for them. An unclarity of what Jesus was going to accomplish Verse 22 just continues that he starts to talk about the events, that some of the women had seen the tomb empty, and then some of the other disciples went and saw the tomb. But just notice that they don't fully understand what has happened. They don't fully understand who the Messiah is. And jump down to verse 26 with or 25 with me. And here's Jesus speaking to them, and he said to them, O foolish ones, and slow of heart to believe all the prophets have spoken, was it not necessary that Christ should suffer these things and enter Enter into his glory. Do you see their misunderstanding? And Jesus has no problem calling it out. Jesus has no issue saying this is what was supposed to happen. The misunderstandings you have, the doubts you have right now, the reason you are sad is because you have misunderstood the promise, the prophets, and the scriptures. You've misunderstood the glory of Christ, and you have misunderstood who and what the Messiah was going to do and accomplish. And this then brings us to point number three, which is how Jesus brings the claim. And as we examine the clarity coming to them, may we seek this as the same clarity we need in our own lives. There's two ways that Jesus brings clarity to them. He clarifies, or the clarity comes from Scripture. Alright, clarity comes from Scripture, and that's because that's where truth is. Truth is God is truth, what he speaks is truth, therefore his word is truth, and that's where we get truth from. It's from his word. So clarity comes from scripture. And then the second point is that clarity comes from God. So we need Scripture and God for clarity We need Scripture and God to reveal Jesus to us. We need Scripture and God to reveal our need for a Savior to give us to draw us to him. We need both of those. And God is the provider of both of those. The clarity and himself, or excuse me, the scriptures and himself that brings us this clarity. We see that starts in verse 26, that he calls them, or verse 25, he calls them out, and he's showing that their hearts have not believed all that the prophets have spoken. So already he's pointing back to Scripture. Already he's hinting back and saying, this is what you have missed. You're missing what the prophets have said. But then look in verse 27 and beginning. I love this verse. Friends, if you have ever doubted the need for the Old Testament, if you've ever had the lie or fell for the lie that we just need to Need the New Testament. Get rid of the Old Testament. It's confusing. It's scary. We just got to talk about the New Testament. And then once we get them in, get them saved, then we'll introduce them to the scary. Old Testament, stop it. That's foolishness. Because here's how Jesus speaks. And in 27 it says, In the beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he interpreted to them in all the scriptures. The things concerning himself. So what Jesus is doing right here is he's going back to Genesis all the way through the Old Testament. All the way through. Man, could you just imagine Imagine that Bible study. They're just walking down the road. And this Jesus, they don't even recognize who he is yet. He is just unpacking the depths of the Scripture. He's unpacking the beauty of scripture. I I try to just list out a few things that maybe these areas Jesus probably hit. He probably started in Genesis, right? Moses is the author. So he's starting in Genesis. He probably starts with creation, talking about how the Messiah, the Savior, was there. This this the the the Messiah was there in creation that he was part of the creator he's the and they're just like grasping this and drawing into it and then he probably went to Genesis 3 right we think that's We talk about that and the hope in the Messiah is laid out there after the fall. And then maybe he, you know, some of the topics he probably talked about. Abraham, right? All the promises to Abraham. Abraham and when Abraham had to go out and look up into the skies and see the stars and talk about how his generation, his offspring would be more than those stars. And he sent that's that's fulfilled in the Savior, in the Messiah. You just imagine that study, like, oh wow, I never thought about that. That's how great the stars are. That's how great the those that will be saved are will be. All because of this Messiah that this guy's talking about I think he probably went to Passover. You can't just can't talk about Jesus without Passover, right? And the understanding of how uh the spirit of death passed over the homes because of the sacrificed land and the blood and the obedience there of of uh Israel and and the the discipline upon Egypt and connecting how the the Messiah fulfills that The Messiah's the perfection of that. Probably went to the he give he probably got into the scary parts and the laws, right? Oh what about the and he probably went to Deuteronomy? Chapter 16, when it's talking about sacrificing animals for atonement. And he's saying that's just a shadow. It was the the the hope that was to come in the Messiah. And and he probably unpacked a lot of the laws that d just showed how how the Messiah was always promising the laws, how the Mice Messiah has fulfilled the laws. Then he got he gets to the prophets. He probably unpacked Isaiah seven, fourteen The promise that the Messiah would be born of a virgin? You just wonder, are the disciples getting it in this moment? Is Jesus just unpacking this on the road? Are they like, wait, wait. Wasn't Jesus born of a virgin? No, no. Maybe not. You could just see them wrestling with it. Of course he had to talk about Isaiah 53 Right? The suffering servant? I I just this is why I think when they question was was our hearts not burning, they're probably able to sit back and a and go , wait a second, it was it was becoming And clear to us on the road, was it not? Weren't we starting to understand from the very scriptures of God? He probably had to go to Micah He talked about the Psalms and how the Psalmist proclaims the Messiah. I mean have fun with that. Do a do a study and just go through of some possible things you th You think that Jesus may be taught about from the Old Testament to reveal to them who He is, and that that the Messiah has come and has fulfilled all that the Old Testament said. That's why the road probably had to be so long. It couldn't be a short trip. Right? Because there's so much to unpack there. And as they're walking down this road, instead of grumbling and complaining Instead of talking about sports and the weather, here they are in a Bible study. Here they are just engulfed with what is amazing. What has has struck them of how the Old Testament has proclaimed Christ. If I can just do do a a friendly plug, a humble brag of my boss. I get some random text, kind of like at night on some passages that just and then fire emojis. Alright? That's a that's a older man move, but he is just excited, right? This is this is that relationship that Pastor Matt and I have that I'll get a passage a citation. Really no context, fire emojis. And I'm just like, yeah, that that is fire. I agree with you. Right. This is what we do and we're in love with the word of God and and it reveals Christ. But I want to draw in, so that's the clarity that comes from scripture. So we've got to be in the word, brethren. We have to be in the word. We have to love the word. We have to seek We have to cherish it. Spend time just meditating on it. Spend time talking about it. I was late leaving and praise God I was because a few You men want to talk about different passages. Want to talk about theological topics. This is a glorious thing that I celebrate. I will be late to talk theology. But also notice, so we have the clarity that comes from Scripture, but we also need the clarity from God. Now this one's challenging for us to grasp because we don't we can't do much with this one. We can't really do anything with it Um well we can, we'll talk about that. But you know, when we can give someone a Bible and encourage them to read it. Oh, read John. You know, encourage them to read Genesis, encourage them to read the Bible and study it. You know, and they could be lost, and we could just we could talk about the Bible and and actually some of the greatest greatest academically, scholarly, New Testament scholars are atheists. They know the text. They they know the context. They they know all the Greek words and and all the meanings and all the maybe uh different interpretations of them, but they completely rejected as the word of God. It's just a historical text. We can't say, oh, as long as you get Bibles in your hand, you're going to be saved. Just read the Bible and you'll be saved. That that is possible, but the only way that's possible is by the Word of God. How can I say that? Well, look with me in verse 16. Here's Jesus standing before them. Verse 16. But their eyes were kept from recognizing him. Alright, so here they're blinded. They don't recognize Jesus, standing before them, physically with them. physically talking to them. They don't recognize Jesus. Now jump down to verse 31 with me. Let's look at 30. He's been Teaching, all right, he's been teaching about this from the scriptures about the coming Messiah, how Moses and the prophets have talked about the Messiah, he's being fulfilled, he's then is acting like he's going to leave They beg him to stay with them for the night. The day is spent. So they start to so he stays with them. They're spending time together. And then look at verse thirty. When he was at t at table with them, He took the bread and blessed and broke it and gave it to them. Here it is, 31. And their eyes were opened, and they recognized him, and he vanished from their sight. Was it just coincidence? It just happened in that moment? Maybe they had a gluten allergy. Once they got that bread, the gluten allergy affected their eyes, and now they could see that it that was Jesus. Is that what it does? I don't know. I don't know if that's what gluten allergies do. No, what we see here is that in this moment, while they were blinded before, that blindedness had been re Removed from them. Not because they've gotten so smart. Not because they've parsed out all the words of Scripture. Not because they could tell every verse that told of the Messiah, but because God had revealed himself to them. Beloved, this is what we need in our lives. We need the word of God, which He has given to us, and we need Him to reveal to us. We need the Holy Spirit working within us. Revealing Scripture to us, illuminating the Word of God, exciting our souls to cherish and to love His very Word. So what do we do? What do we do? How do we get this type of clarity? Well, first we must be examining the scriptures. Are we in the Word, beloved? Are we seeking the word from Genesis to Revelation and everything in between? Are we reading it? Are we trying to make those connections and see? Oh wait, was this Is this story here, does Job have something to say about Christ? Was Abraham, wait, was this promise that Abraham got fulfilled in Christ? Oh, these weird laws about not boiling a calf in its mother's milk, does that maybe have something to do with the New Testament? Can we make the connection? Can we examine scriptures? We must be in it. And we must love it. It must not just be a chore for ours. Up we're we're obligated to do this. We're Christians. We wake up at four thirty as all good Christians do. We read our Bibles till seven thirty and then we Go right to work, right? As every perfect Christian does. Joke. Sarcasm. No. It's not a chore, but are you loving it? Do you recognize that these words right here reveal Christ? Reveal God. Reveal the depravity of man and the only hope of salvation in Christ. So I that little that little quote at the top of your outline, the scriptures are the golden Minds in which alone the abiding treasures of eternity are to be found. Oh, may we cherish the scriptures. But as much as we cherish the scriptures, may we be crying out to God in prayer for his guiding, leading. For the Spirit to be at work in us. For the Spirit to be revealing truth to us. May we not take this as an academic study. But may we take this as a more of a surgical procedure, a life giving treatment. That the the the great physician that's doing a procedure on us has given us the medicine And he is the one that it has prescribed it to us. And he is the one injecting it into us. May we seek that the the spirit is giving us eyes to read and to study, the mind to hear and to And to see the words, not just as words, but his life. May we trust and cry out to the Lord to give us clarity. Beloved, it is fine to pray for clarity. We actually probably need to be praying for more. more of it. Instead of just saying, well, I got it figured out. I've been a Christian for uh however many years now. I've s I've read the Bible twelve times. I'm good to go. And may we not s ever stop crying out and seeking for the light that reveals the golden Gold in the depths, the Holy Spirit to be at work within us. mind And notice how these disciples react. It says in verse 31, and their eyes were opened, and they recognized him, and he vanished from their sight. They said to each other, Did not our hearts burn within us while he talked to us on the road, while he opened to us the scriptures. And they rose that same hour and returned to Jerusalem. We missed a little bit of just how excited they were. Remember, they were walking through Emmaus, a seven-hour or excuse me, a seven-mile trip. And they've been walking for quite a while at this point because, and we know this because in verse 28, so they drew near to the village, so they're getting close to seven miles away from Jerusalem. They're getting close to Emmaus. Jesus acted as though he was going to go farther, but they urged him strongly, saying, Stay with us, for it is toward evening, and the day is now for spent. So the day's over. We've been walking a long time. We're almost in a maest. We're tired. We're worn out. And so, sir, stay with us. Alright, so just picture that, seven miles. When's the last time we walked seven miles? Miles. Okay. I saw some heads. Alright. So now picture that. Now after they he had broken bread and revealed to them who he was, did they stay in Emmaus for the night? They were too sleepy to go back? No. No, no, no. Look in the twenty thirty-three. And they rose that same hour and returned to Jerusalem. I imagine that their pace and time going back to Jerusalem was a little faster than going to Emmaus, right? Right. Oh, could you imagine the excitement, the energy they had? They didn't need a cup of coffee when they when they realized the Messiah had risen from the dead, when they realized that they have witnessed and Communed with Christ in the flesh. When they'd realize all that has been promised has been fulfilled in Christ, I believe that they probably at least walked at a fast pace back to Jerusalem. They had so much excitement. Christians, do we have so much excitement? That we're going to live a life at a brisk pace. Not in chasing down wealth, not chasing down a promotion. But we live at a brisk pace, walking in obedience to the Lord, rushing into the world to proclaim the gospel to the lost, seeking people to talk about the goodness of God. To talk about the miraculous work of Christ and how we have his very word that has revealed it to us. Friends, may we take this passage and this story. May we be amazed by it? What a miraculous thing that has happened. But may it also excite us. May we be joyful. May we be excited for Christ. And may we see His glory in all the scriptures and seek his wisdom in all that we do.