Well, Church, this evening we continue our series on the Triune God. Remember, when we talk about the Trinity, what we are saying is that the God whom we worship, the God who created all things, the God who has revealed himself to us in Scripture, is one in essence. He has one divine nature, and he is three in persons. He eternally exists as Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. Three distinct persons in one divine essence. And tonight we're going to be focusing on the fact that the one God eternally exists in three persons. And we're going to be looking at several passages this evening. You see John 14 up there? That's where we will primarily be this evening. As we begin, though, I want to invite you to turn with me to the Psalms. Turn with me to Psalm 34. Psalm 34, I want you to look at verse 8 briefly It's perhaps not where you'd expect a sermon on the Trinity to begin, but there's an important point for us to see here. It's a point that Pastor Anthony made in the first sermon in this series. And it's one to which we must continually return as we consider who our God is as he's revealed himself in his word. Look with me at Psalm 34, verse 8, where the psalmist in this eruption of praise says, Oh, taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man who takes refuge in him What we must see, church, is that knowing and seeing and savoring and delighting in our God is our true calling as followers of Jesus Christ Friends, this is our eternal work. We were made to know and to glorify and to enjoy our God forever. And we need to be convinced of that when we wade into these deep Deep doctrines. We must see that what we're going to dive into is not merely abstract theology. It's part of our true work. Friends, this is part of the work of knowing and enjoying God. It's part of the work of tasting and seeing his goodness. And isn't that what we should want? Shouldn't we want to know our God better? Think of how foolish it would be for me to say, yeah, I love my wife, but I'm not really terribly interested in getting to know her as a person or knowing anything about her interests. Well, it would be just as foolish for us to say, yes, we love God, but man, all that complicated stuff about the Trinity, that that's just not for me. It just doesn't interest me. If this is who God is, if this is how God has revealed Himself, then we must seek to know and to worship and to delight in this God. And we must see that our knowing God is a work of worship. Our theology, what we affirm to be true about God from His Word, is always meant to lead to doxology, to worship. So we must see that the work we enter into as we consider the doctrine of the Trinity as a work of worship. We also this evening need to be warned and encouraged at the outset that as we wade into these deep waters, there are many things that are beyond our full ability to comprehend. We're venturing when we consider the depths of the Trinity, we're venturing beyond what our finite minds can fully master. See, we can know God truly, but we cannot ever know him exhaustively Because he's infinite. And we are finite. But here's the thing, when we bump up against something about God that's beyond our full ability to comprehend, The right response to that, biblically, it's not skepticism, and it's not frustration, but again, it's worship. When we come up against something about God that we see revealed that we don't fully comprehend, the right response is to cry out with Paul in Romans 11, Oh the depth of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of God. God. How unsearchable are his judgments, and how inscrutable are his ways. For his no who has known the mind of the Lord, who has been his counselor, or who has given a gift to him that he might be repentant? Paid, for from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be glory forever. Amen. So friends, with this posture as our starting point, and with worship as our goal, we enter in this evening. This is the main point that we're going to be considering this evening. I actually have two main points for us to see from the text of Scripture. We're going to see first that the one God eternally exists in three distinct persons. Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. And I want us to be convinced from Scripture that that is so. And then we're going to see, secondly, that it is the triune God who saves sinners. Friends, our salvation is a Trinitarian triune work of God. So we're going to see that the one God eternally exists in three Distinct persons. When I use that word distinct, I mean to say that the Father is not the Son. And the Son is not the Father. And neither the Father nor the Son are the Spirit. All three are co-equal. Saw that language in Pastor Anthony's sermon. All three are co-eternal. All three are fully and truly Truly and exhaustively God, not just a heart of God. If you have the image of a pie in your head, we need to jettison that image. So they are truly God, yet they are distinct in personhood. And they are distinct in the role they play within the plan of redemption. The three persons aren't just different masks that God puts on and takes off. No, they are three distinct, co-equal, co-eternal persons. Within the one divine essence, divine nature of God. So one divine essence, one divine nature, three distinct persons. Our primary text this evening is going to be John fourteen. We invite you to turn there now. John chapter fourteen is where we will be spending the majority of our time tonight. We're also going to be referencing several other passages to help bring us to Clarity to the identity of the three persons of the Godhead. Let's turn first to John 14. Give you a little bit of context here. We're jumping into the middle really of a dialogue. Jesus is in Jerusalem during the Passover. He's going to be delivered up to be crucified. And in this scene, he's in the upper room with his disciples, instructing and comforting them before And see that as he does so, the comfort that he offers is a Trinitarian comfort. The Father, the Son, and the Spirit all have a role both in saving and in sustaining the people of God. Let's look at John 14. We'll first read from verse 1 down to verse 11. Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and I will take you to myself, that where I am you may be also. And you know the way to where I am going. Thomas said to him, Lord, we do not know where you are going. How can we know the way? Jesus said to him, I am the way and the truth. and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. If you had known me, you would have known my Father also. For from now on you do know him and have seen Philip said to him, Lord, show us the Father, and it is enough for us. Jesus said to him, Have I been with you so long, and you still do not know? Me, Philip? Whoever has seen me has seen the Father. How can you say, show us the Father? Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father is in me? The words that I say to you I do not speak on my own authority. But the Father who dwells in me does his works. Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father is in me, or else believe on account of the works themselves. From this text, we're going to consider together the identity of the Father, the identity of the Son, and the identity of the Spirit. So if you're taking notes, those will be the three headings for this section. We'll consider the identity of the Father, the identity of the Son, and the identity of the Spirit. Consider first the identity of the Father. Should ask the question: who is the Father in this text? Quite simply, we see that the Father is God. We see this from the very outset in verses 1 and 2. As Jesus says here in the end of verse 1, going into verse 2, believe in God, believe also in me. And he says, In my Father's house are many rooms. It's clear that the Father he's referring to is God. So the Father is the eternal God of the universe. We see here that the Father is the one who dwells in heaven. Jesus has been telling his disciples about his death and resurrection, about the fact that he's going to the Father to prepare a place for them. When he says here in my Father's house. The indication is that to be in the Father's presence is to be in heaven itself. We see also that the Father is the one that we must be brought to for salvation. When we read Jesus' statement in verse 6 of this chapter, we usually focus on what it teaches us about Jesus, what it teaches us about his identity and his salvation, and we're right to do so. But don't miss that to be saved is to come to the Father. To be saved is to be made right with God. It must be brought to the Father for salvation We can see also from this passage that the Father is the one who sends the Son. See this in the middle of verse 10. Jesus says, The words I speak I do not speak on my own authority. But the Father who dwells in me does his works. So Jesus, the incarnate Son, who had come to earth to accomplish salvation, had come to do We see this theme really all throughout John's Gospel. Another place we see it is in John chapter 6, verse 38, where Jesus said that he had come down to do the will of the Father. So the Father is the one who sends the Son. To summarize, the Father is the holy one of old. He is the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. He's the creator and the sustainer of all things. He's the one who had revealed himself in the Old Testament. He's the one who had spoken through the prophets. He's the one who from the beginning had promised redemption for his people. The Father is uncreated, he is eternal, he is holy, he's majestic, he's glorious. In short, the Father is God. He's the first person of the Trinity. And here's the thing, all of this language on its own would not be terribly surprising to Jesus' disciples. Of course the Father is God. But here's the thing, what we're going to see in this passage and what's revealed in all of Scripture would be absolutely astounding. to them, which is that not only is the Father God, but the Son and the Spirit are fully and coequally and co-eternally God. Three persons. in one divine essence. Let's turn next to consider the identity of the Son from this passage. In verse 8, Philip asks Jesus, show us the Father. And look at how Jesus responds in verse 9. He says, Have I been with you so long, Philip, and you still you do not know me? Whoever has seen me has seen the Father. How can you say, Show us the Father? And then look down at verse eleven. Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father is in me. Now Jesus makes a bold claim here. And we need to see just how bold this is. Jesus says that to see him is to see the Father. Or in other words, whatever the Father is, Jesus also is and therefore reveals. Now he himself is not the Father. We need to understand this distinction. We'll consider that more in a moment. But the Father is in him. And he is in the Father. To see Jesus is to see the Father. Again, in the back of your minds, have that language of one in essence, free in person. Jesus is claiming here to be of the same essence of the Father, the eternal God of glory. Well, we mustn't miss just how bold a statement this really is. And as we consider a statement like this, we need to consider it in the context of the entirety of John's gospel. And see that it's part of this tapestry speaking to this profound reality about the identity of Jesus. That Jesus is God incarnate, the eternal second person of the Trinity. Come to earth as a man. This is revealed to us in the very first words, in fact, of John's Gospel. Turn with me. We're going to turn to a couple places in John. Turn with me to John chapter 1, verse 1. John 1. 1, we read. These words I hope are familiar to you. In the beginning was the word. And the word was with God, and the word was God. So Jesus is the eternal word who was in the beginning with God, that is before anything else was created, and who was God. It's a very bold claim. John is saying that Jesus, the Word, was with the Father. He was divine like the Father, and yet, in one sense, he was also distinct from the Father. As a former English teacher, I want to tell you that prepositions matter. They matter when it comes to our study of Scripture. And they matter when it comes here to identifying and establishing the identity of the triune God. Because see this in John 1. 1. The preposition with implies a distinction. I'm with you guys in this room right now. I can't be you if I'm with you. So the word is with God, but then see also that the word is God. That is, in some sense, he is distinct in person from the Father, and yet he is one in essence. with the Father. He's with God and he is God. Distinct in person, one in divine essence or nature. But here's the thing, the testimony of John's gospel does not end there. Turn forward with me a few pages to John chapter 8. John chapter 8 and look down at verse 58. In the midst of this conflict between Jesus and the Jewish leaders, he says this. Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham was, I am. He's claiming here not only to have existed before Abraham. Now that would be a bold claim all of its own. The one that, you know, the Jews were so proud to claim as their father. But in these words here, he is claiming to be the eternal I am who had revealed himself to Moses at the burning bush. Jesus is claiming to be the self-existent God of the universe, the one who simply and eternally is Now, the Jews here that Jesus is having this conflict with, they understood the magnitude of this statement. Look at the very next verse, verse 59. They picked up stones to throw at him. They were ready to put him to death for this claim. And we need to understand that if Jesus' claims were false, if Jesus' claim about his own identity were false, that would be the right reaction. If Jesus were blaspheming, it would be right for him to be stoned. But what all of John's gospel makes clear is that this is not a false claim. Jesus truly is I am. He truly is the eternal second person of the Trinity. Co-equal with the Father. Flip forward with me just a few pages, maybe just one page, to John chapter 10, verses 29 and 30. Or Jesus says this: My Father who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. I and the Father are one. Again, we see Jesus claiming divinity here. He's saying that he and the Father are one in essence and that they have the same divine will for the people of God. Jesus is fully and completely God. And again, see the language of unity and distinction here. So he says, I and the Father. It's distinction. R one. Unity. One in essence, distinct in persons. And again, the Jews understood what he was stating about himself. Again, they are ready to pick up stones and have him executed One more place in John's Gospel. Turn to the end of John's Gospel, John chapter 20. John chapter 20, and look at verse 28. As the book of John is coming to a conclusion, the resurrected Jesus appears multiple times to his disciples, and in this instance, when Thomas, who had not yet seen Jesus resurrected, And who had doubted his resurrection, sees Jesus and feels the holes in his hands and in his side, he exclaims , In verse 28, my Lord and my God. Thomas here proclaims the true identity of Jesus. Jesus, the risen Christ, that he is Lord and God. And see further that right after this statement, John actually pauses the narrative In John chapter 20, verses 30 and 31. And he says that his entire gospel was written. What? So that you might believe that Jesus Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. In other words, John's gospel was written so that you by faith might believe just like Thomas, and so that you might exclaim with him, My Lord and my God. John's gospel was written so that we might make the same profession about the identity of Jesus Christ. Let me give you just a few other quick cross-references here for your own study. Titus chapter 2, verse 13, we're told that Jesus is our great God and Savior. Hebrews chapter 1, verse 3, Jesus is the exact imprint of God's nature. Colossians chapter 2, verse 9, we see that the whole fullness of deity dwells bodily in Christ. Romans chapter 9, verse 5, we're told that Christ is God over all. What we must see and what we must be convinced of is that the clear and unequivocal testimony of all of Scripture is that Jesus is the Son of God, the second person of the Trinity. That he is distinct in person with the Father, yet one in divine essence with the Father, fully and truly God. And so as people who have been brought under the banner of Christ's salvation, we confess and we rejoice that the Father is God and that the Son is God. But there are not only two persons in the Godhead. There are three God So let's turn back to John 14 to consider next the identity of the Spirit. The identity of the Spirit. Turn back to John chapter 14 and look down with me at verses 15 through 17. John fourteen, fifteen and through seventeen. If you love me, you will keep my commandments, and I will ask the Father, and he will give you another helper to be with you forever, even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive. Because it because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, for he dwells with you and will be in you And look down a little bit further to verses 25 through 26. These things I have spoken to you while I'm still with you. But the helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things. and bring to your remembrance all that I have said to you. As Jesus is about to go away and be with the Father , He comforts his disciples by telling them that the Father was going to send another helper to be with them forever. And this helper is identified in verse 17 as the Spirit of Truth. And then in verse 26 as the Holy Spirit. So the question before us is who is this helper? Who is this Holy Spirit? Well, I want you to notice a few things in the text here. First of all, notice that the Holy Spirit is identified as a person, not a force. Again, friends, in our interpretation of Scripture, the individual words and the grammar matter. Pronouns matter. Not only do prepositions matter, pronouns matter also. Notice in verse 17 and in 26 that the Spirit is referred to as a he, that is, as a distinct person. Not some sort of vague ethereal spiritual force or power. The Spirit of God is not in it. And this happens again in the next two chapters in 15 Now this might not be readily apparent to us, but in doing this, Jesus is actually breaking the rules of grammar. Because the word spirit in Greek would not normally receive a masculine pronoun. So by the very grammar Jesus uses, he's teaching us something about the identity of the Holy Spirit. Moreover, we can see that the titles the Spirit is given, helper, comforter , those are titles you would ascribe to a person. And even more so, we see that the things that Jesus promises that the Spirit of God will do are personal activities. He will dwell. He will teach. He will bear witness. In other places in scripture we see that he intercedes. Well, those are things that a person does, not a not a force or a a Ethereal thing. The testimony of Scripture is clear that the Holy Spirit, first of all, is a person. He is personal. Well furthermore see here and see elsewhere that the Spirit is distinct from the Father and the Son. He is a distinct person So in verse 16, Jesus says that he'll ask the Father, and the Father will send another helper. That is, whoever is being sent is not the Father and not the Son. But notice what else here is said about his identity. It's said that he is the spirit of truth. In a chapter where Jesus is just claimed to be the way, the truth, and the life. So he is the Holy Spirit, sent by the Father, in the name of the Son. Just as the Father has sent the Son into the world to accomplish salvation, so the Father will send the Spirit in the name of the Son. So we see clearly thus far that this Holy Spirit of God is a person, not a force. He is distinct from the Father and the Son. So then consider the significance of the fact that consistently throughout Scripture, the Holy Spirit is placed side by side with the Father and with the Son. Consider Matthew chapter 28, verse 19, with which Pastor Anthony preached from in the last sermon. Jesus commissioned his disciples to baptize in the name what? Again, one name, remember, of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. What does that teach us? It teaches us that the Holy Spirit is equal, one in divine essence with the Father and with the Son. The theologian Wayne Grudham, I think, is helpful here. He writes, recognize how unthinkable it would have been for Jesus to say something here like, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son, and of the Archangel Michael. To place the Spirit side by side with the Father and with the Son consistently throughout Scripture is to claim that all that is true about the divinity of the Father and of the Son. is also true about the Spirit. Well, the New Testament clarifies for us the identity of the Spirit even further Let me offer you again just a few texts for you to consider and for you to study more comprehensively on your own. Consider Acts chapter 5, verses 3 and 4. When Ananias is confronted with the reality of his deception within the early church, Peter claims that he has lied to the Holy Spirit. And then he says right after that, you have not lied to man, but to God. To lie to the Holy Spirit is to lie to God Himself. Or consider 1 Corinthians 3, verse 16. We're told that we as the people of God are God's temple, and God's Spirit dwells in you. For the Spirit of God to dwell in the believer is for God Himself to dwell in the believer. Consider 1 Corinthians chapter 2. Verses 10 through 11, where we see divine attributes which are possessed only by God being ascribed to the Holy Spirit. We see there that the Spirit is omniscient. The Holy Spirit truly and exhaustively knows the thoughts of God. Well, the testimony of Scripture then is clear. That this helper, this Holy Spirit, is the third person of the Trinity. That He is fully and eternally co-equally God. Fully divine in essence. Distinct in person within the Godhead, sent by the Father and the Son to convict, to comfort, and to dwell with God's people. Well again, let me just submit to you that Scripture is clear, friends, that the one God eternally exists in three distinct, co-equal, and co-eternal persons. And you might be hearing all of that and thinking, sure, that's wonderful. But how is that practical? You know, that's fine for theologians to know and to care about and to wade into all those intricacies. But how is this practical for my own life? What I want us to see finally is that our salvation Is a Trinitarian reality. That it is the triune God who saves sinners. That each person of the Trinity works in perfect unity and yet carries out distinct roles. In God's great work of redemption. Let me invite you finally to turn with me to Ephesians chapter 1. Ephesians chapter 1, we're going to look at verses 3 through 14. Ephesians 1, we'll be looking at verses 3 through 14. Now, let me just say from the outset that this text is a vast ocean. of glorious truth. And for me to just kind of skim the surface of it here in the last several minutes of a sermon is almost just sermonic malpractice. Because this is such a rich and glorious text. But I want us to listen for this distinctly Trinitarian language that Paul uses as he just kind of glories and celebrates and exalts in the great salvation that God has accomplished. Listen to the distinct roles carried out by the Father and by the Son and by the Spirit as He accomplishes our redemption. Ephesians chapter 1, beginning in verse 3, and we'll go down to verse 14. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing. in the heavenly places. Even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him. In love he predestined us for adoption to himself as sons through Jesus Christ, according to the purpose of his will, to the praise of his glorious grace, with which he has blessed us in the beloved. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace, which he lavished upon us in all wisdom and insight, making known to us the mystery of his will. according to his purpose, which he set forth in Christ, as a plan for the fullness of time to unite all things in him, things in heaven and things on earth. In him we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will. So that we who were the first to hope in Christ might be to the praise of his glory. In him, you also, when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and believed in him. We're sealed with the promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we acquire possession of it, to the praise of his glory. Well again, as we as we just hear these words of Paul inspired by the Holy Spirit, there there are so many more glorious diamonds than we have time to pick up and look at from this text. Well let me summarize what we see here by saying that in the work of redemption, the Father plans the work of redemption, the Son accomplishes the work of redemption. And the Spirit applies the work of redemption. So we see that the Father plans, the Son accomplishes, and the Spirit applies the work of redemption which saves sinners and brings us to the Lord. We'll see first here that the Father plans the work of redemption. So verses 3 and 4, we see that God has blessed us, the Father has blessed us in Christ. with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places, even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world. That is, in eternity past, friends, before the foundations of the world were laid, God the Father chose to save a particular people for us. himself to make them holy and blameless. Not because of anything worthwhile in us, but solely by an act of his free and sovereign grace. The Father planned and chose us in eternity past. Verse 5, those whom he chose in Christ in eternity past, it says he predestined for adoption to himself. God the Father predestined unworthy sinners like you and I to be drawn out of our darkness and drawn out of our rebellion and brought into his very family. He chose to save sinners and to call them sons and daughters. Verse 9, we see that the mystery of his will which was hidden for ages and generations, has now been revealed. And that will is that God the Father has chosen to save sinners, Jew and Gentile alike. In the work of redemption. Well, that's good news to all the non-Jews in this room. Verse 11, we see that we have obtained the inheritance of eternal life. According to the plan of the Father, who look, works all things according to the purpose of his will. That is to say, that all that the Father plans, he rings about. There's no power of sin. There's no human weakness. There's no scheme of Satan that can undo the sovereign will of our God. So we confess joyfully that our salvation is a salvation planned and purposed in eternity past by God the Father. And if it were not so, then no one would be saved. The Father's plan of redemption, then, is accomplished through the work of the Son. Again, once more, let me commend to you the value and importance of prepositions in our study of Scripture. And on your own time, let me just encourage you to go back through this passage and see how many times the phrases in Christ, in him, through Jesus Christ, are used. It's over and over and over again. It's really over and over again all throughout Paul's writings. So how are we blessed with every spiritual blessing? in Christ. Christ Jesus is the one who secures for us all the blessings of salvation through his life, through his death, and through Through his resurrection and through his glorious reign as king, seated at the right hand of God. We can look at verse seven. We have redemption Through his blood. The forgiveness of our trespasses. The Father did not shed his blood. The Father did not become incarnate. The Son did The Son became incarnate as a man and shed his blood, bearing the weight of God's wrath for sinners in order to accomplish our redemption. Consider verses 9 and 10 that God made known the mystery of his will, which is to unite all things in heaven and on earth in Christ. Now, as we read that, we can hardly even fathom all of what that means. But see here that the undoing of the effects of the curse of sin and death on all of creation The undoing of that, and the undoing of that in your own life, through you being reconciled to God, that happens through Christ Jesus. It's accomplished in the work of the Son. Glorious truth. Verse 11. We've obtained an inheritance in him. The gift of eternal life, which we possess as followers of Jesus, we possess in Christ. So all that the Father planned and purposed in redemption He accomplished through the work of the Son. Jesus Christ is the one who secures every spiritual blessing for the believer. There's nothing that we have from our God that we have not received outside of Christ. Christ has secured it for us. But here's the thing. The spiritual blessings that Christ has secured, they're of no value to us if they remain outside of us. If we're over here, sinners in the kingdom of darkness, and Christ Jesus is over here having secured all these blessings, but we're still separated, these blessings are of no value to us. We must be united with Christ. We must be brought to Him in order to become partakers of the Him. Of all that he's accomplished. In order to reap the benefits, we must be united to him. We see here that this is what the Holy Spirit of God does The Holy Spirit applies the work of redemption to the believer. Look at verses 13 and 14. It says, in him you also, when you heard the word of the truth, the gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit. Who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we acquire possession of it to the praise of his glory? So what happened At the moment that you heard the gospel and by a work of God's grace you turned in faith and believed in Christ. But what we're told here is that we were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit. That is, all the benefits of our salvation, which were planned by the Father and accomplished by the Son, are now brought to us by the Spirit of God. Who regenerates us, who awakens in us spiritual life, and causes us to cry out in faith looking to Christ. He unites us to Christ Jesus by faith. I love this image of a seal in this passage. The Spirit seals us. Think of the image of a signet ring. From a king on a royal decree. Well, that signet ring indicates that everything within that decree, everything sealed up, is the word of the king. Everything within that is the king's. When you are sealed by the Holy Spirit, you are marked as belonging to God. You are marked as united to Christ. And if you are united to Christ, friends, we possess all the benefits of redemption. You are justified. You are forgiven. You are purified. You are reconciled. You are adopted. You have communion with God because the Spirit of God has united you to Christ by faith. The Spirit brings to us, applies to us the work of redemption that Christ accomplished. And see something else here, that the Spirit is the guarantee, it says, of our inheritance until we acquire possession of it. In other words, the Spirit's presence in your life, it's not only a guarantee of all that you have received in Christ, it's also a guarantee of all that you will receive. The blessings of salvation that you have yet to receive. Eternal life free from the curse of sin. In a glorified, resurrected body, where we'll dwell in God's presence in the new heavens and the new earth for eternity. Friends, the Spirit's presence in your life today is a guarantee that you will receive everything that God has promised. So if you today are hoping in Christ for your salvation, that is only something that can be true of you if the Holy Spirit of God has regenerated you. And that reality is a guarantee that you will inherit all that God has promised to you. We should have great assurance as we consider these truths together. Now, as we go through that, I'm aware that that's a bit of a fire hose. It's kind of a rapid fire, and I encourage you to read through this section of Scripture slowly on your own. The point, though, is to see that our salvation is a Trinitarian reality. That the three persons of the triune God work in unity, but fulfill distinct roles. in planning and accomplishing and applying our salvation. And friends, only a God who is triune can redeem since Sinners to himself. There are many other reasons we can s could consider why that is so that we don't have time to go into this evening, but only a triune God can save sinners. As we conclude this evening, I just want to end where we began. The central application of all that we have seen and all that we can see about the identity of our God is worship. See in this passage the language of praise. Verse 6 to the praise of his glorious grace. Verse 12 to the praise of his glory. So, friends, may our response to seeing the triune God as He's revealed Himself in Scripture be a joyful and glad-hearted and whole life expression of worship to Him May we seek to magnify and lift high his glory. May we seek to taste and to see that our triune God is good. Let's pray. Well Father, we thank you. We thank you for what you have revealed about yourself in your word. We thank you that we can see it. We thank you, God, for the salvation that has come to us, which you have planned, which your son has accomplished, and which Your spirit has brought to us. And God, I pray that you would further and further deepen us and establish us, God, in our identity. As sinners saved by the triune God. And may we have the joy and the boldness and the confidence to proclaim this gospel to the world God, may we proclaim it to ourselves daily. May we respond this week with lives of worship that honor and Glorify you. Pray all this in the name of your Son Jesus Christ. Amen.