Turn your Bibles. We'll be examining Matthew 6, chap chapter 6, verses 1 through. And tonight we'll examine private prayer, the power of private prayer, and what it does within our lives. Matthew six one through fifteen. One of the goals I want us to see is how in our private prayer actually trains us, transforms us, and prepares us for the Christian life all around us. It builds us up in our confidence in Christ. It builds us up in our confidence in our prayer. And We see that God works out through prayer. As we've started this series this morning in prayer, we we recognize that there's twofolds to the power of prayer. One, first, is that God uses prayer to accomplish his purposes on earth. We learn that in our prayer private prayers. And secondly, God uses prayer to help the church discern his will. Likewise we learn and grow within our private prayer. You heard this morning that congregational prayers we come together is a vital tool of the church. Likewise, private prayer is a vital tool of the Christian life But we must grow. For so many Christians, for so many people, prayer is one of the most difficult Christian disciplines. in their life. And I believe it's because we don't A fully grasp the power of our prayer and B, we don't see a physical outworking of our prayer like like we do other disciplines. Take reading your Bible. You sit down and read, you can you can read it. You can see you turning the page. And there's even a head knowledge that comes in. There's some kind of physical sense of the reading you have. Gathering together in worship. We see one another. We encourage one another, we interact, we sing songs together, we hear the preaching of God's word together. There's a physical sense to it Tithing, likewise, we see uh our our money going into the offering plate. We see the physical working of our money and our finances through uh gospel ministry. But then it comes to prayer. And if you're like me, especially when I was a young Christian, this idea of prayer seems imaginative. I sat there, I I said prayers, and I saw no work of them. I actually didn't even know what to say. They seemed to just bounce off the ceiling above me. But throughout that time God used those prayers that appeared as though they weren't doing anything To mold, to shape, to grow, both my prayer life, but my confidence in my prayers, w the power of prayer, but even more I saw the working of the prayers in a pistol. physical sense in our lives, but that often isn't as evident to us. So tonight we will examine the private prayer life, what it is not, and what it is and how it transforms, trains, molds us grows us as Christians. So let us look at Matthew chapter six, starting in verse one. Beware of practicing your righteousness before other people in order to be seen by For when for then you will have no reward from your Father who is in heaven. Thus when you give to the needy, sound no trumpet before you, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues And in the streets, that they may be praised by others. Truly I say to you, they have received a reward. But when you give to the needy, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing. So that your giving may be in secret, and your father who sees in secret will reward you. And when you pray, you must not be like the hypocrites, for they love to stand and pray in the synagogues. and at the street corners, that they may be seen by others. Truly I say to you, they have received their reward. But when you pray, go into your room And shut the door and pray to your father who is in secret. And your father who sees in secret will reward you. And when you pray, do not keep up empty phrases as the Gentiles do for they think that they will be heard for their many words. Do not be like them, for your father knows that you need knows what you need before you You ask him. Pray then like this: Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors, and lead us not into temptation. But deliver us from evil. For if you forgive others their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if you do not forgive others their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive you. Father, as we examine your word tonight, may we be strengthened. May we find confidence in prayer. May we know that you are good. That you are at work, that you've commanded us as believers, as your children, to come to our good and gracious Father in prayer. That you use our prayers to transform us and the world around us. Pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. So the first thing we must look at is what is our prayers not about? The first one is that your prayer life is not about getting the attention of the world. You are not seeking the world's pleasure. You're not seeking their approval. You're not seeking their wisdom, their guidance in your prayer life. Your prayers are too and for God alone. Look at verse 1. Beware of your practicing your righteousness before other people in order to be seen by them. For then you will have to you will have no reward from your father who is in heaven. Jump down to verse five. And when you pray, you must not be like the hypocrites, for they love to stand and pray pray in the synagogues and at the street corners, that they may be seen by others. Truly I say to you, they have received the reward. But when you pray, go into your room. And shut the door and pray to your father who is in secret, and your father who sees in secret will reward you. So often there's there's there's ministers, there's Christian that the only time they avidly, the only time they boldly, the only time they truly pray is when they're in front of others. And what why are they doing that? Well Jesus lays it out here, they're doing that to receive the attention and the applause of the people hearing the prayers. And guess what? They got that reward. If that's the reward they're seeking, they received it. The world heard them. Here was the Jewish leaders. Most likely the Pharisees who would go and and be loud and boastrous with their prayers, so that the people would look at 'em and go, Wow, that person is is extra Extra holy, extra spiritual, extra righteous. They must be God must be extra happy with them. But really, they're interested Eternal prayer wasn't there. Their heart wasn't there. Their outward praying, their seeking of righteousness was only being done to to try to win people over, to try to make people think that they were something special. Jesus isn't saying do not practice your righteousness in public. What he's warning here is that your righteousness, to include your prayer life, is not to be demonstrated just just in public, just for the appeasing of man. But rather that your prayer, your private prayer is just that. It's private. Who is your prayer to? Who are prayers to? It is to God. It is to the creator of the universe. Who are we praying to to try to earn pleasure with? Who are we trying to appease in this world? It is no one But if you're desiring, if your whole goal is to pray so that out loud you come together and you pray in public so people see you, so they think you're something special, you're gonna get your reward. But it is an earthly reward that will perish with everything else. What Jesus is telling us is that when we pray secretly of the heart, when our hearts are genuinely praying to the living God, we also receive a a reward. But this reward is from the Father. It's a good reward. It's an eternal reward. What is that reward? Well the first piece is that the creator of the universe hears you specifically It's not just a a a gargling of voices coming up to him. No, no. He knows your voice. He hears your voice. He hears your pain, your sorrows, your joys, your thanksgiving. He hears you, the creator of the universe, the judge of all creation. He hears you. and I. What else is this reward we see? The life of righteousness, the following after Christ, is that we dwell within his family, within his court. What peasant has the right to go before the king? What enemy of the king has the right to go and dwell with him? Sit and eat a meal with the king? No one of such a characteristic, no one of such a class has that right. But that's not you and I, brother We are children of the everlasting God. We are not his enemies anymore. We are family. We have his earpiece. We dwell with him. And we have a promise of dwelling with him into eternity. The living God that hears you now as you live on this earth, hears your prayers now, will hear your worship of him into eternity Glory for eternity. Our reward is with him. Our reward should be sought and found in God alone and not in man. Now you may be asking yourself, so Anthony, are we not supporting Didn't Pastor Matt just invite all of us to gather together on Wednesday nights at 630, finishing around 650, 65 Five-ish? Okay. So do we just comment and sit quietly? Because we don't we don't want to break what Jesus tells us here of praying in secret. No no no What is our purpose of coming together and praying aloud and with one another? It's not for each other's attention, but it is for God. It actually will be encouraging one another. We see in Daniel 6, you're familiar with this story, the king sets out a decree that no one should worship any other idols other than the statue that the wicked king set up. So what does Daniel do the very first day that he's told not to worship and pray to any other God? He goes up, he opens up all his windows and all his doors in his house, and he starts praying aloud for the town to hear him. Was he breaking what Jesus was saying here? Was he going against what Jesus was saying? By no means. His prayers were secret of the heart because they were genuine. Anyway, sure the world heard. Sure the people heard him. But they were not for the the appeasement of man. If you know that story, that's what then gets him arrested and thrown in to the lions So our commandment here is not that we never pray out loud, but that our prayers are not for the world to hear, but it is For the living God. Your prayer life is not about earning the pleasure of the world. Second thing that your prayers are not, the power of your prayer is not in Now I need to unpack this because i i I may contradict myself a little bit as we talk, but the words themselves are not what brings the power of We see here in verse seven, and when you pray, do not keep up empty phrases as the Gentiles Gentiles do, for they think that they will be heard for their many words. Do not be like them, for your Father knows what you need before you ask him. You don't have to raise your hand, but how many people struggle within their prayer life, struggle even praying with one another, struggle praying uh alone because you feel as though you don't have the right words. You're not elegant with your words. You don't have a poetic mind to form these beautiful sentences. These beautiful run -old sentences that just sound so nice and when people hear them They're they're they feel warmed inside. They they know that they're genuine. Well, that's not what brings power to to your prayer. The example that Jesus uses here is the Gentiles. They worship false gods and they believe that if they would continually repeat the same need, the same prayer over and over and over and over and over again, that their false God would get tired of it and finally hear them and finally answer them. So then the the Christian takes and says, Well, I don't know how else to pray. Maybe this would work. We just pray for the same thing over and over. Over and over and over again. And we think sooner or later, sooner or later, that that pile of words is going to get stacked up so high that one of them may just trickle into the throne room of God. in heaven. That's not how our father works. Oh no, he he knows your needs. He knows your desires. He knows your joys, your hurt. Even when you don't have the words, when you can't form the beautiful sentences, you can't structure the perfect line, you can't form the poem of prayer. He knows your needs. He hears you. You don't need to repeat. You don't need to stack up a book of poetry for him. He knows you. Romans 8 26 reminds us that the Holy Spirit Intercedes for us when we're lost for words. Romans eight twenty-six likewise when the Spirit helps us in our weakness, for we do not know what to pray for us as we ought. But the Spirit Himself intercedes for us You feel lost for words sometimes? Do you feel as though you just keep saying the same thing? Is that what's holding you back from prayer? Well hear this that the words themselves are not the power of your prayer. You don't there's no perfect sentence that once you say uh your prayer in this specific order with these specific words and you hit these high points and you say it with this specific No, no. He knows you. How does he know you? Well look at what languages used here. And we're gonna we're gonna address this again. Again later. Do not be like them. Verse eight for your father knows what you need before you you ask him. How does he know you? He's your father. He's the one that created you. He's the one that Redeemed you with his son. He's the one that has forgiven you. And now he has given you the authority and the position of son and daughter, and the authority and position to call him father. He knows your innermost being. So when you're lost for words, go to him. He knows you. Cry out to God. Cry out to him. Let him hear you. If you think, oh, I just I I can't do this. This prayer's not going anywhere, it's not doing anything. Go to your father. He hears you. He knows you Trust that he is present. He's not a God that sits far off. He's not a God that is absent from your life. No, he's a God that knows you deeply, loves you deeply. is listening to you. So your prayer life is not about showing off for the world, and your prayers are and the power of your prayer is not based in the words themselves. That's what prayer is not. The question is, what is prayer? How do we pray? I want to give you five practical parts of prayer. You've probably heard many, many sermons on this passage. This is the Lord's Prayer. You've heard the Lord's Prayer. This morning we recited it, and many of you knew it word for word without reading it. So nothing new or revealing is gonna happen here, but what I want us to do tonight is to see that as we start to structure our private prayer lives, we start to use We'll start to see that these pieces of prayer actually strengthen us as Christians, actually grow us, they train us in how how to think. They train us to start to walk and be like Christ more and more each day. Our confidence in our Creator. Grows. The joy of our salvation grows. How does it grow? Well, piece of that growth comes out of our private prayer life. So let's look at the practical parts of prayer and how it grows and trains us. The first one is when you go into prayer, you must recognize who God is and who you are. Look there, verse nine, Jesus then says, pray then like this. Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. The first thing we must do when we go into prayer is recognize the glory of the living God that we are praying to. Recognize the glory of the living God, that He is holy, He is righteous, He is everlasting, He's the Judge, He's the Savior, the Redeemer, the King. His names go on and on. I encourage you if you're struggling when when you go into prayer, you don't even know how to start, open up the Psalms. How does the psalmist refer to God. There's many names to choose from. You'll see the beauty that as we continue to dwell and meditate on the identity of our God, we start to see how great he really is. And truly, every time we go to him, we can go with another name, another characteristic of who he is, and see the beauty. of who our God is. Just quickly, I'm reading out of Psalm 103. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within thee. Bless his holy name. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits, who forgives all your iniquities, who heals all your diseases, who redeems your life from the pit. Who crowns you with steadfast love and mercy, who satisfies you with good, so that your youth is renewed like the eagles. I'm only a third way to Through this song. Do you hear that the names just continue on? The goodness of our God just continue on. In our prayers, we must start there. Why is this important? What happens when we recognize the characteristics, the identity, the holy righteousness of our God. We start to worship them. We start to recognize That we're not just talking casually to some Joe on the street. We're not just casually going around uh having a conversation with someone that has no authority, no power. No, we're talking to the great, great God who's redeemed us. But not only that, we don't just recognize who God is, we also must recognize our identity. Like we had already talked about, it starts here, our Father in heaven. Why is this important? What happens in our prayer lives when we recognize that we're praying to a holy and righteous king and that he is our father. We come to him with joy. We come to him with confidence. You come to him knowing, trusting that he is working. If you are fortunate enough to to have grown up with a a loving father in your life, you know that value. I was fortunate like that. My father is is a loving man. He is he is stern. But I knew if I had a problem, even if I caused the problem, which most times I did, that if I went to sternness, his roughness as just a broken man that he that he is still uh but was even more before he was uh redeemed by Christ was I still knew that he would love me even in my shortcomings in my life This hug may be a little rough, but it was it was still loving to me. Well, likewise we must recognize that we have an even better Father sitting in heaven that loves us. Think about what we read this morning out of Luke eleven. That even the wicked, human, the the the unjust answer somewhat that makes a plea, calls on the name of someone, how much greater is our Father in heaven going to answer our cries and our pleas. So it's important. The first practical part of prayer is that we recognize God and your identity in Christ. Because those two things will set our prayer lives up, but even more it will strengthen our confidence and our joy in our Creator. The second practical part of prayer is we seek God's kingdom and his will. Look in verse 10. Your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. In your prayers, you should be asking God to be working in the world around you. You should be asking God for his kingdom to continue to advance into the darkness. You should be seeking God to fix the problems you see around you. Now, for some of us, if not all of us, we can't We can't pick just one problem we want God to address, right? We have problems all around us. Darkness seems to be encircling us You have this cultural agenda over here and people are struggling to even know who what their identity is and they're seeking everything else to try to figure out who they are. You turn over here and you just have you have a problem at work and your boss is a problem. You go to this problem back here, you try to get away, and And here stands a a family problem. And then you look in front of you and you find out that next year we're about to vote for a president and we know that that brings a whole world of problems and drama and culture. And it feels as though the enemy is surrounding us And we don't know which direction to set our prayers. Well y since yesterday was Veterans Day, and I'm a veteran, I'm gonna tell a war story A good paratrooper, someone that jumps into battle, is excited when they're surrounded by the enemy. Why is that? Because we were bad shots, so it didn't matter which direction we shot, we knew the enemy would be around us. But likewise, that's how we look at prayer. We shouldn't be saddened and defeated by the world around us. Pick something, look at it, and recognize the darkness of the world and start praying about that. Let it let it be. If if this cultural issue, if this problem in your life is s Sucking up your focus and your attention, go to God in prayer about it. What's he going to do? Well, there's one of two things. He will cause change, growth, his kingdom will advance within that area that appears Dark. Maybe your relationship with your family member is healed. Maybe uh the the the brokenness at work and your boss gets resolved. The cultural issue. Issues don't get resolved ever. But we've seen throughout all of history that God is working and that God changes the culture almost by the minute right now. And I argue that he's actually changing it for the better. His kingdom continues to advance. Things continue to crumble and fall apart. We may not like the pace at which it's happening, but it is happening. So if God the first thing is that God changes the the situation of what you're praying about. The second thing is that could happen, is that God takes your focus out of that. He takes your focus that is on this one issue, and he just relieves that that that issue from you You don't think about it anymore. God works in that way. Remember, part of our prayer is to help the church and ourselves discern the will of God. Maybe you're so focused on the twenty twenty four election because that's what the whole world thinks about and as you're praying about it you get a piece about it and you start to recognize I really don't need to be stressed about this. Because whatever king, president gets elected, we know that there's a higher king over there. Or maybe this this argument you've had with your family member that just draws your attention Mention in so much, you pray about it, you're you're in that prayer deep and you s most of them just have a piece about it and say, You know, maybe I've been really foolish. Maybe that's not a problem for me And just move on. We see that God actually transforms the world around us. How about this? As the darkness appears to be all around us, are we praying for the advancement of the kingdom with the gospel proclamation? We saw in our study of Matthew, just a few chapters after this, so chapter nine, we see that uh Jesus sees the the lost all around him and he recognizes that uh the harvest is plentiful but the labors are few. And what's the first thing Jesus tells the disciples to do Pray. It wasn't pick up your Bibles, go start knocking on doors. It was pray for the God of the harvest, the Lord of the harvest, to send the harvesters out. Send the light labors out into the heart, excuse out me. Are we praying like that? When we do, when we seek when we seek God's kingdom into his will We start to think like God, we start to resemble Christ, we start to see that the world isn't that scary and that the kingdom of God is that powerful and that destructive to the darkness. So that's the second practical part of prayer. The third practical part of prayer is that we ask for needs. We ask for needs. Look at verse 11. Give us this day our Daily bread. Are you going to your father and asking for needs? Do you have desires? Do you have hurts? You have things you just want. Go. and ask him for them. Jesus uses maybe the mis most minuscule piece of living, which is bread. It's minor. It's a small thing. Yet it's essential in living. And what's ha what happens when we go in prayer and ask God God for needs. Well, one is that we are reassured that our God is the provider. He provides all things. All things, all good things come from God Yes, you get a paycheck from your job, from your business. That comes from God. He's the provider of that. He's the sustainer of that business. He's the sustain Sustainer of that paycheck. He's the one that has has built the organization to give you that paycheck. paycheck which then buys us buys you the bread and the food you need to eat. Now if you're like me, there was a time and still even now I struggle and think that my prayers of asking God is me just being a little needy brat. When God hears me and I'm just going, I need this, Lord, I I want this. I feel like this would be good For me that God just hears me crying and complaining. But we don't see that here. And that we shouldn't be held back because we think that our prayers, our desires, our needs are ministry. Because He uses the example of bread, the very minor thing that we need to live. What happens when we take needs, desires, passions before God? He transforms us. Maybe you are asking for something selfishly. I'm gonna admit that we probably go to God with some selfish things God doesn't answer that in the way we we always want, but what's he do? And we take our needs before him. He he grows us, he molds us. That that as we've gone pretty selfishly, I wanted I wanted all this money to become rich. We we went to God in prayer with that. What happens is he molds us, he grows us and we start to see that that is a selfish prayer and he starts to transform our desires. He starts to transform what we seek and what we find as needs and it starts to look and resemble his will and his design. We actually see that even in our shortcomings, our our what we would classify as failures of prayer, God uses to build and grow and mature us. So the third thing was that we asked for need. May we never be so ashamed of what we're asking for that we don't go before He cares for us, He loves us, He provides what we actually need, and He transforms what we think we need and matures us in that. The fourth one , I think one of the most important ones for the for the Christian living, of the practical parts of prayer is that we ask for forgiveness. Look in verse 12, and forgive us our debts as we also have forgiven our debtors. When we go into the throne room of God, when we're in our private prayers, we must be confessing our sins. Before God. What happens when we confess our sins before God? How do we grow as Christians when we confess our sins before God? First, one of my favorite things about Scripture is we grow in our joy of our Savior because we recognize the peace we have with Him. We recognize the peace we have with the king because we recognize that we are forgiven. What zeal we gain as Christians When we know that we are forgiven, that the world can't hold anything against us. There's nothing we are ashamed of because it has been confessed before a holy God and has been forgiven. I believe that one of the problems of the church is that we aren't confessing our sins, so then we don't have boldness to proclaim the gospel. When we confess our sins, we gain the boldness to conf to profession Proclaim and announce the gospel to the world. But when we have sin that is unconfessed that we're holding up inside of us, we know we have it and we're refusing to confess it, we fear that the moment we go out to the world, proclaim to be a Christian, that the world knows about that sin and will call us out on it. But what happens when you're forgiven? You don't care if the world calls us out. Sure, I'm a sinner. Sure, I've broken the law of God. You're right. That's why I need a savior. That's why we worship Christ. Because He has paid for our sins. He has forgiven us. There is no accusation the world can bring against you when you have confessed your sins before God. Brothers and sisters, I I plead with you. I I I instruct you to go home. If you have not confessed your sins sins, go home and confess before the Holy God. And know and trust and be assured that you are forgiven in Christ. Not because of your works, not because of what you have done. done but because he has paid the price on the cross for you. And when we go into our private prayer lives with this confidence When we go into our private prayer lives and we confess our sins, even as saints, you're if you have faith in Christ, you're considered a saint, yet you still live in this broken world we still commit sins but we take them before God and we confess and you will be given zeal and energy energy that you don't recognize. Oh a burden, anxieties will be taken off because you don't have to worry about getting caught in the sin. You're forgiven. It transforms how we view our lives. It transforms how we view our relationship with God. Remember, he already knows what you need. He already knows what you're going to ask before you. So what's holding you back? It's your pride? It's you think you you are smarter than God. You're failing to confess your sin because you actually love your sin more than you love God. And once you confess it, you know that you're going to have to fight against it. You're going to have to re Repent of it, turn to Christ, turn to God. But secretly, deep down you'd rather still entertain that sin. Brothers and sisters, confess your sins before God Not only do you gain energy and zeal from confessing your sins before a holy God, but you start to love your neighbor more and more. We see that in verse twelve it says, And forgive us our debts as we all have all excuse me. As we also have forgiven our debtors. And then look at verse 14 and fifteen. For if you forgive others their trespasses, your heavenly father will also forgive you. But if you do not forgive others their trespasses, neither will your father forgive your trespasses. As we go into our private prayer and we confess our sins, we will also start to see that we are forgiven in Christ and we will see how to love and forgive our brothers and sisters. How can you hold anger toward your brother when you confess your sin and you know that and are assured that you are forgiven by the Creator of the universe? How petty are you? If you can't forgive your brother. When the creator of the universe has forgiven you of all your sins, but you can't forgive your brother because he said a remark that you didn't like. you got cut off in traffic. Because and you just place in whatever debt, whatever transgression you're holding against your brother. When we are in our prayer lives confessing our sins, we find zeal and comfort in our forgiveness in Christ, but we also start to forgive and love one another. No, don't take verse fourteen and fifteen in a structure of salvation that until you can be saved you must go and forgive your neighbor. No, no, no. Recognize that this is showing, just like we saw in First John, just like you read in James, that this is a natural outworking of the forgiveness you have in Christ, is that you start to forgive one another. The natural love that you receive from God naturally outworks that you start to love your neighbor. This is what 1 John is all about. That you can't love God and not love your neighbor, and you can't love your neighbor and not love God. That those two go hand in hand. Well, likewise forgiving forgiving trespasses Forgiving harms and mistakes and crimes committed against you can only happen when you recognize that you are forgiven by the Father, and if you're forgiven by the Father, you must be forgiven others. They cannot be separated. This is a growing moment that happens in our prayers, that we start to forgive one another. We start to live with grace and mercy with one another. So that's the fourth. We ask for forgiveness. And the fifth practical parts of prayer is that we ask for protection. Look at verse 13. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Do we go and ask God for strength. Do we go before God and recognize the temptations we have, the ch the struggles we have, the the sins Sin that just appears to continually to suck us in. But do we go before God and we ask him for protection? Do we ask him to grow and strengthen us in fighting against that temptation. Do we ask him to give us the ability to destroy and kill the sin that is entangling us? I think too often we avoid doing things like I said with confessing our sin is we don't actually want to be protected from it. We actually like to be drawn into our temptation. But when we go before God, when we seek Him, when we ask Him to give us strength, to give us protection against the evil, to give us protection against temptation. we actually be we're actually transformed. We can actually resist that temptation. We can actually fight against that sin. We can actually dis recognize how disgusting it is and push it off and put our focus on to Christ. We actually seek after righteousness. Where does our our righteousness come from? from is found in Christ, in Christ alone. It's what we've been talking about through Proverbs. You want to walk the path of righteousness? Seek after God You want protection from your sin. You want to fight against your sin. You don't want to be ensnared by temptation. Seek God. Look to His word. Look to His wisdom. Are you seeking it in your prayer life? What happens when we do that is we are actually transformed. We actually despise and fight against it. We read this in the end end of Jude. This is one of my favorite doxologies. Says now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling and to present you blameless before the presence of his glory with you. Great joy. That's the God we're worshiping. That's the God you're praying to in your private prayer life. And in your congregational prayer life. You're praying to the God that will keep you from stumbling will present you as righteous. And he does it with great, great joy. Brothers and sisters, my desire from this is that tonight you recognize that your private prayer life is an essential part of the Christian journey. Christian law. And that as we are not perfect, none of us are perfect here in prayer. Just so you know, just a little behind the scenes, every Thursday, Pastor Matt, Just Jason and I, we spend about a forty-five minutes to an hour studying, talking about prayer. We're reading a book about prayer. We actually practice praying. with one another. Because we find that the power of prayer is that valuable, it's that essential to the church life, and that we have not been perfected yet. We don't have all the right words. We still make mistakes, but yet we see that in our prayer life it transforms us, it grows us, and each day we become more and more like Christ. Minds are transformed. So be encouraged. Go into the private prayer life. Go into the secret place of your heart and cry out to God. And he will grow and change and and mature you as a Christian and you will see the effects of that in the world around you. That is correct. Father, you are so good to us A broken people that were rebels against you, yet you redeemed us, yet you sent your son to die on the cross and pay for our sins. Lord, you are holy. You are righteous. And your righteousness magnifies our need for Savior. We recognize that in our redemption we still have shortcomings. We recognize that we seek other ways of growth. things to mature us rather than coming to you. Lord, I ask that you convict us tonight, that you grow us in our desire to be in a prayer meaningful prayer life with you. I I ask that you grow us in our confidence in prayer as a church, but also as individuals. Lord, may we start the battle of this life. May we fight this battle. May we start in prayer. Maybe we see that all things are worked out by you, through you, and you use the mode and method of prayer to accomplish that. Give us this confidence. Lord, may we seek you. May we grow. Give us the words that we lack. Give us the confidence that we lack. Show us the sins we need to confess. Grow us in our confidence and our zeal for you. the loss but when we see even more the building kingdom that you have growing here, now, and today. You are good. We ask for for your blessing as we leave this gathering. And go into the world. May we have confidence, energy, and zeal for this week until we meet again. Come and worship the triune God. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.