We'll pray, and then we will jump into this convicting power of the law, the law of God. Let's pray and ask for God's help. Father in heaven, we ask, I ask that you would bless this time. Lord, do something with this message that I could never do by myself, that no mere man could do. Edify your people. Change them Drive them even now closer and further into Christ. Make us, Lord, understand the law rightly. So that we love and savor your son Jesus Christ all the more. And make us even into the image of your son Christ. And I ask this in Christ's name. Amen. So you've heard this now, but the title of this particular message is the convert or the convicting power, rather, the convicting power of the law. the convicting power of the law. And what I'm going to aim to show you and consider with you, even if it's just briefly, is this. When God saves a sinner, the Holy Spirit powerfully and efficaciously uses the law of God. to expose and convict him as a wretched, guilty, hell-bound sinner and drive him to Christ the Savior. I'm going to repeat that because I want you to get it. You may even want to write this down. This is huge. When God saves a sinner, the Holy Spirit Powerfully and efficaciously uses the law of God to expose and convict him as a wretched guilty, hellbound sinner, and drive him to Christ the Savior. Alright? So if you didn't get that, it will come up again throughout the message. Now, allow me to raise and answer and explore three questions. Three questions which flow from this statement. Number one, what do you mean by the law of God? What do you mean by that, Sam? The law of God. Number two, how does the Holy Spirit use the law of God in the salvation of the sinner? And number three, why should I care about any of this? Why should I care about any of this? Alright, so here we go. Question number one. What do you mean, Sam, by the law of God? By law, I mean the moral law of God. The moral law of God. All right, well what's that? What is this? moral law of God. The moral law of God is summarized in the Ten Commandments. So if you want to turn in your Bibles to Exodus 20, verses 1 to 17. We'll be looking at a few different scriptures in this message, but Exodus 20, 1 to 17, there we find the Ten Commandments. And these ten commandments are a summary of the moral law. So first we see commandment number one, you shall know other gods before me. That is, give to God what he deserves and is owed and is worthy of, and don't give that to any other. Or to put it another way, worship Yahweh, the true and living God, and only Him, no other God. Nobody else and nothing else should get your worship or your supreme love or your supreme devotion or your supreme obedience. Yahweh alone Commandment number two, you shall not make for yourself a carved image, or any likeness of anything that's in heaven above, that's in the earth beneath, or that's in the water under the water under the earth. You shall not bow down to them. or serve them. In other words, here's commandment number two. We are to worship Yahweh. Get this the right way. We are to worship Yahweh not in any way that we want. Not just however we feel like works for us. Not according to man's schemes or or his ideas. We are to worship Yahweh the way Yahweh says to worship him And this means in part we're not to worship him through pictures or idols or statues. Commandment number three, you shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain. Oftentimes we we think of this commandment vainly or lightly. And it's ironic because it has to do with that very thing. But the idea here is We are not to think about God or treat God or talk about God in a light and trivial way. Like he's just no big deal. Like he's just, ah, whatever. No, rather we're to think about God, speak about God, and treat God with reverence and honor, and we're to live like that. Commandment number four, remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. That is, honor the one day that God has set aside for himself. Do what he says on that day. Rest on this day and come together with the local church and worship him on this day. It's his. It's his day. Commandment number five, honor your father and your mother. That is, love and obey mom and dad. It's a great one for kids. Most of them are downstairs, though. But this also extends to all the authorities that God has established. We are to honor and submit to those authorities who are over us according to God, insomuch that they are being lawful and not going against God. Commandment number six, you see it there, you shall not murder. We are not, God says, here's the law, this is his command, we are not to unjustifiably harm others or take life. Well rather, we are to protect and preserve life. We are to work for the good of others. Commandment number seven, you shall not commit adultery. Here's what God is saying. Here's the law. All sexual activities occur only within the confines of a marriage. Moreover. A husband should be faithful to his wife, and a wife to her husband, as long as they both shall live. They ought not even lust after others, but stay wholly faithful to the marriage covenant. It's the law of God. Commandment number eight, you shall not steal, says God. The law, the commandment. We are not to take what is not lawfully and properly ours. We are to be thankful for what we have and give generously. Commandment number nine, you shall not bear false witness. Simply put, God is saying, commanding, we're not to lie about ourselves, we're not to lie about others. We are to tell the truth always. You know what the truth is? The truth is what really is. What really happened, how it really is when I'm training my son, catechizing my son, when we talk about the truth, I say, you say what really happened. You say what really is. Furthermore, we certainly shouldn't be aiming to bring down others by lying about them. Commandment number 10 You shall not covet. And notice, eventually God says, you shall not covet anything that is your neighbor 's That is, we are not to have, brothers and sisters, inordinate and desperate desires to have something that our neighbors got. We're not to be jealous. We're not to be angry at God because you know what? I'd like a little bit of what he's got. Rather, we're to be thankful to God for what we do have and content with his provision. Vision and plan. This is the moral law of God summarized. Moving along in Scripture, however, we find that the moral law is even further summarized by Jesus In Matthew 22, 37 to 40, Jesus says this. This is the moral law summarized. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart. And with all your soul and with all your mind, and you shall love your neighbor as yourself. That's the moral law of God summarized. Moreover, brothers and sisters, there's even more that we can say about the moral law as we search the Scripture. The moral law of God We ascertain from God's word is, first of all, rooted in the character of God. That is, it comes from God. And the law is what it is, because God is who He is. The law is what it is because God is who he is. Second of all, the moral law reflects and explains God's character. In other words, the moral law of God gives to us a better understanding of who God is and what he's like. More specifically, he is good and he is righteous. Third of all, because God is immutable, the moral law is immutable. It doesn't change. It can't change. It's constant. It remains the same And thus the standard and definition of righteousness and goodness can't and won't change. That's a word we need in our day. Fourth of all, the moral law of God teaches us what true goodness and righteousness are. How do we know what's good? How do we know what's right? How do we know how human beings made in the image of God are to live? The law of God. Fifth of all, the moral law of God is written on the heart of every human being. Romans 2, 14 to 15 makes this very clear. In other words, every single human being being made by God and in the image of God. And with God's moral law written on the heart, has some knowledge, dotained by the fall, but has some knowledge of this law. Every human being has some idea of what's right and wrong, some idea of how he or she ought to be living. They can't get away from that. They're made in the image of God with the law on their heart. Sixth of all, the moral law of God is over all men. It doesn't belong to any one covenant, and it's not just for some men, but not others. The moral law of God hangs over all men. In all places at all times. Let me put it this way. All men of all times in every place are under the moral law of God and should obey. And they're guilty if they do not. So, question number one then. What do you mean, Sam, by the law of God? Answer, I mean the moral law of God. And now, I hope we have a decent grasp of of this moral law of God. Let's move to question number two now. How does the Holy Spirit use the law in the salvation of the sinner? How does the Holy Spirit use The law, this moral law in the salvation of the sinner. I'm going to return to the statement I set forth earlier, and I bet you'll catch it. When God saves the sinner, The Holy Spirit powerfully and efficaciously uses the law of God to expose and convict the sinner. As a wretched, guilty, hell-bound sinner, and drive him to Christ the Savior Alright? So how does the Holy Spirit use the law in the salvation of the sinner? The Holy Spirit powerfully uses the law. He efficaciously uses the law. That means he'll do what he's doing. He'll accomplish what he's what he's after. He powerfully, he efficaciously uses that law to expose the sinner, to convict the sinner. That's what he really is. A wretched, guilty, hell-bound sinner. And then the Holy Spirit uses the law to drive that sinner to the only place of salvation, namely Jesus Christ. So, what we're considering right now is actually what's called the first use of the law. The first use of the law. You see, the law has three uses or purposes. The second use or purpose of the law, sometimes referred to as the civil use, is to restrain evil in society. The third use or purpose of the law, sometimes called the normative use, is to guide Christians in holy and righteous living that pleases God. To be sure that there's lots we could say about each one of these, and both are important. Christians, you ought to be familiar with both of those. However, it's the first use of the law that's most important. The first. The first use or purpose of the law, sometimes called the pedagogical use, pedagogical use. The first use is to expose and convict the sinner in his sin and drive him. To the Savior. That is, the moral law of God serves as a mirror to show sinful man what he is and the great trouble he's in before God. It's this first use of the law that's before us in this message. So, again, when God saves a sinner, The Holy Spirit powerfully and efficaciously uses the law of God to expose and convict him as a wretched, guilty, hell-bound sinner. and drive him to Christ the Savior. Now let me show you this from God's word. Go to Romans 3. Go to Romans 3. Let me show you this. Go to Romans 3, and we're going to look at verse 20. Romans 3 and verse 20. Romans 3. 20. Here's what Paul, inspired by the Holy Spirit, says. For by works of the law no human being will be justified in his sight, since through the law comes knowledge of sin. Now, by law here, Paul not only means the judicial and ceremonial law that the Jews were under in the old covenant, but also the moral law of God which all men are under. And notice, beloved, that Paul tells us here two things. First, he tells us what the law isn't, and then second, he tells us what the law is. What the law isn't, what the law is. First, let's consider what the la Isn't Notice, saints, what Paul says, here's what the law isn't. It isn't the way one is justified by God. You see that? It's not the way one is justified by God. By works of the law, says Paul, no human being will be justified in his sight. That is, God is not going to declare anyone righteous right with him in a good standing with him. He's not going to declare anyone righteous and give him or her eternal life on the grounds of his or her obedience to the law. God will not do that. He'll never do that. Well, why not? First of all, because God doesn't even offer a right standing with himself and eternal life by the law. He didn't even offer that. His only offer is in Christ. But second of all, even if he did. No one has, no one does, and no one will obey God's law. And thus you can and won't and wouldn't be justified thereby. Indeed, in the first few chapters of Romans, Paul makes this argument clearly and relentlessly and most powerfully. Everyone has and does break God's law and is in trouble with God. And therefore it needs Christ the Savior. Here's what Paul has said in the first few chapters of Romans. All men are made by God and for God, and owe to him honor and thanksgiving and worship. But no one does such or gives such to God. In fact, everyone, both Jews and Gentiles, sin against God. That is, they break his law. You realize when we're talking about sin, we're talking about lawbreaking. That's what sin is. You've gone against God, against his law. You've broken his commandments. When Adam, the first man, fell, Paul teaches us, all of humanity, Adam being their federal head, fell in him. In Adam's fall fell we all. And so all men come into this world guilty and corrupt. And this is why all men sin against God their Creator. All are corrupt sinners. Sinners by nature. The corrupt sinner can and doesn't and won't keep the law of God. He will and he does break the law. He will and he does sin. Paul says, even the Gentiles, even the pagans, they have some knowledge of God through his creation, and they have the moral law of God written on their hearts, and thus they have some knowledge of his God some knowledge of what's right and wrong and how they ought to be living, but they can and don't and won't keep the law of God. They sin. And Paul says, the Jews, they have the moral law of God set forth in writing, along with the ceremonial and judicial law which they were under in the old covenant. The Jews have the scriptures, God's word, God's special revelation. Yet they can and don't and won't obey God's law. They do and will break it. They do and will sin against God. Paul says, when it comes to the law, it's not merely about knowing what you ought to do. Who cares about just knowing it? Paul says, are you doing it? The Jews were not Paul says, because all men have sinned, that is, they've broken God's law, they're guilty. They're criminals. Not just criminals like in the highest sense of the court in the land. That would be a big deal. Criminals before God. They're guilty before God. They deserve to die as long as they remain as they are and die, they will. And so what sinful man needs , his only hope, his only escape, and his only option is the Lord Jesus Christ who saves sinners and makes them right with God. So, one of the main points from the first few chapters of Romans is this. Everyone's a sinner. Everyone has and does sin against God. And everyone has and does break God's law. Everyone. So no one then is going to get a good standing with God by keeping his law. Because no one has kept it. And no one does. No one will. Even if you could get a right standing with God by the law, you'd have to perfectly keep the law. God only accepts and he actually demands perfection, perfect righteousness. That's what he demands. That's the only thing he'll accept. Man is so far from doing such or being able to do such, I can hardly even articulate it. I read the other day. That the furthest star that we're aware of in the universe is some 28 billion light years away. 28 billion light years away. What does that number even look like? Listen , sinful man would sooner reach that star than he would keep God's law perfectly. So here's what the law's not. It's not the way to be justified. But second, here's what the law is. The text says, Romans 3. 20, look. For by works of the law no human will be justified in his sight. Since through the law comes knowledge. Of sin. Here's what the law is. The law is the exposer of sinners. Through the law comes the knowledge of sin. sin. Paul is saying the law of God, especially as set forth in the scriptures and as preached or declared, shows the sinner His sin and his guilt and his deserved condemnation and death. How does this work, you ask? Well, as the sinner is confronted with the law, he realizes from and by the law What it is that he's supposed to be doing. How he's supposed to be living. So the law is a teacher in a way, isn't it? It says you're to do this and this and this and you're not to do this and this and this. And so the sinner sees what it is he's supposed to be. What he's supposed to be doing. He's made aware that he should have no other gods except Yahweh. And that he shouldn't take God's name in vain, and he shouldn't steal, and that he shouldn't covet, and he shouldn't lie, and he shouldn't lust. And he should honor his father and mother. And then what happens? He realizes he doesn't do it. He doesn't do what God says to do, and he has done what God says don't do You know what the sinner realizes as he's confronted with the law of God? He realizes he's got a massive problem. His problem Is that he's a sinner who's broken God 's law. And therefore he's guilty. He's condemned. The law says you shall do this, and if you don't. You will die. And when the sinner is measured against the law, he says, I haven't done it. I'm gonna die. We also see this in Romans 7, 7 to 13. Go to Romans 7. Just a couple chapters over from where we were in chapter 3. Go to Romans 7. This is a longer text, but we see it here too. Romans 7, 7-13. What then shall we say? That the law is sin? By no means! Yet if it had not been for the law, I would not have known sin. For I would not have known what it is to covet if the law had not said, you shall not covet. But sin, seizing an opportunity through the commandment, produced in me all kinds of covetousness. For apart from the law, sin lies dead I was once alive apart from the law, but when the commandment came, sin came alive and I died. The very commandment that promised life proved to be death. to me for sin seizing an opportunity through the commandment to seize me and through it killed me to the law is holy and the commandment is holy and righteous and good Did that which is good then bring death to me? By no means. It was sin producing death in me through what is good, in order that sin might be shown to be sin, and through the commandment Might become sinful beyond measure. There's too much here to try to unpack fully, but notice what Paul says. He says the law of God's not the problem. When it comes to the sinner and the law of God, listen to me, the law's not the issue. But when man is measured against the law of God, know this: the law is good and righteous and holy. What's the problem? Man 's sin is the problem. We are sinners, is the problem. The law just exposes it. And so when the law comes to us and speaks to us and we are measured up against it, we are shown what? Or shown we have sinned. And not only that, but we can't stop sinning because we're sinners. Indeed, we are shown that we're sinful beyond measure. Romans 7. 13 You know what the law does? The law holds up a mirror. And it holds up a mirror and says to the sinner: look at yourself. Look at what you are. Look, you are ugly. You are a lawbreaker. You are wretched. You are a sinner. Look You do go after other gods. You do lust. You steal. You lie. You hurt others. You covet. You're sinful beyond measure. You're a sinner who has sinned. The law is almost like a bully in its first use saying, look, look at what you are. It rips off our mask. And shows us we are sinners who have sinned and we do not deserve life. The law, when it's over top of us, says you don't deserve to live. You're a guilty criminal who deserves to die. The law says, indeed, you deserve hell. I need to be clear here. Clear here. It is the Holy Spirit who so powerfully and efficaciously uses the law in this way in the salvation of the sinner. Go to John 16. John 16. John 16, and I'm looking at one verse, verse 8. John 16, 8. This is Jesus speaking. and he's speaking about the Holy Spirit. He says, when he comes, that's the Holy Spirit he's talking about, he, he will convict the world Concerning sin and righteousness and judgment. So notice what Jesus says here about the Holy Spirit. One of his jobs, one of his functions, one of the things he's going to be doing is convicting sinners of their sin. And how does the Holy Spirit do it? Pastor Matt touched on it earlier in the first talk. We know he uses his word, and one aspect of his word is the law of God. The Holy Spirit Is the one holding up the mirror of the law, exposing the sinner, showing him, look, look at you Look at what the law says. Look at what you owe God. Look at how you ought to live, but notice you haven't done it. You've broken this law And then what the Holy Spirit does as he shows the sinner his ugliness and drives him further and further into the dust, he opens his eyes. He opens his eyes to see it's me. I'm guilty. I'm the sinner. I'm gonna die. And it's at that moment when the sinner is brought to his knees in guilt and conviction by the law bearing down upon him. He has nothing to say, he has nowhere to go, he has only misery abounding. It's then That he will flee to Christ as the Holy Spirit presents him and shines the spotlight on him in and through the glorious gospel. You see, in the salvation of the sinner, the Holy Spirit uses the law of God to expose and convict the sinner, bring him low, but not just to leave him there. To then lift his chin up to see his only hope, the only way, the glorious Savior, the Lord Jesus. So, question number two. How does the Holy Spirit use the law of God in the salvation of the sinner? Here's the answer. The Holy Spirit powerfully and efficaciously uses the law of God to expose and convict the sinner. As a wretched, guilty, hellbound sinner, and drive him to Christ the Savior. Beloved, you can be sure of this. You can be sure Be sure of this. Wherever there is salvation, the Holy Spirit has been at work with the law of God to bring the sinner to the ground, to drag him through the mud, as it were. Only then To put him into Christ. The Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit is most powerful, most efficacious when he uses the law of God. God and the salvation of the sinner. But then, but then he applies that sweet that most healing balm of the gospel. First the Spirit says, look, sinner, look at what you are. But then he says, look. Look at this God man. Look at how he rescues those like you. Look at his robes of righteousness. Look at his blood shed for you. Come to him, the Spirit says, even now, and you will be saved. And then the Spirit irresistibly draws him in. I'll be talking about that more, though, in the second message. But praise God then. Praise God for the Holy Spirit. If the Holy Spirit did not use the law of God in this powerful and efficacious way, sinners would not see and know their sin and their guilt and their predicament in the true and right way, and they would never fly to Christ. Who is it that flings themselves upon Christ? Only those who see themselves as sinners. And it's the Holy Spirit who does that with the law. Question number three. Why should I care about any of this? Why should I care about any of this? I can think of a couple of answers. First of all, it might be that some of you have a wrong understanding of the law in here. I wonder if there's one in here who thinks it's by law-keeping or good works or religion that you're saved. And that's how you're going to enter into glory on the last day. I'm just going to try to keep the law. Friend, there are a lot of churches filled with people who think that way. And they're all wrong. Haven't you seen this day, even, that the law can't save you? Listen to me, friend, in here, if you're relying on the law for salvation, you would make a ladder of sand and climb it to the moon before the law could save you. You would sooner walk upon the sun than your good works or obedience get you into heaven. The law can't save you. The law, on the contrary, exposes you and convicts you for what you really are. A desperate and guilty sinner heading for eternal death. The law is meant in part to send you running to Christ, not your good works, not your religion, to Christ. For it is Christ that saves, and it is Christ that you need, and on whom you must rest all your faith. hope for salvation. Second of all, you should care about this because this is how you were saved. Christian, this is how you were saved. Brother or sister. You threw yourself upon Christ the Savior in faith and in him have been saved to the uttermost because the Holy Spirit opened your eyes to your sin. He showed you that you're a dead man walking, you lawbreaker, you. And then he showed you Christ and drove you to him. He did that. Your faith in Christ is ultimately because the Holy Spirit did that. Third of all, you should care about this because the Holy Spirit still works this way in us and with us. Listen, brethren, one of the things the Spirit still does with the law of God, as it is read and declared and preached, is this. He keeps us, he keeps us Christians constantly looking to and clinging to Jesus Christ. He reminds us, this is what the Spirit's doing to the proclamation of God's word, including the proclamation of the law. One of the things the Spirit is doing is look , Look at what you are apart from Christ. Look at what would be of you if it wasn't for Christ. You're done for apart from Christ. So keep clinging to him. Keep looking to him Keep abiding in him. The Spirit's doing that work. It's as if he's hurting all of us constantly towards Christ, towards Christ, towards Christ. So the Spirit then is constantly pointing us to Christ. And one of the ways he'll do it is by the preached law. When we're reminded, man, if I try to live by the law, I'm going to die. I have no hope. I need Christ. And so again, we're looking. Moreover, the Holy Spirit uses the law of God in the Christian to convict us , convict us of our sins, to move us to confess them to God and repent. The Holy Spirit will use the law of God to show us, oh man, I haven't been faithful here. I need to go to God and confess in order to be cleansed and forgiven and restored. I need to repent. Did you know that the Holy Spirit works this way with the law? I wonder if this will change how you read Scripture or how you hear sermons when you know the Spirit is at work in this way. Fourth of all, and I'm wrapping up, you should care about this because it has to do with evangelizing correctly. You know, I've noticed that in evangelicalism in recent times, the law of God has lost any kind of prominent place. This is not good for multiple reasons. But I've also noticed that when it comes to evangelizing, there are some within evangelicalism claiming we shouldn't really bring the law of God into the picture with the unbeliever. And we shouldn't try and make them feel bad about sin, etc. etc. Saints, let me just say this is horrible theology and this is dangerous theology. And we should refute such thinking and teaching. Beloved, listen to me. If the sinner isn't made aware of his sin, if the lawbreaker isn't shown to be a lawbreaker, will he throw himself upon the savior of lawbreakers? Of course he will. Indeed, let me tell you this. Where there's no sight of sin, there's no sight of the Savior. And when sin is seen as just a small thing, then Christ will be seen as just a small Savior. Dear Saints, we ought not hide the law from the sin. When we're evangelizing, but let us put the law of God before the sinner. Declare the law of God to the sinner, knowing that the Spirit of God uses the law to drive those sinners to Christ. You see, we want the sinner to see what he really is, a hell-bound sinner, because then we declare to the sinner, look, there's good news. In other words, we must make a big deal about the law and sin and our evangelizing, otherwise, our good news isn't really that good. We must make a big deal about the law in sin in order to present Christ as the most glorious Savior. And so, saints, let us do just that And we'll trust God to do his work, the work only he can do. The Spirit of God uses the law powerfully and efficaciously to expose and convict the sinner. That he is in fact a hellbound, wretched, guilty sinner. And then the Spirit drives him to Christ. Let's pray Father, I thank you for your word. I thank you for the law. The law of God. Yes, it teaches. and it guides us. Yes, it restrains evil in the society, but Lord, the first use of the law and what your Holy Spirit does with it, it is to drive us to Christ. to expose and convict and then push us into the Savior. Lord, we thank you that you've done this work in us Even now we have been irresistibly drawn into Christ as we've seen our sin, and you're still doing this work, constantly giving us fresh glimpses of the Savior as you use The law. Father, I pray that we now would be contemplating and meditating deeply upon these things. And then bless us as we go into the next message. It's in Christ's name. Amen.