Did everybody get a handout? Because you need it. And so also if if people come late, and people usually do come late, make sure they get one. We've been doing an introduction to the Bible. And I want to review. Today, ultimately, what we'll be in is an introduction to the Pentateuch, looking at Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy, the five books of the law, or also called the Pentateuch. And we'll be looking at the historical setting of each of those books And also we'll be looking at the story of each of those books. The basic Simple story of each of those books and historical setting at the beginning, the historical setting at the end. But first, let's review some of the things we did last week. We started with an overview of the Bible. So help me, and I'm not sure if all of you were here for this part. Help me reconstruct or recreate the diagram from last week, which I was trying to give us an easy way to understand the whole story of the whole Bible. Which is also an easy way to remember the whole story of the whole Bible. Let's start with the book ends of Scripture, the two bookends of the story, and I'll give you a hint. Since I know from experience it's hard to get the wheels turning on Sunday morning. I'll give you a hint. Letter C. Alright, what are the bookends of the Bible story? Creation is the first bookend, Genesis one and two And then what's the second book end? The end of Revelation. It's parallel to this. The new creation. Yeah. Now I don't think You can get simpler than that. I don't think you can get easier to remember than that. And the nice thing is that's not a contrived idea. That literally is the beginning of the Bible, the story of creation, and the end of the Bible, the full new creation. You always have to put an asterisk on new creation. Because the book end at the end of the story, at the end of the Bible, is the fullness of the new creation. What we would call the consummation of the new creation. But the asterisk is because in Christ the new creation has already dawned. In his resurrection, we see the dawn of the new creation. And then when we are united to him , When we are filled with his spirit, we belong to the new creation. And that's Christian living. We live in the old creation, which has fallen to sin and death, but we are citizens of the new creation. We do, in the Spirit, belong to the new creation as well. And that's why this Christian living is always a battle. The spirit within us, but then also the flesh within us, and we're living as citizens of heaven, but on earth in the old creation. And then right at the middle, the hinge point The Hing 's point, the climax of the story, the most important point of the story, right in the middle, is what? Christ. Yes. That's the best summary. It's the Old Testament idea, Messiah, which uh is Christ from the Greek word. Christ and we know I'm looking at everybody in this room and I know the knowledge that you have and your discipleship. You know that this is shorthand for the incarnation of Christ and the work of Christ and then also the pouring out of the Spirit. So you have creation to new creation. The hinge point is the first coming of Christ and all that that involves and two major divisions of this story. Here and the obvious hint for that is the two major divisions or the two major sections in the Bible are what? One's here, one's here Old and new, right? Old covenant, new covenant, or old testament, new testament, or Israel as a geopolitical nation Under the old covenant, but now Israel as a spiritual nation under the new covenant with the nations grafted in This was a geopolitical nation under the old covenant in the midst of the nations. That's what you have in the Old Testament, a world full of corrupt nations and corrupt kings and idolatry. Just unhinged, a world in darkness, a world uh in judgment against sin, a world under the dominion of Satan. In the midst of that, you have one earthly nation, one geopolitical nation set apart under the old covenant, Israel. But the new covenant is a different covenant, a different kind of covenant. It's a spiritual redemptive covenant. It's not a geopolitical nation. You have Israel under the new covenant, spiritual Israel, with the Gentiles grafted in. And this whole story This whole story is the story of judgment and the story of redemption. The story of judgment and the story of redemption. It begins with the covenant with Adam. It begins with the age of innocence. Adam and Eve in Eden, they violate the law. So God comes down. And there's judgment, but there's also the promise of redemption. Genesis 3. 15. And from Genesis 3. 15, you have the story of historical judgments, the story of historical redemption, and all of its progressing All of it's progressing, all of it's moving forward, but it's also looking forward to the final judgment and to the final salvation. So you have the story of judgment, the story of redemption or salvation, which comes to its culmination. And this will happen at the return of Christ. So I think that's a simple way to remember what the whole Bible is about. Creation to new creation. In Christ, through Christ, by Christ, for Christ, whatever whatever positive preposition you want to put on, it's all about Christ. All of this is God showing forth his glory and grace in Christ, that he would be worshipped and praised forever. And the two major divisions, Old Covenant, New Covenant , what we've been begun to do in this class. And what I'm going to continue to try to do is look into this story. based on the arrangement of the Bible. And so if you now if we turn to our handout, the first week we did A summary of the historical context of the Old Testament and the New Testament. And you see in red what we looked at the first week. See it in red and italics where the Old Testament moves from a creation to around 430 BC. And 430 BC would have been the time of Malachi 's ministry. That's uh an estimate. We don't know exactly when Malachi 's ministry, also Nehemiah's ministry, we don't know exactly when they ended. But we do have from Nehemiah 13. 6, we have a historical reference point, Nehemiah's last visit to Persia. was around 433 or 432. That's using the text of Nehemiah 13. 6 in conjunction with historical records. And this is where the Old Testament Ends around 430 BC. The story moves from Eden to the restored Judah under Persian rule. If you want to remember in a simple way and in a meaningful way, where the story of the Old Testament ends, it ends with Restored Judah under Persian rule or Persian dominion. And what does that mean? Well remember, Judah is the southern kingdom, and it primarily included The tribe of Judah, but also the tribe of Benjamin, and also some others from some of the other tribes, but mainly it was Judah and Benjamin, that's the southern kingdom. Because of their wickedness and idolatry, they were sent into Exile at the hand of what kingdom and what king? Do you remember? That was the northern kingdom. Judah was exiled by Babylon and King Nebuchadnezzar was the first was the first. He's the one who did it. Nebuchadnezzar. And then God promised he would restore them after 70 years. And God restores Judah And all this is told in the prophets and in the historical books. This is the story. Judah is restored and They are still under Persian rule. When you get to the New Testament, Judah has Shrunk a lot, and in the New Testament it's called Judea. And Judea is that Roman province. It is now a Roman province. So it's the restored Judah that had shrunk no longer under Persian rule. You went Persian rule and then Greek rule and then Roman rule. If you want your study on that, Daniel chapter 2, right? Daniel chapter 2. So, restored Judah under Persian rule. Do you remember? If you weren't here last week, eventually I'll get the video posted from last week when we went through the Old Testament section by section. the Pentateuch, the historical books, uh Poetry and Wisdom, and then the prophets. The end of the story is always, the end of the story is always, except for the Pentateuch, um Restored Judah under Persian dominion. It's a really big deal. That's the historical context because Israel, though they had been restored in an earthly way, a provisional way, they were still waiting for the ultimate restoration. They were waiting for the Savior. They were waiting for His kingdom, the Kingdom of God. They also were awaiting because of the word of God, the forerunner of the kingdom, the prophet, the last prophet, the forerunner of Christ's coming. And that was prophesied, Malachi. And who's the one who fulfilled that prophecy? John the Baptist. John the Baptist. Right. That's why. The New Testament starts with John the Baptist, not just Jesus, but John the Baptist. So, and then Pentateuch Or the law, which also is Torah, means the same thing. Laws is the English word for Torah. The law of God, the principles of God. This is a very broad meaning, it's not just legislation. It's more than that. It's principles. It's it's ethics. The law also includes promises of a savior. Looks forward, prefigures the savior. From creation to fourteen oh six BC. From creation to fourteen oh six BC moves from Eden, obviously, if that's where the Bible starts and The Pentateuch is the first book of the Bible. They start in the same place. But the law ends with Israel on the plains of Moab, which is really cool. And not just the geography of it, although that too is cool, but the significance of it, they're on the threshold of the promised land They were exiled or they were in Egypt. They were redeemed from Egypt. They were given the law at Mount Sinai. Forty years in the wilderness, camping, traveling up through the wilderness. Um forty years because of God's judgment and discipline on them. And as the Pentateuch ends, they're right on the border. They're right on the threshold of crossing the Jordan into the promised land. That's the first thing that happens. When you get into the historical books in Joshua, that's what happens. The year is 1406. I do have um a little bit of the background of how we get these dates. Um these ones are not too controversial with the uh the four thirty BC being the end. Of the Old Testament era and this 1406 of entering the Promised Land Um those are not too controversial. You'll see slightly different ones because they're all estimates, even though they are rooted in what we know of history. In relation to what the Bible teaches. You have both of those at play here. The further back you go in history, the more controversial it gets. But We can with with a good confidence say that it's right around 1406 BC where the Pentateuch ends and Israel is on the plains of Moab Right at the Jordan, right across from what city? Jericho. Jericho. Yeah, and they'll say that over and over. When you read the story, it makes a point to make sure you say that. It says that over and over. And then Israel will be on the plains of Moab. If you want to know from within the Pentateuch when they get there, it's from Numbers 22. Through all of Deuteronomy. Numbers 22, 1, they arrive there. And then they're there all the way until you get into Joshua when they cross over. That's the Pentateuch. So that's the Old Testament, which goes from creation to 430. The Pentateuch, which goes from creation to 1406 Um now what I want to do for the rest of our time, as much as we can get through, is look at each book, where it begins, where it ends, and then The basic story. You'll see in Genesis there's two basic stories and we have to I'm gonna do that just for Genesis, not for the other ones. And you'll see why when we get there. But be before we go any further, are there any Questions on the review? I should have left that drawing up there for the whole review. I'm sorry I didn't. Any questions on the review? I have a note here under the profits. wrote it out inaccurately. It says return to what under rule four thirty BC under the prophets, but I think that might be wrong. The prophets is actually outside Well the prophets begins before that. The prophets the writing prophets begin in the mid seven hundreds. Mid seven hundreds. Yeah. And there's multiple prophets at that time. Jonah, Hosea, Amos, Isaiah. Um Micah, I believe. Yeah. Was it Moses? Yeah. Moses was the prophet, yeah, the archetypal prophet. Yeah. Yeah, well, and Abraham's called a prophet too. Abraham's called a prophet. But we were yeah, that's absolutely true. But we were talking like within the history of the nation under the law. So yeah, definitely Moses was a prophet. Moses was a unique figure because he functioned as a priest. He functioned as a redeemer figure. He was a he was a mediator of the covenant. He was called a prophet. Again, Abraham was called a prophet, for sure. But once you get into the story of Israel under the monarchy, you have prophets. Before the seven hundreds, if you you go and read um first second Samuel, first second Kings, you have prophets. uh emerge and their ministry gets more and more prominent, especially with what two famous figures? Does the does the ministry of the prophet become extremely important? Elijah and Elisha. But they weren't they don't have a book in the Bible. So that's why I said the writing prophets begin in the mid-700s, and the story goes through Malachi to around 430, maybe 400. B C yup, yep, yep, yep. The more I've Tried to discipline myself on faithfully, faithfully reading all of the historical document historical books and all of the prophets as part of my personal devotion, the more I Uh I'm interested in these dates and contexts. What it's done is helped me understand the story better. It helps me understand the context. And understanding the context Helps me improve, at least in theory, right, Neil? Helps me improve in interpretation and application. So that I'm not just plucking stuff out of its context and using it however I want to use it. So that's why I've gotten more concerned and what's happened is I've worked these things more and more into my teaching to help understand And help get a a better lens of what's going on here. Where is it happening? When is it happening? What is God doing? What's the whole point? It's just helped me to fit things together better. Because there's so much information in here. I mean, there's so much information, especially if you try to go through the monarchy itself. And all the different kings, kings of the north, kings of the south. Uh-oh, and all the turnover there. So the broad strokes I can remember. I can remember that the Old Testament ends with restored Judah under Persian dominion I I can remember that. I can remember things like the Pentateuch ends with Israel on the plains of Moab, right across right against the Jordan on the threshold of the promised land. Like I can remember and it helps me track the story Alright, ready to go to Genesis where it begins? This will probably be the biggest uh nerd out section of teaching that I've ever done. We're gonna look at we're gonna talk about some dates, look at some Bible references from those dates. I'm sure you're gonna have more questions than we'll have time to ask and that I don't off offhand have the answer to, although there's a good chance I have access to it or have notes on it somewhere. What I want to do is Within this section of Genesis, um give an anchor point, at least an anchor point starting point For the dating of some of these events that we've been talking about. But first, let's get through the basics of Genesis. It begins at creation and the story of man's innocence in Eden. I'm going to give you a date for that. And later on in the section, I'll just show you where I get that from. Just so if you disagree with it or want to give me a counter-argument, you can't do that unless you know what my argument is. So uh it's around roughly around 4092 BC. 4092 BC. I I'll come back to the to the anchor point. I'll come back to where that comes from. Don't get hung up on it. Around four thousand ninety two BC. Um it ends with Israel Being brought into Egypt. Now, isn't that interesting? Exodus is the story of Israel being brought out of Egypt. Over and over you'll see in the book of Exodus, I'll bring you out, I'll bring you out, I'll bring you out, I'll bring you out. That's what the word Exodus me Is the printing out Genesis ends with Israel brought into Egypt in eighteen seventy-six, eighteen seventy-six BC. And there are Bible verses for these dates. I keep reminding you of that. Bible verses I'll come back to. Israel brought into Egypt, and that was in fulfillment of a prophecy God made to whom? That they would be brought into a nation and enslaved for four hundred and thirty years. Abraham, yeah. 430 years total, enslaved and oppressed for 400 years. Correction. Yeah, God prophesied that to Abraham. Now for Genesis I have two stories, a story A and a story B. And because In Genesis, you get the whole story of the whole earth and all of history and all of the universe set in motion So that's the big story, but then you have the story within the story, which is the story of Israel. So the story A of the world and man is the basic story of the Bible. Creation fall redemption. Creation fall redemption The story is set in motion in the book of Genesis. You begin with creation, it's all good Is perfect and man is good and man is holy and man is innocent, but then you have the temptation and the sin and the preliminary judgment and the foreshadowing of judgment. But you also have in Genesis 3. 15. Let's look at that. We'll that'll be our first verse we look at today. Genesis 3. 15, where the story of redemption Is set in motion. Before Genesis 3, you don't have sin, so you don't need re to be redeemed from sin. But once you have sin at the beginning of Genesis 3, now you have this promise. Of a savior where God tells the devil, I will put enmity, which is a severe hatred and intense conflict. I'll put enmity between you and the woman And between your offspring and her offspring, and he shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. So that'll be an offspring of the woman that will Ultimately defeat Satan and reunite sinners with God. Who's the one who does that? Christ. Right. An offspring of the woman, which means a human being, who will defeat Satan. And reunite sinners with God. This is the first promise of the gospel. And the rest of the scripture just traces out how God fulfills that promise, and it's ultimately fulfilled in Christ. So the story A, which is the story that begins in Genesis, it's mapped out in Genesis, and the rest of the Bible fleshes out this story. Is creation, fall , redemption. Some people will put a fourth point on that. I don't disagree with it. And they'll say creation, fall, redemption, and then consummation. Right, which right now by redemption they mean the history of redemption in this age By consumation they mean that um eternal state after the return of Christ. That's fine. I you know you've heard enough of my preaching to know I Believing that. I preach that all the time. Maybe even in an unbalanced way, preaching about that eternal state. Creation, fall, redemption, and then consummation. It's just a tad simpler Creation fall redemption and also technically the consummation is the redemption. It's part of the redemption itself. So I just include the consummation within the story of redemption. And that helps me, you know, I love three-point sermons and three-point everything. Creation, fall, redemption. It's just easier for me to remember. And I know that at the end of the redemption There'll be a final judgment, a final redemption, and the eternal state of glory. Now, as God begins to fulfill that promise of a Savior , In history, moving toward that savior, you have one major storyline that emerges. In Genesis 12, there's important stuff that happens before that, but this is a summary, all right? This is an overview. That emerges with the call of Abraham And the testing of Abraham, the promises to Abraham, and ultimately we say the covenant with Abraham. So we know that so here's story B, the story within the story, the story of the nation of Israel. We would say Abraham was promised a nation, and from that nation a savior of the world. That's my summary for story B. Abraham was promised a nation. And from that nation, a savior of the world. Now, is there more to this to the story of Abraham? Yes. Absolutely. There's lots of details, but that's the broad strokes. And that's what happens. Because from Abraham will come Isaac, from Isaac will come Jacob. God changes Jacob's name to Israel and his sons and grandsons become the nation, Israel, and then from Israel comes the Savior of the world, Jesus. That's the Bible. That's the story of the Bible. So Abraham has promised a nation, and from that nation will come a savior of the world. Let's look at Genesis 12, 1 to 3. Genesis 12, 1 to 3, the call of Abraham. The Abraham narrative, this is good for you to know in your devotions, says Genesis 12 to 22 Genesis 12 to 22. So if you want to take a week and just say, you know what, I just want to grow deeper in my understanding of God's dealings with Abraham. Genesis twelve to twenty-two is where you want to be. It'll keep you busy, man. Genesis will keep you busy. These books of the Pentateuch are not small. And you get these long narrative stories. It's not like the Gospels where in just one open, you know, one open page of your Bible and the Gospels, you can have anywhere from six to ten different stories, little different episodes of a miracle and a teaching or a parable or a he a healing or something like that. But these nar most of the narratives here are really big and really cool. So Genesis 12, 1 to 3. Can someone read that for us, please? Now the Lord said to Abram, Go from your country and your kindred and your father's house to the land that I will show you, and I will make of you a great nation and I will I will bless you and make your name great so that you will be a blessing. show you I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you I will curse. And in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. Thank you. So first comes the nation, verse 2, I'll make you a nation, a great nation But then the end of this, the terminus, the terminal point, is going to be through Abraham, in Abraham, all the families of the earth shall be blessed. Now got to be it's so hard to do this because I like getting into the details and the context. But what you have right before Genesis 12 is Genesis 10 and 11, which is the story of the nations. It's the story of how the world became populated with nations. All of these nations are sinful nations. It's a world covered in rebellion and idolatry, violence, sexual immorality. And in that context, Genesis ten to eleven In that kind and now you still have the background of God's promise, you still have the background of the gospel, and y you have believers because you have Melchizedek as an example, probably Job as an example. So there's more to the story than that, but that's the general Picture. That's the world. And then in the context of a world covered in darkness and sinful nations, God calls Abraham. God calls Abraham. And most scholars put Um the place of Abram 's calling in southern Iraq, Ur of the Chaldees, they put in southern Iraq, all like almost to Kuwait. And he's going to travel all the way over to the promised land. And God, in the midst of a world covered in sinful nations, God will turn Abraham into a great nation, a holy nation, a con a nation under God's law, consecrated unto God, and that nation is to be a light in the midst of darkness and from that nation will come a savior. And when that savior comes, he'll bring salvation to the world to cover the world in repentance and true worship. Truly a fascinating story. Excuse me. Yes, sir. You mean Israel wasn't started as a nation until after the promise to give it to Abraham? Israel did not become a nation technically until Mount Sinai, when they were given the law and then given the land. To be to have their own land and their own law, their own constitution. Right. They were a people They were a people group in Egypt when you have uh Jacob 's Israel's sons and their families, and in Egypt is where they experienced astounding growth. God grew them into a multitude when they were in Egypt in bondage, enslaved to Egypt, and God redeemed them from Egypt and made them into a nation. Oh weren't weren't they called Israelites? Were they were in Bible? Hebrews. Hebrews? Hebrews. And Israelites, yeah, in terms of their lineage. Um right, but they had to be made into a nation. And that com that that comes from the prophets. If you do a Google search, I hate saying that, but the uh some of the AI on these search engines is is really good. Do a Google search for Bible verses Where God formed Israel. And a lot of verses from the prophets And other books will come up where God reminds his people that he formed them into a nation. He made them into a nation. And then what's the tragedy of the story? They rebel against him and serve other gods. But it's a great question. And one of the things your question reminds me of, which is such an important principle of the Bible's story It progresses from stage to stage. It doesn't all happen at once. There is no nation of Israel at the time of Abram's call. But in fulfillment of his promise to Abram, he makes Abram into a great nation. That's what he says, verse 2. All right, let's look so let's look at some historical points. To date these things in the Old Testament or anywhere in the Bible, you need to use knowledge we have from world history. And also Bible verses that they don't the Bible doesn't give us the literal dates, but the Bible will relate its events to events in the world. And there's a lot of those. This isn't a lecture on that point. If this were a lecture on that point, we could go through a lot of examples. But you have these historical anchor points where we can get a general date from history. To start us off. And just use one example, right? One example of uh King Shishak of Egypt is the last person you expected to hear about today, right, Jeremiah? King Shishak of Egypt raided Canaan and raided the temple in Jerusalem. And um World history, historical studies, historical records, archaeological records estimate that this was in 925 BC. Again, that comes from history. So I'll just put She Shack around Nine twenty-five BC. And that'd be a anchor point, a historical anchor point. Now, just for time, and we're not going to turn here, but this is important so you can check this out later. 1 Kings 14, 25 to 26. First Kings fourteen, twenty five to twenty six Tells us that this event happened five years after Rehoboam's reign Alright. So the see the intersection? You have the historical anchor point. And then you come to the Bible. The Bible talks about the same thing. And the Bible doesn't give us the date, but the Bible puts but the Bible locates it in reference to other things. So if this happened five years after Rehoboam began to rain. When did Rehoboam begin to rain? Remember it's BC, see 930. 930. Right. So these are two of the big ones. That may seem obscure, but this is one of the major anchor points for dating the Old Testament And some people will say 926. All right. That's why I have the C here. It's circa. There is a general consensus on the studies and evidence for this. And we have, again, for time's sake, you can go Google, let's just Google it. The Bible teaches us that Before Rehoboam, Solomon reigned for 40 years. Before Solomon, somebody else reigned for 40 years, who was that? David, and before David, someone else reigned for forty years. Saul. So there's Bible verses for all of those. They reigned for forty years. And so you basically you can do the math in your head. Saul rain from 1050 to ten ten. David reigned from ten ten to nine seventy And Solomon reigned from 970 to 930. Rehoboam began to reign in 930. Immediately the kingdom was split. And Rehoboam is reigning in the south. And what wicked, wicked idolater is reigning in the north? Jeroboam. Jeroboam. That's not be nine set ninety-seven nine seventy. Alright. So you see how that works? History And Bible and I know I didn't show you the verses, but there are verses for each of these reigns. I will, trust me, because I got a lot of stuff to get through. What about those other tribes that didn't Uh Arnt Reuben and not Rubin. Benjamin and Judith. Are they still mixed into the Persian guys that come back Or are they gone? Like all the gym. Um 'cause we have thankfully we have lots of text Texts on the exiles themselves and lots of texts on the return of the exiles. A lot a lot. Some of those texts on the return of the exiles is more detailed and deeper than I would like because they're difficult. There's I mean there's a lot of info there. But it's a great question. And it is part of the story. Understanding um understanding the nature of the returned exiles and what all happened because the promises are all to them that the Savior would come to Israel and bring a new covenant to Israel and reunite the north and the south under one head, and that one head is Christ. By the way, this is all the way the The book of Acts begins is these promises being fulfilled in Christ. Salvation to the South Judah, salvation to Samaria. The lost sheep of Israel and the house of Judah being brought together, and then once that happens through the first eight or nine chapters of Acts Then the gospel goes to the Gentiles, and the Gentiles are grafted into the restored Israel. It's a really cool story. Next verse, which is another important verse, is 1 Kings 6. 1 I do I think I I'm having fun with this. I do want to look at this one. First Kings six one Again, this is one this is one of the major verses for dating these things. This one is the this one, 1 Kings 6 1, is the verse for dating the Exodus. This is the verse for dating the Exodus. First Kings 6:1. In the 480th year, after the people of Israel came out of the land of Egypt. What event is that talking about? The Exodus. In the fourth year of Solomon's reign over Israel. This is uh dot dot dot you can read the rest of the verse. This is the beginning of when the temple was built. That's why he's dating it, because this is a really big deal. The temple was construction or excavation on the temple began in the fourth year of Solomon's reign, which would have Someone said it, 966. And we know that nine sixty-six is four hundred and eighty years after the exodus, so we know the exodus. Now remember we're BC, so we're going backwards here. Four hundred and eighty years before Is 1446. Alright, fourteen forty-six. We know they were in the wilderness for how many years? Forty five. Forty. So what year did they enter the promised land? Fourteen oh six. Fourteen oh six. They entered the promised land. And there's some other things we know in there. as well. Uh but that's the that's the scope. So you have First Kings dating, First Kings dating. We know from Scripture I'll give you the verse on this, but we won't look at it. We know from Scripture that they were in Egypt for 430 years. That's I believe that's Exodus 1240, but I do want to double check it. We're not reading it, but let me double check that. Exodus 1240. The time, yeah, I guess we will read it. The time that the people of Israel lived in Egypt was 430 years. So If the Exodus was in 1446 and they were in Egypt for 430 years, when did they when were they brought into Egypt? Eight seven six. Eight seven six, yeah, eighteen good, eighteen seventy six. That was pretty good, man. Even though it is on the handout. It is. So at the end of Genesis , end of Genesis eighteen seventy-six, they're brought into Egypt. That's where Exodus picks up. Exodus picks up in that date. Very quickly it'll flash forward. And you're in 1446. And that's the date of the Exodus. And then exactly one year one year later The tabernacle was completed and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. And then that's where the book of Numbers will pick up. So, does the concept make sense? Date from history? You intersect it with the way the Bible dates things. And the next ones I'm going to give you for your own study. I do actually want to do a class on this in the future. Just don't have time for it today. But I'll give you Some more verses. And these verses together, if you do the math backward from this Gives you give like it'll give you an estimate of the date of the flood, estimate date of Noah's call, estimate date of when Adam was born, which would have been Adam was born In creation, on the days of creation. So that that's the only way we can come up with an estimate biblical view of the date of creation, an anchor point date from history Which here is Sheesh 's raid and then specific, specific, detailed statements from the Bible that relate these events to each other. So The genealogy in Genesis five, all right , and the genealogy in Genesis eleven Then after that, three specific verses. My marker is running out. Genesis five, Genesis eleven, the genealogies, and then Genesis twenty-one five. Genesis twenty five nineteen to twenty one And then Genesis 47, 27 to 28. Now, the way you would want to do it is you have to work backwards. You need a calculator, you need the text of scripture, probably a notepad, unless you have a great and advanced mind and memory. But you would work backwards. From this here, here, here, here, and here doing the math Now aside from the details, what's the important thing? The important thing is to remember that the Bible tells the story of history It's not a collection of myths. It's not a collection of fairy tales. It's recording history. And in the ways appropriate to the ancient to that ancient culture, to the ancient people It's recording and dating these events. And so when we take that in conjunction with What we have is the knowledge of history and the way we date things. You look at them together, we can arrive at dates that line up with the way we think about history and we think about the world. But the Bible is a real story. The story of divine revelation. The story of God appearing to man, communicating to man, uh working out his will and purpose. Historical judgments, historical redemption of his people Israel, the giving of the law, the promises of the gospel, the tracking out of where the Savior will come from. He'll be born in Bethlehem, born to a virgin in Bethlehem in the days of the Roman Empire, all of those are prophecies. So the Bible is history. It's history of God's plan and purpose being worked out on earth. And to me that's interest interesting. So I challenge you when you can. You know where 1876 comes from, all this. So now just just make this your anchor point and work backward through the way the Bible dates things and let me know where you get. Now let's fast track this thing. I do want to get through as much as I can back to the sheet. Now it should go a little quicker now that you know where I where at least I'm getting my anchor point dates from. Exodus begins in 1876. And what you get at the beginning of Exodus is a summary of Israel being brought into Egypt. The book of Exodus ends. Israel is at Mount Sinai. Israel is at Mount Sinai. Um they're not j just coming out of the Red Sea. They come out of the Red Sea like chapter fourteen, something like that Song of Redemption, chapter 15. They're at Mount Sinai, and it actually is 1445 when Exodus ends. One year after the Exodus is when the book of Exodus ends. They're at Mount Sinai. They have just completed the temple or the tabernacle. Which is a portable temple, a model of heaven, a living illustration of redemption. The glory of God fills the tabernacle. 1445, Exodus ends. And what's the story of Exodus? It's the story of Israel's redemption and receiving the law. Redemption and law. There you go. Three words. Redemption and law. Israel is redeemed and they receive the law. They're made into a nation. They're brought into a covenant relationship with God. Leviticus. Leviticus begins right where Exodus ends. Mount Sinai 1445. Uh your verse for that twenty seven thirty-four. This is all revelation that happens. To Moses while they're still encamped at Mount Sinai. 2734 And they'll leave Mount Sinai later that year. So that's how we know that all of Leviticus is given. This book is given. It begins and ends at the same place in the same time. Mount Sinai 1445. And what is the story? Well, it's not really a story, but what Leviticus is, is the ceremonial law and the call to holiness. The ceremonial law and the call to holiness. So ceremonial law means the food laws, it'll mean laws pertaining to cleanness. So, like laws um like uh laws having to do with skin diseases and leprosy. It'll be the laws for the various kinds of sacrifices. Laws for the priesthood. It's the ceremonial law and the call to holiness. Love your neighbor as yourself is in Leviticus. That's part of the call to holiness. It's not just the ceremonial law. There's an ethical and moral component to it. The book of Numbers begins at 1445 at Mount Sinai. It begins right where Leviticus picks up, or just in conjunction with Leviticus. 1445, Mount Sinai. One of my favorite things about Numbers is it's the book of Numbers. Where Israel leaves Mount Sinai. They leave Mount Sinai. Pretty sure that's chapter 10. Right in the middle. You double check me on that. They leave Mount Sinai um d twenty I think it's twenty days after The completion of the of the tabernacle. Now let me check that. Since I said it out loud, I'm on record, and this is being recorded. Let me ch Let me check it. Uh numbers 11 No, no, no. Okay, so no here you go for the nerds out there. Numbers 1-1, Numbers picks up a month after the tabernacle's complete. It's my personal view that that's when Leviticus was revealed at some point during that month, but I won't die on that hill. And then it's 20 days after that where they leave Mount Sinai. Um numbers ends on the plains of Moab fourteen oh six. I've said that a hundred times in the past two two weeks Numbers ends Israel on the plains of Moab 1406. What's the significance of Plains of Moab? Threshold of the Promised Land. Threshold of the Promised Land. Numbers what's the story of Numbers? It tells of Israel's testing and discipline in the wilderness. Israel's testing and discipline in the wilderness It's interesting if you look that up, you look up Bible verses on Israel's testing in the wilderness, you'll get verses not from Numbers, but you'll get verses from other books that look back on Numbers. And interpret to us the significance of that time. And what they say is God was testing you to find out what was in your heart, to see whether you would obey him or not. It's a time of testing and discipline in the wilderness. Deuteronomy begins and ends, 1406, planes of Moab. You guys are going to be seeing Plains of Moab in your dreams. 1406 begins and ends. What is Deuteronomy? Deuteronomy is the expounding of the law. And the call to covenant faithfulness. The expounding of the law and the call to covenant faithfulness. The reading of the law, the teaching of the law, the explaining of the law, the applying of the law, the applying of its warnings. And cursings, curses, the applying of its promises and blessings. It's the expounding of the law of God and a call to covenant faithfulness. And right at the core of that, right at the foundation, the center of that call to faithfulness is the first greatest commandment. Love God with all your heart. soul and strength. Deuteronomy six, four and five. In fact that would be a really good place to end. Deuteronomy six Four and five. The main verses, the key verses of the last book of the Pentateuch. Which tells the story of creation from four thousand around four thousand ninety-two BC To Israel in the plains of Moab in 1406 BC, Deuteronomy 6, 4 and 5. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one, and you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart. And with all your soul and with all your might. Let's pray. God, I pray you help us to do that by your grace and by your word and by your spirit. That you'd fix our hearts on you, that we love you, cherish you. Seek you and seek to live under your authority to walk in the fear of the Lord gladly and humbly, only by your grace and only through Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen