Let's grab our Bibles and turn to John chapter sixteen. Today looking at John sixteen, six through eleven. The topic of the convicting power of the Holy Spirit. The convicting power of the Holy Spirit is a power that only the Holy Spirit can work in our hearts. The convic Bing power of the Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit of the incarnate, crucified, risen, and exalted Christ our Lord. John 16, 6 through 11, the convicting power of the Holy Spirit. Let's pray. Lord Father, every time I climb these stairs, I'm reminded just how inadequate I am to speak your word Just how unworthy I am to even have heard your word in the first place. But I pray that I would always trust in the power of your word. I pray that we would always trust in the working of your Spirit, and Father, I pray that you would increase within each one of us a hunger for your word and a thirst for your spirit. Father, we pray that you would anoint the verbalizing, the preaching of your word, and I pray and we pray that you would anoint the receiving and the hearing of your word. That for each one of us in here, it would go into the mind, go through the mind, go into the heart, deep down into the recesses of the heart, and stoke our affections for Christ. And stir our love for you and awaken and deepen and expand Our desire for your Holy Spirit to work within us. Father, we pray that you would help us in our time of need. Help us to see our need and to look to you for help. And we come to you as desperate, needy sinners who cannot help ourselves. So bless us now as we come to your word. Holy Spirit come. It's in Jesus' name we ask. Amen. The convicting power of the Holy Spirit. Two spiritual events must happen inside the human heart in order to come to know God The first spiritual event that needs to happen inside the human heart is conviction. And that's what we're talking about today. The conviction that can only come by the Holy Spirit. Conviction is when we come to see our sin And therefore, we come to see our need for a savior. But that's just one spiritual event that needs to happen in the heart. The second spiritual event that needs to happen in the heart for us to come to know God is conversion. Conversion is when we hear the gospel and trust in Christ. For the salvation. Conviction is when we see our sin and we see our need for salvation. Conversion is when we see Christ as a sufficient Provision for sin, and we trust in him for salvation. Both of those things must happen. It's parallel to when you go to see the doctor for some ailment or some kind of pain. Two things need to happen. First they need to figure out what's wrong with you, and then they need to come up with some kind of treatment for you to help you, both of those things need to happen. You would never go to a doctor whose deal was they'll only figure out what's wrong with you and then send you on your way. And you would never go to a doctor who will skip the whole step of trying to figure out what's wrong and just wants to go right into guessing what's the remedy. We need to understand spiritually what the problem is. That's conviction. And we need the remedy for that problem: conversion, embracing Christ by faith. Lord willing. If the Lord allows. Next week I'll preach on conversion. But if you haven't caught on yet, this morning the preaching is on Conviction, the convicting power of the Holy Spirit. Follow along as we read John 16, beginning in verse 6. Jesus says But because I have said these things to you, sorrow has filled your hearts. Nevertheless, I tell you the truth, it's for your advantages that I go away. For if I do not go away, the helper will not come to you. But if I go, I will send him to you. And when he comes, he will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment. Concerning sin, because they do not believe in me. Concerning righteousness, because I'm going to the Father, and you will see me no longer. And concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world is judged. Quickly on the context, John 13 through 17 is basically Jesus preparing the disciples for his departure. That's why he says, I've said these things to you. Sorrow has filled your heart. Nevertheless, I tell you the truth, it's to your advantage that I go away. Jesus is going to leave them. He's going to die for their sins. He's going to be risen from the dead. And after the resurrection, still teach them and still minister to them. But not forever. After 40 days, he ascends. Into the heavenly realm. The main point comes from verse 8. Right? Smachdab in the middle of verse 8. He will convict the world. The He refers to the Holy Spirit. In verse 7, called the helper, or called the advocate, and referred to with a personal pronoun. We've preached about that recently. The Holy Spirit is the third person of the Trinity. God is one in essence who exists eternally in three co-equal persons, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. He will convict the world means the Holy Spirit will convict the world. The Holy Spirit will bring the world under conviction, is another way to say it. One helpful illustration is that of a blindfold. When we're lost in our sins, and I can remember this so vividly about the former life. We have a blindfold over our eyes, the eyes of our heart. Spiritually speaking, I'm talking about. Are you with me? Spiritually speaking Naturally speaking, when we're lost, we have a blindfold over our eyes. We don't see the truth about ourselves We don't see the reality of sin living within us. We don't see the reality that we are rightly under the judgment of a holy God. And what we need is the Holy Spirit to come into our hearts and rip the blindfold off so that we would see the truth. And summarizing why the Holy Spirit does that is so that we would see our need for a savior and then turn to Christ. Conviction, the convicting power of the Holy Spirit. Really the Holy Spirit coming into our hearts and taking off the spiritual blindfold so that we could see the truth. He will convict the world, which means the Holy Spirit enables The sinner to see his sinfulness. And the Holy Spirit enables the sinner to sense his need for a savior. This is monumental, this is unnatural, and this is personal. This is monumental, this is unnatural. And it is personal. It's monumental because when this happens, it's not like we see a need. We see our greatest need. We see the one need that if this need doesn't get met, we're done. We're done. It's monumental. It's unnatural. Which simply means only God can do it. Church, are you with me? Are you awake this morning? Only God can do it. I will never ask you. Now, if I go back on this, Vince, hold me accountable to this. We'll never ask you to try to go inside your heart, take off the spiritual blinders so that you can see your need for a savior. You can't do it. You don't have the power. In fact, when we're in the flesh, that's the last thing we want to do. God must intervene. God must bring his word Into our heart like a spear that kills the old heart, but also the tip of that spear has a life-giving power in the gospel that brings to life a new person. You can't do it You can't change your spiritual condition. I hope for those who are saved, you're applying that principle to yourself because even once we're saved Still within us, we don't have the power for our sanctification. Are you with me? You must always be looking to God. He's the giver of life. And he's the only one that can create and then cultivate spiritual life within us. It's monumental. It's our greatest need. It's unnatural. Only God can do it. Which, if nothing else, that would drive us to prayer. And it's personal. Which means it must happen to the individual person. This is a message for me. And this is a message for you. This is just theory about the world. What is this motion? So I get the airport. You know, as a preacher, you come up, you want to be free, you want to be lively, ca but you don't you don't map out your gestures. And so I first of all just wanted to let you know, church, I'm well aware that Some of my gestures are just absurd, and I want you to know that my children inform me of this with regularity Sometimes they try to act out the truth that's being preached. But I trust you're gracious to your pastor. He will convict the world. That's the main point. Engrave that on the heart. He will convict the world. Now we need to be more specific on this because the general the general point about what conviction does Is that it shows us that we're sinners and shows us that we need a Savior. That's a general point about what can spiritual conviction does. But we need to ask specifically what it is. Well, you already know. You already know what a conviction is. Am I right? What's a what's a can what's a conviction? It's the pronouncement Of a guilty verdict. That's what conviction is. The best way to understand conviction is to picture a courtroom. It's criminal, he's guilty, it's proven. The judge brings down the gavel and declares guilty. That's a conviction Convicted felon. Now to understand spiritual conviction, picture yourself in the heavenly courtroom of God, and you're the defendant. And God brings down the gavel. Guilty conviction is, you say, I agree. That's conviction You agree? It's a humble, heartfelt agreement with God 's conviction of guilt upon our lives. That's spiritual conviction When we no longer disagree with God, he says we're guilty, we say no, we're innocent. He says we're sinful, we say no, we're righteous Well we we have a change of mind. You've heard that before. Repentance includes a change of mind The spiritual conviction of the sinner is when the Holy Spirit changes the sinner's heart to agree with God's Verdict of guilt upon that sinner. Have you been convicted? Have you you come under conviction Not just that you know the fact that people are sinners. We can we could I everybody believe that. Everybody believes that because everybody has a conscience. We're not talking about just saying that no one's perfect, everybody sins, I know I'm a sinner. Tell me what to do so I can do the good works and then go to heaven based on my good works. That's not what we're saying. Do you believe in your heart? Do you feel in your heart in the courtroom, the heavenly courtroom of God, God, I'm guilty, you are right I'm guilty before you. Isn't this the great change that needs to happen? Think about think about culture as a whole, and the mood or the spirit of culture as a whole. Isn't it just one big movement to reject God's verdict over us? That's just a manifestation of just many, many, many individuals who reject God's verdict over them and think that we are perfectly justified to live however we want. Conviction, have you come under conviction? God shows us in his word that he's holy. And by doing that, he shows us that we're unholy. He shows us in his word that we're to love him above all things. And that also shows us our sinfulness. That's the last thing we'll do naturally, is love God above all things. We'll love things above God. God's word shows us that we're to love others as ourselves. We know we love ourselves at the expense of others. God calls us to be pure, yet we're filled with impurities. God calls us to be generous, and yet we're filled full of greed and selfishness. Over and over and over, through his holy commandments, God shows us. That we're guilty sinners, that we have the corruption of sin living in us. Before we're in Christ, the corruption of sin is living in us like a slave master. Have you come under conviction? Have you come under conviction? Jude 15, another verse where this word convict is used. It's talking about God coming to execute judgment on all and to convict All the ungodly of all their deeds of ungodliness. Jude 15, the first part. To pronounce the judgment, to execute the sentence That's convict. James 2, 9. James writes to the church, but if you show partiality, which is means favoritism, if you show partiality You are committing sin and are convicted by the law as transgressors. Convicted by the law as lawbreakers. The law pronounces a verdict of guilt. Conviction exposes us for who we are. Conviction lays bare the guilt of the criminal. Generally speaking, what it does, this is so important, please don't forget this. Generally speaking, what conviction does when the Holy Spirit works this work in our hearts is Shows us we're sinners and it shows us we need a savior, but specifically what conviction is, is a humbled and heartfelt agreement with God's verdict of guilt over us. This is the one this is one of the two spiritual events that must happen in our lives to come to know God. As we delve deeper into this issue of The spirit's convicting power. We'll look at it from three perspectives. First, we'll look at it from the historical perspective. And then we'll look at it from the global perspective. And then we'll look at it from the spiritual perspective. The historical perspective first. This comes from verses six through eight But because I've said these things to you, sorrow has filled your heart. Nevertheless, I tell you the truth, it is to your advantage that I go away. For if I do not go away, the helper will not come to you. But if I go, I will send him to you. And when he comes Then he will convict the world. Spirit's convicting power ensues from the ascension of Christ. That's the historical perspective. The Spirit's convicting power at work in the world ensues from or issues from the ascension of Christ. You can see in these verses the movement of history. Jesus is, when he says this, with them currently, but he's telling them he's going away. That's picturing the progress of redemptive history. He's going to be rejected by the Jewish leaders. And the Jewish leaders in league with pagan Rome are going to put him to death on a cross. Now behind the scenes, you know what's really happening through all of that. You know that Jesus is laying down his life for our sins. You know that the Father is providing his son as a sacrifice to turn away the wrath. of God against our sins. But the progression must take place. He'll go to Jerusalem, he'll be rejected by the chief priests. And he'll suffer greatly, suffer greatly for sins he did not commit. And he'll die on the cross, bearing our guilt before a holy God. Then he'll be buried. Truly under the dominion of death, truly under the dominion of the curse of sin and death, but then gloriously be risen to imperishable, incorruptible life. Then he'll minister for forty more days on earth and that hold. Then he'll ascend to the right hand of the Father Which is what we're referring to when we make the profession together as a church that we believe Jesus Christ is Lord, that he reigns in heaven with the authority of God. At the right hand of God, the ascended Christ then pours out the full blessing of the Holy Spirit through the proclamation of the gospel to save sinners. For the name and for the glory of God. Church, that's what we're about. Brothers and sisters, that's not theory. That's not a side issue. This is what we're about. Jesus saving sinners. for the name and glory of God. And he does that through the instrumentality of the preaching of the gospel, through the agency and the power of the Holy Spirit. If you have a relationship with God today, it's because the gospel of Jesus Christ came into your heart with power, and the Holy Spirit changed your heart to love God instead of sin. To trust in Christ rather than trusting in good works. This is a historical progression that has to happen. This convicting power of the Holy Spirit Ensues from or is the result of the ascension of Christ. That's exactly what he says This is the advantage. It's to your advantage that I go away. So he's encouraging them, but he's getting their perspective right. The Spirit's convicting power, verses 6 through 8, is given as a promise to the disciples. It is not a maybe It's not wishful thinking. It's a promise of Christ to the disciples about what will happen. It's no longer a promise to the church. It's no longer a promise to us about what will happen. It's a fulfilled reality Are you with me? It's a fulfilled reality. The convicting work of the Holy Spirit is a reality in the world. And if you're in Christ, it's a reality in your life. Oh, where would we be? Where would we be without the convicting power of the Holy Spirit? I'd say exactly where we'd be, wallowing in the mire of sin. It's a promise and it's an encouragement. It's an encouragement to them, and it is still an encouragement to us. And the encouragement to us is: brothers and sisters, you are not alone in your battles against sin. You are not alone in your fight against temptation. You are not alone in striving for holiness. But the Lord is with you Jesus is with you through the presence of the Holy Spirit, and He is your helper, and He is your power, He is your holiness, He is your repentance. You're not alone. You're not alone. The historical perspective is that the Spirit's convicting power ensues from the ascension of Christ. Now, what's the global perspective? Now the global perspective comes from just this one. Central phrase in verse eight He will convict the world God 's purpose is to have the preaching of the gospel infiltrate the entire world of lost humanity. And through the infiltration of the gospel, bring sinners under the conviction of their sin. That's God's purpose. That's God's purpose for the church age, to infiltrate the whole world with the power, the life changing Destiny changing power of the gospel. He will convict the world. And that is the global perspective. The historical perspective is that the spirit's convicting power ensues from the ascension of Christ. The global perspective is that the spirit's convicting power ensures The success of the Great Commission. The success of the Great Commission is ensured by the convicting power that's promised. The convicting power. of the Holy Spirit. Acts one, eight and nine. Jesus says to the disciples this is give you a little bit of context, this is right before Jesus actually does that, leaving uh leaves them for good, so to speak, and is right before Jesus' ascension to the Father, and it's ten days before the day of Pentecost. Acts 1, 8 to 9. You will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you. You see, if the Holy Spirit doesn't come upon them, how much power do they have? None. I mean, power to invent their own religion. And, continuing on, verse 8, and you will be my witnesses. In Jerusalem, and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the ends of the earth. And when he had said these things, as they were looking on, he was lifted up, and a cloud took him out of their sight. It's the glorious supernatural transporting of the risen Christ from the visible earthly realm to the invisible heavenly realm. By the way, when you think of uh the spiritual realm, the invisible spiritual realm, don't think of a different universe. Don't don't think it's about things happening in a different world. Like the vi uh for instance, if this visible universe goes on and on and on and then it ends and then you have the spiritual realm. No, when you think of the spiritual realm, the earthly realm and the spiritual realm, you're not thinking of a different world. You're thinking of two realms of this world Two realms of this universe. We can't see things in the spiritual realm because we're not in the spiritual realm. But it's part of this one world that God created to realize his eternal purpose Sidebar officially over. Back to the message. He says, you'll be my witnesses in Jerusalem. What's a witness? Witness Testifies to the truth. The witness tells the truth. Here's the truth. Here's what happened. Here's the truth. Here's what needs to happen. Witnesses God in Jerusalem, Judea and Samaria and to the ends of the earth. That's locally, regionally, globally. Brothers and sisters, we must have a heart for the world. And that heart for the world starts with having a heart for where we live. The mission's heart is not a heart that only has a burden for the lost out there somewhere in the world. We have a burden from the world, for the world rather, we have a burden for the world, but that starts with having a burden for our community, for Jarrett'sville, for North Harford County, for where we work. Where we play, where we live, where we go, we have a burden for the gospel, a burden for the lost. And out of that flows and is connected to a burden for the world. Just chunking out cash to people who are doing this somewhere else is not the mission's heart. The mission's heart is to have a burden for the world. That starts with having a burden for our community. Are you with me, Church? God 's one supreme glor goal. God's one supreme goal For us is that we would see his glory revealed in Christ and then praise him for that glory of what we see. Everything else either trickles down from or flows right back into this one supreme goal that God has for all things. to manifest his glory through his son. And that the bride of his son would see that glory and share in that glory and revel in that glory, return to adoration and thanksgiving to God. For his revelation of glory and grace through the sun. And and as we have a heart Transformed by this purpose of God, that we would see his glory, that we would praise God for his glory. We also have a heart to help others do the same. We have a burden to help others do the same, to see God's glory in Christ, and to praise God for that glory in Christ There is a historical perspective, there is a global perspective, but third and finally the spiritual perspective, which comes from verses 9 through 11. And the spiritual perspective is that the Spirit's convicting power enlivens the heart to spiritual realities. That time in my life when I can think back and I started to become uh awakened to spiritual reality in a general sense, not yet saved. This is before being converted. We're just on this week be awakened to spiritual realities The reality of a soul, the reality of transcendent God, the reality of eternity, the reality of a purpose beyond the physical world. The Spirit's convicting power enlivens the heart to spiritual realities, verses 9 through 11. Let's start at verse 8 just to get the context because he he names Three things, and then he gives a specific reason for each thing that we must be convicted concerning. He when he comes, verse 8, he'll convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment. Verse nine concerning sin, because they do not believe in me. Concerning righteousness, because I go to the Father and you'll no longer see No longer see me. You see me no longer. Verse eleven, and concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world is judged Who is the devil? That's the devil, the ruler of this world, is the the ruler of this massive unbelieving humanity. Spirit's convicting power enlivens the heart, enables the heart to see, to convict us of the realities of sin, righteousness, and judgment. Let's talk about sin first. Sin is whatever is contrary to God's character, and that is I mean, talk about a summary. There's a lot we could say about the sin, the nature of sin. It's rebellion against God. It's a personal defaming against God. It's a violating of God's law. But just to summarize it For the short time we have left, anything that's contrary to God's character is sin. Anything that's contrary to God's holiness is Is wickedness, it's sinfulness. Anything contrary to who God is, is sin. And the reason he gives Is because they do not believe in me, which clues us in to the purpose of being convicted of our sin. The purpose of being convicted of our sin is to lead us to faith in Christ. It's to lead us to faith in Christ. It's not just to hurt our feelings, it's to show us the truth about ourselves. Convict us of our sin, agree with God's verdict against our sin, in other words, so lead us to faith in Christ. It's exactly what he says. He's got to convict us concerning sin. Why? Because they don't believe in him. If they already bel 'cause the world does not believe in me. That's what he says. It's because they do not believe in me. If they already had faith in Christ, they would not need to come under conviction for their sin. But because they do not believe in him, they need to come under the conviction of their sin that they would turn to him and believe and be saved. That's the two spiritual events That must happen invisibly in the sinner's heart. Conviction and conversion. Seeing our sin and then embracing the Savior by faith. Turn with me to Psalm fifty one. Psalm fifty one. Little window. Actually a big window. What are those big windows called at the front of a house? Picture window, bay window. Yeah, this isn't a little window, like on the side of a submarine or something like that, the side of a ship. This is a big window to what it looks like, what it feels like when the Holy Spirit convicts us of our sin. Psalm 51, beginning in verse 1, David cries, Have mercy on me, O God, according to your steadfast love, according to your abundant mercy, blot out my transgressions. Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, cleanse me from my sin. For you uh you for I know my transgressions I know my transgressions, and my sin is ever before me. Against you, you only have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight. So that you may be justified in your words and blameless in your judgment. His heart has come under conviction. He sees in verse one that he needs mercy. He sees in verse one that he needs Love. He sees in verse one that he has transgressions that God must blot out. He sees in verse two, he must be washed thoroughly from his sinfulness. He sees in verse 2 he must be cleansed from his sin. He sees in verse 3 that his life is marked by trans Aggression. He sees in verse 3 his own sin. In fact, in verse 3, he says, My sin is ever before me. The reality of David's Sin became an ongoing testimony to David that David deserves God's judgment. So David in his heart cries out desperately for God's mercy, desperately for God's love. Desperately for God to cleanse him of his guilt and to wash him of his sinfulness. That's the convicted heart. This is the convicted heart If you forget everything about what I've said in the sermon about conviction, just go home and meditate on Psalm 51. The convicted sinner, David. Then he says in verse 4 , I've sinned only against you. Whatever I've done, it's wrong, it's impacted other people. Ultimately, this sin is against you. He understood the nature of sin. And finally, at the end of verse 4, he understands that God is justified in his words, and God is blameless in his judgment. God's verdict Is the right verdict. God 's sentence is the right sentence And the convicted sinner says, I agree. I'm at your mercy, God. The convicted sinner knows That his only hope, or her only hope, is if God will show mercy to the helpless sinner This is conviction. Have you come under the conviction of your sin and of your sinfulness? That's the spiritual perspective. Also called the personal perspective. But not only sin, but he also says righteousness, doesn't he? Am I adding that or is that in there? Does Jesus say also convict him of righteousness? Righteousness. Verse 10. And you'll no longer see me because Jesus is going. Now righteousness is simply the opposite of sin. If sin is everything that contradicts God's character, anything that's uh contrary to God's character Righteousness is simply whatever conforms with God's character. It's the opposite. It's whatever's in conformity with God, his holy character, his holy law, is righteousness. And now look at the reason given. The reason given is because he's going away. So if he would remain, then Jesus himself would continue to teach and continue to model righteousness for the world. But Jesus is not going to remain. Jesus is going to his Father. Therefore, there's another mechanism For convicting the world of righteousness, of teaching the world about what's right and what's wrong Of the need for righteousness, of God's requirement for righteousness, because Jesus is going away. How in the world is the world going to learn about what's right and what's wrong, what God requires? The Holy Spirit. He's sending the Holy Spirit in through the church and through the ministries of the Word of God coming out of the church through the church. The Holy Spirit is going to convict the world of sin and of righteousness and of judgment. End of judgment. Judgment is God's righteous verdict and sentence for man's sin So you see, in judgment, this idea of sin and righteousness, it all comes together. Sin is what's contrary to God. Righteousness is what conforms to God. Judgment is now God's righteous verdict and sentence. Against man's sin. And the reason given is plain because the ruler of this world is judged. His dominion Over the world is taken away. His absolute blinding and enslaving power in the world is taken away In other words, when he's when he gives the reason, uh verse eleven, the need the world needs to be convicted concerning judgment because the ruler of this world is judged. That's Jesus' way of saying that the world needs to learn that the world is under judgment. If the the world needs to learn that the world is under judgment. Now you know, naturally speaking, that's not what we say, right? That's not what the cult that's not the cry of the culture. That's not the belief of the world that we're under judgment. The world needs to come under conviction, needs to understand that the world is under judgment If the ruler of this world is judged, then brothers and sisters, friends and neighbors, everyone who's in league with the ruler of this world is also under judgment. And that's what we need to be saved from. Satan's grip on our hearts. This iron vice grip on our hearts that sin has, we need to be saved from it. We need to learn. The world needs to learn that the world is under judgment. That's why he says, convicted concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world is judged. Acts 17, verse 30 to 31. Paul preaches, picking up in the middle of verse 30, in fact, Paul preaches, now he commands all people everywhere to repent. Because he has fixed a day on which he will judge the world in righteousness by a man whom he has appointed, and of this he has given assurance to all by raising him from the day, from the dead. Conviction enables us to come to Christ properly, empty handed, no good works to offer to God No inherent goodness to parade before God. No external religion to bring before God. We come up empty-handed, desperate for mercy, convicted. That we are sinners, convicted the world of sin. Convicted that God alone is righteous, convict the world of righteousness. And convicted that we are rightly under the judgment of God. Convicted of judgment. We need to be convicted of sin, righteousness, and judgment. The Holy Spirit. Is convicting sinners of their sin. What about you? Do you agree Do you give humbled and hearty agreement with God's verdict over you? Where does that leave us? Where does that leave us? It leaves us in need of hearing about the Savior. It need it leaves us in a place where God must Convert our hearts through a supernatural work of the Spirit. But that's next week when we preach about conversion. Lord willing. Let's pray. Father, we thank you. For your grace, and we thank you for your power. Any amount of conviction of sin in any of our hearts is not a result of some kind of Inherent wisdom or spirituality that we have. But it's a result of your mercy Therefore, as we close our time in the Word, we say thank you for your mercy. Thank you for your grace. Thank you for your power. Thank you for your wisdom. Father, we lift this prayer in Jesus' name. Amen.