Let's take our Bibles and turn to Luke chapter 2. Today we're in Luke chapter 2, verses 22 to 35. Relatively long passage. Luke 2, 22 to 35. The presentation of Jesus at the temple. That's the scene, therefore that's the overarching topic. The presentation of Jesus at the temple, baby Jesus. Jesus, eight-day old Jesus presented at the temple in accordance with God's law. You'll see that come out in the passage. This is in There's lots of confusing things in life, is there not? Lots of confusing situations that we have to face. Maybe it's drama at work or drama or tensions and it's extended family not a good thing. or maybe even with friends or maybe even within the church. Different confusing situations where we don't know quite what direction to go. Confusing decisions that we need to make in life. Oftentimes it's not clear exactly do I go right or do I go left or do I just hold fast. Um and sometimes just confusing people. I mean, we can treat others in a way that just confuses them and really throws them for a loop. It can be distressing at times. Just relationships are tough because we're all sinners. And um all kinds of confusing things. But one thing that should not be confusing is where to find the true knowledge of God, and therefore where to find a true relationship with God. That should be clear. God has made that clear That Jesus Christ is the source of a true knowledge of God. Jesus Christ is the source. He's the place to go for a right relationship with God. None of us are going to know all the answers and all the right decisions in life, all the right way to go in the confusing things of life, but we can have confidence. And we can be certain that we have a true knowledge of God and a right relationship with God through faith in Jesus Christ. Christ. And I hope that's where you're dropping your anchor is there. Faith in Jesus Christ. That's what will get us through the confusing and the distressing and the difficult things. In life. So don't just think about baby Jesus this morning. Think of what the baby became. Think of what the baby did. And think of that now grown man died on the cross, rose from the grave, ascended into heaven, seated at the right hand of God Gave you the Holy Spirit, ministering to you daily, moment by moment, He's giving us wisdom and power and faith to get through the difficult and confusing things of life. Because you'll see in this key phrase, verse 32, light for revelation. A light for revelation. That's what a light does. It helps you find the way. It shows you things. It shows you what you're supposed to see. And without further ado, Luke 2, 22 to 35, the presentation of Jesus at the temple. And when the time came for their purification according to the law of Moses, they brought him up to Jerusalem to present him to To the Lord, as it is written in the law of the Lord, every male who first opens the womb shall be called holy to the Lord, and to offer a sacrifice according to what is said in the law of the Lord. A pair of turtle doves or two young pigeons. Now there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon, and this man was righteous And devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Spirit was upon him, and it had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not See death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. And he came in the Spirit into the temple. And when the parents brought in the child of Jesus to do for him according to the custom of the law. He took him up in his arms and blessed God and said, Lord, now you are letting your servant depart in peace according to your word. For my eyes have seen your salvation that you have prepared in the presence of all peoples. A light for revelation to the Gentiles and for glory to your people, Israel. And his father and his mother marveled at what was said about him. And Simeon blessed them and said to Mary his mother, Behold, this child is appointed. For the fall and the rising of many in Israel, and for a sign that is opposed, and a sword will pierce through your own soul also. So that thoughts from many hearts may be revealed Now quickly, if you don't know this language in verse 32, Gentiles basically means, not basically means, this is exactly what it means, the nations surrounding Israel. It means the nations of the world. 32, this Jesus is a light for revelation to the Gentiles and glory and for glory to your people, Israel. You see, the salvation of God comes within and comes to and comes through Israel to the nations around it So that Jesus is not only the Savior of Israel, but brothers and sisters, he's the Savior of the world. He's the Savior of the world. Not just glory for Israel, but a light for revelation to the nations surrounding Israel. He's the light of the world Today what we're looking at is four aspects of the birth of Christ. Four aspects of the birth of Christ. Number one, Christ was born of lowly means. That'll be the first thing we talk about. Christ was born of lowly means. He wasn't born into money. He wasn't born to a rich family. He wasn't born to nobility. Christ was born of lowly means. And then secondly, we'll talk about that Christ was born for the consolation. That phrase comes right from the passage. Christ was born for the consolation of Israel. And then the third thing we'll talk about is that Christ was born for revelation to the nations. Revelation to the nations. And that shouldn't be confusing. That's not a difficult point. That just means Christ came. To shine the light of God's truth to the nations. That's very simple, isn't it? Just think of a flashlight. It shines light. It shines forth light So that you can see whatever it is that you're looking for under the couch. The flashlight enables you to see the truth of what's there soon as you can find whatever you're looking for. Jesus came to shine the light of God's truth, to shine the light of God's salvation to the nations, to the world. And I'm happy because I don't live in Israel. And I'm glad that salvation made its way to me. Does that make sense? Don't take for granted that the message of salvation has made its way around planet Earth. That's God's gracious gift to the world. Number four, we'll talk about this, and this one will have to be quick, but uh I didn't want to cut this paragraph off of the passage. Christ was born both to save and also to judge. It's that last portion of the passage. Jesus came to save, but also to bring judgment. That's a major theme in the gospel narratives. And I would challenge you ahead of time before we even get to the year 2025. Purpose in your heart in the year 2025 to read at least through the gospel narratives. I mean later I'll in a later sermon I'll roll out some challenges for twenty twenty five, and one of them will be reading through the Bible in twenty twenty But at the very least, read through the gospel narratives, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John in 2025. It's a story not only of salvation, but also of judgment. Also a judgment. And um that's what's being alluded to here, even in this early passage of Luke chapter two. So those are the four aspects of the birth of Christ. We'll work through as best as we can But the first thing we have to talk about is that word Christ. Now look with me, if you will, at the end of verse 26. This statement. Had seen the Lord's Christ, had seen the Lord's Christ. We saw that God, through the Holy Spirit Revealed to Simeon that he would see the Lord's Christ before he died. That's exactly what it says. It had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit. that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. So when Jesus, eight-day-old cute baby Jesus is brought to the temple and Simeon takes that baby in his arms, he sees what? He sees the Lord's Christ. Christ means Messiah, you've heard that word. Christ means anointed one. The Christ is God's anointed king who will save his people. The Christ, the Lord's Christ. At this point in history, the people of Israel, according to Old Testament promise, are quite simply there waiting for the Savior They're waiting for God to come and save them. And when the Savior comes, he will come from the tribe of Judah. Number one, they'll come from the tribe of Judah. He'll come from the house of David. Tribe of Judah. He'll come from the house of David. He'll be born in Bethlehem. He'll be born in Bethlehem, and he'll bring salvation to the world. That's the Lord's Christ. That's the Messiah. That's the anointed one of God. set apart to bring salvation to the world. This is who the people of God are waiting for. The Savior, tribe of Judah, house of David, born in Bethlehem to bring salvation to the world. to the world. So in that context of the Christ, here's four aspects of the birth of Christ. Number one, Christ was born of lowly means. Now this is verses 22 to 24. When the time came for their purification, according to the law of Moses, they brought him up to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord. As it is written in the law of the Lord. Now you catch that twice already. Verse 22, law of Moses. Verse 23, law of the Lord. Continuing in verse 23, every male who first opens the womb shall be called holy to the Lord. This is Mary's first child. We should know that from Last week's sermon that Mary was a virgin and Jesus was supernaturally conceived in her womb. Verse 20, now verse 24. And to offer a sacrifice according to what is said in the law of the Lord, a pair of turtle doves or two young pigeons. That's three times now. Law of Moses, law of the Lord. Now again, law of the Lord. And if you want to cheat and peek down to the end of verse 27 according to the custom of the law. There's two main things going on here. First of all, pointing up the fact that Mary and Joseph are showing themselves obedient to God's law Mary and Joseph are showing themselves an example of practical obedience. They're showing an example of humble obedience. to God's word. And friends, isn't that the example that we need? And no one said yes. Friends, isn't that the example that we need? And let me ask you a follow-up question. Isn't that the example we ought to set? Isn't that the example we often set? Obedience to God. That's not going to make you famous in this world, but it'll make you pleasing in God's sight. And you know in your heart which one is more important. And um you know there's a fine application here of quite simply just Christian obedience. Brothers and sisters, let's be the kind of people who are happy to obey God. And let's be the kind of people who define obedience to God according to his word. Not by opinion, not by personal preference, not by feeling, not by tradition, but on the foundation of God's word, on the sure foundation of God's word. Let's strive for practical obedience. Brothers and sisters, that's not legalism. It's legalism if you say we're saved by our obedience. But it's not legalism to say we are saved by God's grace alone. Therefore, let's strive for obedience. by the power of God. You know, apart from the work of the Holy Spirit in our hearts, there'll be no outward obedience. Well, I mean there could be a show of outward obedience, of course. So let's strive to walk in the Spirit. Let's strive to grow in the Word. And let's strive together and encourage one another for practical obedience in all areas of life. Mary and Joseph are showing themselves an example of proper obedience, obedience from the heart, obedience based on God's word. Amen? Now , I said the point here is twofold, or I said that two things are going on here. The second thing is that Mary and Joseph were, from an earthly perspective, not well off I mean from a heavenly perspective, there's b you couldn't get any better, right? They're children of God and they're walking in obedience, but from an earthly perspective, they're not well off. And look this goes back to the second reading we did earlier in the service when we read the passage, part of the passage from the law of the Lord that's being alluded to here Because God had told Israel what to do with the eight year old and presenting it to the Lord. And so from Leviticus 12 8 now, let me just read this again. Leviticus 12 8 When this happens, you bring the baby to present before the Lord. Leviticus 12, 8. And if she cannot afford a lamb , Then she shall take two turtle doves or two pigeons, one for a burnt offering, and the other for a sin offering, and the priest shall make atonement for her, and she shall be clean. All things being equal, you're supposed to bring a lamb for the one offering and one of these birds for the other offering. But if you can't afford a lamb, there's pretty Provision made. There's provision made for those who are poorer. There's provision made for those who are not as well off as others. And they don't have a lamb. They Can't get a lamb, so can they not make a sacrifice? Well, God, like in so many different areas, God makes a merciful concession. And God says, Well, you just sacrificed two birds. And so this is a sign, this is a clue that Mary and Joseph were not rich. They were not well off. Jesus was born, he was laid in a manger He was not born in a palace. He was not born surrounded by marble and granite and ivory and gold trimmings and crown molding. He was born in a laid in a manger, which is a place it's a little box that animals eat out of. You aren't you happy that you weren't laid in a manger when you were born? You'd never lay your child in a manger Um but again it's it's man, it's just sign after sign, clue after clue that God doesn't do things the way we would do things, right? And we live that out, but we see it in scripture. As well. You do not have to have a lot of money to receive favor from God. You do not have to be rich for God to use you in powerful ways. in this world. I mean if that's not clear in this narrative, then nothing is. You don't have to be admired by the world to be honored and esteemed by God. Because God operates, beloved, God operates on a principle that the world knows nothing of. God operates on a principle of unexpected grace that confounds Human imagination. God gives grace to the lowly. God shows favor to the outcast God lifts up the humble. God lifts up the lowly. He exalts the humble and he brings down the proud. In fact, Mary even sung this. You could look at uh chapter one, verses forty-six to forty-nine, just one page back And Mary said, My soul magnifies the Lord, and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior, for he has looked on me humble Estate of his servant. For behold, from now on all generations will call me blessed, for he who is mighty has done great things for me, and holy is his name. That's the kind of heart that we should have. Not that we do great things for God, but that God has done great things for us. And the great things God has done for us has been of God's grace. It's been for God's glory. Our spirit should rejoice in God our Savior. That's what Mary says. He has looked on the humble estate. of his servant. Boy, Mary does set a good example for us in her heart. God has graciously looked at my humble estate to do not only a great thing, but brothers and sisters to do through Mary and through the parenting of Joseph as well to do the greatest thing ever. They raised Jesus, the Savior of the world. A great privilege, a great blessing. I think there's some good application here of what are we putting our hopes in? What are you putting your hope in? Earthly riches? That we can't hold on to, or heavenly riches. That not only can you hold on to, but they get greater and better in the life to come. What are we what lens are we looking at life through? The lens of the temporal, the lens of the earthly, the the lens of uh the trivial, the lens of we can't keep it. Even if here's a Even if you could keep earthly treasures forever, it still wouldn't satisfy our hearts, because our hearts are designed and made in such a way where ultimately they're only satisfied by God Himself. That's why to be saved is to be brought into a relationship with God, to come to a knowledge of God, that the heart may find rest in God, that the soul may find rest in God. And so Let's prioritize for example spirit I challenge you, church, to prioritize spiritual growth all the more. Reading of Scripture, hearing of Scripture, discussing Scripture Giving yourself to prayer, giving yourself to congregational worship, and coming for the right reasons, coming to worship God, coming to hear God's word, coming to be transformed into the likeness of Christ. Coming to encourage others. Let's all the more grow up by God's grace in having a heart for spiritual growth. How about for growing in Christian character? And putting on humility and putting pride to death. Putting on kindness and putting on a gentle spirit and putting a harsh spirit in legalism, putting it to death. Putting on a spirit and a heart for modesty. Putting on a spirit and a heart of being a peacemaker. Putting on a spirit and a heart of being forgiving and being will Willing to forgive and happy to forgive Jesus came to be our savior and he lived a righteous life and he died a sacrificial death And he was risen from the grave to eternal life. And he ascended on high. And from on high, he gave us his Holy Spirit. And why did he give us the Holy Spirit? To change our hearts that we might walk in the Spirit. So, beloved of God, walk in the Spirit. Walk in the Spirit. Prioritize being transformed into the likeness of Christ. Christ was born of lowly means. From an earthly perspective, Mary and Joseph were not well off. And you may not be well off from an earthly perspective, but you can you can have all the riches of heaven for free through Jesus Christ. Secondly, Christ was born for the consolation of Israel. Christ was born for the consolation of Israel of Israel. This is verses 25 and 26. Now there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon. And this man was righteous and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel, which is another way of saying waiting for the salvation of Israel. But it says consolation, so that's the point. Waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Spirit was upon him, and it had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit So you can circle Consolation of Israel that he's waiting for And then you also can circle the Lord's Christ that he's going to see, and then you could draw a line connecting those two circles. Because that's the point. It's the Lord's Christ who is, not just brings, it's the Lord's Christ who is the consolation of Israel. And then you also can scan down to verse 32, the second part, and for glory to your people, Israel. For glory to your people, Israel Which is a way of talking about the favor of God bestowed upon Israel. Again, it all of these things arrive in Christ. That's why Simeon 's so happy. That's why Simeon is just rejoicing inwardly and outwardly. First of all, what is consolation? Consolation is comfort. It's the experience Experience of comfort. It's comfort in the midst of pain. And we've all experienced pain. And when there's something that You hear, or maybe somebody helps you in a particular way when you're in the midst of pain and it brings you comfort, it brings you a semblance of peace, that's consolation. It's a sense of solace in the midst of suffering. It's comfort in the midst of pain. So if you if you begin, you're hearing We're reading God's word and the Holy Spirit starts to convict you of your sin and show you the horrors and show you the guilt of your sin And God starts to open the eyes of your heart to the eternal penalty of sin. And it has this great sorrow, this godly grief. that it creates in your heart because now you see your sin for the first time ever. What it really is. What is your only source of consolation In the midst of that godly sorrow, it's Jesus Christ dying on the cross. Christ is the consolation If you're a believer in your ongoing battle against sin, in your ongoing battle, our ongoing battle against sin. Temptation, our ongoing battle against sin and often our failure in those battles, amen. What is our consolation? Being the weakness of the flesh, the corruption of the flesh, we're all prone to sin. We're inclined to sin. It's like a if you ever have a vehicle that pulls to the left or pulls to the right, and if you let go, its natural course is just to go to the left. It's pulling. Well, we all naturally are pulling towards sin. Where is our consolation in this battle against sin? The f our failures and walking with the Lord. Jesus Christ is our consolation. You see See, Christ is the consolation for sinners. Christ is the consolation. He's the comfort for sinners. In the face of death. I'll give you just give you one more example. We could keep on these practical examples, but just one more example. Living in the face of death, inescapable death, darkness. Breathing a last breath. Right? In the face of that, where is our consolation? Where is our comfort? Where is our hope? Where is our sense Or a semblance of peace and solace in that situation, staring down death, the living Lord Jesus Christ. Christ is the consolation for sinners. God Himself had promised to come personally And save Israel. And then bring salvation to the nations also. God personally would come. That was all the promises. Joined into one, God promised that He Himself would come and save them. And He comes in the person of Jesus. He is the Christ, the consolation of Israel Just a some cross references. There's many of these in the prophets of comfort being promised in connection with the coming of the the Lord. Isaiah sixty one two. Um in fact I will read Isaiah sixty one two, I promise. But in Luke four Jesus quotes a part of this passage and says, today it was fulfilled in him. So Isaiah 61, too, to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor. And the day of vengeance of our God to comfort all who mourn. And then Isaiah 66, 13 to 14. as one whom his mother comforts, so I will comfort you. You shall be comforted in Jerusalem. You shall see, and your heart shall rejoice, your bones shall flourish like the grass, and the hand of the Lord shall be known to his servants, and he shall show his indignation. Against his enemies. That sounds like more than just comfort. That sounds like uh judgment as well. Yes, and that's why I put that challenge earlier to read the gospel narratives. It's more than just a story of salvation, it's also a story of judgment. Christ was born of lowly means, that's number one. Christ also was born for the consolation Of Israel. That's number two. And just summarizing that one more time, God Himself in Christ is the consolation. God Himself in Christ is the comfort, the sense of peace, and the source of peace, the source of rest for our souls. God is our consolation. Number three, Christ was born for revelation to the nations. Christ was born for revelation to the nations. Verses twenty seven to thirty two, twenty seven to thirty two This is where the scene really picks up. And he came in the spirit into the temple. Now that's Simeon. He came into the sp in the spirit, into the temple, which means the Holy Spirit is leading him there. And when the parents brought in the child Jesus to do for him according to the custom of the law, he took him up in his arms and blessed God and said, So let's try to picture this, but your Simeon And Mary and Joseph bring baby Jesus and hand him to you. You know you love, most of you love holding babies. Can I hold the baby? It's just a Great joy to hold an adorable little baby, unless they spit up on you the joy is gone immediately. But there's a good feeling to see the innocence of a baby, the adorableness of a baby, and to be able to to hold um to hold a baby. Well that's Simeon is He took baby Jesus in his arms and he blessed God and said, verse 29, Lord, now you are letting your servant depart in peace. according to your word, which is his way of acknowledging this is the Christ. This is the Christ because that's what God told Simeon. You will not die until you see the Lord's Christ. He holds Jesus in his arms and he says, now I can depart in peace. Why? Because he's seen the Lord's Christ. And we don't see the Lord's Christ physically. Today, but you can see the Lord's Christ with the eyes of your heart today if you believe in him. He says verse 30: For my eyes have seen your salvation. Senior salvation that you have prepared in the presence of all peoples, a light for revelation to the Gentiles. and for glory to your people, Israel. Christ was born for revelation to the nations. A specific Light of revelation. It's the light of salvation. He shines the light of salvation. Verse 30, my eyes have seen your salvation. When you see Jesus, when you believe in Jesus, you not only see God's salvation, but you experience God's salvation. And that's what God's call is. To all sinners everywhere, turn from a life of sin, put your faith in Jesus Christ, and experience salvation in Him. Walking in communion with God. That's what Christianity is about. Walking in communion with God. Learning, it's gradual, isn't it? Learning how to live for God in all areas of life. If we're only striving to live for God in the church sphere, we're falling woefully short. of the calling God has put on our lives. We're called to learn how to live for the Lord in all areas of life. We're called to gradually Gradually learn what it means to honor God and to fear the Lord in all areas of life, not just church. Again, that's not legalism. Legalism is saying if we can figure that out, then God will love us. If we can figure that out, if we do that to a certain degree, then God will forgive us. That's not the gospel, that's not Christianity. Obedience is the result of salvation, not the cause of it. Are you awake this morning? Amen to that? This is the core doctrine of the gospel, the core principle of how the gospel works We're saved by grace through faith. Salvation is a free gift, and the result is obedience. Now, if you flip that, that's legalism. But don't ever please, don't ever think it's legalism to put a high priority, to put a premium on practical obedience. That's what God's called us to, to live for him, not for ourselves. To honor him, not to live for the world's approval. Isn't it great to be liberated from being enslaved to the world's approval? He was born a revelation to the Gentiles, a revelation of God's salvation to the nations God is not letting the whole world waste away under the darkness of sin, going to hell in a handbasket. God has provided a way of escape. We so often take for granted the difference between the world before the coming of Christ and the world now. Before the coming of Christ, essentially the whole world was covered in the darkness of sin under the dominion of Satan. You had the southern kingdom, Judah, that had been restored, and a small remnant of believers within Judah had fellowship with God. But now salvation has gone to the ends of the earth and continues to spread. And there's churches all over the place. There's people on the other side of the world who have the same Holy Spirit that you have. That wasn't true before Christ came. And so don't take for granted The impact of the work of Christ on the world. Number four, and finally Christ was born both to save and also to judge. Now just to rehearse these, Christ was born number one of lowly means Not into a rich family, not into nobility. Number two, Christ was born for the consolation of Israel, to bring comfort for the lowly, to bring peace. For sinners. And number three, Christ was born for revelation to the nations, to bring the light of God's salvation to the world. Number four, Christ was born both to save and also to judge. This is 30, verses 33 to 35. And his father and his mother marveled at what was said about him And Simeon blessed them and said to Mary his mother, Behold, this child is appointed for the fall and rising of many in Israel and for a sign that is opposed, a sign from God that will be opposed. Now you know the general scope of what the gospels are about. You know that Jesus This is opposed. It happens very quickly in the gospel narratives. But you'll see this motif, um, this stor this part of the storyline continues through the gospel narrative of the f b both the fall and the rising of many in Israel. And then verse 35. Verse 35, Simeon prophesying in excruciating pain. That's just a horrible suffering for Mary. And the imagery here is so powerful, it's so vivid, you can't miss it. Verse 35, he says to Mary, a sword will pierce through your own soul also. So that thoughts from many hearts may be revealed. A sword will pierce through your own soul also It's not a literal sword. It's a symbolic sword. And the way we know that is it's not going through her body. It's going through her. Did you see it? her soul. This is an anguish. This is an agony. This is uh an intense inner suffering and excruciating agony. Now what possibly in the life of Mary could this be referring to? to. Any guesses? The crucifixion of her son, who at this point is a baby. This is talking about the cross of Christ. So in this very early the birth narrative, we're already getting foreshadowing of the cross because that's the climax of the story. Jesus Christ, the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the cross. the world. Jesus Christ bearing our sin in his body on the tree. Jesus Christ paying the penalty for our sins against God. Why did he do that? So that we would never have to pay that penalty. And that's what it means to be saved from sin. Are you saved from sin? Will you turn to Christ in faith and be a part of this great work that God is doing all night? earth and bringing salvation to the nations. Come out of living for the world's approval. Come out of living just for the trivial. Come out of living for just earthly temporary things. And live for eternal things and embrace heavenly things, embrace spiritual things, and let that be your path. Repent. Repent and believe in Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for Jesus. Thank you for this great salvation that you've given us. And we thank you. We praise you. We lift your name on high because you, O Lord, have given us your Holy Spirit. It's in Christ we pray. Amen.