It's great to be together once again on this rainy evening to worship our Lord, to celebrate. Uh, the salvation we have in him, and tonight to put our eyes on the incarnation of the King. So let me start by reading a passage out of Genesis We'll start in Genesis six, verse nineteen, and I'll read through seven five. Genesis six, nineteen. And here we're going to see God's provision for Noah in this time. We see that God is in control. God is the one that commands all things. So Genesis 619. And of every living thing of all flesh you shall bring two of every sort into the ark to keep them alive with you. They shall be male and female, of the birds according to their kinds, and of the animals according to their kinds, of every creeping thing of the ground according to its kind. Two of every sort shall come into you to keep them alive. Also, take with you every sort of food that is eaten, and store it up. It shall serve as food for you and for them. Noah did this. He did all that God commanded him. Then the Lord said to Noah, Go into the ark, you and all your household, for I have seen that you are righteous before me in this generation. Take with you seven pairs of all clean animals, the male and his mate, and a pair of the animals that are not clean, the male and his mate, and seven pairs of the birds of the heavens also, male and female. to keep their offspring alive on the face of all the earth. For in seven days I will send rain on the earth forty days and forty nights. And every living thing that has made excuse me, every living thing that I have made, I will blot out from the face of the ground. And Noah did all that the Lord had commanded him. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, I thank you for your goodness and your mercy. And the testimony that we read in Genesis to see a wicked generation rebel against you. you still have given provision for humanity. You've shown that your love goes deeper than their sin, that in their rejection you pour out your judgment upon your creation. Yes you have a way of salvation. Lord, we recognize that our salvation is in Christ. In Him alone. We thank you for this. We thank you for the the truth of your word. And tonight as we posture ourselves to sing, to pray, to worship you, to hear the word read and preach, may our hearts be ready to receive the truth. Lord, I ask that if we have sin, we confess it before you, knowing that you forgive, and with joyful hearts may we worship you. In Christ's name. Amen. Amen. Well let me invite you, church, to stand as we sing to the Lord together this evening. The first now the angel did say was. To search in for shepherds in fields as they lay in fields where they lay keeping. There she on a cold winter 's night that was so deep no. No well, no well, no well is the key of his right. They look head up and saw star shining in the And so here it gave great light. And so it comes in you for day and night. No well, nowhere, no well. What is the key of his right? Then let us saw with one occur speakers to our head. That I have made him under. His blood mankind has fought. Noh, nowhere, no well, nowhere. Israel. No well now. No el no el born is the key of his right. You may be seated. Now reading from the book of Acts is going to come out of Acts chapter 7. Beginning in verse 17 and then going down to verse 29, as we see here Stephen continuing to proclaim Christ and proclaim God's plan of redemption before the high priest. We have this wonderful reminder that God is the deliverer of his people, that he is the one who delivers us out of slavery and into the promised land. But as the time of promise drew near, which God had granted to Abraham, the people increased and multiplied in Egypt, until there arose over Egypt another king who did not know Joseph. He dealt shrewdly with our race and forced our fathers to expose their infants so that they would not be kept alive. At this time Moses was born, and he was beautiful in God's sight. And he was brought up for three months in his father's house. And when he was exposed, Pharaoh's daughter adopted him and brought him up as her own son. And Moses was instructed in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, and he was mighty in his words and deeds. When he was forty years old it came into his heart to visit his brothers, the children of Israel. And seeing one of them being wronged, he defended the oppressed man and avenged him by striking down the Egyptian. He supposed that his brothers would understand that God was giving them salvation by his hand, but they did not understand. And as on the following day he appeared to them as they were quarrelling, and tried to reconcile them, saying, Men, you are brothers, why do you wrong each other? But the man who was wronging his neighbor thrust him aside, saying, Who made you a ruler and a judge over us? Do you want to kill me as you killed the Egyptian yesterday? At this retort Moses fled and became an exile in the land of Midian, where he became the father of two sons. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for the great privilege of gathering in your name to proclaim salvation in your Son Christ Jesus. Lord, we we thank you for this season that we set aside to commemorate and to remember the incarnation of your son, this glorious miracle by which Through a perfect sinless life, a sacrificial death, and a glorious resurrection, you have accomplished salvation for your people. Lord, we praise you. Help us to remember our gospel identity in Christ. Lord, we recognize that so often we we live according to our old identity of sin. Lord, so often we seek after things that cannot satisfy our hearts. So often we fall into, Lord, temptation and sin. God, we confess this to you We confess, God, that we have not loved one another or loved our neighbors or loved you as we ought. We thank you for the mercy that is ours in Christ. We thank you that no condemnation exists for those who are in Christ Jesus. Lord, help us to rest in the assurance of your love for us in Christ. That nothing can separate us from that. And Lord, as we see and as we receive your great love to us in Christ, may we be spurred on to out of love for you through Christ and through the power of your spirit Be obedient to what you command us to do. God, may we desire to be all that you have called us to be as a biblical local church God help us to be joyful and fervent in our outreach and in our evangelism. Help us to commit to serving one another and building one another up and bearing one another's burdens. Help us to commit, Lord, to gathering together to lift up your name in the work of worship. Help us, God, to commit to pursue joy together in Christ's. Father, I pray for the lost. in our midst, those who attend, those who watch regularly online, those that we have not yet made contact with in our neighborhoods and communities. God, I pray that by a powerful work of your Spirit you would bring salvation to the lost. That those who do not know you would look to Christ in faith. and be received into your family. But I pray that you would, by your will, use us, God In our county, in our community, in proclaiming Christ. I pray for the saved Lord. I pray that you would build up this body of believers. God, I pray for other Faithful gospel proclaiming churches to be raised up in our county, in our state, in our nation. God, that we would see a great movement of your spirit through local churches joyfully and ordinarily proclaiming Christ. God, I pray that you would help us this evening to have hearts that are joyfully focused on you and on your word. God, may we be hungry to sit under your word And to receive, to be nurtured and to be built up. And God, we thank you for the promise and the assurance that the good work you have begun in this church And the members here you will bring to completion the day of Christ Jesus. So by your Spirit, equip us to be faithful now. All for your glory and all for the honor of your Son Christ Jesus. In his name we pray. Amen. We invite you to stand as we continue to sing together this evening. I'm forgiven because you were forsaken. I'm accepted. You were condemned. I'm alive and well. Your spirit is within me because you died and rose again. I'm forgiven because you were forsaken. Take it I'm steps in you were condemned I'm alive and well your spirit is within me because you died and rose again Amazing love how can it be that you might king would die for For me Amazon love I know it's true And it's my joy to honor you Amazing love, how can it be that you, my king, would die for me? Peace and love I know it's true And it's my joy to honor you in all I do I honor you Where you are my key, you are my key. Jesus you are my king. Jesus you are my key. I'm forgiven because you were forsaken. I'm accepted. You were condemned. I'm alive and well. Your spirit is within me because you died and rose again. Amazing love, how can it be? To my king would die for me. Amazing love I know it's true. It's my joy to honor you amazing love how can it be That you my king would die for For me Amazing love I know it's true and it's my joy to honor you in All I do, I honor you. Maybe seated. If you did not get a sermon outline on your way in, please raise your hand and we'll get one around to you. The message tonight is a little bit more of a teaching time than a preaching time. Of course, there's a lot of overlap in those two things. But the overall content and vibe is more teaching, and that's because I want to give a a good Old Testament background to something in our passage. It's a cold, dark, rainy night in December, and we're talking about the wise men, but it's always right to gather to worship the Lord. Amen? And we worship him not only because he deserves to be worshipped, but because we need him. We need God to minister to us By his word and by his spirit, through the fellowship and all the encouragement that comes through that. The message tonight is from Matthew 2, 1 through 12. The wise men, who are you, and why are you here? Matthew two, one through twelve Right off the bat, it should be obvious in a general sense what's happening with the story of the wise men. You have foreigners coming to the Savior of Israel, And they're recognizing him as their savior also. And that's the good news of this kingdom era of salvation, that God has revealed Himself as Savior to Israel and to all the nations. In one sense, the wise men are representative of us, foreigners, coming to the Redeemer of Israel and claiming him as our Redeemer. Let's pray together. Father, we profess that you alone are God. We're so thankful that you sent Jesus to be our Savior. We're thankful for the work of sanctification. In our hearts and minds, this work of the Holy Spirit. And I pray that as we go on from day to day in this life, I pray that we grow more and more passionate. For this work of sanctification that you are doing within us. And I pray that we become more and more passionate about practical discipleship Just learning to imitate Christ in all spheres of life. Learning to honor you in all spheres of life. Learning to be led by the Spirit in all spheres of life. Make it so, dear Lord. Make it so. I pray that you would increase within us a burden for the lost, a zeal for your glory, a love for the local church, and a firm confidence in your work, in your church. That we would see that our labors are not in vain, and that our prayers are not in vain. Father, we ask now that you would minister to us. By your word and by your spirit. It's in Jesus we ask. Amen. Matthew 2, 1 through 12, the wise men Who are you and why are you here? Let's begin in verse 1. Now, after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea, in the days of Herod the king, behold Wise men from the east came to Jerusalem saying, Where is he who was born king of the Jews? Because we saw his star when it rose and have come to worship him. When Herod the king heard this, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. And assembling all the chief priests and scribes of the people, he inquired of them where the Christ was to be born. They told him, In Bethlehem of Judea. For so it is written by the prophet, and you, O Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are by no means least among the rulers of Judah. For from you shall come a ruler, who will shepherd my people, Israel. Then Herod summoned the wise men secretly, and ascertained from them what time the star had appeared And he sent them to Bethlehem, saying, Go and search diligently for the child. And when you have found him, bring me word that I too may come and worship him. After listening to the king they went on their way. And behold, the star that they had seen when it rose went before them until it came to rest over the place where the child was. When they saw the star, they rejoiced exceedingly with great joy. And going into the house, they saw the child with Mary, his mother, and they fell down and worshipped him. Then, opening their treasures, they offered him gifts, gold, and frankincense, and myrrh, and being warned in a dream not to return to Herod, they departed to their own country by another way. You noticed that the star is a really big deal. This supernatural sign, this Star in the heavens that in fact is leading the wise men to the house where the child Jesus is. What do you think about when you get your little wise men out of the box every year for Christmas? How many houses in America, in the world have artwork or have little figurines of countless style? Of these three wise men that are set up at the manger scene. Some quick clarifications. We don't know that there's three of them, just plural. Could be two or more. It could be probably like a caravan of royal advisors from an undisclosed nation or nations. But it's not the manger scene, it's a house, as you saw in verse eleven. And we'll look at that verse again. But to point out the star is a big deal. Now what do you think about? What's the meaning? Of the wise men. When you see these wise men, what do you think of? Well, the meaning and the significance of the wise men is the same as everything else in the opening chapters of Matthew. And the meaning and significance of the wise men is the same as the everything as everything else in the opening chapters of Mark and Luke and John. The meaning and significance of this story of the wise men and this star is that the promised Savior of Israel has arrived, and therefore the promised Savior of the world has arrived. That's the story of the Gospels. That's the story of the arrival of Jesus Christ. The Savior of Israel, the promised Savior of Israel, has arrived and therefore the promised Savior of the world. In fact, you see this the first verse of Matthew, which is the first verse of the New Testament The book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham. The son of David means he's the promised ruler. And Savior of Israel, and the son of Abraham means he's the one who will bring salvation to all the nations. The Savior of Israel is the Savior of the world. The King of Israel is the King of all the world. So there's your significance, and that's what we'll flesh out and see that in the passage and in the passage's Old Testament background this evening. First, who are the wise men? Verse one After Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea, in the days of Herod the king, behold, wise men from the east came to Jerusalem. You may have the translation, or you may have a footnote for wise men that says they can also be called magi. Magi. And that's a You know, that's appropriate if you were to transliterate the Greek word, which is magoi, which is a plural for magi. We would call them magi or wise men. They're royal royal counselors from an undisclosed nation. So you can think of a parallel to the president's cabinet. We have s what are called senior advisors to the president. And that's what the Mag the Magi were. Now the word was used in different ways in that culture. Just like words in any culture can be used in different ways. Words in our culture can be used in different ways. You should know that this word is also used for m magicians or those who practice sorcery. And in fact, in Acts 13 you see that. Barnabas and Saul come across a Jewish false prophet named Bar Jesus. And then in verse 8, he's called Elamis the Magician. Twice the same Greek word is used. So that this word could have been used for magicians or those who dabbled in the dark arts. But in that culture at that time, it was also used for Senior advisors to kings, royal counselors. They would have been upper class. They would have been educated, highly educated They would have been closely associated and involved in the king's dealings and in the king's decision makings, most likely highly influential when it came to a regime change. In legitimizing a new king or appointing a new king. This is the Magi, the wise men The royal counselors. We don't know what nations they come from, if they come from one nation or multiple nations. We're told, however, that they're from the east. Now file that away. They are from the east. Here you have, try to do a mirror image so that makes sense to from where you're sitting. You'd have the promised land here, you'd have the Jordan River, then you have the east. That will come up later in interpreting this passage and making sense of the Old Testament background. Foreign Dignitaries coming to Bethlehem. That's what you have. Foreign foreign dignitaries coming To Jerusalem rather. Coming to Jerusalem. They hadn't learned yet. Coming to Jerusalem. Foreign dignitaries. Now why are they coming? So that's our second question. Why are they here? They've come to pay tribute to the rightful king of heaven and earth. And it's based on Old Testament prophecy that they discern the fulfillment of an Old Testament prophecy. They come to pay tribute to the rightful king of heaven and earth. Verse 2, saying verse 2, they say why they've come. Where is he who has been born king of the Jews? So they're seeking out the king of the Jews. Where is he who's been born king of the Jews? Now they say why? Because we saw his star when it rose and have come to worship him. They've come to worship him Later on down in the passage, we see that in verse 11, where they fell down and worshipped him, and they opened their treasures. And they offered him gifts. They presented tribute to the king. This is their worship. They honored him. They recognized his kingship. They recognized his authority. Gold, frankincense, and myrrh. Why are they here? Why did they come to pay tribute to the rightful king of heaven and earth? The incarnate Son of God, Jesus Christ. That's why they come. That's a good paradigm for us. I mean that's that's salvation. What is it when someone comes to acknowledge the Lordship of Christ? That's salvation. That's the call to acknowledge this king whom God has appointed, to acknowledge this Savior whom God has appointed To acknowledge and not only to acknowledge, but to gladly, joyfully, boldly submit to the Lordship of Jesus Christ. This really is a two-part answer when we say, why are they here? They did recognize, number one, they recognized that God's promised Savior had arrived. They recognized that God's promised Savior had arrived. Because the King that God promises is also the Savior that God promises is also God Himself that God promises. That's God's promise in a nutshell in the Old Testament. I will come, I will save you, I will defeat your enemies, I will shepherd you. I will reign over you in truth and righteousness and justice and mercy. They have recognized that God's promised Savior had arrived. Secondly, they've come to bring him tribute, render worship, present gifts. This is confirmed in the section of the passage that we're not really going to have time to look at the background. But this is confirmed by the scribes and the chief priests in verses 3 and 6. We will read that one more time. Verses 3 through 6, the scribes and the priests confirm this understanding. That the Savior of Israel, who is also the Savior of the world, has come. When Herod the king heard this, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. We're not sure of all exactly what this looked like, but the wise men are in Jerusalem and they're asking around enough. There's enough of them or they're asking around enough to where it was stirring up the people. It's not like they just went to one house and asked one person in private their question about where is he who's been born king of the Jews. It was enough to where it was rousing up the people, and word got back to Herod. Herod the king heard this he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. Sometimes we forget that, that the whole city was troubled. Along with Herod, and assembling all the chief priests and scribes of the people, he inquired of them where the Christ was to be born It looks like he doesn't know the answer to the question. The question was, where is he who is born king of the Jews? Well Herod wants to know because obviously He wants to get there first, and you know what he wants to do. But he asked where? Verse 5, they told him, in Bethlehem of Judea. For so it is written by the prophet And you, O Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are by no means least among the rulers of Judah. For from you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people, Israel. Now you'll see in your marginal notes Or perhaps in a footnote, that this is referencing Micah 5. 2. But it's not exactly Micah 5. 2, it's more of a conflation Of Micah 5, 2 through 5. And you could study that out on your own. Micah 5, 2 through 5 And in that prophecy you have a future king of Israel who will also rule in all the earth. In the Micah passage. Micah 5, 2 through 5. In that passage, in that context, you have a future king of Israel who also will rule in all the earth. This future king of Israel will spread the knowledge of God to all the earth. So, the understanding that the wise men have that the king of Israel is to be their king. That the Savior of Israel is to be their Savior, that the one who brings the knowledge of God in Israel is also the one to bring the knowledge of God in all nations. Their un that understanding that they have is confirmed by this Micah 5. Passage. But as I said, just don't have time to go look at that mica passage, which I would love to do, but we just don't have time to look at all the old testament background. You've got to put the work in on this Old Testament background stuff when you're in the New Testament. The New Testament gives us the interpretive lens for the Old Testament. The New Testament Makes a theological argument about the Old Testament. The New Testament teaches us how to read, how to understand, how to interpret, how to apply the Old Testament Which is why I get so fired up at when you see and it's all throughout the New Testament when you see Old Testament passages and their fulfillment is explained in the context of the first coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. But back back on the road that we're supposed to be on, the wise men Recognizing that God's promised Savior had arrived. They say King of the Jews. By God's grace, they had a firm grasp on Old Testament promise They understood that the promised king of the Jews would also be the Savior of the world. So, number three, how do we know? How do we know that the Magi understood this? Well, as I said in the introduction, their actions prove it out. Their actions bear it out. They are foreigners. Coming to Israel to worship Israel's king as of their king, to present gifts to the king of the Jews, as if he is the king of nations And they're right about that. The wise men are right about that. Wise men is a good title for them. They had a firm grasp on Old Testament prophecy. And They are able to discern the fulfillment of a seemingly obscure prophecy from Numbers. They saw his star. Let's look at that again, the prominence of the star in this passage. Verse 2, where is he who has been born king of the Jews? And then they give as the basis for their search for this king. They give as the basis for their search, we saw his star When it arose, and we've come to worship him. It's the start. Also, verse seven. Then Herod summoned the wise men secretly. And ascertained from them what time the star had appeared. When did you first see it? When did it appear? He wants to try to put things together so he can discern who this king of the Jews is. Because it would be a rival king, and he would need to take care of that. Then verse nine, after listening to the king, they went on their way, and behold, the star that they had seen when it rose, went before them until it came to rest over the place where the child was. So the star is the basis for why they're searching for the king of the Jews. Number one, that's why they're In Jerusalem. Now the star is leading them, leading them to the house where Jesus is. That's verse 9. Verse 10, when they saw the star, they rejoiced exceedingly with great joy. Now they had already seen the star. I believe the idea of verse 10 is when that star finally came to rest. When that star finally reached its destination, they followed that star. They knew that that star represented God's promised King of the Jews had arrived, which means the promised savior of the world had arrived. That's the good news of the gospel that God is Savior of the world, and He's Savior of the world through Jesus Christ, his only Son. So that star came to rest. Unders underscore that. Came to rest when I was a child. Well, not what it started when I was a child, but it was pretty much my whole life. I had this image of the star that they saw it from. Fro all the way from the east, but the star never moved. The star just went was where it was, and they followed and went to the star. But that's not the picture of Scripture It rose and it went before them, it went before them, it went before them, till it came to rest over the place where the child was. Pretty cool star, huh? Parallels, it's not the same exact thing, but it parallels some Old Testament accounts that you're familiar with of the Lord leading his people. The Lord is the one who goes before his people, takes them where they need to be, shepherds them along the way, protects them along the way through his providence, supernatural providence, which you see in this passage too at the end. Being warned in a dream not to return to Herod, they departed to their own country by another way. The Lord is leading these foreigners as if they are his own people. Because through faith they are his own people, they're God fearers. The star , the supernatural sign that the king of the Jews had arrived. Now, if your thinking cap's not on already, get it out, put it on, amp it up to 10. Is that what they go up to? They go up to 10. Get in, let's turn to numbers 24. Let's go to Numbers twenty-four and look at the Old Testament background I'll give you the setting. The setting of Numbers 24. The time and the place. This is after their deliverance, after Israel's deliverance from Egypt. But before entering the promised land. Archer, they're not in the promised land. They're in between Egypt and the promised land. They're in between the Exodus and the conquest in numbers. The wilderness wanderings. So that's the time. They are they are in the plains of Moab, which is, I think this is a this is a word that came up in our passage, east of the promised land. We're going to see a prophecy that was made in the East. A prophecy that was made in the context of Israel, in the context of redemptive history. A prophecy that was made about a future king of Israel, but that prophecy was made in the east regarding a future king. So on the plains of Moab, basically if you're picturing Israel, again I've tried to do the mirror image, so it makes sense to you. So if I mess it up, just please show me grace. Israel here. Jordan River at the bottom is that big, it's called the Dead Sea. Right on the other side you have Moab. You have the plains of Moab. Which Israel is in Kant, right there. So they're east of Israel, east of the promised land. Now the situation in particular Israel had just defeated two kings and their armies, not because they were on conquest. Once they enter the con the promised land, they'll be on conquest. But they were they were in battles here in On their way to the promised land, because other kings would not allow them to pass through in peace. Other kings would not allow them to set up camp and travel through in peace. So when a king and his army comes against you, you must defend yourself and fight. And Israel prevailed. He had just prevailed over two kings. So the king of Moab is terrified. The king of Moab, the Moabite king, Balak. Balek. And so Balek, the Moabite king, is terrified. I told you it's more of a preaching time. Or more of a teaching time tonight than preaching. The Moabite King, whose name is D anybody catch it? Balak is terrified of Israel. So he sends for a prophet named, and he guesses Balaam. He sends for Balaam. And he calls upon Balaam to curse Israel and bless Moab. Now that's the going to be the story of Numbers 22 to 24. Long story short God does reveal his word to Balaam, and God does speak a prophet speak prophecies through Balaam, but it does not go Balach's way. It does not go the way of Moabite, of the Moabite king. All of Balaam's oracles, all of Balaam's prophecies speak blessing for Israel, not Moab. It's the opposite of what Balach called upon Balaam to do. He just gets more and more angry. The blessing comes for Israel, not Moab. Now, this prophecy about the star Which is the reason we turn. Remember we turn to Numbers 24 because of the star. This prophecy comes in Balaam's final word in the matter. Balaam's final oracle, which begins in 2415. Numbers 24, 15. The intriguing thing about this oracle is that the blessing described in this oracle, the the blessing for Israel, not for Moab. The blessing described in this oracle goes beyond, far beyond that current situation between Israel and Moab. The one major key verse is verse seventeen, where Balaam says I see him, but not now. I behold him, but not near. A star shall come out of Jacob, or a star shall arise from Jacob. And the scepter shall rise out of Israel. That speaks of royalty. That means a king, a ruler. And it shall crush the forehead of Moab and Break down all the sons of Shef, which is another way of saying the name, Seth. Alright? Keep your eyes on the passage while I work through that verse, rather. Keep your eyes on the verse. Why I work through some of the elements of this prophecy. First of all, it has to do with a man in the distant future. That's how it begins. I see him. But not now. I see him, but not near. It's a prophecy of a about a man coming in the distant future. Secondly , It's a prophecy that this man will somehow be signaled by a star. A star shall come out of Jacob. And this prophecy also is that this man will be the king of Israel, which is said next: a scepter shall arise out of Israel. And the last and most significant thing of this verse and this oracle is that this ruler will reign not only over Moab, but over all the nations. Because it says, it shall crush the forehead of Moab, that is, exercise dominion over Moab, and break down all the sons of Sheff, which is another name for Seth. Now, do you remember who Seth is was? Is wasn't this, either one Of all the people on earth today, what percentage are descendants of Seth? Yeah, all of them. Noah was a descendant of Seth. Seth was Adam and Eve's child after Cain slew Abel. They had many other children. Seth is the one that's given prominence in the narrative. Noah was a descendant of Seth. All people on earth after the flood are descendants of Noah, which means all people on earth after the flood are descendants of Seth. And read this short section of scripture of Genesis eight through eleven. Genesis eight through eleven. It's the transition between uh the flood and the call of Abram. And basically this whole section from after the flood Leading all the way up to the call of Abraham is the story of how the earth becomes full of rebellious nations. It's basically this the chronicling of the earth becoming covered in darkness. Full of rebellious nations. And then you get to Genesis 12, and out of a world of uh covered in darkness and rebellion, out of that God calls Abram. And he promises Abram that he'll turn him into a great nation, and that from that nation will come a savior of the world, which is the world's greatest need. That's the progression of the narrative in Genesis. You have this promised ruler. That we'll have dominion and exercise dominion, he'll be a ruler, he'll be a king. Not only over Moab In the plains of Moab, but over all the sons of She 'll have dominion over the nations. What's the point? Global authority, global dominion, a kingdom that's not limited by national borders. Isn't that the church? A spiritual kingdom established on earth that's not limited by national borders Brothers and sisters, that's why we send missionaries. That's why we support missionaries. That's why we pray for missionaries. That's why the church is so busy training up missionaries Which we love talking about missionary. Well this is this is why This is why. This is the historical fulfillment, the historical outworking of the ruler sent by God exercising dominion in all the earth. Sometimes that's hard for Christians to grasp because we can't stop thinking in terms of an earthly kingdom. We can't stop thinking in terms of geopolitics. A geopolitical kingdom, an earthly kingdom. Christ's kingdom is not an earthly kingdom. It's a spiritual kingdom that comes that comes to expression on earth, but it's a heavenly kingdom. And it knows no national borders. National borders cannot stop this king of the Jews exercising his dominion in all the earth. And that's exactly why they bring gifts. You have foreigners, you can go back to Matthew 2. You have this is what the wise men are. It's very simple. Foreigners bringing tribute to God's anointed. That's what we're supposed to do in life. No matter where you live, no matter what nation, tribe, village, or language. The proper thing to do is to render tribute to God's anointed. This is why we must be burdened to bring the gospel to unreached people groups. Foreigners bringing tribute to God's anointed is just one more sign that God's great kingdom of redemption had arrived. In 1 Kings 10, 24 through 25 , talks about tribute being brought to Solomon. And the whole earth sought the presence of Solomon to hear his wisdom, which God had put into his mind. Every one of them, every one of whom? The whole earth, the whole earth sought the presence of Solomon to hear his wisdom, which God had put into his mind. Every one of them brought his presence Brought his present articles of silver, gold, garments, myrrh, spices, horses, and mules, so much, year by year Nations and peoples from all over the earth were sending representatives to pay tribute to Solomon, God's king. How much more should that happen for Christ? The righteous king, the holy king, the king that brings eschatological salvation, which means he brings final salvation. He brings salvation from sin and salvation from death, and he truly redeems us from the curse. If tribute was brought to Solomon, how much greater tribute should be brought to the King of Kings, to the Lord of Lords, Jesus Christ? That's what the story of the wise men is about. Very simple. Foreigners coming to the Redeemer of Israel as if he's their Redeemer. Foreigners coming to the king of the Jews as if he's the king of the nations. This is the story of Christianity. It's the story of the church age. And it's the story of missions done properly. Let's finish on some practical application and just ask the question: well, how do you pay tribute? It's a different context to understand you're not following the star, you're not going to see the child, the child Jesus Christ. He already lived his life He already hung on the cross, he already rose from the grave, he already ascended into heaven, he's already been enthroned at the right hand of God, he's already poured out the Holy Spirit, he's already building his church. I understand that different context, but same principle. How do we pay tribute? How do we honor the King and the Savior in a proper way? I can start you off with just with one word, discipleship. Did I give you a blank on that? I can't remember. Discipleship, which means following Christ Which means learning from Christ how to live for God. Which means imitating Christ First of all, and I know I put these on your outline. First of all, we belong to God. We belong to God. He owns us. 1 Corinthians 6, 19 through 20. Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you, whom you have from God? You are not your own. For you were bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body. Under the old covenant, you could see the temple and go into the temple. But in the new covenant, for those in Christ, you are the temple. The temple is in you. Because the Spirit of God fills you. Therefore, as he says, you are not your own. Beloved, you are not your own. We are not our own. We belong to God. We were bought with a price, the precious blood of Christ. We belong to God. Secondly, which is really a therefore, we owe God everything. We owe God everything. Romans 12, 1, I appeal to you, therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. Sacrifice is something that's killed. A sacrifice is something that's done away with in order to honor God in one way or another. This is present your bodies as a living sacrifice. The way a Christian lives is a way that he dies. He dies to himself, dies to our own preferences, that we might live for Christ. We owe God everything, even our body. We present our bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. What good thing do you have in life that's not a gift from God? Not just redemptive things, any good thing. What good thing do we have in life that is not a gift from God? That should be cause of thanksgiving? We owe God everything Every breath we take, every day we live, every sin we're able to repent of, even just a little bit, we owe it all to God. Any proper doctrine that we can preach on or teach on, we owe it all to God. Any proper understanding of anything we have about the world, we understand trees properly. Which means we understand them as creations of God to manifest his power. Any any understanding of anything in the world comes from God. That lens, that proper lens of viewing reality comes from God. Our minds have been changed By the word and by the Spirit. We have a new interpretive lens through which we look at the world. We have a new paradigm. We look out a new window. We see everything as created by God. And we see all good things in our lives. Redemptive or otherwise, as gifts from God. Brothers and sisters, I'm trying to say we owe everything to God. We owe everything to God Third, it's right to deny ourselves for his sake. It's right to deny ourselves for his sake. This is the opposite message of the world. It's foolish to deny yourself. It's foolish to deny yourself. It will not be for your happiness. It will not be for your joy. It will not be for your betterment if you deny yourself. Indulge your pleasures. Indulge yourself. Find yourself. Be yourself. Know yourself. Love yourself. This is the greatest love there could ever be: learning to love yourself. It's right to deny ourselves for the sake of Christ, which means for his name, for his glory, for his kingdom, for his purposes, for his plan. Matthew 16, 24, Jesus told his disciples, if anyone will come after me, let him deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me. Now the order is everything there. The order is everything. Shouldn't consider ourselves followers if we've not denied ourselves and taken up our cross. That's the order. You deny yourself, you take up your cross. And you follow him. If we're still living for self. If we're still living for self. If we're still living for the approval of the world, rather than being crucified to the world. How could we possibly be following Christ? Deny ourselves. It's right to deny ourselves. Don't believe the world. Don't believe the sinful flesh. If anyone will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. And finally, finally, it's imperative That we you can fill in a multitude of things here, I understand, okay? I'm giving you an overarching one. Because you could put you could put love Christ, believe Christ, whatever. Here's what I'm putting. It's imperative that we imitate Christ. It's a central concept in understanding what discipleship is. It's God making us more like Christ, inwardly and outwardly. The imitation of Christ. Ephesians 5:1. Therefore Be imitators of God as beloved children. Who are we? Beloved children of God. How are we therefore to live? Be imitators of God. Therefore, be imitators of God as beloved children. And you could file every other command of Christian living under that You can file every other duty in the church, every other duty in discipleship. You can file it under this Imitating God as his beloved children. You could you could come up with a list, I could come up with a list I'm picking one, okay? Picking one because it's seven twenty-eight. Seven twenty-eight. Um as Christ forgave us We're going to imitate that. We too forgive each other. I think that's a central one if you were to start flushing that up. God loved us. God loves us. We love each other. Imitators of God. God forgave us. God's gracious to us. We forgive each other. We're gracious with each other. That's imitating God. God's patient with you Be patient with me. God's compassionate and merciful to me. Let me be compassionate and merciful to you. We imitate God. Imitate God as his beloved children. Let's pray. Father, we thank you. Thank you for this general point, the general lesson. Help us to step out of the forest. And see the forest as a whole, that you sent Jesus to be the King of Israel and the King of the nations, that you sent Jesus to be the Savior of Israel and the Savior of the world, our Savior, the great Redeemer. From this wretched curse of sin and death. Let us see Jesus, our Lord, our God, and our only hope in this fallen world. It's in his name we pray. Amen.