Tonight we're in Proverbs four, verses one through nine. Proverbs four one through nine. Bless you. Calling this message the beauty of wisdom. And there doesn't need to be a cliffhanger about it. The beauty of wisdom is God's character. It's created and cultivated. in the life of a sinner. Isn't that amazing when we think about that we're natural born sinners, and yet God by His grace and by His power, by His design, the design of His wisdom. He cultivates, he creates and cultivates his own character in our lives. God is the definition of beauty. And the beauty of wisdom is when God Creates godliness in our lives. And of course, he gets the glory for that. So Proverbs 4, 1 through 9, the beauty of wisdom. Let's go ahead and read it And then again we'll give our time to the Lord in prayer. Hear, O son, hear, O sons, a father's instruction. And be attentive that you may gain insight. For I give you good precepts. Do not forsake my teaching. When I was a son with my father, tender, the only one in the sight of my mother, he taught me and said to me, Let your heart hold fast to my words Keep my commandments and live. Get wisdom, get insight. Do not forget and do not turn away from the words of my mouth. Do not forsake her. And she will keep you. Love her. And she will guard you. The beginning of wisdom is this. Get wisdom. And whatever you get, get insight. Prize her highly, and she will exalt you. She will honor you if you embrace her. She will place on your head a graceful garland. She will bestow on you a beautiful crown. Verse 9, that closing verse in our passage is where I got this idea of the beauty of wisdom. Because you see this metaphor of The adornments, the beautiful adornments that are the rewards of wisdom. Verse 9 again, she, the wiz the she is wisdom She will place on your head a graceful garland, and she will bestow on you a beautiful crown. That's a reward. That's the beauty of wisdom. She adorns those who seek her and find her and embrace her and answer her call. To walk in the way of the Lord. The beauty of wisdom is our topic tonight. Let's pray. Father, without you, we would not know what wisdom is and Now, the blood of your son, we'd have no way of living it out or attaining to it in any measure at all. But by your grace and mercy, you have saved us. You've given us new hearts. You've given us new minds. You've given us new desires. And Father, within those new desires, you've given us a desire for biblical wisdom. We pray that not only for tonight, but throughout this series, that you'll continue to teach each one of us according to where we are in our faith. Some of us are much further along than others in this room. Some of us are just getting started. Some of us are in a time of trial, while others may not be Well, wherever we are, Father, I pray that you would grant us the wisdom that we need. Wisdom that points us to Christ. Wisdom that helps us along in the walk of faith. Help us to walk in the footsteps of Christ, the one who bled and died for us, the one who gave us the Holy Spirit, and the one who is returning for us at the end of the age. Father, help us as we come under your word and your authority, seeking your power, seeking your blessing. It's in Christ we ask. Amen. First of all, what is wisdom? You can summarize it in many ways. One of the ways it's been summarized is this. Wisdom is Skill in godly living. Biblical wisdom we're talking about, not worldly wisdom. Worldly wisdom would be the opposite That would be skill in living according to the passions of the flesh. Biblical wisdom is skill in godly living. It's the knowledge And it's the ability to app to apply biblical commands and to apply biblical principles In all aspects of life, the different areas of life, home, work, church, friends, wherever, different situations of life, good times, bad times Times of blessing, times of poverty, times of imprisonment for the gospel, which we see we see throughout Scripture. The knowledge and the ability to apply biblical commands and biblical principles in the various aspects of life, skill in godly living. I like one of the things Jason said last week about wisdom. Jason, if you're watching this, I'm paraphrasing, so please forgive me if I don't get this exactly right. But he said that wisdom essentially is how we are called to live as God's covenant people in the world. I like that definition because it connects wisdom with who we are. We are God's covenant people, and it connects wisdom with where we are. We are in a fallen world. And so learning wisdom and applying wisdom is difficult. In fact, without God, it's impossible. But this is wisdom, skill in godly living, how we're called to live as God's covenant people in the world. It's not just theological knowledge. Theological knowledge, good or bad. But wisdom is something different. It's the ability to apply commands and principles and to apply that theological knowledge to the nooks and crannies and ups and downs and ebbs and flows of life in this world. Wisdom, in one other summary definition, is walking by faith According to God's will, not our own will. It's walking according to God's will, not the will of the world around us. Not living for the approval of others, not absorbing the principles of the culture around us, but striving by faith to live according to God's will, not our own and not. Not the will of the world around us. Before we get to our outline, and we will get there. Alright? Quick summary of the introduct introductory message to this series that Jason preached last week from First Corinthians. And his main point, which we we talked about this, and we want this to be the overarching point of this whole series on wisdom. Otherwise, we're off course. is that wisdom is found only in Jesus. We must come to Jesus for salvation based on the blood of his cross first. We must be saved first. One of the words he used last week was pathway. That Christ and the his death on the cross is our pathway to godliness. Wisdom is found in Jesus. Wisdom is a gift from Jesus. Wisdom is the likeness of Jesus being raw in our hearts. minds, words, and life. First Corinthians 1, 30 to 31, it's because of him, God. God, it's because of him, you are in Christ Jesus, who has become to us wisdom from God. Righteousness and sanctification and redemption, so that as it is written, let the one who boasts boast in the Lord. Christ has become to us wisdom from God. Also Colossians 2. 3, speaking of Christ, Paul writes, In whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. That's true wisdom and true knowledge. In Christ is where we find all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. And of course, a favorite, Matthew 7:24, in the Sermon on the Mount, where Jesus For the most part, just equates wisdom in life with hearing his words and obeying his words. Everyone then who hears these words of mine and does them It's like a wise man who built his house on the rock. This is the wise person, the one who hears the word of the words of Christ. And receives the words of Christ in faith and obeys the words of Christ by the power of the Holy Spirit. There's our review. Wisdom is found in Jesus. Jesus is the pathway to wisdom, to godliness, to skill in godly living. We must come through Jesus. Now, for the outline tonight, we're just going to talk about two things. First of all, the reward of wisdom, and second of all, the requirements of wisdom. So the reward of wisdom is The reward that that comes once we attain wisdom and begin to walk in wisdom. That's the reward of wisdom Which sort of like a result. But the requirements of wisdom are what we need in order to attain wisdom in the first place. But the reward of wisdom is really what captured my heart as I got to the end of this passage. In verses 8 and 9 is where this comes from. Wisdom's reward is the adorning beauty of godliness. Now, when we're lost, we don't think godliness is beautiful. We don't cherish godliness. We do not esteem godliness. But when we have new hearts as saved people, it is a great reward. To see God creating and cultivating in our lives the adorning beauty of godliness. And we pray for it more and more. As we grow in our faith, we come to grieve our sin more and more. But the flip side of that is we come to cherish godliness more and more, cry out for godliness more and more, just like we cry out for repentance. So first a reward Of wisdom, verses eight and nine, once again. Prize her highly. Again, the her is wisdom. Wisdom is being personified here Prize her highly, and she will exalt you. She will lift you up. That's a reward. That's a result of prizing wisdom highly She will honor you if you embrace her. That's the same idea. You embrace wisdom, and wisdom Will exalt you. You embrace wisdom, and wisdom will honor you, bring honor to you. There is a reward. There is a return for pursuing and attaining and walking in wisdom. Verse 9. That's verse that's just verse 8. Here you get this really vivid illustration of the beautiful reward Of seeking and attaining and walking in wisdom. She, who's the she? Wisdom. Just making just making sure. You gotta make sure. You know. It's a great picture. She will place on your head a graceful garland. She will bestow on you a beautiful crown. The imagery is that of a reward, that of a victory that's been attained, a great victory. You've been adorned. With a garland. You've been crowned with a beautiful crown. How did it get there? Wisdom put it there. That's what we're on. The reward of wisdom. God's wisdom in our lives brings with it a great reward, and that reward is the adorning Beauty of godliness, like a diamond adorns the setting, like jewels adorn a crown Like the beautiful white gown adorns the bride. Godliness adorns the The child of God, this is the return of biblical wisdom. This is the reward of wisdom. That God gives to us by His grace and for His glory. Wisdom's reward is the adorning beauty of godliness. It's a nice picture to Just keep in the back of our minds as we're striving to obey the Lord and crying out to the Lord that He would help us to grow. And help us to overcome temptation. And help us to repent. And we're praying and on our knees, begging God to cultivate within us the fruit of the Spirit. It's a nice picture to remember. God's wisdom placing upon our heads a graceful garland and a beautiful crown. It's a reminder, if nothing else, that we are recipients in the matter If godliness is going to come into our lives and then grow in our lives more and more, it's going to come from God. Brothers and sisters, we know it's going to come from God, not the sinful flesh. Four subpoints under this reward, the reward of wisdom, the adorning beauty of godliness. First of all, the adorning beauty of wisdom begins in the heart. The adorning beauty of wisdom, of godliness begins in the heart. 1 Peter 3:4. But let your adorning be the hidden person of the heart. Something, isn't it? Nice little picture. Let your adorning, let your beauty be the hidden person of the heart. With the imperishable beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, which in God 's sight is very precious Well, 1 Peter 3. 4 is an incredible verse. Let your adorning be the hidden person of the heart with the imperishable beauty Of a gentle and quiet spirit, which in God's sight is very precious In worldly standards, we look at the outside appearance. And not only that, but we look at the outside appearance through the lens of a worldly and a carnal evaluation of that appearance. But the biblical picture can completely reverses that. True beauty is inward. True beauty is inward. And we're to evaluate things not based on the world's principles, but based on God's principles. That's why Peter writes, the impartial beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, but don't miss this phrase. Which in God's sight is very precious. Isn't that what we want to be concerned with? What's precious in God's sight? What is it that God esteem? What is it that God applauds? The adorning beauty of wisdom begins in the heart. Secondly, the adorning beauty of wisdom renews the mind. I'm particularly glad about that one, brother, because my mind was all over the place before God saved me. It was a mess. I thought all kinds of things. I believed all kinds of things. I knew everything. You couldn't tell me anything. I knew it all. I was all over the place. Thank God that He renews the mind. This is part of the adorning beauty of godliness, part of the reward of wisdom. Romans 12, 2 Paul writes, do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind. That through testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. Sometimes that's hard to stomach this idea that it's through testing, which means through trials, it's through the testing of our faith that we learn discernment and that we grow in discernment. And um recognizing the will of God and being able to recognize what is good and acceptable and perfect It aligns with God's will. That comes through testing. That comes through trial. Maturity and a strengthening of character. A lot of it comes through the experience and the trials and sufferings that are a part of that experience. Testing. Wisdom's reward is the adorning beauty of godliness. That adorning beauty begins in the heart. But it also renews the mind. Third, this is a huge one. Third, the adorning beauty of wisdom is gradually attained. It's gradually attained. It's not attained in three months. It's not attained in three decades. It's gradually attained. 2 Corinthians 4. 16. Paul writes this encouragement. So we do not lose heart, which is another way of saying what. Don't give up. We're not going to be overcome by discouragement. That's right. We don't lose heart. Though our outer self is wasting away. Our inner self is being renewed day by day. The outer self is talking about the body. And the body is wasting away. In other words, every day we wake up, we're one day closer to death. One step closer to death. The body is aging. The body, the outward self is wasting away, but our inner self is being renewed day by day. The inner work of God in us is going the opposite direction of this decay of the outer self. The outer self is decaying, wasting away. The inner self is on the opposite program. It's being brought into the likeness of Christ from one degree of glory to another. The mind is being renewed. We're being restored to the image of our Creator. That's our next verse. But the inner self is being renewed day by day, gradually, day by day, gradually, chipping away at this thing called practical godliness. So, wisdom's reward, the adorning crown, this beautiful crown Of wisdom begins in the heart, it renews the mind, it's gradually attained, so we don't lose heart. We don't lose heart. Don't give up, brother, sister. Do not give up. Stay in the fight. You are not alone. God has not forsaken you. He will not forsake you, but you stay in the fight of faith. Stay trusting in Christ. Stay on the walk of faith. Don't give up. The inner self is being renewed day by day. And many days it doesn't feel good from a fleshly perspective. The trials of faith, the sufferings of this life, the temptations that we go through, the torments of sin and the battles against sin. In these In these bodies, these mortal bodies as part of the fallen creation, it often doesn't feel Like God is working, but God in his word says that he is working, that through all of these things he's conforming us to the likeness of Christ. And all of these sufferings, all of these trials. John, you and I talk about this I feel like every week He's teaching us more and more to trust in him, not ourselves. To fix our eyes and to treasure him, not the things of this world. We're on a teaching program. God is disciplining us. He's trying to purge out all of this selfish pride and trust in ourselves and trust in things and trust in other people that we would trust in Christ alone as our hope. And spiritual fulfillment. Day by day, gradually, forth, forth. Wisdom's reward, this adorning beauty of wisdom. Restricts our actions. It restricts our actions. There's no Christian life without self-control You understand? There's no Christian living without self-control. The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy. Self control. I've heard it said, I'm not sure if this is true, but it it could be. Self-control is like this regulative, it regulates all the other fruit of the spirit. If you don't have self-control, you won't make any progress in the other fruit of the spirit. To discipline the self, to not do things that we're being tempted and that we desire in our flesh to do. Well, the passage is Colossians 3, 9 and 10. Colossians 3, 9 and 10. Do not lie to one another. That's a good principle for church. Right? Jordan 's laughing. But you agree with it. So I love these I love these kinds of passages in scripture where where they're so simple and so basic. They just really they just pop right out to me. Don't lie to each other. Seeing that you have put off the old self with its practices. That's important. You've put off the old self, that's a spiritual reality, with its practices. That's a practical reality. And you put on the new self, which is being renewed, that word keeps coming up. It's being renewed in knowledge after the image of its creator. So certain actions that we don't partake of anymore because we've put off the old self with its practices, practices of the sinful flesh. The reward of wisdom is a great reward. It's the adorning beauty of godliness. It's really just another angle to talk about sanctification, God's work to conform us to Christ's likeness. Begins in the heart, number one. It renews the mind, number two. Number three, it's gradually attained. You're not going to get this overnight. You're not going to get this in a year and a half. But you keep going and don't give up. Number four, it restricts our actions. The Christian life is not a free-for-all. We're not a people who just feel like we're spiritual and we live however we please. We're a people whom God is renewing in the likeness of Christ. And part of that is our actions and hobbies and habits and behaviors and words and places we go. It restricts actions, self-control. That's that's the reward of wisdom. She will place On your head a graceful garland, she will bestow on you a beautiful crown. Even if we're just to talk about the grammar of that verse. It's a fact. It's stated as a fact. It's stated in the indicative. It comes to us, in other words, as a promise. It comes to us as a promise. She will place on your head a graceful garland and she will bestow on you a beautiful crown. That's what I want. I want the reward of wisdom in my life. Now, number two, the requirements of wisdom. Wisdom and her adorning beauty requires, first of all, learning. It requires learning. Uh this comes from verses one through four Hear, O sons , a father's instruction. Now, this literally is addressed to sons, but we could apply this principle to all of us. Hear, O sons, a father's instruction. And be attentive that you may gain insight, for I give you good precepts. Do not forsake my teaching. When I was a son with my father, tender, the only one in the sight of my mother, he taught me and said to me, Let your heart hold fast my words, keep my commandments, and live. God calls all of his children to have a humble and learning spirit. His The child of God who was baptized yesterday, and the child of God who is baptized 60 years ago, all of us are called to have a humble learning spirit. In fact, the further along we go, we should be humbler and have more of a learning spirit, because God has matured us. But you look at verses one through four, it's all about teaching and learning. Teaching and learning. Wisdom must be taught Wisdom must be learned, and that requires a humble heart. It requires a willingness to listen. It also calls for a gratitude to those who teach us, to be happy that God has put people in our lives who will correct us. Who will help us, who will teach us, who will spur us on to go in the right direction in the midst of a world where everything's trying to drag us away from God. Thank God for people in our lives who will pull us back in the direction of the will of God. Wisdom requires learning. There's just no way around it. Just like salvation requires learning, it requires learning the gospel, it requires learning about sin, learning about our need for a savior, learning about what Jesus did to save us from our sins Now ultimately the the teacher of wisdom is God. But God works through people providentially. He works through people. Family members, friends, Christians, brothers, sisters, the church as a whole. God works through people Ultimately, God is the teacher of wisdom through his word and through his spirit. The first word of this passage is what? Hear or listen, depending on the translation. That's right. It starts with an open ear. It starts with the learning spirit. It starts with a willingness to listen. To hear instruction, to be attentive to that instruction, to receive that instruction, to learn, to learn wisdom and hold fast to wisdom. Now quickly, quickly, quickly, quickly, quickly, sometimes I I say that just as a reminder to myself that I can't linger on this too long. But God thoroughly teaches us practical wisdom in his word. I mean the whole Bible as a whole, absolutely yes. But then you have, in particular, wisdom literature. You have the book of Proverbs, which gives us wisdom for personal ethics and for behavior in day-to-day living. That's Proverbs. You also have Ecclesiastes That's wisdom regarding the mysteries of life and the fleeting nature of this life and the complexities of life in a fallen world. You also have Song of Solomon, wisdom regarding romance, and wisdom regarding intimacy and marriage. And you also have Job, wisdom regarding the disproportionate suffering of those who would be faithful to God. You have throughout the psalms, you have various wisdom psalms that deal with various aspects of wisdom You have wisdom teaching in them in the teaching ministry of Jesus during his earthly ministry in the Gospels. The book of James is a book of wisdom. Wisdom specifically for those living in the new covenant kingdom of God. James 15 1 verses 5 and 6. If any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask God. who gives generously to all without reproach, and it will be given to him. But let him ask in faith, without doubting, for the one who doubts is like a wave of the sea that's driven and tossed by the wind. He believes, he doubts. He believes, he doubts. He remembers as for wisdom. He doesn't really believe God will give it to him. If any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask God, who gives generously to all without reproach. Ultimately, the teacher of wisdom is God. That's why James gives that exhortation to the church If you lack wisdom, let him ask God. And we all lack wisdom in one way or another. So we all need to be going to God to ask for wisdom, and that's not just an abstract idea. That's different situations that occur in our lives. And we don't know what to do about it. Or we don't have the answer, whether for ourselves or for someone else. And we need help. And we need insight. And we need guidance. And we need wisdom. So we go to God and we ask God for wisdom. God help me. Help me in this situation. And you work out the details of that in the prayer. But the point is we go to God. So first and foremost, a learning spirit and an open ear to God. But then underneath that, secondarily, a learning spirit and an open ear to people who would teach us wisdom according to the Word of God. We all need those people in our lives. Wisdom and her adorning beauty requires learning, but it also requires steadfastness. That means holding on to, working to hold on to that which we've attained. This is verses five and six. Get wisdom, get insight. Another reminder that you're not born with it. We're not born with it. We don't have this naturally. Get wisdom, get insight. Do not forget. And do not turn away from the words of my mouth. Do you see the steadfastness that's required? You've got to stick with this. Do not forsake her, and she will keep you. Love her, and she will guard you. You stop loving wisdom, you let your guard down. If you forsake wisdom, you'll let you let your guard down and will no longer be walking in the will of God. But you see the importance here of steadfastness. This is a call for steadfastness. Don't forsake her. Keep loving her. That she will guard you. Don't turn away. Verse 5. Don't turn away. So you get it, you attain it, but don't forget it. All throughout Scripture, the people of God commit this sin. They forget what God said or they forget what God did. Over and over and over. And God keeps coming back again and again and again. A lot of scriptures is God reminding Sinners of what he already said or of what he already did. Because we're prone to forgetfulness. We get so distracted by things. And we need steadfastness. So God calls all his children to have a humble learning spirit. That's the learning. But God also calls his children to hold fast on the road of faith. Now think with me on why this is so critically important, this point about sticking with it, this point about steadfastness. Why is it so important? It's so important because the way in which God often teaches us wisdom is through trials and sufferings. And what's the first temptation when we're in the midst of a trial and suffering? Is to what? Is it to give up? Yeah, to give up. It's uh to get angry, become bitter. But that we in times of stress we can become weakened spiritually. Our resolve can be weakened. And we're more prone to fall into temptation. We're more prone to get distracted and just not let me just not worry about the spiritual stuff. That will take that we'll come back to that when everything's good. The temptation is to give up when trials come, when sufferings come. But it's through trials and through sufferings that God will strengthen our faith and strengthen our character and mature us in the faith. God has great purpose in our trials. God has great purpose in our sufferings. He is sanctifying us. He is working out his purpose in our lives and through us. And and battling through temptation is just one example. Battling through temptation should increase humility within us. And battling through temptation should teach us more and more to lean on God as our strength instead of still trying this thing where I'm going to be my own strength and my own power Give you some homework on this. James 1, 2 through 4, and 1 Peter 1, 6 through 7. James 1, 2 through 4, and 1 Peter 1, 6 through 7. Sobering verses, but encouraging verses Strong reminders that it's through trials, through the testing of our faith, that God grows us spiritually in various ways. So we have to we have to strive and pray for a steadfastness. In learning wisdom and persisting and holding fast to it. So we're still in the requirements of of uh requirements Of attaining wisdom and attaining this reward of wisdom, this beauty of godliness. We've said learning is required. Absolutely, learning is required. And steadfastness is required. And third, zeal is required. Zeal. This comes from verses 7 and 8. And all I mean by that is Uh that we need to esteem wisdom highly. We need to esteem it highly. In fact, here in verses Seven verse seven is the reason I wanted to preach this passage. Even though that wasn't my focus, I focused on verse nine. But verse seven, I love verse seven. I just love the wording here, especially the second half of it. The beginning of wisdom is this, get wisdom. And whatever you get Get insight. Verse 8, prize her highly, that's the zeal. Prize her highly, esteem her highly, and she'll exalt you. That's the reward. She will honor you, that's the reward. If you embrace her, that's esteeming her highly. There should be a zeal for wisdom. I love the simplicity of verse 7. The beginning of wisdom is this: get wisdom. That's first. You've got to attain wisdom. First, get wisdom. Attain it. We know we do that through faith in Christ. And um verse seven B, whatever you get, get insight. So simple, isn't it? Whatever you get. Whatever you're going to get in this life. Whatever you're going to chase after in this life. Whatever you're going to esteem. Whatever you're going to prioritize. Wh Ever you're going to get get wisdom Without wisdom, nothing else matters. It's really true. That's in parallel to saying Without sanctification in Christ, nothing else matters. That's what we're talking about. Whatever you get, get wisdom. That's not what the flesh would tell us. That's not what the pride would tell us. And it's not certainly not what the world would tell us. But what God says is this. Listen, this is this is my paraphrase of that verse. Listen, if you're gonna if you're gonna get something in life, get Wisdom. Get wisdom. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for Jesus. I pray that you would Increase for each one of us. Increase for me. Increase for all of us. The young, the old, everyone in between. All of us. Increase within us a zeal for biblical wisdom. Inwardly our sanctification, outwardly our practical discipleship. Take our lives and make them yours more and more and more. Day by day renew us into the likeness of Christ. That we would be your faithful servants on earth, your covenant people in a fallen world. For your name and glory we pray. Amen You are dismissed, that's right.