Well, let's go ahead and take our Bibles and turn to Jude. Jude chapter 1. It's the only chapter in Jude. And it's the book right before Revelation. So if you don't know where Jude is, go all the way to the back of your Bible. The last book is Revelation. And right before it you'll find Jude, which in your Bible is going to take up either one page or two pages. And today we're looking at Jude verses 5 through 8 and also verse 13. Then next week, Lord willing, we'll look at verses 9 through 12. But we'll see why when we get there, we're looking at verses 5 through 8, and then also verse 13. And the topic is the certainty of God's judgment against his enemies. The certainty of God's judgment against his enemies. In Scripture, there's various kinds of judgments at various times, and there's various enemies of God But today we're looking at that topic. It'll be clear in the passage, the certainty of God's judgment against God's enemies. Jude 5 through 8 and also verse 13. Now, a teaching that would be that would bring a temptation to be overlooked Or if there were any teaching that would bring a temptation to be ashamed of, or afraid to preach with clarity and boldness. uh it would be this teaching right here. The teaching or the doctrine of God's judgment against sin and against his enemies, against sinners. It would be easy, it would be, it's a temptation, it would be easy just to hide this doctrine at the very back, the very back dark corner of our message as a church. Because we don't want to offend people, and we know that natural man, us included in our natural selves, is offended at the implication that we are wrong and we are guilty and we're headed for judgment and we need and we can't do anything about it and we need God to save us. Natural mankind is offended at that But let us not be ashamed to preach God's truth. Let us not be afraid to clearly articulate God 's truth in all of its different aspects. You know, when I was lost, I would have done and did do just about anything to avoid thinking about God's judgment against my sin. That's what we do naturally. We don't want to think about it. But if you're in prison and you just want to find ways to distract your mind and not think about the fact that you're in prison, guess what? You're still in prison. And if you're guilty of committing a crime that deserves punishment, but it just upsets you so much you just want to distract yourself with different things and not think about the fact that you're guilty and deserving of punishment, guess what? The guilt remains. The punishment is still due. I could think back to that time when I was living in darkness and blinded by sin and pursuing sin and loving sin and running from God and Not I mean doing whatever I could do to not think about the condition of my soul. Do you remember those days? Just completely infatuated with temporal things and earthly things and that which is sinful rather than that which is holy. Um the days of darkness, the days of blindness, the days of being enslaved to sin. Well, we have to preach in God's judgment and the various doctrines connected to that because that's what God uses To wake us up to our need for Christ. No one looks to Christ, truly, unless they've been woken up to their need for Him. So let us approach this topic soberly. This is a weighty topic. This is an important topic. And it cannot be hidden away in a dark back corner that we never get to. The certainty of God's judgment against God's enemies. Let's read the passage beginning in verse 5. You'll remember the context Jude had just told The church, that his purpose is that they would contend for the faith as has been delivered. And he's also given them a warning about false teachers who slipped into the church. So now verse 5 it picks up. Now I want to remind you, although you once fully knew it, that Jesus, some of your translations will say Lord, don't get thrown by that. Alright. Jesus who saved the people out of the land of Egypt afterward destroyed those who did not believe And the angels, who did not stay within their own position of authority, but left their proper dwelling, he has kept in eternal chains. Under gloomy darkness until the judgment of the great day. Just as Sodom and Gomorrah serve as an example by undergoing It's just as Sodom and Gomorrah and the surrounding cities, which likewise indulged in sexual immorality and pursued unnatural desire. Serve as an example by undergoing a punishment of eternal fire. Yet, in like manner, these people also relying on their dreams Defile the flesh, reject authority, and blaspheme the glorious ones. Now down to verse 13. Wild waves of the sea, casting up the foam of their own shame, wandering stars , For whom the gloom of utter darkness has been reserved forever Just to make sense of what's going on, look again at verse 8. He says, yet in like manner these people also That is referring to the false teachers mentioned in verse 4, where Jude writes, certain people have crept in unnoticed. And these are false teachers under the influence of satanic forces who have infiltrated into the church and now are trying to spread lies and error, heresy within the church. To win away converts for their own name and for their own glory rather than winning converts for Christ. That's verse 8. It's referring back to the false teachers from verse 4. like manner these people also. And then he'll say more about them from verses 9 through 12. And then the beginning of verse 13 is some illustrations describing their condition. Wild waves of the sea, casting up the foam of their own shame, wandering stars. It's illustrations. To help fill out this understanding of who the false teachers are and what impact are they having. But for our purposes, the very end of verse 13 is um Actually, Jude's main point in this whole paragraph that these false teachers will face judgment. He says, for whom the gloom of utter darkness has been reserved forever. Judgment is certain. Judgment is certainly coming from God against all of his enemies, but a way of salvation has been provided. Now you didn't read about the way of salvation in this paragraph, did you? But I want to be a well-rounded gospel preacher. This paragraph is about the certainty of God's judgment, and we'll flesh it out But I don't want to preach on the certainty of God's judgment without also preaching on the way of escape that God has provided. That's our heartbeat. That's the centerpiece of our message. That's the storyline or the plot. of scripture. God has provided a way of salvation. He's provided a way of escape. And so judgment is certainly coming. As our passage gives numerous illustrations about the fact that God brings his enemies to judgment, but it would be completely out of the context of Scripture To even want to preach this without preaching the way of salvation that's been provided. Of course, Jesus Christ is the living Source. He is the living way of that salvation. If you put in your heart, this happens in your heart, it's not something you do outwardly, but in your heart, if you put your trust in Jesus Christ as your Savior , Based on his sacrificial death, based on his glorious resurrection, in your heart, if you believe in him, there's your way of escape. There's your salvation from the coming judgment. Now you'll see a Roman numeral one examples of judgment. Examples of judgment That's what our passage does. Jude goes through different examples of judgment to make an argument for the certainty of God's judgment. And so we'll go one, two, three, four. Number one, first example of judgment, judgment against unbelievers in Israel. Did you see that in verse five? Historical judgment against unbelievers in Israel. Now there were lots of those historical judgments. But he points out, he just mentions one, verse five. Now I want to remind you, although you once fully knew it, that Jesus who saved a people out of the land of Egypt, afterward destroyed those who did not believe. Do you see the order of what's happening in verse 5? Saved and then destroyed. And you know the story. It's the book of Exodus. Saved out of Egypt, brought out of Egypt, redeemed from slavery to Pharaoh. The Exodus, saved out of Egypt, but then What does he say? Destroyed. Saved then destroyed. Not all, not all, but some. Unbelievers. Saved the people out of the land of Egypt, afterward destroyed those who did not believe. There were numerous instances of A group, a subgroup within Israel, rebelling against God, putting the Lord their God to the test Worshiping idols, fashioning golden calves, and calling the golden calf God who saved us. Just incredible, grotesque idolatry, right after God had brought them out of Egypt. And in different instances, God will bring those unbelievers within Israel to a judgment. Just an external association with the nation of Israel did not render someone a child of God. And it's a different context, a different historical context for us today. But you could say a similar thing. You say the same thing in a similar way. Just association with the church does not render someone a child of God. Just being born and being raised in a Christian home does not render someone a child of God. Being around Christians doesn't save someone. Having Christ saves someone. So if you don't have Christ, you must personally, internally put your faith in Christ and you will be saved. Judgment against unbelievers in Israel, verse five. Now in the normal course of life, if someone warns you of a coming danger, is that an act of hatred or an act of kindness? It's an act of love, someone said. Yeah, that's love. That's kindness. A car's about to hit you and someone warns you so you can get out of the way. That's kindness. If your someone sees your child choking, but you're off talking to someone and you don't see it and they and they they warn you so that we can save the child, that's not hatred, that's kindness to warn of a of a looming danger or death. The shark has just been spotted in the water. You don't just get out, you stream shark, and you warn everyone else of the coming danger. Because you're not selfish, you're kind, and you're not hateful, you're loving. To warn of coming danger is loving, it is kindness, it is not mean or mean spirited. Now you could do it, you could do anything or say anything in a mean-spirited way. But the core, the heart of the warning from God is out of God's love. If God didn't warn us of judgment, why in the world would we want to seek salvation from that judgment? It's because God has a love for the world. Are you are you are you with me? Amen? God has a love for the world. God so loved the world. And said his one and only son that whosoever believes In him would not perish, but would have eternal life. It's out of love that God warned me In my wickedness, entrenched in the corruption and the deviancy of sin, God in love, God in mercy, God in kindness, God in grace, infiltrated with a warning about judgment, so that I would flee to Christ. For salvation, so don't get it twisted. You were to try to look for a church that was always talking about God's love. It wouldn't take you but five minutes to find a church. But if you were to look for a church that's talking about a biblical definition of God's love, well now that will take you a lot Longer because the greatest expression of God's love, brothers and sisters, friends and neighbors, the greatest expression of God's love is that He has made a way for us to be saved from coming judgment He's made a way. Where we deserve death, where I deserve death, God provides life. And he provides life abundantly, and he provides eternal life, spiritual life, that will endure into eternity in fellowship with God. Brothers and sisters, that's what eternal life is. It's life in communion with God that will never end. Now that doesn't make us content and drive out the grumbling and drive out the complaining and drive out the pride, then nothing will. Life and communion with God. That's better than having a lot of cash, isn't it? There's nothing wrong with cash. You know we like to eat. We like to feed our children. We like to put gas in our cars so we can go to work. There's nothing wrong with cash. But if cash is the most important thing, we're missing the whole point of life. So, the first example of judgment is against unbelievers in Israel I pray that God would open our hearts to receive his warning. I pray that God would give us wisdom to not twist it into something that it's not. It is not an act of hatred that's meant to drive us away from God. May God give us humility to see God's warning of judgment for what it really is. It's an act of loving kindness that turns us to Christ in order that we may draw near to God. God wants us to flee from judgment by looking to Christ so that we could draw near to Him, to be in a relationship with God. Please see your need for a savior. The whole world, our natural hearts, our natural selves is going to tell us that we don't need a savior. We do need a savior. We do not have the right to live on earth any way we please and not be accountable for it. Isn't that the spirit of the age? You have the right I have the right. Everybody has the right. Just go and live however you feel. Do whatever you want to do. You're not accountable to anyone. Least of all God. That's called opposite. Happy opposite culture. That's the opposite We are accountable for the lives we live on earth. And it's right that we're accountable for the lives we live on earth. Because It's not our earth, and we're not the author of life. So if we're living life on this earth, we're accountable to the one who made the earth and who is the author of life, God Almighty. This is not really the news flash of the century that we're all going to die. But what happens after that? The Bible teaches we'll all stand before God God who is a just and righteous judge and we will all answer for our lives. And I'm telling you, and the Bible is screaming and shouting and shining it out. The only way to be spared from the judgment of God is to be found in fellowship with Jesus through faith. And that's what we're calling you, that's what God is calling you to this morning if you've not received it already. Fellowship with Jesus Through faith. Amen? Fellowship with Jesus through faith. And by the way, that is the preschool level, and that is the PhD level. of Christianity. Fellowship with Jesus through faith. Fellowship with Jesus through faith. Brother or sister, if you've strayed from that as a focus, would you come back on the road today? Get back On track, pray for God's help. Number two, second example of judgment. Judgment against rebellious angels. Judgment against rebellious angels Verse 6, the angels who did not stay within their position of authority, but left their proper dwelling, he has kept in eternal chains Under gloomy darkness until the judgment of that great day. So in verse 5, for judgment against Israel, you saw this word. Destroyed. In verse 6, judgment against rebellious angels, you see this: kept in eternal chains under gloomy darkness until the judgment of that great day. So, this is demons. This is angels who were created good, created to serve God, and God delegated a position of authority. They rebelled against what God delegated. They wanted to do their own thing You know, understanding the basic nature of sin does not take a degree. It doesn't even take third-grade education. It's doing what you want to do instead of what God wants you to do. It's very simple. God says go left, I say no, I'm gonna go right. God says jump, I said no, I'm gonna lay down and play dead. Let's just do the opposite Doing something different than what God has said. So these angels rebelled against God and what God had delegated upon them as their duty and service to Him. And he says, kept in eternal chains under gloomy darkness until the judgment of that great day. So you see two faces of that judgment. The first one is kept in eternal chains under gloomy darkness. That's demons now. That's fallen angels now. Existing under the judgment of God. Almost like county lockup. You're in jail, you're locked up, your freedom has been taken away. That is punishment, but you're awaiting that final trial, you're awaiting that sentence. And that may be federal prison, 25 to life. It may be the death penalty. But even before you get to that final judgment and that final verdict and the execution of that final verdict, you're still in county lockup. And it's just moving inevitably to that direction. That's where demons are now for their rebellion against God. It says until the judgment of that great day. The judgment of that great day. Just as a side note Here, fallen angels are given no opportunity to be saved. No way of escape is made for demons. But a way of escape is made for humans Um that great day, that awesome day, this incredible day, this Mind-blowing day, this terrifying day. There's one day of one judgment coming for the whole world. Not many days of many judgments, one day of one judgment coming for the whole world. That's what he says. The judgment of the great day. And here will here it will include demons Um I don't have time to go to all the passages on what I'm about to say, but scripture teaches that we will be brought into judgment for our deeds. For our words, for our secrets, and for the purposes of our I mean even if you were just to bring us into judgment for one of those things, none of us would stand. But it just tells it shows you the comprehensive nature of our accountability Before God. One day of one judgment. Now there's some other verses I can give you to support this. Acts 17, 31 says, He has fixed a day on which he will judge the world in righteousness. He's fixed a day. One day. One day, one judgment for the world. Acts 17, 31. He's fixed a day on which he will judge the world. Matthew 20 twenty five, thirty-one to thirty-three. When the Son of Man comes in glory, and all the angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne, and before him will be gathered all nations And he will separate people one from another as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. And he will place the sheep on his right, but the goats on the left. So it's the Son of Man coming in glory, and when the Son of Man comes in glory, he'll gather all nations and he'll separate the sheep from the goats. You have the sheep there and the goats there at the same judgment And this is one day of one judgment for the whole world, for all nations, for the sheep and the goats, everybody. John 5, 28-29 Jesus says, do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming. That means a time is coming. An hour is coming. When all who are in the tombs will hear his voice and come out. Those who've done good to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to the resurrection of judgment. An hour is coming. That means an event. That means a time. Not different events at different times. An hour is coming. A time is coming. I've seen that in someone's email address. Does anyone get that? Does anyone know my email address? When all That's so not some, it's different than some, it's different than most. This is all who are in their tombs will hear his voice. By the way, those who are still alive when Jesus returns will still be All who are in the tombs will hear his voice and come out. Those who've done good to the resurrection of life, and those who've done evil to the resurrection of Judgment. So sheep, goats, separation, one hour, one time, one day, all nations, the whole world, sheep and goats, everybody. If I went to Genesis chapter one and said evening, there was evening, there was morning. the first day and I say, well that's not really one day. That's really billions of days. That's actually millions of years. You would say, Where are you getting that from? But there are teacher teachings out there that come to this issue of one day, one judgment for the whole world, and they break it up in different ways for multiple judgments On multiple days for multiple subsections of society in the world. But that's not what Scripture teaches. Scripture teaches one day of one judgment for the whole world. And that day is coming. And that's what he says here. The judgment of the great day. Verse six Next example of judgment. The first was unbelievers in Israel. The second was rebellious angels. Number three, the third example is judgment against wicked cities. Verse 7 Just as Sodom and Gomorrah, now look at this, and the surrounding cities, which likewise indulged in sexual immorality and pursued unnatural desire. That's homosexual sin. There's heterosexual sin, sexual immorality, and there's homosexual sin, pursued unnatural desire, serve as an example by undergoing a punishment Now that here it's still judgment, but you see, even now it's just another phrase. In verse five, for Israel, it was Destroyed in verse six for demons it's kept in eternal chains under gloomy darkness until the judgment of that great day. Now for Sodom and Gomorrah and the surrounding cities. They were just the biggest cities. They were the representative cities. That was the hub of the wickedness. But the wickedness, we know this Because we live in the world. Wickedness sprawls. Wickedness snowballs. Wickedness is not self-correcting. It is not course correcting. We need the grace of God and the power of God to redirect our course when we're on a course of wickedness. And that's all of us naturally. But here you have a different language for the judgment, serve as an example for undergoing the punishment of eternal Fire, eternal anguish, eternal suffering. The historical judgment where God destroyed those cities, Sodom and Gomorrah and the surrounding cities, was an object lesson That there is a final judgment coming. There's an eternal fire coming. God has given us an illustration in history of a temporal, historical fire to destroy wicked cities. We do not have the right to live however we want, to build whatever. Of society we want, to build whatever kind of culture that we want, to enact whatever kind of laws that we want. We are accountable to God. Father's world, and we're accountable to God, and we should seek His will, not our own God is holy, God is righteous , God is just And it's his holiness and his righteousness and his justice that lead to judgment against sinners. God is holy means he's absolutely unique. God is one of a kind God is the one and only. God is the one true divine being. 1 Samuel 2:2. There's none holy like the Lord, for there's none besides you. There's no rock like our God. God is not like us. In Psalm fifty verse nineteen to twenty one. God rebukes Israel because in their pride they thought that God was just like them and so they could get away with all of their sin. And rebellion. God says, you thought I was one like yourself, but now I rebuke you and lay the charge before you God is holy. Holy, holy. He's pure. We're the impure. He's wise. And we're the foolish. He's the creator. We're the created. God is not like us. He's righteous. We're given over to and prone to wickedness. God is just, but human society has always been given over to self-preserving oppression. God presides over the world. We were brought into the world, and we live in the world. God is good and merciful to those who don't deserve it. Think about how hard slash impossible it is. I'm thankful that God is patient to forgive the lowly since I Sinner. And apart from God's grace, I have nothing. And apart from Jesus I have no way of escape on that great day of judgment. And apart from the Holy Spirit of God in my mind and in my heart, I would not care one iota about anything in the Bible or about how I live, or about the condition of your soul. I just wouldn't care. All of that is a result of God's grace in my life I pray, you know, most of us are saved. Praise the Lord. Most of us know Jesus. Our sins have been forgiven. We have the gift of eternal life. I hope you're not sitting here then thinking, boy, that none of this has any application for me. As we hear about final judgment First of all, let our hearts be overflowing with gratitude. Let thankfulness be springing up and blooming. Let our hearts Be flooded with gratitude of what God has done for us, of what Jesus has saved us from. Gratitude in the heart and love in the heart. Is going to be the seed of any other kind of obedience. So as we're sitting listening about judgment and the way of escape, let us be filled with gratitude. Also, believer , Child of God. Can we be reminded of our calling as we talk about these things? That God has saved us, He's set us apart. He set us apart as his chosen people on earth to live for him, not for things, to live for what's honorable in God's eyes, not for things. For man's approval, to seek things above, not just things below, to to seek after what's good for our souls, not just what feels good for the body I mean if we go on and on and on. Brothers and sisters, can we be reminded of our calling? God has saved us, He has given us of His Spirit, He has consecrated us. Here's what consecrated means. Take you out of the kingdom of darkness, move you over here, transfer you into the kingdom of light that you might shine as the light of Christ in the world. He has redeemed us. He has made us his own We do not belong to ourselves. We have been bought with a price, Scripture says. The blood of Christ So be filled with gratitude. Yeah, I think this is relevant for believers. And let's remember our calling. It's relevant for believers. And one more on the relevancy for believers, although this is not the only three, I'll but just Give you three. Just to be a good Baptist preacher, we'll we'll portion this out in three. Another application is this will help us to grow in our burden for the lost. This will help us to grow in a feeling a weighty burden desire for the lost to hear the gospel and to be saved. We want God to open doors that we might share the gospel. And have we forgotten that it's by when people hear the gospel, that's when God opens the doors of their hearts that they may see Christ. And believe in Christ and be saved by Christ and become worshipers of Christ and servants of Christ and that will come join the church in preaching and worshiping Christ. It's all about Christ. God is holy, God is righteous, God is just. Now we've seen these examples. Number one, judgment against unbelievers in Israel. Number two, judgment against rebellious angels. Number three, judgment against wicked cities. Number four, judgment against false teachers This isn't an example. This is the one where he's speaking into the situation of the original audience. Verse 8 In like manner, these people also, relying on their dreams, defiling the flesh, rejecting authority, blaspheming glorious ones Go down to verse thirteen, the end of verse thirteen, for whom the gloom of utter darkness has been reserved forever. , Brothers and sisters, we're to have a zero tolerance policy in the church for teaching that contradicts God's Word. No patience. Souls are at stake. The glory of God is at stake. The health and the strength of the church is at stake. These are serious matters. And here you have false teachers who've infiltrated the church. Jude doesn't say anything that could be confused. Like, well, don't worry about it too much. Sit down with them. You have some tolerance, have some patience. Now, we're to have tolerance and patience with each other on our beliefs because we're all still learning, hopefully. We're all still growing in our beliefs. That's not what this is about. This is about satanically inspired, lost people infiltrating the church, posing as preachers, posing as pastors, posing as apostles in the early church Bringing heresies that can never save one single soul but only leads you further away from God. Zero tolerance policy for heresy for false teaching in the church. We're to be serious about truth. We're to speak the truth in love. But how can you speak the truth in love if you forfeit the truth? So, judgment against false teachers. Now, I put a Roman numeral two on there just to make sure that I end this message on the way of salvation Salvation, the way of salvation. One cannot understand Christianity apart from the cross of Christ, and it's impossible to understand the cross of Christ apart from God's judgment against sin. Do you know what happened when Jesus died on a cross? Here's what happened: God's judgment against sin. If you believe in him, if you believe in Jesus, he died for your sin. You put your faith in Jesus. You trust in Jesus as your way of escape. Your sin put him on the cross. He carried The guilt of my sin before the throne of God. He received God's judgment against my sin on the cross. So that me, a lowly, pathetic, wicked sinner who just wants to go away from God, so that I can have a way of escape on that great day of judgment. And if you would believe, if you would believe in Jesus, he did it for you too. Brought your sin before God for God to deal with your sin, but He did it as a substitute for you so that you'll never have to come before the throne of God with the guilt. The guilt of your sin. Think of an eraser. What does an eraser do? It erases, gets rid of stuff. This is what Jesus did by dying in our place for our sin on the cross. He erases the guilt of our sin. I'll give you some homework for your devotions. Isaiah 53, 3 to 12. Where this is prophesied and taught about. Jesus died as a substitute for sinners so that sinners could be saved. Now I'm going to end on the way this is received. It's received by faith. Have I said that yet? Received by faith? Received by faith. Romans 3, beginning in verse 23. All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and are justified by his grace as a gift. You haven't heard the word justified Before it just means declared righteous in the eyes of God. That's how you get saved. You're declared righteous in the eyes of God rather than guilty. Or justified by his grace as a gift through the redemption that is in Christ. Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation. That means a blood sacrifice that turns away God's wrath. Yes. will be on the final exam, which propitiation means, the blood sacrifice that turns away God's wrath. As a propitiation by his blood to be received by faith. Right? To be received by faith. You cannot receive Christ by good works, or by religious activity, or by being a part of A Christian family. You do not receive Christ through prayer. I've heard that preached recently. You receive Jesus through prayer. Bible never teaches that You receive Jesus through faith. And once you have faith, of course you're going to pray and cry out to God. But the faith exists in the heart It's impossible for someone to have faith in the heart and not be saved. Right? So you have faith in your heart, but maybe you didn't pray any kind of prayer. For another ten minutes. For that ten minutes were you lost? No, it's impossible. It's impossible for s so all these adding of steps and adding of outward things and adding of actions is kind of completely unbiblical to say that you need to do those things to be saved. You can't do anything externally to be saved. The thing you do to be saved, have I have I said this yet is is belief. Have faith in Jesus. Put your faith in Jesus. And I sorry for going on on a little miniature rant here. But I hear it all the time. I hear it all the time from so-called biblical churches, the biblical gospel, adding steps to receive Christ for Salvation. It's completely unbiblical. Run the other way from it. When you believe, the instant you believe in your heart in Jesus Christ as Savior, you are Saved. All of your sins are forgiven. You're reconciled to God, and that is irreversible. Irreversible. That's why it's called eternal life Because it doesn't end. Amen? Eternal life through faith in Christ. Judgment is coming. And praise God for that. It's right that We're held accountable for our lives on earth. But praise God, glory, hallelujah. He's made a way of escape. One way of escape through one living Savior who died for our sins, but then Rose again. And he had to rise again to be our Savior because how can you come to Jesus if Jesus is still dead? You come to the living Lord, the living source of salvation. And you can do that today, right now, right where you're sitting. Sitting, turn in your heart, turn, and believe in Jesus, you're saved forever. Let's pray