Well the words we'll examine this morning come out of Exodus chapter 20, verses 1 through 6. I'll be pausing at verse 6 this morning. Morning 1 through 6, the right order of worship. I started this mini-series that I'll be doing throughout the mornings last Saturday that we met. Right, when we had uh the incoming snowstorm and just talked about the the goodness of the law of God, that it's good and righteous, it's what we need as Christians. But it's also what we need as a society, and we should not be ashamed of the law of God. It should draw us to Him and it should give us direction in how we live. It is not our way of salvation. That's maybe what often gets conflated is that we think that obeying the law is how we will earn our way into heaven, or it's how we take care of the sin issue. But that's not the case. It's never been the case. Throughout Scripture. The law has never been the solution to our problem of salvation needing of salvation, but it is a tool that God has given us for the drawing of the loss to to convict us when we're in our sin to and draws us to him, but also gives us Christians direction of how we should live. And this morning we're going to examine the very first commandment of the Ten Commandments. You shall have no other gods before me. You shall have no other gods before me. Believe that humanity's biggest problem ever since the Garden is that we've just rejected God and His authority. Right? Isn't that what the problem was in the garden? Adam and Eve have received a commandment. Then the serpent comes in and discussed. And lies. And now there's this image or this understanding that maybe if they eat of this fruit they will be equal to God or have some knowledge like God. But in all of that, there's just a rejection that God Is supreme. That God has authority to say what is right and wrong. And I believe if we look at our own sins, this is our problem. Even today, we our problem, the reason we sin, is because at times we reject God's authority, his position as God, as Lord, and then the rules and instruction that he has given us. We just we reject it, maybe not consciously. We allow our pride to come in, our greed at times, but ultimately we're rejecting the authority and law of God. We have this in just common areas of life. Students, do you misbehave sometimes because you reject the authority of your teachers and the rules they have given? Of don't talk during class. Don't constantly click your pen during the entire class. Just talking as leading youth on Wednesday nights, some some examples. Do we sometimes have this problem with our bosses? Is there times is there conflict in our relationships at work because we just reject the authority of our supervisor or our boss? And we neglect or reject what they've instructed us to do. What does that cause? That causes tension, right? That causes problems. This is part of our problem with the within the civil magistrate. We reject what the law is, we reject their authority, and then we reject what they have told us to do, and it causes tension. Within the household, this is a common problem. We reject the authority. Kids, you reject your authority of parents and what they've advised you to do, how to clean up your room, how to do your homework, and because of that, then it brings in Tension and conflict. Well, how much greater is our situation when we do that with the Creator of the universe? How much greater is that tension and conflict when we go before the one who has created us, the one who has given the ultimate law, and we just reject it? And that's why we, as Christians, must study the law of God. We must know who He is and His right position, and we must also know what He has commanded us to do. But friends, may we not say that these are so far apart that the Ten Commandments are only for Christians. Or the Ten Commandments are good and uh the last six are for everyone, but the first four are only for Christians. Christians. No, no. The commandment that you shall not you shall have no other gods before me is universal. It's universal. Everyone is commanded that. Now what is different is the right response to that commandment. It's very interesting as I was working on my sermon. I went out Friday and I'm working on my sermon and There's just a conversation happening around me, and there's someone that would not claim and wouldn't identify themselves as a Christian. Yet he was talking, without me addressing it, he was talking about that he likes the Ten Commandments, that it is valuable. But he's not Christian. He's not saying this is the word of God. He's just saying they're good for society. They're moral and right. And as a good extrovert pastor, I just started a comment. conversation. And we just started talking and it was so amazing to see that truly the world understands the value of the law, understands that the commandments of God are important. Yet they can't see why. How does that work out in society? And I believe part of the reason that they're that way is because the church has failed to say, no, this is truly righteous. The society, the world, needs to know the commandments of God, needs to know the law of God. And as we examine the Word of God this morning, we're going to see how that impacts both the believer and the unbeliever Well let us begin by reading. Exodus 20, verses 1 through 6. And God spoke all these words, saying, I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt. Egypt, out of the house of slavery. You shall have no other gods before me. You shall not make for yourself a carved image, or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath. Or that is in the water under the earth. You shall not bow down to them or serve them, for I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God. Visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children to the third and to the fourth generation of those who hate me, but showing steadfast love to thousands of those who love me and keep my commandments. This section here is the there's a few commandments, and it's all about how we approach God, how we worship Him, but we're going to focus on the very first commandment, which is found in verse 3. You shall have no other gods before me. You shall have no other gods before me. What does this command us to do? You know, it's maybe simple. We go, yeah, this this tells us this just tells us to have no other gods before him, but then we go, well, what does that mean? What does that look like in society? How should we understand that? How should we work that out? Well, let me give you two categories that this law requires of us. The first one is that we must acknowledge God. It's pretty basic. It's pretty upfront, clear, that we must acknowledge God. To have no other God before God, we must recognize who God is. And to recognize who he is, we must understand his sovereignty, his might, his power, his lordship. Look at verse 2 with me. It says, I am what? The Lord your God. The simple title that God is using for himself shows his authority. It shows his position. It says he is the Lord. He is over all. This is the aspect that we come before him in worship, recognizing how great he is, recognizing that he is king. Recognizing that he has all authority to him. This title would have often been used for a king. The Lord, the one that is sovereign over his land. But the difference here is the earthly king is limited to a geographical area, right? He only has his reign as so far as he is taken captive of that region. Right? In in the Lion King, remember that scene where he talks about that wherever the sun touches, that is mine, but then in the in the shadows and the darkness over there, you don't go there? Well God doesn't have any shadows that he doesn't go. God doesn't have any area where it's too dark for him to have sovereignty over because he is the creator of it all. It's all his. It all belongs to him. Everything. Our issue is we go, well, what about those that reject him You know, I look around the world right now, and it looks as though there's plenty of places, plenty of countries, plenty of institutions that God doesn't seem to be the Lord over. There's war, there's false teachings, there's unrighteousness just rampant. Well that doesn't mean God's not The Lord over it, it just means that those in that kingdom are rejecting the true authority of God. And that's our issue, is we've rejected the true authority of God. The world has rejected the authority of God and who He is. Revelation 1, verse 8 says, I am the Alpha and the Omega. The beginning and the end. Beginning and the end. So if anything's before the beginning, well then it's not part of the beginning. And if anything's after the end, then it's not part of the end. So what this language here is telling us, this title, the Alpha and the Omega, is that he is Lord over everything. All of history. But then he continues on. He says, I'm the one who is and who was and who is to come. And here it is, the Almighty. No one is more powerful, greater, smarter, stronger, or has more authority than God. Hear that? No one. Don't fall for the lie that Satan's more powerful. Don't fall for the lie that Satan's just advancing and his wickedness is so great and that the enemy is taking over the world. Don't fall for it. God is the one. He is the Almighty, the Alpha and the Omega. God is the one that created Satan, and Satan will bow down to him. Friends, we must acknowledge who God is in his right position. The second aspect of what this law commands is maybe the more upfront one for us, is that we must have no other gods. It depends on what translation you have. You may have before me or besides me. Beside me. Either way, what's being explained here is that we don't have other gods. We don't have other gods. It's not like, well, yes, we understand and recognize Yahweh as the ultimate God, and then I'm also going to have my little Buddha over here I'm gonna have my my other religion. I'm saying God is God, He's the ultimate, but in my worship, I'm giving a little worship to God, Yahweh, but I'm also giving a little worship to this false God. Let me take boot out of there. How about you just put your pride in there? I'm worshiping Yahweh, but on Monday mornings when I'm frustrated, I'm going to be worshiping myself. And what I want and what I desire. We don't have that option. We don't get to choose God on Sundays and then whatever foreign God, other God we want the rest of the week. What God's commandment is to acknowledge Him as God and not to worship or acknowledge any other God. Now, why is that important? Well, A, they're all false gods. Any other God that you put in place in some form of worship is ultimately going to fail you. It's gonna crumble. It's gonna fall apart. Islam will fall apart. In the end of history, or whenever God chooses, it will be gone. There won't be the benefit of being Muslim. Buddhists will fall apart. Your pride will fall apart. Your riches will not get you into heaven. All of that will crumble someday. So what benefit is it to worship a false God like that? A false God that's going to fail? A false God that will not be there in the eternity? That 's why it's important we recognize that he is the Alpha and the Omega. He's the eternal. He always was and always will be. The true God does not fail. We also must recognize that there is a great punishment and destruction that comes from false worship A great punishment and destruction that comes from false worship. We know that in the eternal. If you are worshiping a false God on the day of judgment, what's going to happen? You're going to receive the just punishment of destruction and thrown into the lake of fire, eternal separation from God. Why? is because you've been worshiping a false God. You've said, yes, here's Yahweh, the creator of the universe, the true God, but I'd rather worship this God. And reject the true God. But not only that, we see in history that is a great punishment that comes to Israel when they worship false gods. Deuteronomy 29 Deuteronomy 29, starting in verse 24, lays out some of the consequences that will come upon Israel as they follow after false gods, as they worship after false gods. Verse 24 says, All the nations will say, Why has the Lord done this to this land? What caused the heat of this great anger? Then people will say, It is because they abandoned the covenant of the Lord. The God of their fathers, which he made with them when he brought them out of the land of Egypt, and went and served other gods and worshipped them, gods whom they had not known and whom had had not allotted to them. Therefore, the anger of the Lord was kindled against this land, bringing upon it all the curses written in this book. And the Lord uprooted them from their land in anger and fury and great wrath. and cast them into any another land as they are this day. Does that sound like a good thing or a bad thing? Bad. It's a terrible thing. It's a destruction that comes upon Israel for worshiping false gods. Or you could say this way: it's a punishment that came upon Israel for not rightly worshiping Yahweh. Well what's our stance then? Are we going to fare better than Israel? Is our society gonna do better than Israel? You know, that was Israel, that was that was Old Testament time. They can go worship whatever gods they want. see that but you know we're modern we now have the internet we're now a democracy well does God's judgment upon a nation that rejects him change Does God's punishment against the people that say, yes, we know you are Yahweh, but we really like this God over here? By no means. We see that there is going to be a destruction. So the two parts of this law is that we must acknowledge God for who he is, and we must have no other gods before him, besides him. But maybe you're stuck in this bubble right now and you're like, Anthony, I'm good. I don't worship Buddha. I don't worship Allah. I'm not I'm not in those camps, so this doesn't you know this isn't a concern for me. Well friends, I I believe that this is a concern for many of us. I believe that in our lives many of us have a temptation or some form of idol or false God that without realizing it, we're worshiping. Pride. Does your pride often dictate what you do? Does your pride, self-fulfillment of what you want, what you desire, dictate how much time and effort and dedication you give to the Lord? Maybe you don't struggle with the same issue as pride. What about your job? Do you give up a lot of things, a lot of good things, for a job? I'm an American. I gotta work hard. I gotta work late. It's okay if the family suffers. It's okay if I don't make it to church. It's okay if I don't gather with the saints. Because this job is so important. Is it approval or acceptance from others? Yeah, I know this isn't righteous. I know these conversations and these jokes aren't good. I know I shouldn't be doing that and saying that and joining in, but I just want my friends to think. It's okay. I want my friends to not think I'm a weirdo. This is just humanism. You know, we have Islam and Buddhism, but what about just atheism, a complete rejection of God? All of these are some kind of false idol that has creeped into our lives. Some kind of lie that maybe if we dedicate worship, if we allow that to be what dictates our life, We'll get some kind of benefit out of it. But we see that we shall have no other gods bes before him. No no nothing and no one should take the right authority of God in our lives. It's a danger. And that's why God is warning us about it. This brings us to point number two, our second question. I think it's pretty basic, but it's an important one. Why is this commandment, thou shall have no other gods before me, why is this commandment the foundation for the right worship of God? Or you could also ask this, why is this commandment the foundation for all other commandments? Well, simply put, if we fail to recognize God's authority, then we will not worship him or obey him. Right, if God hasn't established who he is, if we fail to recognize his authority and his law and To put him in his right place, then we will fail to care about any other commandment he gives us. We'll we'll fail to come to him in right worship. Right? So if we don't have God in his right authority, but we put something else in that authority, then we'll follow whatever that commands us. Whatever my pride tells me to do, that's what I'm going to do. I don't care what God says. I don't care what God's law says. Or if we fail to put God in his right position and we put pride in that authority, then we start to worship ourselves. What can I accomplish? What can I get? What do I need to do to advance and to be better? Not thinking about what God has commanded. So we must have these in the right position. If we fail to recognize God's authority, we will not worship him and obey him rightly. That's maybe the key word there, is the rightly. Because there's many of us, there's many of us that we are making all of our decisions based off of our pride rather than the word of God, yet we're sitting in here this morning. And we're going, I'm good. Anthony, I'm here on Sunday. What else do you want from me? But then your pride gets in the way, it dictates how you interact with others, it dictates how you give, it dictates what laws and commandments of God you follow. Well, is that the right worship of God? You can't just get pick and choose what's right. We must go to the sovereign. We must go to the Lord and his commandments to know what is right. I think of a rich young ruler. Rich young roller. Many of you know this story. Matthew 19, Mark 10, Luke 18. What did he do? He came to Jesus. And he's trying to figure out what's eternal life, how am I righteous? And what does Jesus do? He starts to go through parts of the law. He starts to name, you do this, you do this, you do this. And that rich young ruler, what's he do? He goes, I've done all that. I'm good, Jesus. I've been to Sunday school. I'm in the choir. I give. I memorize all of the book of James. I'm good. What does Jesus do? Well he just says, Well, well what about this? And then he says, you must sell all of your possession possessions, give to the poor, and follow me Now, did the rich young roller go, yep, I'm good? No, at that point, it says he left sorrowfully because he had great possessions. He left sorrowfully because he had great possessions. Now, what's the moral of that story? Sell all your stuff, give to the poor, and come follow it. No, no, no. What happened there is what Jesus is laying out. is there's going to be something that holds you back from him. Your pride, it's your possessions. What Jesus was doing was he was revealing that this rich young ruler actually had some kind of false idol that he worshiped. More than God. And in that revelation, instead of being convicted and saying, I you're right, I do have this in my life. I do need to give this up. I I do have this love of something other than you, what he does is he says, actually. I want to keep that idol for a little bit longer. And he leaves sorrowfully. Friends, we can't pick and choose The laws of God. We can't pick and choose what commandments of God we follow. This commandment is needed as the foundation for all other commandments because then we'll understand And follow the laws of God. You know, we see the commandment, thou shalt not murder. We'll get to that one in a few months. And all the world goes, yeah, of course we shouldn't murder. Of course. Murder's wrong. Just ask the atheist, ask the one that doesn't have the law of God and say, but why? But why? What standard? What standard says that murder is wrong? Well, we'll kill all society. Okay, what's wrong with that? Right? Without the word of God, without God being in his right authority and as the lawgiver, there is no answer to why murder is wrong. There is no answer for the mistreatment of others. There is no answer for why stealing and robbing is wrong. There's no answer for why racism is wrong. That's why we must have God in His right position. of authority, and we must value and love his law and his word. Because without it, who cares? There's no meaning. Don't tell me to be a good person. Don't tell me about morals. Don't tell me about treating others well. Without God in his right position and authority, we cannot worship him rightly and obey his commandments. So that's why it is so important to have God as the Lord, as the sovereign, and to value the right worship of Him and His commandments. Which brings us to point number three, question number three, maybe. What does this commandment do to the unbeliever? Right? That should always be a good question. With all ten of these commandments that we'll study, this is the questions that we'll have to ask. What does this commandment, the first commandment, third, fourth, fifth, whatever one, what does this commandment do for the unbeliever? How should we apply it to society and to the world around us? But also, what does this mean? What does this commandment do I think the believer in this one is maybe a little bit easier, but when we're talking about the unbeliever, Does this law still apply? Here's a great divide of history for many people. Many will say that the first four commandments of the Ten Commandments don't apply to the society. It only applies once they become Christians. But can we be honest? That doesn't quite work out logically. Because we're saying, well, okay, it only applies for them when they become Christians. But what are we calling them to repent of? Why are we calling sinners to turn from their sins? If they don't care about who God is in his right position, Then why do we say that they're sinners? Well, we can say that we are all sinners because we've all rebelled against God. So we must proclaim and preach and announce the first commandment within the civil magistrate and within society. We must proclaim and call those and all people, including ourselves, that we shall have no other gods before me. So, what does this commandment do to the unbeliever? It convicts the sinner and drives them to seek the Lord. It convicts the sinner and drives them to seek the Lord. We live in a time that can conviction isn't a nice word. Right? We don't want to use that. But we must see. That's what the law of God does to both the unbeliever and the believer. Friends, brothers, sisters, if you are in here this morning and you have faith in Christ, you are a Christian redeemed by the blood of Christ, it's because at some point in your life you were convicted that you were a sinner. I don't know that point. I don't know the exact situation that happened. But at some point you were convicted and you recognize that you were broken. that you were filthy, that you were a rebel against God, that you had broken his law, you had sinned against him. At some point in your life you knew that you needed a way out of this the destruction that you deserved. You knew that the punishment that rightly was yours was hell and separation from God. And you knew that the only hope, the only way out of that was to run to the cross of Christ. To see the marvelous work of the Son of God, Jesus, fulfilling the law perfectly, hanging on the cross, paying for your sins, dying, being buried in the tomb, raising from the dead. At some point in your life, you were convicted to the point that you cried out to him, pleaing for salvation. That has happened to each and every Christian. If you're saying, no, I'm a Christian, but that hasn't happened to me. I was never convicted of my sin. I never had that problem. Well, friend, you're not a Christian. Because it's based off of your works, or it's based off of something other than coming to faith in Christ, recognizing that He is your Savior. That happens through conviction. We don't need to run from this. We don't need to have shame in announcing that all of creation, all of humanity, they shall have no other gods before Yahweh. There's nothing shameful about that. We actually believe that preaching such a message, proclaiming this law and this commandment, will save sinners It will drive them to God. What will they find when they go to Yahweh? What will they find? Alright, they're convicted. They're recognizing they do have another God outside of Yahweh. They recognize that they have worshipped. And other gods they they recognize that they have other pride and lust and maybe even a foreign false god of Islam in their minds. And that's who they're worshiping. Now they're convicted. They're convicted of this. What happens? Well, Romans 3, 23, and 24 tells us. All have sinned. And fall short of the glory of God. Alright, that's what it's doing. It's convicting them, right? It's convicting them. Okay, we've fallen short. We're not rightly worshiping God. I have other gods before him. I'm worshiping false idols. But what happens? Here it is, verse 23 and 24. So all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God and are justified. By his grace as a gift through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. Hear that. That's the sweet message, brothers. And sisters. That's the sweet message of the law of God. That we see we have broken the law of God. It causes us to go, we have no hope. We go to God and plead with Him, and He says, Here is my son whom died for you. Here's where redemption is found is in Christ Jesus. So what does the commandment, thou shalt have no other gods before me, do to the unbeliever? It drives them to the cross of Christ. Just like it did each and every Every one of us. day It drives us to seek Him, to find salvation in Christ. Please hear me. There's no way that we can have the Ten Commandments without Jesus. There's no way that we can separate them. I'm not preaching a moral message of follow the Ten Commandments and everything's going to be A-okay. Just follow the Ten Commandments, and America will be great. No, what I'm saying is the Ten Commandments shows us our brokenness, our folly, and shows us our need for a Savior, and it drives us to find that Savior who's Jesus. This is why we aren't ashamed of this commandment. When we preach the gospel, is our gospel message: come find a little Jesus, you'll be happy, you'll feel better. It 'll be fun. It'll be part of a community. All those are true in some aspects, but it fails to hit the truth. fails to truly preach the gospel that we are sinners who are deserving of it just punishment from God and that that salvation is in Christ We need the law of God to reveal our sins and drive us to the cross. So, question number four. Final question: What does this commandment do to the believer? So we're preaching the commandments, we're preaching that the only hope is in Christ. People are coming to faith in Christ. This doesn't mean this law goes away. Oh, alright. We were convicted of it. We found Jesus. We're good now. We don't need the Ten Commandments anymore. No Friends, you and I need the Ten Commandments just as much. Maybe even more. I have four aspects of what this commandment does for the believer. Just like it drives the sinner to seek the Lord, it drives the saint to worship and obey. Have no other gods before me drives us to worship God rightly and drives us to worship Him rightly, excuse me, and obey Him rightly. Why? It's because when we fail to worship him and we fail to obey him, that means there's something else that's dictating that. There's some other idol, false worship, there's something else coming into there. And saying, okay, I'm not going to worship God rightly. I'm not going to obey his law because of my pride, my lust, my other desires, my whatever it is. So when we're recognizing that we must have no other gods before him, then we're seeking him more and more. We're seeking to worship him rightly. We're seeking to obey him. Now, a good question that you're probably asking is, well, ooh, I fail to do that all the time. Right? I actually, my pride allowed me to have this outburst of anger at my spouse My pride had me mistreat my co-workers, so I got my way. And we go, well, we broke the commandments, now there's no hope. No, no, no, no. This is what drives us to worship him more. So it drives us to obey him more. When we recognize that we have sinned against him, when we recognize that we have broken his law, instead of sitting and pouting and going, Woe is me, we go, Woe is me, and run to the cross and find the sweet forgiveness. Found in Christ. Even as saints, we are still doing that each day. Yes, I'm redeemed by the blood of Christ, and right now, right here in this moment, I must confess my sins and know that He has forgiven me. Me. I must be restored and refreshed and renewed. I must go to the Lord for Him to lift my head out of my sorrows because of my sin and recognize that I am a new creation. In Christ. It drives the saint to worship and obey Him. The second aspect of what this commandment does for the believer is it causes us to think about God often. It causes us to think about God often. Not just on Sundays, not just on Wednesdays, not just when we're in our Bibles, but But is there something in our lives that's causing us to reflect on God regularly, often? And I believe that this commandment is a piece of that. I want no other gods before Him. I don't want to worship a false God. I don't want to worship false idols and temptations. So what happens? Is we're regularly thinking about God and His law and His Word. Throughout our lives and how we live our lives each day. How am I conducting myself in the workplace? How am I treating my spouse, my co-workers, my children, my parents? How am I thinking about social media? How am I thinking about the language I'm using You start to see that when we're rightly worshiping God, as we're desiring to have no other gods before him, this causes us to reflect on a lot of different areas of our lives. Why? It's because he is the sovereign God over all of it. Over your work, over your house, over what you're watching and thinking. He's the Lord over all, and we want to honor him and obey the commandment in all areas. The third point of what this commandment does for the believer, it causes us to love and to hate what God loves and hates. Causes us to love and to hate what God loves and hates. Love one another, right? It's one of the s what one of the greatest commandments, the second great commandments to love one another. Easy all the time? Or do I challenge you sometimes in your love for God? Right? It's maybe maybe everyone's like, no, we just don't even try. No, but we we have this challenge, right? We offend one another. We have rough relationships and interactions. And when we're rightly obeying the first commandment, is to have no other gods before him, we're saying, well, if God can love a sinner like Anthony. Then I need to as well. It's gonna be a challenge. It's gonna be hard work. But we rightly love God. We rightly love his commandments, right? We rightly we love his word. We love the commandments of God, the law of God. That's what Psalm 119 tells us, telling over and over again about how we love the word of God. So when we have no other gods before us, we don't worship another God, then we're saying, what does God think about the situation? How does he view What does he love? Righteousness and justice throughout society. Well then we shall too. Then the same voice, the same breath, we also recognize we should hate what God hates. We hate some of what God hates. But we don't hate all of what God hates. What's sin and temptations in your life that just kinda it's always there and you just allow it to kind of mingle and and be existence and there's some days you get really upset at it and you fight against it, but not every day. It's not that bad. I'm okay with it for now. Well, most likely that's because we don't hate it rightly. We don't see it as God sees it. We don't see the disgusting nature of our sin, the destructive nature of our sin. And we are okay, we'll allow it to be for a little bit. No, beloved, we must hate what God hates. The sin and temptation in our lives that we are falling for. We must hate it like God. The injustice in society, we must hate it. The lack of righteousness in society, we must hate this. And this causes us to preach the gospel to ourselves and to the nations. The fourth point of what this commandment does to the believer, thou shalt have no other gods before me, is it causes us to cry out to our Lord in prayer. When we recognize that we have no other gods before Yahweh, we cry out to him in prayer. Why? Who else are you going to? Who else is going to solve your problems? Who else is going to fix the situation around us? Who else is going to bring peace to society? Who else is going to bring justice and righteousness into society? The politicians? How's that work? Right? Oh, just a good education? My bank account? No, we must go before the Lord. Who else is going to solve this temptation that I keep falling for? This sin in my life? The Lord. Who else is going to heal and restore me? The Lord? Who else is going to save me from my sins? The Lord? Who else will restore and advance his kingdom, the Lord? We must go to him in prayer, as we rightly have him, and have no other gods before him and beside him. We will go to him in prayer. It will be the first thing we think of, not the second, third, fourth, fifth option. When all else fails, then we go to him in prayer. We go to him in prayer immediately. It's great this morning in Sunday school as we were talking about a topic. And the question was, like, how do we know? How do we know how to handle the situation or what we should do next? And these young adults, you all be proud, young adults, we go in prayer. Pray about it. Ask the Lord, what should we do? Friends, this has to be our answer We have direct communication to the Lord. We have direct communication to the creator of the universe, the savior of our souls. Yet we don't value his authority and his position. Rightly, when we fail to go to him in prayer. I'm talking to myself here. We must plead with him in prayer. We must cry out to him. We must praise him for all of his goodness. And we should not be shy or quiet in our prayers. We must go before him with joy and confidence that he hears us and he responds. We can only do this when we rightly have him positioned. And his right position of authority, and we rightly view him and worship him with all we have. Friends, as we continue this series through the Ten Commandments, We must always come back to that we shall have no other gods before Yahweh. We'll have some times of challenges. How do we deal with this? How does this apply to society? But if we're always saying that God is the sovereign one and God is the one that has given us the commands, then they are good and righteous And that while maybe it changes our feelings, our culture doesn't like it, we can still go to him and say, this is good. I don't understand it right now, and maybe don't understand how to apply it. But I know that it's from God. He is good and righteous, and his law is good and righteous, and we seek him more. We must have no other gods before him. Do not let our culture, our history, our traditions, our pride, our lust Our comforts come before us and obeying God. May we seek to honor Him and worship Him in all that we do. Let's go before Him in prayer Holy God, we rejoice in your goodness. We look to you, O Sovereign One, O King, O Lord, Redeemer, Creator You're so great and powerful and mighty. We are in awe of all you do and all that you are. And Lord, with this reality, we ask that you strengthen us. Show us, remind us of who you are, your goodness and your mercy. Your justice and your righteousness. And Lord, we ask that you help us fight against the temptation to follow after something other than you, to worship something other than you. Show us the destruction that that brings. Reveal in us our sin. Reveal in us that you're the only hope we have in Christ. Draw us to you. Strengthen us, Father. We pray all of this in the name of Christ. Amen.