Well, let's take our Bibles and turn to Titus chapter two. Titus Chapter 2. Today we're talking about the power of grace. Alright, the power of grace from Titus chapter 2, talking about how grace fuels Christian living. You need the right fuel for something. My little Honda Accord will work just fine with gasoline, but you You can't put coal in it and expect it to run. You can't put firewood in it and expect it to run. It's not that kind of engine. It needs the right fuel. And we all need the right fuel to Love God and live for God. And that fuel that we need is God's grace at work within us. And that's what we're talking about. The power of grace. As you look around this room. There's lots of different age groups represented here. People who do different things for a living. Some people have been here for a long time, some people for a short time. Some people are believers in Christ, some people don't yet know Christ. But we all need the same thing in one way or another. Friends, brothers, sisters, we all need the same thing. Morning, God's grace. We all need God's grace in our lives. Start with verses 11 and 12 in Titus. Chapter 2, say a few things about that, and then we'll go to the Lord in prayer before we really dive into this. Titus 2:11 and 12. For the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation for all people. Training us to renounce ungodliness and worldly passions and to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in the present age. Hopefully the two phrases, two key phrases popped out at you. The first key phrase is the grace of God. Alright. The grace of God. It's the very beginning of verse eleven. And then the very beginning of verse twelve, which is the uh One of the main verbs here, what does the grace of God do? Verse 12, training us. Training us. So before we go any further, just imprint these on your mind. We're talking about how the grace of God trains us. That's a pretty simple concept, isn't it? The Greek word behind training us is a similar word to it could be translated to educate educates us or disciplines us. It's a word that was used in that culture at that time for training up a child, for discipline And educating a child in the way that they should go. That's what's being said here. The grace of God trains us. Definition of grace: briefly: grace is a special kind of love. Grace is an undeserved kindness. Grace is an undeserved favor. If someone does you wrong and then you call them and forgive them and take them out to dinner and show them love and show them kindness Despite the fact that they did you wrong, that is a special kind of love that's called grace. And what we're talking about is how the grace of God trains us to live for God. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we thank you for your grace. Help us Help us by your grace. Open our minds to your word. Open our hearts to the message of Jesus. We join our hearts in faith. We call upon your name. We cry out to you that more and more we would experience your grace in our daily lives, and we pray that you would Discipline us, teach us, train us more and more that every morning we wake up, we would see our need for your grace, and that we would pray for grace Let it start this morning. It's in Jesus we ask. Amen. Well, a few kick quick words about this mini-series in the book of Titus. And that's what we're We're doing a three-week series on the book of Titus, Titus chapter 1, Titus chapter 2, Titus chapter 3. And the series, I'm giving it a name, even though it's a very short series, calling it a true and godly church. And that comes from Titus 1:1. If you look again at Titus 1:1, Paul, a servant of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ, for the sake of the faith of God's elect and their knowledge of the truth. Which accords with godliness. Again, knowledge of the truth, which accords with godliness. That's the truth of God, and then that's godliness, which is our lives being shaped. In such a way that honors God and reflects God rather than reflecting the culture and the fallen world around us. We want to be a true and godly church. to be true and godly Christians who live true and godly lives. If you again if you look around the room One of the things you'll see is there's some people who have been here for a lot of time. You'll also see that there's some people who've been here for a medium amount of time And there's some people who've been here for a very small amount of time. You'll see people who've been here for several decades, and you'll see people who've been here for just a few decades. Well, what is God doing behind it all, and what is God doing in it all? What God is doing is He's bringing us together based on His truth And for his glory. Based on his truth and for his glory. That's the essence of what a church is and what it means to be a church is God has gathered us together God has brought us together to know him, worship him, serve him based on his truth, according to his truth, and for his glory, and for his kingdom. And that's what God is doing. And our goal is not numerical growth. Our goal is not to be seen as cool or entertaining by the world around us. Our church, our goal rather, is to be true to God's word. Our goal is to be godly men and godly women and godly children. According to God's word. Brothers and sisters, that's what God has called us to. That is his will for our lives and for our church. Now, last week's message was that uh the main point of last last week's message was that truth leads to godliness. Truth leads to godliness. Now, if you think about that, for a certain amount of time, an issue or a problem will start to arise. Truth leads to godliness. And the issue or the problem that starts to arise is you can look around the world and you can think about the culture, the country that you live in, and you'll start to notice That there's a lot of people who know the truth of Christianity, but who are still living for themselves rather than God. And who still love sin more than they love God. What's going on there? I thought that you said that truth leads to godliness Yes, truth does lead to godliness. But friends, truth only leads to godliness when that truth is received By faith. Mere head knowledge will not get you there. An intellectual grasp of truth alone does not lead to godliness Truth received by faith changes us. Truth received by faith leads to godliness. Now that leads us into today's message of the power of grace. Because if the truth of God is one pillar, That will lead to godliness. We need to understand that there are other pillars as well. In addition to the pillar of truth, We also need the pillar of grace. We have the truth of God that we learn. But as we learn the truth of God and receive the truth of God by faith, what's happening in the heart? You see, that's the question. And what needs to be happening in the heart is the mighty working of God's grace. The Christian life is not something we can do on our own. Christian life is not something that we muster together for God. Christian life is God working in our hearts by his grace. That's why I said earlier, we all need that. Wherever you are, maybe you've been a believer for 70 years, maybe you've been a believer for seven days, you need the grace of God. Whether you're a believer or an unbeliever, you need the grace of God in different ways, different details, of course I've gotta do it. You've heard the scratching. This is not to intimidate you, taking the jacket off, rolling up the sleeves You know, I try to preach with a jacket. I really do. I know it looks more professional and maybe a little bit more presentable. Most of the time I don't because it's very constricting. I can't move around as much Then I get hot, and then when I get hot I get frustrated, I get distracting, but now with it rubbing against my microphone, I'm going there, the jacket is off, okay? God's will for us is to receive his truth by faith and to always be looking for To God. Always be crying out to God that His grace would be at work within us. And that leads to this week's message. Message, the power of grace. Verse 11 and 12 again, for the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation for all people. Training us to renounce ungodliness and worldly passions and to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in the present age. Now As for the main statement or the main point of truth this morning, you see it on your outline. If you looked at that outline in the bulletin, only God's grace enables us To do God's will. Only God's grace enables us to do God's will. Christianity, biblical Christianity, is not doing good things for God. And then after that God rewards me with his grace. That's not right. In fact, that is the polar opposite of biblical Christianity. Biblical Christianity is God gives you his grace as a free gift. And as a result of that, then yes, we do things for God. And we serve him. And we do things for others and serve others. But the grace comes first. The grace comes first. You don't start your car and start driving down the road hoping that fuel magically appears. No, you have to put fuel in it first. And that's what we're saying. The grace of God. That fuel. Only God's grace enables us to do God's will. Now, before we get into those four points on your outline, I want to camp out here on this main point or this main statement of truth for some time. And I want to go through several examples from Scripture. And the idea is to just hammer this point, hammer this point into our hearts that only God's grace can enable us to do God's will. So I'll run through, it looks like I have six of them here on the page examples from Scripture to hammer this point home. And the first one is 1 Corinthians 15, 10. Paul writes By the grace of God I am what I am. And his grace toward me was not in vain. On the contrary, I worked harder than any of them Though it was not I, but the grace of God that is with me. Paul understood that only God's grace Could enable him to do God's will. That's a great passage because you see the phrase three times, the grace of God His grace toward me. And again, the grace of God that is with me. I said, Yeah, Paul was doing ministry and Paul was working hard, and Paul was growing in godliness, in Christian living. But the way he thought of it was this is all because of God Grace. That's all a manifestation of God's grace. Ephesians 3:7. Paul also writes: of this gospel I was made a minister according to the gift of God's grace. Which was given me by the working of his power. Ephesians 3:7 is also a great verse. You can say that about every verse of the Bible if you interpret it the right way and apply it the right way. But for our past for our particular point this morning, this is a great verse because it has the idea of God's grace and the idea of God's power at work. Did you catch that? Paul was made a minister according to the gift of God's grace, which was given me by the working of his power. Paul understood. Only God's grace would enable him to do God's will. Do you understand that? Do you share Paul's understanding that it's only by the working of God's grace, the working of God's power within you, that you can do God's will? 2 Corinthians 9:8. God is able to make all grace abound to you. I really like that. That's just we could say that in modern terms, just shower you with grace. Just pour grace out upon you. God is able to make all grace abound to you, so that having all sufficiency in all things, at all times, you may abound in every good work. incredible picture here of God showering us with his grace so that in every situation, wherever we are We would have the power, we would have the ability to do God's will in that situation. And isn't that what we want? All the various Areas of life, the various trials of life, all the various relationships in life. We're trying to make this decision and deal with this issue. And what we need is God's grace. Poured out upon us, so that, as Paul says, in all things, at all times, we would abound in every good work Colossians 1. 29, for this I toil, struggling with all his energy. That he powerfully works within me. That's the way we should think. We struggle and we toil and we serve and we strive By the energy that He gives us. That's what Paul says. Struggling with all, not my energy, he says, struggling with all his energy. That's God's energy. Struggling with all his energy that he powerfully works within me. Ephesians 1. 19 It's in the middle of a sentence here, so forgive the grammar, but picking up in the middle of the sentence of things that Paul is praying for, for the Christians at Ephesus to grasp, one of them That he wants them to grasp and that he wants us to grasp is the immeasurable greatness of his power toward us who believe, according to the working of his great might. As these ideas go together, the idea of God's grace toward us, and the idea of God's power working within us And the last one, Hebrews 13. 9. I'm actually just extracting one of my favorite phrases from the middle of Hebrews 13. 9, where the author of Hebrews simply says this It is good for the heart to be strengthened by grace. Amen? It is good for the heart to be strengthened by grace. We all need that this morning. We all need our hearts to be strengthened by the grace of God. to encourage us and to equip us and to prepare us and to motivate us to go out into the world and live for Christ and not ourselves. Only God's grace enables us to do God's will. How have you been living life? Have you been depending on self? Have you been depending on temporary riches of this world? Have you been depending on the approval of others or what others think or what others say? Have you been depending on sensual pleasures, or have you been depending on God and His grace made known through Christ? Is the grace of God fueling your thoughts? Is the grace of God fueling your desires Is the grace of God fueling your words? Is the grace of God fueling your actions? Or have you been deceived by a mere head knowledge Christianity? Today is the day to turn it around. Today is the day to say, only by God's grace. Today is the day to say, God 's grace will fuel my life Only God's grace will enable us to do God's will. For the rest of our time together, I want to contemplate, I want us to contemplate four different aspects Of the power of God's grace. Four different aspects of the power of God's grace. First of all, we'll look at the power of grace unto salvation. Second, we'll look at the power of grace unto godliness. Third, we'll look at the power of grace unto hope And fourth, we'll look at the power of grace unto discipleship. Grace that leads. To salvation, godliness, hope, and discipleship. Are you with me on that four-point outline? Alright, I got two yups, I'm going The power of grace unto salvation, this comes from verse 11. For the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation for all people. It's a nice little verse nestled right in the middle of Titus 2. That's Christianity summarized right there. The grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation for all people. Salvation means being delivered from sin and judgment and being reconciled to God. Being delivered from sin and judgment and being reconciled to God We don't have time in this message to really expand on that and give all the glorious details of that. If you have questions about that, please come see me afterwards, or the other pastors will be in the back. You can see them, or you could Just email the church or you could talk to someone else who's here with your follow-up questions. But in general, salvation is being saved. If you're hiking in the wilderness and uh A three-ton boulder falls and traps your leg, you can't move, you need what? You need a kind of salvation You need help from the outside. You need to be saved. If you fall overboard in the middle of the ocean, there's no way you can save yourself. You need a A kind of salvation. You need help from outside yourself. You need to be saved. When we're talking spiritually, spiritual salvation that we need, we need to be delivered from sin. And we need to be reconciled to God. The guilt of sin needs to be forgiven. That's what we have in Christ. Based on his death on the cross, we put our faith in Christ, and we have forgiveness. The forgiveness of sin Which just means erasing. It means blotting out. Blotting out the guilt of our sin. We need to be saved from the final penalty of sin. Divine judgment. Jesus took that judgment. On the cross. That's what the cross is all about. It's a miracle. It's a supernatural event, not just a physical event of dying on a Roman cross. It was that, but it's a supernatural event. It's a miraculous event. Jesus took the penalty that we deserved so that we could be saved, so that we could be delivered from that penalty So like it's not like having a boulder taken off your leg to save you when that when you're lost and stranded in the wilderness with a boulder trapping you. Well, what happens is the guilt of sin is taken off of your record and the penalty of sin is taken off of you. That's what salvation is. It's all because of the blood of Christ. It's all because of the death of Christ. That's what salvation is: being delivered from sin and reconciled to God. You do not have to work for that salvation, but rather you receive it by faith. You trust in God. You trust in Christ. Trust that He forgives. Trust that He saves. Trust that Jesus is the Savior. And you are saved. You do not have to work for it. You do not have to go out and prove yourself worthy. This good news, this free salvation, is for unworthy sinners only. Unworthy sinners who will fall down empty-handed like beggars looking to Jesus, believing in Jesus to be forgiven And to be saved from the judgment of God, that's what salvation is. It could be yours today. It could be yours today. You could have come in this room hating God with the passion of a thousand sons. But if you turn to Jesus and believe in Jesus, you have a new heart, you have salvation, and nothing in the world can ever take that away from you, come to Jesus and be saved this morning. You will not. Regret it. I promise you that. The power of God unto salvation. Also in verse 11, you see this phrase: the grace of God has appeared. The grace of God has appeared. It's made its big reveal. It's been made known. It's been made manifest. That's what that means. It's appeared. The grace of God has appeared. The grace of God is not just this invisible idea floating out there. It's something that has appeared. And actually, just summarize How it appeared. The grace of God appeared in Jesus Christ. The person of Christ. And the life that He lived, a perfectly obedient life, and His sacrificial death on the cross. And his glorious resurrection to be a living Savior for sinners on earth. That's how the grace of God appeared. So if you want his grace, if you want the grace of God that forgives sin, if you want the experience of God's grace in your life. You look in faith to the way it's appeared. And the way it's appeared is simply Jesus. How's the grace of God appeared? Jesus. Jesus Christ and the sacrificial death. Also in verse eleven, you'll see this bringing salvation for all people. It's a way of talking about that this salvation Is to spread to the whole world. That's part of the work of the church, is to keep working and keep striving so that this gospel will continue to spread and work itself out into the nooks and crannies of planet Earth. This gospel is for all nations, for all tribes, for all tongues, for all cultures, for all people, everywhere. God wants this gospel to get there. And save sinners for his glory. The power of grace unto salvation. Secondly, the power of grace unto godliness. The power of grace unto godliness. Now, this comes from verses 12 and 14. First of all, verse 12, training us to renounce ungodliness. and worldly passions and to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in the present age. Skip down to verse 14. Who gave himself for us? That's talking about the cross. He gave himself for us to redeem us from all lawlessness. and to purify himself a people for his own possession who are zealous for good works Verse 14 is a really nice summary of Christianity. The first thing you see is Jesus gave himself. So that's the cross of Jesus Christ. That's the gospel. And then you see To redeem us. That's our salvation. So the cross of Jesus Christ, which redeems us From all lawlessness and purify for himself a people for his own possession who are zealous for good works. That's Christian living. So you have the gospel, and the gospel redeems us, and then the gospel brings into our lives a new vision for our lives, which is living for God and not ourselves. You see this word redeem, it can it uh means to buy out of or to purchase out of in this context slavery to sin You can think of Israel being redeemed from Egypt. Do you remember that story? Israel were slaves in Egypt. But God redeemed them. He brought them out of slavery to be his chosen people. You can apply that imagery to what's going on here. Spiritually, God has redeemed us. He hasn't taken us out of Egypt. I don't think any of you came from Egypt He hasn't redeemed us from slavery to Pharaoh in Egypt. What has he redeemed us out of? All lawlessness. And he's bringing us into a different land. He's bringing us into a different identity. He's bringing us into a different purpose. And what is that? He says this, to purify for himself a people for his own possession who are zealous for good works The power of grace unto godliness. Only, only God's grace will enable us to do his will. The first part of that is his Grace unto salvation. The second part of that is his grace unto godliness. Once we're saved, now we have a different direction. Now we have a different pursuit in life. And that's godliness. Look again at verse twelve, training us to renounce ungodliness and worldly passions. Now, this is the first side of the coin of Christian living. There's two sides of the coin of Christian living. I'll give you them one at a time. This is the first side of the coin of Christian living And it's what we leave behind. Renounce means. You leave it behind. You kill it. You take it off. You put it down. You leave it behind. You renounce it. This is one aspect, one side of the coin of Christian living. And anyone in Christ, everyone in Christ is called to this. This should this is half of our lives, really, this is half of our lives and half of our prayer lives. is what we're leaving behind because we've come to learn what? We've come to learn that those things dishonor God and do not please Him. So we take it off, we put it down, we renounce it, we leave it behind. And that's what he says here. Training us, the grace of God trains us to renounce ungodliness and worldly passions. I give just some examples. There's so many examples we can give on this. Crude and foul language, renouncing it, leaving it behind. Sexual immorality, renouncing it, leaving it behind. An ungracious and unforgiving spirit, renouncing it, leaving it behind. Spiritual apathy or spiritual laziness, renouncing it, leaving it behind, pride in our relationships, and selfishness in our relationships Renouncing it, leaving it behind. Drunkenness, renouncing it, leaving it behind. Greed and envy and just absorbing The greed and envy of a materialistic culture, renouncing it, leaving it behind. This is one side Of godly living. The other side of godly living is also dealt with here. And that's not what we take off and Put down and leave behind, but it's what we pick up, adopt, and put on. You see, you see you have the negative, then we have the positive. Things we leave in the past, things we pursue and pray for and run to in the future. Again, look at the rest of verse 12 where he says the positive. And to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in the present age. Godly lives. Something is godly When it reflects and honors God. Is that a simple enough definition? I like simple definitions. Something is godly when it reflects God's character and when it honors Him. These are the things that we want to pick up. These are the things we want to put on. These are the things we want to adopt into our lives. These are the things we want to pursue and run after And so I'll go through that same list that I went through things that we renounce and leave behind. I'll just give you the opposites of things we embrace and put on. Honorable and respectable language. We pick it up, we put it on Sexual purity, according to God's word. We pick it up, we put it on. A gracious and forgiving spirit We pick it up and we put it on. Spiritual zeal. A zeal. A passion for God's kingdom We pick it up, we put it on. Generosity in our relationships. A genuine humility and kindness in all our relationships. We pick it up, we put it on. Sobriety, we pick it up, we put it on. And inner contentment and peace. We pick it up. We put it on. Those two, those last two is the remedy for a grumbling and a complaining. And the discontented spirit in life. We pick up and we put on contentment and s and peace. Now what's the The point behind all of this, remember, whether we're renouncing and leaving behind, or whether we're picking up and putting on, neither can happen apart from God's grace. This is a result of God's grace. These are gracious gifts from God and His power at work within us. Summarizing, all that we're meant to pick up and put on and adopt and pursue is a Christ-like love. A Christ-like love in all areas of life. What is a Christ-like love? A Christ-like love is a self-giving love for the good of others. If you forget everything else this morning, please remember what a Christ-like love is. It's a self-giving love for the good of others. Now that's the opposite of how we're naturally wise. Right? This is the complete opposite of our natural inclinations, which is to love ourselves at the expense of others But when we reflect Jesus, when we reflect and honor Jesus, we start to pick up and put on and grow in a Christ-like love, laying our lives down for the good of others A Christ-like love is the key to Ephesians 5, 1 and 2 is a good passage on this. Therefore be imitators of God as beloved children. and walk in love. Just as Christ loved us, gave himself up for us. A fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. Only God's grace can enable salvation. Only God's grace can enable godliness. Whether it's things that we need to renounce. And leave in the past, or whether it's things we need to pick up and put on, we always have to be going to God for grace. Always have to be relying upon God for grace. Apart from God's grace, all that we can do is be hypocrites, apart from God's grace. And I don't mean that in a slanderous way. I mean that in a literal technical sense. Apart from the working of God's grace, all we can be is hypocrites. And what that means is all we can do is put together an outward show of religion or an outward show of morality. But without the working of God's grace within us, that's all it is. It's an outward show. It's not true godliness. It doesn't truly honor God. It doesn't honor God at all when we do that. That's why. the the heart of Christian living, these two pillars, seeking the truth of God, seeking the truth of God, receiving it by faith, but then this other pillar of depending on God's grace at work within us Thirdly, the power of grace unto hope. We've looked at the power of grace unto salvation, the power of grace unto godliness, now the power of grace unto hope. This is verse 13. Waiting for our blessed hope, the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior, Jesus. Christ. Hope. Hope. This gives us a future orientation as God's children. Hope is the future inheritance promised by God. It's not a wish It's not a maybe like you hope the Ravens might someday be good again. That's a worldly sense. That's a wish. That's a big maybe. Alright, Sitchio, you're okay with the sense. Of humor from the pulpit, right? Vince, you're cracking up over here because you're not a Ravens fan. But Christian hope, in the biblical sense, is a certainty. It's what we know, and we know it because of the promise of God's word and because of God's faithfulness. And it's his grace that enables us to truly understand The hope that we have in Christ. A future inheritance promised by God. It's a future inheritance, but you know what it does, brothers and sisters, beloved? This future inheritance Serves as an anchor in the present. It keeps us from drifting. It keeps us from straying. It keeps us from dying, withering and dying spiritually. We're anchored. In the hope that we have in Christ. In fact, Scripture uses that illustration for the hope that we have. So, as Christians, we're looking back to the cross and what Jesus did for us. As Christians, we're looking up, always crying out to Jesus for help. And for strength and for grace, but as Christians, we're also always looking forward to the hope we have that's been guaranteed by the promise of God. Only God's grace enables us Only God's grace leads to salvation, to godliness, to living with hope, and fourth and finally, the power of grace unto discipleship. This will be quick, even though this is a large portion of the chapter, but when I chose to do a chapter a week, I knew this would happen, and I'm okay with it. The power of grace unto discipleship is our final point. morning. Alright now discipleship is learning to live for Jesus in all areas of life. Brothers and sisters, please hear me. Discipleship is not just your ministry at church. That's one piece of the pie of our discipleship. Discipleship is learning to live for Jesus in every piece of the pie. In all areas of life, at home, at work, at school, and your hobbies, whatever, as a citizen , that's what discipleship is. It's learning to live for God in all areas of life. Now I'm going to read verses one to ten. Now here's what I'll say and and then afterwards I'm not going to w work through it or open it up at all. I want to give you a lens. Before we read it, of what you should be thinking of as we read it. And we'll just trust that God will apply it to each one of our hearts as He wills. Now here's the lens Before we read it, alright? Here's the point. Whether you are male or female, whether you are young or old Whether you are single or married, whether you work in the home as your vocation, or whether you work outside of the home as your vocation. Your practical goal in life is the same as everyone else's. Each one of us should have the same practical goal in life generally, and that is to learn to live for Jesus in all things. No matter where we are or what we've been called to specifically, to not live for the world, to not live for ourselves, to not live for temporary treasures and pleasures that we can't hang on to. But to live for Jesus in all areas of life, whether male, female, young, old, single, married, work in the home, work outside the home, whatever your detail is. Now, with that being said, Read, we will read Titus 2, 1 to 10. And hopefully it's clear why I gave you that lens. But as for you , Teach what accords with sound doctrine. Older men are to be sober-minded, dignified, self-controlled, sound in faith, in love, and in steadfastness. Older women likewise are to be reverent in behavior, not slanderers or slaves to much wine. They are to teach what is good, and so train the young women To love their husbands and children, to be self-controlled, pure, working at home, kind , submissive to their own husbands, so that the word of God may not be reviled. Likewise urge the younger men Be self-controlled. Show yourself in all respects to be a model of good works, and in your teaching show integrity. dignity, and sound speech that cannot be condemned, so that an opponent may be put to shame. Have nothing evil, having nothing evil to say about us Bondservants are to be submissive to their own masters and everything. They are to be well-pleasing, not argumentative, not pilfering. But showing all good faith, so that in everything they may adorn the doctrine of our Savior. Go down to verse 5 fifteen, declare these things, exhort and rebuke with all authority, let no one disregard you. Declare what things Exhort and rebuke with all authority about what? About godliness and discipleship. About the grace of God trains us in godliness. Why does it do that for the purpose of discipleship? Now, this passage doesn't give every category of human being in their situation in life. And for the categories it does give, it doesn't give every single aspect of discipleship And it doesn't break it down into further subcategories. You could break the older women down into different subcategories and different details. The young men, the young women, different subcategories, differences within But the general point, the heart that we all need to have is whatever God has called me to, wherever I am in life, it's the same for all of us, and that's to learn. To learn how to live for Jesus and represent Him in all areas of life. And it'll have different details and different particulars for each one of us because of our different situations. But I want us to have that heart because that's the heart God wants us to have. That we're disciples, that we're followers. We're not just doing church. We're not just playing religion. We really want this, God. We really want our hearts. To be transformed by your grace. We really want your grace to enable us to be godly. We really want your grace to teach us how to be followers of Jesus. Jesus Christ to live for Him in all areas of life. Today in your heart, right this moment. You can put your faith in Jesus Christ and be saved. Biblically speaking, that's the step. That's the only step that needs to happen To bring you into a relationship with God. Now you've heard the gospel this morning. You heard the gospel that Jesus died in the place of sinners. He took our guilt upon himself. He took our penalty upon himself so that we could go free, so that we could be saved. And if you would see that he died for your sin If you would see that he died for your penalty , and believe in him as your savior, now you have salvation. Now you have a relationship with Christ. God. Now you have the gift of eternal life. And if you come to faith in your heart this morning, and if you are saved, come talk to us afterwards. I'll be up here. The other pastors will be in the back. Follow up with us because one of the things we are here to do, one of the things God has called us to do in our discipleship, is help you take the next steps of faith. This mini-series that's called a true and godly church. And that's what God has called us to be. That's what we're striving to be. And if God has saved you, He wants you to be a part of that. Get in on what God is doing in the world. Be saved through faith. Be baptized according to Scripture. Join the church and be an ambassador of the kingdom of heaven on earth. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for your grace. We thank you for the salvation that it brings. We thank you for the godliness that it enables. We thank you for the hope that it instills within us. And we thank you for the practical discipleship also that it enables for your glory, for your name, for your kingdom, in Christ we say thank you and praise you, God. Amen.