Let me invite you, church, to turn to the book of Ephesians, chapter 5. Ephesians chapter 5. We're going to be in verses 15 through 21 this evening. Ephesians 5 verses 15 through 21. And as you're turning there, I want you to think back with me on some of the kind of big picture significant milestones. of your life. We're in a season where many people are celebrating or have just celebrated graduation either from high school or college. Or maybe you think back on your wedding day or your first day at a job. Maybe you look back on, or for some of you are greatly looking forward to retirement. Whenever we pass a significant milestone in life, though, once all the celebration and the partying and the excitement has passed, there comes a moment where we're faced with a question. Now what? What am I supposed to do now? I've passed this milestone. I've reached a significant new stage of life. You might say I've attained a new identity in some way, high school graduate, married man or woman. Now how is my life actually supposed to change? In light of this new stage of life. The thing itself, walking across the stage, being hired for the new job, it happens in a moment. How is the rest of my life then shaped by that event? Well, this question of now what is one that lies at the heart of Christian discipleship Because if we're here today and we're in Christ, then we have experienced the most dramatic, climactic, and fundamental change of all. In Ephesians chapter 1, Paul tells the Ephesian believers and us that we, if we're in Christ, have been blessed in him with every spiritual blessing. He says, you have been chosen, predestined, adopted, redeemed, forgiven, sealed with the Holy Spirit, guaranteed an inheritance of eternal life. We were God's enemies, guilty of treason against Almighty God, destined for condemnation that we had earned. And now we've been saved by grace through faith. We've been brought near by the blood of Christ. We have received a fundamentally new identity. In Ephesians chapter 5, Paul tells us that we were once in darkness. We were citizens of the kingdom of darkness, but now we are called children of light. So, now what? Well, in the book of Ephesians, Paul takes up this question of now what? of how we are called to live in light of the gospel change that has taken place in our lives if we're in Christ. After spending three glorious chapters laying out in some of this most just beautiful, comforting, soul-stirring language what God has done for us in Christ. In chapter 4, verse 1, he urges the Ephesian believers to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called That is, at the most simple and basic level, live a life that is aligned with what is now true about you in Christ. You've been redeemed. You've been adopted into God's household. So now you are called to live like a child of God. Well what does that look like? What does it look like to live as a member of God's household? Well, in our text this evening, what we're going to see is that the call to live as God's children is a call to walk in God's wisdom. And one of the surprising but essential marks of wisdom for the body of Christ is spirit-filled singing within Christ Church. Which is bolstered, we're going to see, by a heart posture of humility and submission toward one another within the body of Christ. It's the main point we're going to see this evening. As children of light, we are called to walk in God's wisdom. And God's wisdom for us as followers of Jesus in local churches. is marked by spirit-filled singing and a posture of humility and submission toward one another Well, let's read this text and then we will walk through it together. Ephesians chapter 5, beginning in verse 15. Paul writes, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, look carefully then how you walk, not as unwise, but as wise, making the best use of the time because the days are evil Therefore, do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is. And do not get drunk with wine, for that is debauchery. But be filled with the Spirit. Addressing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody to the Lord with your heart, giving thanks always and for everything to God the Father. In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ. We're going to walk through this text this evening in three points, which are really three calls. We're going to see first a call to walk in wisdom. Second, a call to spirit-filled singing. And then thirdly, a call to humble submission. So if you are taking notes, those are our three points. A call to walk in wisdom, a call to spirit-filled singing, and a call to humble submission. From the outset though, there are two important points preliminarily to make. First, we need to see that these three commands that we're going to see are deeply interconnected There are not three aspects of Christian living that can really be abstracted and taken in isolation from one another. We can't have one of these as a church body and not think that we need the others. What we're going to see is that being filled with the Spirit and singing together within the body of Christ is fundamentally the outflow of walking in submission to God's wisdom. And such singing, joyful, thanksgiving-fueled singing to God and one another in our church body, has the effect that God intends for it to have amongst his people. Only when we have adopted a posture of humility and submission to one another out of reverence for Christ. These three points are three interwoven threads on a tapestry. One of my burdens for this church and for the church global is vibrant cultures of singing, but those cannot exist in a vacuum. They are part of whole church, whole life discipleship as we follow after Christ together. So that's preliminary point number one. Preliminary point number two, we must see that these commands are addressed to Christians. Those who are already citizens of Christ's kingdom. If you're here tonight or if you are listening online and you are not a believer The fundamental application of this sermon for you , is to look to Christ in faith. It's to trust in him for the forgiveness of your sins. See, you cannot reverse engineer the Christian life. That is, you can't adopt the behavior of the kingdom in the hopes that it will get you into the kingdom. You can't adopt all of the outward things of the kingdom of God and expect that you will become a kingdom citizen. That is legalism. No, what we see here and what we are called to here is fundamentally the outflow of faith in Christ, the tangible spiritual result of living as those who have been brought from spiritual death. To spiritual life in Christ. Well, first then, we see a call to walk in wisdom. In verse 15, we are given the command to look carefully, to pay attention to how we live, and to live not according to the foolishness of sin and of darkness, but rather according to the wisdom of God. Just before this section, in verses 11 through 14, Paul urges the Ephesian Christians to take no part in the what he calls the unfruitful works of darkness. Because the darkness and the ugliness of sin ultimately is going to be exposed by the light of Christ for the foolishness that it is. Those who live or who are in darkness live in sin and in foolishness. But as followers of Christ, we are called to walk in the light of God's wisdom. Now this is a contrast that we could really trace throughout all of Scripture, that between the fool and the wise man. See, the fool looks only to himself. The fool lives as though he were the center of the universe. He does whatever gratifies the sinful flesh with no regard for God. And before God intervened in our lives, that's where all of us were. But the wise person lives. We know Proverbs 1. 7 well, I hope, according to the fear of the Lord. That is, the person who walks in wisdom lives in light of the truth that the sovereign God reigns over his universe that all creation, all things in existence are made for his glory. And therefore our living is to align with what God defines as good and true and right and beautiful. The call to walk in wisdom is fundamentally a call to walk in submission to Jesus Christ. It's a call to recognize His Lordship over all things. To recognize that we are not our own. Fundamentally, we belong to Christ. And therefore we're called to live lives that are yielded unto him. We see in this section, in verses 15 through 17, both how wisdom is defined. And then how wisdom is displayed. In verse 17, we see how wisdom is defined. Paul writes, therefore, do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is. If we want to live according to wisdom, and I hope you do, that is a mark of you being spiritually alive, the desire to walk in wisdom. We walk in wisdom by knowing the will of God. Wisdom is defined by God's will. It is defined by what He has revealed about Himself And how he calls us to live in light of who he is and what he has done for us in Christ. Well, therefore, fundamentally, wisdom is defined by the word of God. Because the word of God is the means by which we know the will of God. The word of God is where we see what God has revealed about Himself, how He calls us to live, how we are able to know Him through faith in Christ. And how we experience joy and intimacy with him. So, church, if we want to be a people marked by wisdom, we must be a people of God's word. We must be a people centered upon and saturated with and captivated by the Word of God, because that's where we know the will of God. Consider Psalm 1, the blessed man in Psalm 1, the one who is in many ways in the beginning of the Psalter, the very personification of wisdom itself. Is the one who what? Delights in the law of the Lord, who meditates on it day and night. Well, if we want to be a people and a church marked by wisdom, Then we must be a church marked by joyful delight in the Word of God It is no accident that our weekly gathering together on Sunday morning begins with a call to worship from the Word of God and centers upon the preaching. It's not just because you have had for 40 some odd years narcissistic pastors who like to hear themselves talk. It is because the word of God is central to how God intends to work. And bring dead sinners to life in Christ. Wisdom in Christ's kingdom is defined by knowing his will, as it has been revealed in his word. Well then in verse 16 we see how wisdom is displayed. What characterizes the life of the wise person, the wise congregation. Well, in verse 16, we see that the way of wisdom is the way of making the best use of our time in the midst of a world marked by sin and rebellion. Paul says the days are evil, and therefore we are called to use our time well amidst a world of wickedness. We are called to be spent as a body and as individuals for kingdom purposes. The imagery that Paul uses here is economic imagery. He's saying, go out in your life, spend your time in the marketplace of your life on that which is truly valuable. The call to walk in wisdom, wisdom is displayed by using our time well as individuals and as a body. I want us to pause here for just a moment. Because I worry that we can be easily prone to a misunderstanding on this point that is subtle, but I think it is a grave and dangerous misunderstanding. My fear is that when we hear the call to make the best use of the time, we filter it through this very specific lens that is specific to the day and the culture in which we live, a culture that is obsessed. with productivity, efficiency, and immediacy. When we hear that command and filter it through that lens, we may be prone to hear this command as merely something like. Do as much as you possibly can with your time. Fill it to the brim with all that you can do. You Christians should be very, very busy, and by golly, you better see results from what you spend your time on. Results, results, results We have to be careful here, church, not to make what we define as busyness, as productivity, and efficient Ministries into absolute virtues that we pursue above all else. Church, I think there is more to this command than merely to fill our lives and our schedules to the absolute brim with church stuff. Because the command here is to make the best use of our time. That is, use the time that God has given you in ways that are fitting. In ways that recognize Christ's lordship over your life and over your schedule. Spend your time pursuing that which God defines as good. And at times, yes, that will mean that your schedule is busy with kingdom work. But we have to be careful, church, not to assume that busyness is the same thing as faithfulness. They are different. This is not a call to live frantic lives with hectic schedules and to think that is Christian faithfulness. Nor is it a call to only pursue those activities which, from our so limited vantage point, seem to get results, bring the most people in the doors. Because there are many things that we are called to do from Scripture as followers of Christ that if we just look at them from our very meager, very limited vantage point, appear to be very inefficient. Think about the inefficiency from our perspective, from our cultural worldview, of gathering together physically. Of pursuing meaningful and messy lifelong relationships with our brothers and sisters in Christ. Of listening to the preaching of God's word, not in a ten minute bite-sized sermonette, but my goodness, thirty-five to forty minutes, how can we do that? Think of the call to prioritize spiritual and physical rest as if we would ever want to be reminded that we are not God and can't do everything. And think of the inefficiency of the fact that singing is a means of grace by which God intends to build his church. These are the means, though, that God has chosen to build and to strengthen his church. And we make the best use of our time by committing ourselves to them. Even if it may mean that from our perspective and from our definition, we get less done. Church making the best use of our time is a call to trust God's methods and God's means rather than our own. Surely with all the technology and all the church and business growth resources at our disposal, we could conceive of more efficient ways to disseminate the gospel. But instead, God has ordained that his kingdom be advanced through biblical local churches, which are comprised of messy, imperfect people seeking to faithfully know Christ and make him known. There are times in our lives when making the best use of our time will mean being intentionally less busy than we could be in order to faithfully live side by side with those God has put right around us. We have to reject this idea that busyness and productivity are the greatest Christian virtues. And we must train our hearts to prioritize what God prioritizes. Rest, fellowship, meaningful friendships, gathering together, praying for one another, sitting under the word, sharing meals, practicing hospitality I think we sometimes think of these as peripheral disciplines that when life or church life is really hectic, we can kind of cast aside for what we think of as the real stuff. But these are essential to how God intends to grow us as a body. The call to make the best use of our time is not a call to legalistic busyness, but to faithfulness. So what is making the best use of the time look like? Well, I have quickly fired off many practices that it consists of biblically. But in this text, one of the chief ways that we are called to live out this command is by being filled with the Holy Spirit and singing within the body of Christ. This brings us to point number two. Point number two, a call to spirit-filled singing. Call to spirit-filled singing flowing out of the call to walk in wisdom. In verse 18, we're presented with another contrast. Paul says, do not get drunk with wine, for that is debauchery, but be filled with the Holy Spirit. And what flows out of being filled with the Spirit is singing. There's this contrast of two things with which you could be filled, which will have two dramatically different results in your life. The drunkard fills himself with alcohol and surrenders control of his life and behavior as a result. Well, as followers of Jesus, we are called to give up authority and give up control over our lives, but not to alcohol and not to any other addictive substance or habit or food. Rather, we're called to live under the Lordship of Christ by walking in submission to the Holy Spirit of God who dwells within us. If you're here today and you are a Christian, then you are indwelt by the Spirit of God. He has regenerated you. Made you, brought you from spiritual death in sin to spiritual life in Christ. He has united you to Christ. He sanctifies us, makes us into the image and likeness of Christ. The command here is to be filled with the Spirit who already indwells us, to experience a fresh infilling of the Spirit of Christ who fixes our eyes on Jesus. and equips us for ministry. Well we see that singing is one of the results of being filled with the Spirit But before we address that, we have to ask, how are we filled with the Spirit? See here that this is a command addressed to Christians. So how do we obey this command? How are we called to be filled with the Spirit? Well, first of all, we need to dismiss any idea that we can do anything to kind of mechanically obligate or command the Spirit of God to do anything. The Holy Spirit is the sovereign spirit of Christ. He equips his people according to his perfect will. Very practically, I think we need to reject language that has become a bit popular our day of inviting the Holy Spirit as if the Spirit of God needed our permission to enter into the church. It's a little bit absurd to me. So how are we filled with the Spirit? Well, I'm borrowing here from uh two of my favorite Johns, John Frame and John Piper. But I think they're helpful on this point of how the Christian and the body is filled with the Spirit. The answer here really lies in The contrasts that Paul lays out between these two things with which you could be filled. A person becomes drunk with wine by Here's a big surprise, drinking a lot of it by filling themselves with alcohol. Well, we become filled with the spirit by immersing ourselves. In what the Spirit has inspired and where the Spirit dwells. That is, we are filled with the Spirit of God as we are saturated with and sit under His Word. As we are fervent in prayer, as we commit to rich fellowship with our fellow believers who are indwelt By God's Spirit. If we want to be a spirit-filled church, we must be a word-centered church, a church committed to prayer, a church committed to fellowship and encouragement and lifelong discipleship. with one another. Well what marks the spirit-filled church? And this text is joyful, thankful, singing to God, and to one another. From the heart. Look at verse 19. The immediate consequence we see in this text of being filled with the Spirit is addressing one another. In psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs. Singing and making melody to the Lord with your hearts. Oh church, one of my burdens for us as we look at this text is that we would see the importance of our singing. It's not something we do merely to entertain. It's not something we do to merely attract newcomers. It's not something that we do to break up the monotony of our service and get us all to stand up for a little while. No, singing within Christ Church is a means of grace by which we are called to encourage one another and express worship to God from the heart. And my burden from this text is also that you would see that singing is not just for the musical. Singing is not just for those who stand in front or who participate in the choir. Singing together as a body is something that God intends to use to strengthen, to equip, and to encourage all his people. Church singing is for all Christians, and biblically healthy churches are singing churches. So we do well to understand how God's word instructs our hearts as we gather together to sing. Well notice from this text, from this verse, that there are two directions to our singing. Our singing is both horizontal and it is vertical. That is, our singing together as a body is addressed to one another and ultimately is addressed to God as an act of worship. Well, first it's horizontal in that we are called here, the beginning of verse 19, to address one another in Psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs. When we gather together on Sunday mornings and Sunday evenings, and we sing together, there is a sense in which we are singing to one another. proclaiming the truth of who Christ our King is, of what God has done for us in Christ to the whole body. In a similar passage in Colossians 3, verse 16, Paul uses the words teaching and admonishing as words which describe the function of our singing within the body. Fundamentally, singing is a corporate, a congregational, not an individual act. And oh how this changes our perspective. It's not just about you and Jesus when you come to church to sing with God's people We are called to lift our voices to the Lord, and as we do so, as we sing rich truths about who God is, We're to point one another together to Christ through our singing. Our singing is horizontal I think this horizontal element has some very practical implications for music ministry within the body of Christ. We should be able to hear one another. If our volume is so loud that we can't hear one another, something has gone wrong. We should prioritize the voice and the participation of the body, of the congregation, over musical performance. We should sing songs of clarity and songs of beauty that fix our eyes on Christ. But before we address any of those outward things about where we set the volume or anything else The most important application of this horizontal idea is in our hearts. Christian, do you see your singing with the gathered body as a way that you are called to love? and serve and encourage your brothers in Christ. Are you encouraged and stirred by what you hear your brothers and sisters confessing as true about God and about the gospel? Through song. Are you seeking to be encouraged? Or do you look at the list of th songs and think which ones of these are my favorite and which ones of these do I wish I'd never had to sing again? And let me just for a second commend you on this point, Church. Because when I look out , leading the musical aspects of our worship And I see so many saints and brothers and sisters who are older than me, who have walked through far more trials. and experienced far greater discouragements than perhaps I'll ever know. And I hear you sing with conviction and with confidence. Whatever my lot thou hast taught me to say, it is well, it is well with my soul. My heart is encouraged. When I hear you sing, when I fear my faith will fail, Christ will hold me fast. You minister to and serve and address me in song. So church, be encouraged all the more to sing and to prioritize singing horizontally to your brothers and sisters. In the gathered body. While our singing is horizontal, it's also vertical. That is, our singing fundamentally is to God and ultimately for his glory. And this is so clear from verse 19. We are called to sing and make melody to the Lord with our hearts. We sing as a gathered church fundamentally to acknowledge his greatness, his worthiness of all praise. We magnify his glory by singing true things about him from the heart. This horizontal element of addressing one another ultimately is meant to direct us vertically to God. The horizontal actually serves the vertical, which is primary and fundamental. Now again, this calls for songs that actually say something about who our God is and what he has done for us in Christ. The church is not a place for vague metaphors and bad poetry. We strive for beauty through clarity. We strive to sing songs that express rich truths and ascribe to the Lord the glory due his name. We'll notice from verse 19 that this reality of spirit-filled singing is fundamentally a matter of the heart. That's so clear from the end of verse 19, we are to sing and make melody to the Lord with our hearts. It's not merely about the external act of our vocal cords vibrating and sound coming out of our mouths. No, fundamentally, Christian worship is never defined by externals. It's a spiritual reality of our hearts rightly seeing and savoring and exalting the living God. The question then is, what should come out of our hearts when we sing? Well, Paul addresses that as well. What comes out of our hearts, we see in verse 20, is thanksgiving. In verse 20, Paul encourages and calls the Ephesian believers to give thanks always and for everything to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Christians who are filled with the Spirit and sing to God are thankful people. We are thankful for what God has done for us in Christ. Notice the comprehensiveness of this language in verse 20. He says, give thanks always and for everything. It's almost as though Paul anticipates the objections that we often raise in our hearts. What about when I don't feel like being thankful? What about when I don't feel like singing? What about when life feels impossible? What about when I get the cancer diagnosis? What about when I'm so beaten down by depression that I can't even get out of bed in the morning? Look to God in face and give thanks for what is yours in Christ. And we need to see, church, that this call to give thanks is not a call to diminish the weightiness or the pain of our suffering in a world marred by the curse of sin. No, our suffering is real. I think far too often we try to comfort those who are hurting by, I don't think we intend this, but subtly diminishing their pain. We say things like, oh, it could be worse, you can do this, you can get through this. The call to give thanks, though, is a call to recognize that even if life is truly as bad as it could get for us, We have reason to be thankful in Christ, even when we are brought to the point of utter despair. We have still been blessed in Christ with every spiritual blessing. We are still adopted as sons and daughters of the living God. Nothing can separate us from the love of God in Christ. So we must give thanks, and we must express that thanks through our singing. And Christian, you should see that your giving thanks through singing together with the body is an act of love toward your suffering and hurting brothers and sisters in Christ. We need one another. We need to encourage one another through our singing that is Christ-centered and gospel-focused and hope-filled. We need one another. We need to hear the voices within our church expressing thanksgiving and praise to God. So church, we walk in wisdom as a body together through spirit-filled, thanksgiving-fueled singing from the heart. We seek to encourage one another and point one another as a body toward a grander vision of our glorious Lord Jesus Christ. Well, such singing within the body will only have the effects that God intends it to have as we adopt A posture of humility and a posture of willing, mutual, joyful submission to one another out of our reverence for Christ. That brings us to point number three. In point number three, we see a call to humble submission. As we walk in wisdom together as a body, as we are filled with the Spirit and we sing together to one another, pointing one another to Christ. As we give thanks to God from the heart, we are called in verse 21 to submit to one another out of reverence for Christ. Now it's beyond the scope of this sermon to address all the ways that this one general command is applied to specific relationships. That's where Paul goes next, so your homework tonight can be to read the rest of Ephesians 5 and 6. Before we address those specific ways that this command to submit is played out, we need to understand the general posture in the heart to which we are called. Which is a posture of humility and submissiveness, which is essential to any biblically healthy local church, and it is essential to a vibrant culture of joyful singing. Within the body. Notice that this command to submit to one another out of reverence for Christ fundamentally must be a posture of our hearts before it can be lived out in our relationships. This is a call to humility, a call to regard others as more important than ourselves. We generally don't submit to people that we deem unworthy of our submission. So it's a call to adopt a posture of humility. It's really the call to adopt The posture of Christ, who we're told in Philippians 2, though he is the glorious one, the second person of the Trinity, through whom and for whom all of reality itself exists. took the form of a servant and died the horrifying death of a criminal to redeem his people. And by his grace and by his spirit at work within us, this is the heart posture we are called to adopt to one another within the body of Christ. Being willing to lay aside our own rights, our own preferences, in order to humbly submit to and serve one another. We'll see also that this call to submit flows out of our submission to Christ. It's to be done fundamentally out of reverence for Christ We recognize ultimately and fundamentally that Christ is King. He is the one who possesses all authority in heaven and on earth, to whom we owe our ultimate reverence and ultimate submission. And flowing out of that, we see those who have been united to Christ by faith, who are clothed with the righteousness of Christ. And our relationship with those people is defined fundamentally by our mutual submission to Christ. And therefore, we are freed not to insist on our own ways, not to insist on what we think is best in all circumstances. But to willingly, humbly, and joyfully submit to one another, to lay aside our own preferences, and walk in joyful submission as a body. Well, as we conclude, I want you to see that these this call to submit is deeply, deeply connected to the previous two points. It is fundamental first to our call to walk in wisdom as a body. In Scripture, it is the fool who refuses to listen to others. It's the fool who insists on his own way Proverbs 18, chapter 2, says that a fool does not take delight in counsel, but only in expressing his opinion. Oh my, how often is that true of our hearts? It's the fool who won't lay aside what he wants for others. Those who walk in wisdom listen well to others. Those who walk in wisdom seek to prioritize the good of others above their own good. Well, this posture of humility is also fundamental to our singing together as a body. One application is that yes, we will often sing songs that are not our favorites. But we do so as an act of love, as an act of humility, and as an act of submission to others. I want you to know that I do my best to ensure that our music does not merely consist of Jason's favorites, but that our music serves and builds up the body and points us to Christ together. So that's one application, but but more importantly, I think the more fundamental application is that spiritually, when we are addressed With the truths of Christ in our singing, when we hear our brothers and sisters singing to us and pointing us to Christ. Are we willing to listen to the truths they are proclaiming and submit our hearts to what is being sung to us? Do we long to see our hearts and the hearts of others be molded by the truths that we sing and confess together? We just sang together, when Satan tempts me to despair, and tells me of the guilt within upward, I look and see him there, who made an end to all my sin. Well, do we hear Our brothers and sisters in Christ singing that to us, and do we from the heart pray, yes, Lord, make that true of me. Lord, help me not to despair in the mire of sin, but help me to have confidence in Christ. Do we listen well? Are our ears tuned to listen to what we hear? Our fellow believers confessing. About God in song when we gather together. We should understand that when we enter into membership with a specific body of believers in a local church, We're giving them an authority to speak the truth of God's word into our lives in a unique way, in a significant way. And this happens in a very spiritually significant way when we sing together as a body. And it requires hearts of humility, born out of reverence for Jesus Christ. In order to build up in our church a vibrant culture and vibrant practice of singing in our congregational worship, we need to have hearts that are ready to be sung too. Well we return ever so briefly as we conclude to the question with which we began. Now what? Well, the task of following Jesus together is lifelong. It ultimately encompasses every aspect of our lives. But we walk in a manner worthy of the calling we have received as children of God by walking together as a body in wisdom before God. Seeking to make the most of our time by committing ourselves to spirit-filled, joyful, thankful singing to God within the body of Christ. Viewing others with humility and with a willingness to submit as we seek to honor Christ in all things. Let's pray together. Oh Father, we thank you that your spirit has brought us from death to life, and we pray For a filling of your Spirit in our midst, that we would walk in wisdom together, that we would sing well together from the heart, and God that our hearts Would walk in submission to Christ. God, we pray that we'd be a people of thanksgiving, a people marked by joy And people marked by humility as you continue to build your church through the preaching of the gospel. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.