I'm hearing music in the background. All right, welcome. Glad that you are here. I'm going to begin with prayer and then we'll get into our study. This is part two of our study we're calling these last days. The topic tonight is a question, what is Jesus doing and why? What is Jesus doing in these last days, and why is he doing it, or to what end is he doing it? Let's pray. Lord God and King, we ask that you would teach us through your word this evening. We ask that you would encourage us by your Holy Spirit. Help us to live each day more and more for you. Show us who you are. Help us to love you. Cultivate within us. A desire to know you more, to serve you faithfully. Do not allow us to live for the things of this world. Help us to give ourselves to your kingdom, to seek your kingdom, and it's Spread first. Father, we ask that you'd help us this evening in our study to see you, to see Christ. And to be encouraged, to be convicted, and bring us to repentance where we need it. In all things, Father, help us to believe that what you say is true and that what you promise will happen. By your power and purpose, we pray. In Jesus' name, amen. All right. Well, there was a two -week gap since our last lesson But even if there were no two-week gap, it still probably would be a good idea to review. I've heard here and there that good teaching requires that you review things. And so let's do a little bit of review of part one , these last days that we did three weeks ago. And let's uh I'll do that diagram on the whiteboard again But I'll start with a question. The main point of that introduction class was the defining characteristic of these last days. The central reality, the thing, I mean how many different ways can we say it? The thing that makes These days, the last days, is what? Think I'll give you a big clue. It could not be bigger. Hebrews 1, 1 through 3. What's the defining characteristic of these last days? Anyone, don't shout it all at once. The Messiah has come. That's right. That's a that's a great way to say it. I'll just say it in the language of Hebrews. God has spoken to us through his son, right? He sent his Messiah. He sent his Christ. So God's revelation in his son, Jesus Christ And this is the high point. This is the central point, the climax of God's revelation of himself. and of God's redemption of his people. It's both of those things simultaneously. It's God redeeming sinners according to his purpose through Christ, through the Holy Spirit, and it's God making himself known in the fullest way. So uh I'll draw this line of history. Let's see, that's pretty uh dim. Let me uh use the blue one, see if we can get a little better mark here. Yeah, that's a little better. Just our line of history, and we'll call this generally speaking the first coming of Christ, his uh death. And then a crown representing his resurrection and ascension into heavenly glory and being seated at the right hand of God as high priest and king. Okay? The first coming of Christ. And down here, let's just say we have the second coming of Christ. To mark the end of this age as we know it. And we're calling everything in between these Last days in which God has spoken to us by His Son. He's revealed himself climactically, and it's also the fullness of his redemptive plan. These last days. Now Previewing the transition should be obvious of what we're studying tonight in the part two of this study. The central reality of these last days was part one. God has spoken to us in His Son, and His Son right now is reigning and living and reigning in heaven. The natural part too would be this. What is He doing? What is He doing? So that's tonight. We'll get there. So these last days, the last era of history before Christ returns is another way to say it. Or you could say the time in between Christ's first and second coming. And last week on our diagram, well, three weeks ago, I also put a circle. Here. This would be the study of the last things. The last things. Study of the last days, this whole church age, study of the last things, which would be the last things that happen in the church age. The things that happened to end the church age, and the things that happened after that. So there is a portion of study, and we'll get to these weeks down the road. the of the last things, which would include the last day, the day of Christ's return. There is a last day of the last days. Our focus right now Is the last days. So this is another area of study. And part of that, part there is overlap. Because the last things. Before Christ's return is still included in these last days. Um let me not get ahead of things. Okay, but just so you know, there are some unique things that happen at the end, uh right before the end, at the end, and right and after the end. When God consummates all things, consummates his kingdom, right now we're just looking at the period of history. Before that consummation of the kingdom, but after Christ established the kingdom by his first coming. Does this make sense? Nods. Good. Good. Alright. That's enough review. No, it's not. Let me say one more thing about my approach. I want to hold me accountable to this. I want to make sure I reiterate this approach. frequently without going overboard, but um I I know that I know the approach to study of uh last things and sometimes last days can Stray from a proper biblical focus. So I want my focus and our focus, because I believe 100% this is Scripture's focus, I want the study to be Christ-centered And I'm pretty sure I said this last time, but not positive, that that would be my approach to any topic in Scripture, to be Christ-centered. I want our study to be discipleship focused. Discipleship focused. The study of this era of history is where we exist. And it is to help us grow in our Christian walk. And obviously, this should go without saying, but I want to emphasize it that this should always be emphasized in church. I want our study to be Bible-based. I want it to be exegetical. I want as much as I'm able, as much as we are able, for the things that we teach, the things that we believe to come up off the pages of scripture, not based on speculation for things that we see and observe out in the world. Exegetical. So Christ-centered, discipleship focused, Bible-based. The goal is not to be intriguing or interesting or mysterious. The goal is to be helpful for Christian living. To be helpful for Christian living, to exhort us in the way of God, to encourage us in the way of God, to stir us up to faithful and holy Christian living. All right. That's enough review. Any loose ends Maybe that you've been thinking before I go on, because after I sip this, we're on to part two. Alright. What is Jesus doing and why? Alright? Now there are different ways I'll say it. And different aspects of it. But the way we'll begin, and the main focus will be this. He is building his church. He is building his church, and he will bring it to completion and to perfection That's what Jesus is doing. He's building his church. You should already be at Matthew 16. 13 through 20. If not, this is your chance to get there. Matthew 16, 13 through 20. This is our first passage. But as you're getting there, I'll say a few more things about the title or the topic of this study. What is Jesus doing and why? As you're thinking about that question, I want some other questions to be Ricocheting around in your head and heart. What is Jesus doing and why? Well connected to that you should be thinking about this. What is the church doing and why? What is the church doing and why? Now why is that important? Because what Jesus is doing, he's doing it in and through his church. And what we're doing as this church, we're doing in fellowship with Jesus. It's all from him, and it's all for him. It's all. It's all. Every ounce of anything good that happens in and through the church, it's all by the power of His Holy Spirit at work in us and in the world. What is Jesus doing and why? Must be tethered to this. What is the church doing and why? And then there's a third question that we can each ask in the first person. What am I doing and why? What am I doing in life and why? What am I doing in the church and why? Because if you are a believer, you are a member of the body of Christ. Christ is the head of the body. The church is the body of the body. You are a part of the body. So, what is Jesus doing and why? So, hopefully you're seeing this. Christ-centered focus and a discipleship focus go together. Okay. Matthew sixteen, thirteen through twenty. Now, when Jesus came into the district of Caesarea Philippi He asked his disciples, Who do people say that the Son of Man is? Now, the Son of Man refers to Jesus. That's one of the titles. That he takes to himself. And if we get to the Daniel passages at the end of this study, I don't know if we'll get there tonight. We'll see the Central significance of why he's the Son of Man. But this is one of the key questions, if not the question, of the gospel narratives of the earthly ministry of Christ: who is he? Who is he? So who do people say that the Son of Man is? And they said, well, some say John the Baptist They were wrong. Others say Elijah. They were wrong. And others, Jeremiah, or one of the prophets. They were all. Wrong. He said to them, But who do you say that I am? Simon Peter replied, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus answered him, Blessed are you, Simon Bar Jonah, which means Simon, son of Jonah, for flesh and blood has not revealed this to you. But my Father who is in heaven. Now we could stop right here just for a moment. This is not a point that I chose to expand this evening. But he affirms Simon's profession of faith. He, by faith, knows who the Son of Man is. He's the Christ, the Son of the Living God. And he says, flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, but my Father who is in heaven, Simon. Did not come to this knowledge or to this faith or to this profession of faith by the power of his own flesh, not by his wisdom, not by some innate spirituality Not by his own strength in any way. It was revealed to him supernaturally from the Father, of course, by the illuminating work of the Holy Spirit in Peter's heart. So there's a rich biblical study that could be had here on regeneration. And where does faith come from? It comes from God. It does not come from the person. But we're not expanding on that this evening. Verse 18 And I tell you that you are Peter. Now this is interesting. See the pattern, see what 's happening here. Peter made a profession about Jesus. And now Jesus is going to make a profession about Peter. And Peter here is a representative leader of the apostles, who are representative leaders of the church. But he's making this profession to Peter about Peter. I tell you, you are Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church. The rock of Peter the Apostle professing the proper biblical identity of Jesus Christ. That's the rock, the apostolic witness that the church is built upon. Upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Well, did you see it here? The answer to our question that we're beginning with, what is Jesus doing and why? He's building his church. He's building his church. I will give you, verse 19, I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven. What that is is authority to grant entrance into the kingdom of heaven. Authority to grant entrance or to bar entrance from the kingdom of heaven. I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. This is all the language of authority to pronounce what's true and what's not true in relation to the kingdom of heaven. Then he strictly charged his disciples to tell no one that he was the Christ. And that's a theme you see throughout the gospel narratives, and Jesus expressing sovereignty. Over the message of who he is. He is on his own timeline for his own purposes. So he's building his church. Now you just tell me if that's relevant for practical living and daily discipleship. This is everything. This is everything. This is what our exalted Lord is doing. Building his church. Building his church. Now I have three uh subpoints under this from the text. And then what I want to talk about is the resources or the spiritual the spiritual resources or the spiritual weapons That we wield as the ones through whom he's building his church Okay? First of all, he's building his church, letter A, through the apostolic gospel. This is a message A message about Jesus. And you do not have the fullness of this message described here, but you have the foundation stone centerpiece of the message here professed by Peter. You are, verse 16, you are the Christ, the Son of the Living God. It is upon this apostolic gospel, this apostolic message. Upon which the church is built, through which the church is built. This is what Christ uses to change hearts To save sinners, to woo sinners to himself. Starts on this profession: you are the Christ, the Son of the living God. And of course, we know. Once you uh on the other side of his death, burial and resurrection and appearance appearances and ascension and the pouring out of the Spirit, we know what that gospel message is in its fullness The preaching of the life, death, resurrection of Jesus Christ, and the call to repent and believe in Him for the forgiveness of sins, for the gift of eternal life. For being saved from the judgment of God. The apostolic gospel. He's building his church through the apostolic gospel. Let her be On the authority of the kingdom of heaven. On the authority of the kingdom of heaven. I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven. Something that Jesus is going to give Peter. And again, Peter here is a representative leader of the apostles. Who will be representative leaders of the church? I will give you the keys of the kingdom that's going to be primarily, primarily the gospel. Of Jesus Christ and the salvation that is found in Him, the the call to faith and repentance. This is how you come into fellowship with God and become a citizen in His kingdom. I will give you the keys of the kingdom, and whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven. Whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. We'll get we'll get to that um, let's see. There's a point to be said about uh what's going on on earth in relation to the source of authority and power in heaven, but that'll I've moved that to the next section, although you see it here You see the things are going on. Well see, I just said I'm gonna do it in the next section, then I start doing it now. Uh but just to preview it and point it up a little bit Things are going on on earth through gospel ministry. Sinners are hearing the gospel. Some of those sinners are repenting and believing and professing faith in Jesus Christ. That's an expression of an authority that's coming from and sourced in heaven. The authority of Jesus Christ that's manifest on earth through the apostles and through the church who has carried on that apostolic tradition. We've taken the baton of the apostolic gospel message, running with it through history, with the keys of the kingdom of God in our hands. There's an apostolic gospel, letter A, and letter B, that carries with it the heavenly authority of the kingdom of God, or the kingdom of heaven. So it's a message that grants access and to fellowship with God in heaven. Let us see, let us see, and the way the way we're to think about this is a victorious Conquest on earth, a victorious conquest on earth. I will build my church. Now that's one metaphor. What's the metaphor there? Not to give it away, but it starts with a B. Build. Yeah. He it's uh building a church. He's building the church and in other other passages we see the church is compared to the temple of God, and we are living stones being built together, joined together into the temple of God. But then he transitions into another metaphor, the metaphor of warfare. The gates of hell shall not prevail against it. The gates of Christ's enemies, a defensive mechanism. So the picture as Christ is building his church is of Christ through his church. Is on conquest against storming the gates of hell And the gates of hell cannot stop him. They cannot prevail against him. They will not prevail against him. This is a picture of victorious Conquest, unstoppable conquest. Christ will build his church, and that's what he says He is not going to try and build his church and hopefully succeed. This is a promise from the Lord. I will build my church, and the gates of hell will not prevail against it. How does he do that? Through the apostolic gospel of Jesus Christ as Lord that carries with it the authority of heaven. All right. Matthew 28, 16 and 20. Matthew 28, 16 and 20. Staying on the same topic, just going to draw out Some more details, look at look a little bit more closely at it. And this is from a different vantage point. Matthew 28 is after Christ's death on the cross. After his burial, after his resurrection, but before his ascension. Matthew 28, 16 through 20 Now the eleven disciples went to Galilee to the mountain. To which Jesus had directed them. And when they saw him, they worshipped him. But some doubted. And Jesus came and said to them, All authority In heaven and on earth. That's what I was trying to preview when I was saying there's things going on on the earth There's a manifestation of supreme heavenly authority. All authority in heaven and on earth. Has been given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations. Baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. God 's last days revelation through his son is simultaneously two things, the fullness of redemption and the fullness of God's Self-revelation. So we're to be baptized in the name of the triune God, Father, Son, Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you, and behold, I am with you always To the end of the age. He's with them And the book of Matthew ends. But this is the promise that we are left with. Jesus is with us. Until he returns. He'll still be with us. But in a newer way. In a glorious way. But he is with us now, even as we are on earth, and he is living and reigning in heaven. Just as Paul will say that even though he is seated at the right hand of the Father and we are on earth, he'll say that we are seated with him in the heavenly places. That our life is there with Christ in heaven, hidden, he'll say Colossians 3, hidden away with Christ, with God in Christ. So we know our heavenly status even though we are here on earth. Well, the converse of that, even though Christ is in heaven, he's with us here on earth, and he's in us by his spirit. So he's building his church, and the point I'm adding now, well let me uh modify the way this is here so that I can maybe, maybe fit. All three points. He's building his church in All any guesses? Look at the passage. In all nations He's building his church in all nations. And there's another synonymous or another parallel way to articulate this whole point that's given here in this passage. He's making disciples. This is the way he builds his church. So building his church is looking at the whole thing. The zoom out. perspective. But to zoom in and look inside that church and what's the building material, disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ. He's taking sinners who are citizens of the kingdom of darkness, and by his mercy and grace and power through the gospel, he's transferring them into the kingdom of his beloved Son. He's building his church. He's making disciples in all the nations. Jesus is discipling the nations through his church. He's making disciples. And you can Think about the story of the Bible. And even go let's just start with Abraham. That's not where the Bible story starts, but just for the purposes of this illustration, think about Abraham and his family. Small group of believers in a world of darkness, then you can fast forward to the time of Israel. One nation. One earthly nation that possessed the covenant promises of God had the law And had the prophets, and in shadows and types and in promises had the gospel, so they could be saved. One nation in the midst of a world of darkness, strongholds of Satan scattered The church age ever since the church age begun. Christ has been storming those gates of darkness Discipling the nations. And so today we have Christians all over the globe. There are still unreached people groups, unreached maybe languages. But if you think about, in a general sense, the world and the nations, there are true believers. In North Korea, in Australia, in Canada, in Alaska, in Hawaii, in Argentina, there are churches scattered. Christ has been on conquest. There's absolutely no ground at all to lack faith that the gospel of Jesus Christ can change hearts and save sinners This is what he is doing. He's building his church. He's making disciples out of sinners. And isn't it a glorious thing? Isn't it a glorious thing? And if he's changed your heart, you know that that's true And you know he can do it. And we've got to believe that he can do it, and that he wants to do it, and that he will do it, and that he'll do it through us because we are his church, his body. We've got to believe this If you look out at what's going on in the world, now we should always think this way. Not just when cultural or political political turmoil seems to be surging from our perspective. We should always think this way. But With all that's going on in the world. Don't we know that the world needs Christ? Don't we believe that Christ can change hearts and forgive sins? The keys of the kingdom of heaven have been given to us. So, he's building his church in all the nations. I have an A, B, and C on this one too. And then we'll pause and we'll do those resources that we've been given. Spiritual weapons that we wield as Christ is building his church and making disciples through us. A B C. Well I've said this one. He's he's uh making disciples in all nations. Letter A. Out of wayward sinners. Out of wayward sinners. That's so important. Think about the nature of the kingdom. Think about the nature of how God's kingdom power is manifest in this world. His his kingdom power, his mercy is his conquest is manifest In redeemed sinners. In redeemed sinners. We are recipients of mercy. We've been redeemed by the blood of the land. We are living, breathing, walking testimonies. To God's mercy and to Christ making good on this promise to make disciples out of wayward sinners. This is how he manifests his power. This is how he's on conquest. He's not slaughtering sinners. He's saving sinners. Now, a day of judgment and slaughter, if you read Revelation, that's not not my idea. is coming at the end of the age. But that's not what Jesus is doing today. Our focus today is the last days Uh letter A, he's making disciples out of wayward sinners. Letter B with supreme heavenly power exercised on earth. All authority has been given to him. All authority, all authority has been given to him. in heaven and on earth. That's a specific kingdom authority. It's related to the truth, biblical truth. That Satan is no longer in God's providence, in God's sovereignty, no longer has the authority, therefore the ability to keep the nations in darkness And to keep the covenant promises of God from those nations. But the light of the gospel is going into and shining in those nations. All authority, kingdom authority. And it's so important here that we see both of these prepositional phrases. It is not just all authority in heaven. It is all authority in heaven and what? On earth. It's his kingdom power manifest on earth. It's a heavenly power manifest on earth. And it seems like we always come back to this, maybe it's a good sign, that salvation is a miracle. The salvation of a sinner is a supernatural work of God, creating a new heart. That takes heavenly power. That takes the Holy Spirit. That takes supreme heavenly power exercised on earth. Let her be, and let her see, by the presence By the personal presence and power of the Holy Spirit. Now I've been saying that. That should be implied, but that's why he says, I am with you. He is with his church by virtue of his Holy Spirit that he pours into our hearts, that he fills us with, that he encourages encourages us by, that he leads us by. And our ministry must be endowed with the personal presence and power of the Holy Spirit for it to have a kingdom impact. But by word and spirit, he'll build his church. By word and spirit All right. Resources for the task, and then um we'll pause for questions. Or encouragements from you. So he's building his church, he's making disciples in all the nations. What resources, what spiritual weapons has he given us? As we're the ones he's doing this in and through. I have six of these, okay? Uh number one, you'll see how this is going to be repetitive, but it's based on what we've been talking about. the presence of Christ. That's number one. If Christ is not with us, brethren, it's all in vain. It's all a religious sham. If Christ isn't with us. Why would we want to be here if Christ isn't with us? But He promised, and based on His promise and His Spirit, the presence of Christ, supreme power. His sure promise, I will build my church. And the gates of hell will not prevail. The presence of Christ Number two, the power of the Holy Spirit. Now, where Christ is present in his church is the power of the Holy Spirit. But expand our thinking on that too, and not just the power of the Holy Spirit within us to empower us for ministry. But the power of the Holy Spirit in the ministry itself to have an impact in the world. Number three, the Father's purpose and pleasure. The Father has purposed this. The Father delights in the salvation of the wicked. His purpose and his pleasure. We can rest in that. We start to doubt. We start to look at culture and see uh things going on in politics and in pop culture and even in professing Christianity and we see things from our perspective they're just going down and more wicked and more wicked and it's everything's so crazy and out of control. It's not out of control. We must believe in the Father's purpose and pleasure to build the church of his Son Jesus Christ. Friends, this is God's eternal purpose. This is it. There's nothing beyond this where we say, okay, now God's really doing something interesting. We can get on board. No, this is it. He's building A fellowship of redeemed sinners through his son as a manifestation of his power and mercy for all the ages. The presence of Christ, the power of the Spirit, the purpose and pleasure of the Father. Number four, now we really get to the ground level. The power of the word of God and the preaching of the gospel. Isn't that where we started in Matthew 16? The power of the word of God and the preaching of the gospel. The gospel is the power of God unto salvation. The preached gospel, tell me if this doesn't sound old-fashioned and out of step with pop culture. The preached gospel has the power to change hearts from hearts that want nothing to do with God, from hearts that want nothing to do with God, into hearts That love God and want to obey Him more than anything. The gospel has the power to do that The presence of Christ, the power of the Spirit, the purpose and pleasure of the Father, the power of the Word of God and the preaching of the gospel. And number five, hopefully you can guess this. It's another P-word. The power of the blank of God's children. The power of the blank P word of God's children. Did you just whisper something? Think now it's Wednesday night. Yes, yes, the power of prayer. The power of prayer. If there's a short list of just practical things we need a revival of, it's practical things, it would be a prayer. And it would be a revival in our hearts where we start to see that this actually is a productive use of time. That this is a way, this is a weapon we wield. This is a resource God has given us to help advance his kingdom, to help him build his church in all the nations, making disciples out of wayward sinners. The power of prayer. The power of prayer. And number six, there's an always open door. That's hyphenated. An always hyphen open. An always open door for the gospel. I'll rattle off some cross-references. Now if you go back online, you'll be able to rewind and write these down. I'm not going to say them slow enough for you to write them down. Acts 14, 27. 1 Corinthians 16 9. 2 Corinthians 2. 12. I told you you have to go back and rewind it. Or email me. Say, hey, what what what were those passages? Colossians 4. 3, Revelation 3. 8. There's an always open door for the gospel. You have to pray for it, to see it, because these kinds of things are discerned by faith, and ask for it and expect it, but those are your open-door passages Alright. Now you has God given us what we need for the task at hand The presence of Christ, who's the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, and Heavenly King, with supreme authority in heaven and on earth, and he's with us. The presence of Christ, the power of the Holy Spirit of Christ that's within us and over our ministry. The Father's purpose and pleasure behind all of this, the ancient of days, has said, this is what I want to happen, and I take pleasure in it. The power of the Word of God and the preaching of the gospel. Power of the prayers of God's children. Always open door for the gospel. I pray God would increase my faith and your faith and our faith in these things. And see what he's doing, see what Christ is doing, and why he's doing it for the glory of God. He's doing it for God's glory. Questions? Insights? You always seem to give the questions. But I just don't know enough. I just can't because I'm the gospel because I just don't know enough. The gospel is pretty simple. First Corinthians fifteen, Paul put it in very successful Squad to say. So I guess it's a challenge to others. You cannot say I can't do it. But you can if you know it also. Yeah. Yeah, and sometimes we get that romanticized view of evangelism where we envision this one encounter that I randomly meet someone or um maybe set maybe set a meeting up. It's going to be one meeting. And I share the gospel. They start to get interested. I share the gospel a little bit more. I give my testimony. They're converted. Next week they're at church. Ready to go as a disciple of Christ. That's not how it happens. I'm sure that's happened in history, but what people need is a steady diet of the Word of God. a steady diet of hearing the gospel. We've got the got the get the word of God on people's ears, the gospel on people's ears, and trust that God will use it. And so sometimes I think it's what you're saying, um A lot of times that's the thought. I don't know enough. But sometimes I think that is a smokescreen. I think that's a a rationalization for laziness. And um I want it to happen really quick, and if it doesn't happen really quick, I'm out. But what we need to do is pour ourselves into the body life and the ministry. of the church. I I'm I'm convinced of it. This is but the what this is the New Testament storyline is believers in Christ pouring themselves into the body life and ministry of the church for the sake of the gospel. But if we think of evangelism in an individualistic way, it's just me in this interaction, in isolation from the church. And it's gotta be like one interaction. I think we'll come up with all kinds of excuses why not to do it. So yeah, I think there are reasons we come up with to excuse ourselves from gospel ministry. And you brought up one of them. I don't know enough. The best way to grow in evangelism is to grow deeper in the gospel. It's uh not to memori I don't believe it's n it's it's not to memorize uh uh one, two, three step kind of style Gets you into the kingdom, get you to believe and agree with certain things. Uh if we want to grow in our evangelism, we've got to grow in the gospel ourselves. Um other comments? Questions? Got to move the squeaky spot. They're all over the place. I feel like they follow me. There we go. It's like the old Boston Garden. They say the the uh the Celtics knew where all the dead spots were. And it gave them an advantage in playing. Whether that's true or not, I don't know. And I know where the dead spots are up here, the squeaky spots. I just can't avoid them. Well man, uh I I tell you, this is not advanced Christianity for some elite group of believers. Or from special s some special select core group in a church. This is Christianity. This is church life He's building his church, making disciples in all the nations. We have the presence of Christ, the power of the Spirit, the Father's pleasure and purpose, the power of the Word of God and the preaching of the gospel, the power of our prayers, and an always open door for the gospel. We've got to believe that Christ is going to do this, do it with success. Now , the next point Is reiterating something that had been already been said. Hopefully it's been said multiple times. I've purposed in my heart to say it multiple times. That he will not be stopped. Christ will not be stopped in doing this. But the way I'm going to say it, and we'll give another section, another collection of passages here. This is why I give you the little mental break to ask questions and say things, okay? Because we're going to go into another series of passages. He's building his church in all the nations, and nothing Yes, nothing will thwart His efforts. He does not labor in vain Nothing will stop him. So turn to First Corinthians fifteen twenty two. First Corinthians fifteen twenty-two The context is Paul talking about the resurrection of the dead in general. Of believers, proving that from the fact, the historical fact of Christ's resurrection from the dead. The first fruits of that resurrection is Christ, it proves The full harvest of resurrection of all believers. That's the context of resurrection. And in 1 Corinthians 15, and what did I say, 22? Picking it up, I had to choose a place in the middle to pick up from. For as in Adam all die, so also in Christ shall all be made alive. Dead in sin in Adam and will die physically in Adam. But for those who are in Christ, all those who are in Christ will be made alive. And again, the context is talking about bodily resurrection. But each in his own order. Christ the first fruits, which has that already happened, or has that not happened yet? It's already happened. Then at his Coming. That is coming. Those who belong to Christ. Okay? Resurrection. He's the first fruits, and then at his coming, those who belong to Christ will also be made alive. Then comes the end. Right? Remember I made that distinction of la uh last days and last things or The end times, the end of all things. When he delivers the kingdom of God to the Father, which is the completed and perfected church. Believers from all ages after destroying every rule and every authority and power. Now that happens, he hands the kingdom over to the Father. after, after , after destroying his enemies, destroying every rule and every authority and power. That's a that's a way to summarize forces of evil, satanic forces. Okay? So that is happening here before his coming, before the end. But then it says somet it zooms in, it's going to say something specific here. For he must reign until he has put all enemies under his feet. The last enemy to be destroyed is death. He must reign. Is Christ reigning right now? Yes, good answer. Yes. This is the fund fundamental Profession or confession of faith of believers. Christ is Lord. That means He's reigning in heaven as Lord, Lord of salvation. King of kings. He must reign. He's already reigning, but he must reign until he's put all enemies under his feet. So one of the ways to think about Christ storming the gates of hell, and they cannot prevail against him, they cannot stop him, is he subduing his enemies. He's subduing his enemies. He's making disciples. He's building his church. He's subduing his enemies. And so that's the picture of history. The picture of history is the kingdom of God. Spreading. The earth did not begin. The populated world did not begin. Full of disciples of Christ. The kingdom of light And holiness, the kingdom of heaven on earth, but then slowly, gradually through the years has been getting smaller and smaller and smaller to well it's tiny, you can barely see it. It's the opposite. It's spreading and growing. Now, as it spreads, the forces of evil rage against it all the more. Because the darkness loves the light or hates the light. Hates the light. And um so as the kingdom infiltrates, infiltrates a pocket of darkness and disciples are made. You'll get persecution now against those believers. But what do you want to do for that persecution pocket of darkness. Do you want to go back to the time where there was no gospel and were no Bibles and were no believers and were no church? Or would you rather have the kingdom of God infiltrated? But there's persecution. Well, you see, that's what happens in a sin-cursed world. As Christ is prevailing against darkness, the darkness is raging in hate against Christ. And his body, the church. You see, this so clearly in the New Testament, from a pastoral perspective, and in Revelation, from a historical perspective. But nothing will thwart his efforts. He's subduing his enemies. He's reigning until he's put all enemies under his feet. He's putting enemies under his feet. He's putting enemies under his feet. He's putting enemies under his feet. In conquest Against strongholds of Satan, making disciples, and the last enemy is death. And then comes the end. And he presents this completed church to his father. And it's what we see in the we will do a class, Lord willing, on the rapture event. And what you see is Christ assembling his completed perfected church. So he returns with the hosts of heaven And believers who've already died come with him and receive the resurrection bodies, and those who are alive. are transformed and transfigured to receive their resurrection bodies. Christ assembles his whole church in the air. Of course he does that, because what's going to happen on the earth It's going to be destroyed and remade. But this picture of Christ gathering his church as a completed work. Presenting it to the Father as such. So, he's subduing his enemies. He's subduing his enemies. When we think about what God is doing. through Christ in these last days, in his church, which means us, we're local church. One of the ways we have to think about it is this. Through us and through the gospel, by the power of the Spirit, Christ is subduing his enemies. He's subduing forces of darkness by making disciples, by redeeming sinners. Christ's enemies are not subduing him. He is subduing his enemies. And we've got to believe that. Because it's encouraging, but mainly because what? Because that's it's true. Yeah, thank you. It's what scripture says. Now let's look at some Old Testament passages. Would you turn to Psalm one ten The most commonly and arguably the most important passage From the Old Testament that's written about and quoted and alluded to in the New Testament is Psalm 110 And uh what uh so we're gonna look at Psalm 110 and then Psalm 2, and there's some different language here of That's fulfilled in the Great Commission, make disciples in all nations. This is Christ inheriting the nations. He's God's anointed king who is going to inherit the nations that have been promised to him. Psalm 110. Whip my whistle for Psalm 110, okay? And giving you plenty of time to get there The Lord says to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies Your footstool. We don't have time to go into it and the proof, but this is the passage Jesus used to trip up some of his critics. Well, critics is an understatement. They hated him and wanted to kill him, okay? You have critics. Jesus had enemies. Um, the Lord Says to my Lord, that's the God the Father talking to God the Son. And what he's saying is, sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. What do you do with a footstool? Does it have control over you to put you where it wants you, or do you put it where you want it? Think of with the footstool. He's sitting at the right hand of the Father, and the Father is making his enemies his footstool. The sovereignty of God, which you've heard about consistently here at this church. Not just from me, but from Pastor John. The Lord sends forth from Zion your mighty scepter. You have a mighty king reigning, okay? Rule in the midst of your enemies. Your people will offer themselves freely on the day of your power in holy garments. From the womb of the morning, the dew of your youth will be yours. The Lord has sworn and will not change his mind. You are a priest forever, after the order of Melchizedek. From the New Testament, we know this is fulfilled in referring to Christ's ascension and heavenly enthronement. So he's reigning in heaven. The Lord is at your right hand. He will shatter kings on the day of his wrath. He will execute judgment among the nations filling them with corpses, he will shatter chiefs over the wide earth. He will drink from the brook by the way, therefore he will lift up his head. So there will come a day when he will Judge the nations and destroy the sinful nations. But before that happens, he's still reigning over the nations Making enemies his footstool through the risen and exalted Christ. Now, Psalm two. Psalm two. And the message if hasn't come across is this Christ is King Not that Christ will be king and will begin to reign, but that he is king and that he has begun to reign. He is subduing his enemies. as the Christ of God. Psalm two. Why do the nations rage and the peoples plot in vain? The kings of earth set themselves and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and the And against his anointed, saying, Let us burst forth, let us burst their bonds apart, and cast away their cords from us. But he who sits in the heavens laughs. The Lord holds them in derision, and then he will speak to them in his wrath and terrify them in his fury, saying, As for me, this is God speaking to the sinful nations, as for me, I've set my king on Zion, my holy hill, and I will tell of the decree. In other words, I'll tell you what's going to happen. The Lord said to me, You are my son, today I have begotten you. Ask of me, and I will make the nations your heritage, or the nations your inheritance. And the ends of the earth your what? Possession. Possession. You shall break them with a rod of iron. That is strength of conquest. Dash them in pieces like a portal, Potter 's vessel. Um I'll stop there just for time's sake. But you again you see two aspects. There is going to be a judgment over the nations. And the destruction of the nations. But that's not all there is. Before that happens, the Son, the anointed one, the Messiah, will Have the nations to be his heritage and become his possession. I used to think that that was the same thing as final judgment over the sinful nations. Those are two different things. To take possession of the nations, to have the nations be made into his inheritance is different than coming and destroying the nations and bringing them under judgment. And that's just another way of saying, in earlier prophetic form, right? So it's more shadowy than its fulfillment, but it's just another way of saying That the Lord's anointing will anointed one will disciple the nations. He will take the nations as his inheritance, as his possession As he builds his church in all the nations and cannot be stopped. And when the church is complete, he'll return. Gather his church in glory and present it to the Father. But that's getting us in here Right. But you see, in our study of just what Jesus is doing now, inevit inevitably leads to where it's headed, where it's going. So we need to be ready for that. We need to be in prayer. We need to be committed to the gospel and to the word of God. We need to be committed to the body life of the church, committed to the ministries of the church. Brethren, beloved of the Most High God, don't we want the kingdom of God to spread? Don't we want sinners to be plucked out of the kingdom of darkness and be transferred into the kingdom of God's beloved Son? Don't we want to get in on this? This is the best thing there is going on in the world. This is the best thing there is going on ever. Christ building his church. The gates of hell will not prevail against him. Let's join our hearts in prayer Father, we pray for salvations. We pray for conversions. Pray for those to hear your word. To hear your holy law, your holiness of who you are, and come under the conviction, being convinced That they are sinners, and they are guilty, and they need a Savior. And they also pray that they would see the Savior that you've provided in Christ and to look to him and believe. Believe in his righteous life. Believe in his sacrificial death. Believe in his glorious resurrection. Believe in the salvation that he gives freely and does not ask for payment or work. But just that we have faith. Father, we pray for repentance. Repentance for sin in our own hearts Father, we pray and we expect and we trust and we know you will continue to build the church of your son. It's in his name we pray. Amen.