And take our Bibles and turn to the book of 1 John. We're looking today at 1 John 1, 5 through 10. Continuing in this series on confidence in Christ. If you're in Christ, brothers and sisters, have confidence that your sins are forgiven. You don't need to supplement his work with your work. In Christ, have assurance that your sins are forgiven. In Christ, have assurance that you've been reconciled to God and that nothing can reverse that. In Christ, you have the hope of eternal life. Have that confidence. Pray for that confidence. Pray for that assurance Like all things in the Christian life, we won't have that perfectly in this life, but we can have that truly in this life. It's one of the blessings of being in Christ is our confidence before God. Today is walking in the light, 1 John 5 through 10. In the Bible, walking is a metaphor for living. Walking in the light means living in the light. Light is symbolic of many things when it comes to God. But here, light is representing God's character. Shining forth and reflecting off of his people. That's what light does. It shines forth its attributes onto other things If you're looking into a room that's completely dark, 100% dark, no light, you have no clue what's in that room. But if light is shown into that room, now you can see because the light shines forth off of other things. So walking in the light is really walking in fellowship with God. And as we grow in our fellowship with God and progress in our fellowship with God, walking in the light, his character more and more reflects off of us. He conforms us, aren't you happy about this? He conforms us to the likeness of his son, Jesus Christ, walking in the light 1 John chapter 1, verses 5 through 10. This is the message we have heard from him And proclaim to you that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. If we say we have fellowship with him while we walk in darkness, We lie and do not practice the truth. But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light We have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus, his son, cleanses us from all sin. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we say we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us. Let's pray together. Father, as we come now to the preaching of your word, would you please, please remind us of why we come to To hear your word, to have your Holy Spirit remind us of our great, great need for a Savior, and to have your Spirit remind us of the great, great Savior that you've provided. That we would rest in Christ, that we would see Him. And believe. Believe that his blood cleanses us from sin. Believe that he truly rose to eternal life. Believe that he has made us partakers of eternal life. Father, help us to see and believe. That Jesus Christ would work in us. Father, I pray that as each of us sit under your word, you'd work a work in our hearts to fill us with love for Christ and gratitude for what you've done for us in Him. Father, we thank you for your mercy. We praise you for your power. And it's your mercy and power that we seek this morning. In Jesus' name, amen. walking in the light or living in fellowship with God. What does that look like? In our passage we'll see five Features of walking in the light. Okay? Five features of walking in the light. First of all, walking in the light features A knowledge of God's character. It features a knowledge of God's character. This is the first thing that said. Look at verse 5. This is the message we have heard from him. The hymn If you just look up to verse 3, the hymn refers to Jesus Christ. This is the message that the apostles received from Jesus and now proclaim to the church. This is the message we have heard from him and proclaimed to you that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all Knowledge of God's character is possible only because God has shown forth his character. Only because God has revealed himself can we know him. If God did not reveal Himself, if God did not shine forth His character in a way we could understand and experience, we would not have a knowledge of Him. Think about the moon. What the moon is able to do and what the moon is not able to do. The moon cannot shine forth any light unless something else Shines against it and reflects off of it. Obviously, you know the sun. The moon cannot create light, but it can reflect the light of the sun. Likewise, sinners. Likewise, me, likewise you, likewise anybody. None of us. We'll have a would have a knowledge of God's character unless He revealed that character to us, and none of us could have the character of God reflected off of us unless God shines forth his character. Into our hearts. Light is uh is uh part of the rich symbolism all throughout scripture. All that God shines forth of Himself. So sometimes light is symbolic of God's truth He shines forth the truth. So that we could know the truth and have knowledge of the truth. That's called light. Also called the light of salvation. I'm sure you've heard that. God shines forth the light of his salvation. We hear the gospel of salvation. We hear the message of Christ crucified and risen for our salvation, and that changes our hearts. We've been changed by the lights. Here the emphasis on light is God's moral character. God's moral character A knowledge of God's character is possible only, only, only because God shines forth his character. It's so important to remember that because it humbles us and it reminds us that, it reminds me that I'm not the source of truth. And it reminds you you that you are not the source of truth. That our belief and uh teaching about who God is does not come from human speculation or human philosophy, it doesn't come from the culture around us, it doesn't come from popular vote. Knowledge of God's character and who God is comes from God. God reveals himself to us. Brothers and sisters, that should humble us and make us thankful that he has revealed himself because I hope you know he was not obligated to do so. Based on his mercy and based on his grace and based on his eternal purpose, God has made himself known in a way that we could understand, enter into a relationship with him and know God. Two words Know God. Knowledge of God's character is the highest and happiest feature of Christian living. Knowing God is the highest and happiest feature of Christian living. It's the mountain peak. Now, this is why Christ is so precious to us, and the work of Christ is so important to us, is because it's Christ and his finished work through which we come to know God. Jesus reconciles us to God so that we might know Him. Knowing God is the highest and happiest feature. of Christian living. Lots of blessings walking with Christ. Lots of struggles we go through too. Amen. Lots of struggles, lots of battles, some suffering, some persecution that may come. But the blessings far outweigh them, and the glory to come far outweighs current sufferings. Knowledge of God's character comes from God's word Not from speculation. Here it says God is light. There are some other God is statements in Scripture. And mind you, we're not going to be able to cover a full doctrine of God this morning. But here are some other God is statements. John 4. 24. God is spirit. You see, you and I have spirit God is spirit. He's an eternal spirit. He's an infinite spirit. He's a spirit beyond comprehension. We can know him truly because he's revealed himself. And he's enabled us to understand what he's revealed. But we'll never have a comprehensive or exhaustive knowledge of who God is. God is spirit. 1 John 4 24. God is love. God is love. Even before God Purposed to express love to people. Even before God showed love and poured out his love upon people Before creation, from all eternity, in the very being of God, God is love, a perfect love amongst the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. God is love. Friends, everything we experience of God's love through Christ is just a manifestation and a revelation of God's character as love. God is love. Hebrews twelve twenty-nine God is a consuming fire. God is a consuming fire. God is not weak God is not dull. God is not boring. God is not incapable God, in his very being, is radiant and powerful, emanating glory that we cannot even comprehend. This is why the only experience we have of God is by God. revealing himself, coming down to our level and revealing himself to us. He is a consuming fire. The weak, weak God I often hear preached today, is a tragedy. He is not weak. He's the very definition of power and authority and beauty and radiance, all of that wrapped up in a G-word that we use often. Glory. He's a glorious being. He's not like us, and he's not like things in the world. Ephesians 2. 4. God is rich in mercy. Church, are you happy about that? He's rich in mercy. He restrains his judgment against us. He holds back his judgment against sinners to give us an opportunity to come to Christ in faith. He's rich in mercy. It's natural to who he is to show mercy. Now there's also some God is not statements. God is not statements. Numbers 23, 19. God is not man that he should lie. God is not man that he should lie. God doesn't lie. God tells the truth, which is why we should love the truth and seek the truth and tell the truth. Because God is the God of truth It's not just a pragmatic thing. It is a moral thing, but it's not just a moral thing. This is about knowing God and loving God and having His character shining forth and reflecting off of us. Another God is not statement. Hebrews 6:10. God is not unjust. God is not unjust. God is a judge over all. But he's not an unjust judge. He's a righteous and just judge. All of his decisions are right. All of his judgments are true. Everything he says is proper. Hopefully you're seeing in these God is statements and God is not statements. Hopefully, you're seeing just how different God is from us, how far above us He is. Malachi 3:6, God speaking of Himself says, I do not change. I do not change Now, don't take that off a road of philosophy. No, that's supposed to comfort the heart. That's supposed to comfort the heart because he's promised us salvation in Christ. But what if God could change? What if he could change his mind about the fact that those in Christ have the gift of eternal life? God does not change, and his purpose will not change, and his moral code, his character will not change. This should bring a great, great comfort to us. Knowledge of God. Knowledge of God. We'll never ever understand the point of the Bible or understand why we come to church until we stop thinking in terms of outward religion We're not ashamed of practicing outward religion according to God's word. We try to do that the best we can according to God's word. But all of all of what we're doing here is just to to come and experience fellowship with God, to hear God's word, to have communion with Him, that God would reveal Himself, that He would speak to our hearts, that God So you need to hear from God. We all need to hear from God. And thank God He's given us His Word and Spirit. Well, this is a key feature, the preeminent feature of walking in the light, and knowledge of God's character. Knowledge of God's character. The only way flowers can grow, and the only way flowers can bloom is by the light of the sun. And the only way sinners can walk in the light and start to reflect the character of God is a knowledge of God's character. A knowledge of God's character. This is the message we have heard from him and proclaimed to you. God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. Let me ask you, do you like that about God, or do you wish it weren't so? Do you wish there's a little bit of darkness in him so that it could excuse the darkness in us? Or, right? Don't look for rationalizations But seek Jesus for help in repentance. If you want light in your walk, go to God who is light. Don't think that just piling on the external is walking in the light. No, fellowship with God is walking in the light. Walking in the light also features following God's word. Features a knowledge of God's character, and it features following God's word. Look at verse 6 If we say we have fellowship with him, right? It's fellowship with God, fellowship with Jesus. That's what that means. If we say we have fellowship with him While we walk in the darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. Some intriguing things, vivid and powerful and convicting things in this one little verse. Briefly notice that this is the first of a series of if statements. Five if statements In fact, it's each verse, this is how each verse begins, except for verse five. If this then that. If this then that. So you can look at the beginning of verse six. If we say In the beginning of verse 7, but if we walk, the beginning of verse 8, if we say , beginning of verse 9, if we confess, beginning of verse 10, if we say. Now, what John wants to describe in verse 6 is fellowship with God, and then what that would look like in our lives. Fellowship with God, that's a spiritual reality, and what that would look like in our lives. And he does this by making a contrast. So look at verse 6 again. See if you can catch this contrast. If we say we have fellowship with Him, While we walk in the darkness, or walk in darkness, or so that's one thing. If we're walking in the darkness, so that's the way we live. So I'm saying I have fellowship with God, but I'm living in darkness. That's one thing. And we contrast that with something else. Practicing the truth. If we say we have fellowship with God, and yet we're walking in darkness, we're lying, which means what? This means you're right or wrong about our fellowship with God. It means you're wrong. Wrong about our fellowship with God. Right? So we're making a profession, but it's a false profession I have fellowship with God, but I'm walking in the darkness, I'm lying, and I do not practice the truth. Truth is meant to be practiced. Truth is God's truth is meant to put into action. It's meant first and foremost to change our hearts. And to renew our minds and then to can transform the way we speak, the way we speak to each other in our homes, at work, at school, at the restaurant, at church, the way we speak to each other. Brothers and sisters wake up, the way we speak about each other. It's supposed to be put into practice, the truth of God, and to change our behaviors, and to change our priorities. And we'll we're not perfect and we'll never be perfect this side of eternity. As one preacher said, the purpose and pattern of our life is to be of godliness. It's to be of light, not darkness. The purpose and the pattern. You could say the desire and the direction of our lives should be that of godliness. We should desire godliness and Friends, if you desire godliness, and if I desire godliness, we'll be asking God to work that work in us It's not something we, it's not a work we do for God. Godliness in our lives is a gift from God. Amen? It's a gift from God And if God does not change us, and if God does not create godliness within us, we have no hope. Zero hope. of true godliness. Oh, we could pour on the external performance in religion, but true godliness in our hearts only God can give us I think this phrase stood out to me. He doesn't contrast walk in darkness with walk in the light yet. He'll do that in verse 7. But in verse 6, he contrasts walking in darkness. Versus practicing the truth. Practicing the truth. And where does truth come from? Does it come from me? Does it come from you? Does it come from the church as a whole? Does it come from the culture? God help us. Truth, friends, truth comes from God. Truth comes from God. is to be put into practice. The features, walking in the light. First of all, knowledge of God's character. Second of all, following God's word, practicing the truth. Third, walking in the light features fellowship with God's people. Fellowship with God's people. Look at the first part of verse 7. And uh this will become a major point in 1 John. If we walk in the light, as he is in the light , we have fellowship with one another. And just stop there. There's another point coming, but let's just stop there. We have fellowship with one another. Praise God we do. And we have a spiritual fellowship with one another. You're filled with the Holy Spirit. We're filled with the Holy Spirit. We're united to each other. We're members one to another by virtue of the spirit that we've been given. So our fellowship he said this earlier in the book. He's in verse 3. Chapter 1 verse 3 So you too may have fellowship with us, and that John is speaking in as a representative of the apostles. You may have fellowship with us. Our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. Church membership is first and foremost an invisible reality. Because you can't see the Holy Spirit. You can have the Holy Spirit. You can be filled with the Holy Spirit. God is sanctifying us by his Holy Spirit. God has brought us together and bound us together by the Holy Spirit. That's point number one if you were to talk about church membership. Everything else we do from there is just an outward expression of that spiritual membership we have one to another. Fellowship with God's people. If we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another. So what if we don't have fellowship with one another? I'm not talking about extenuating circumstances. Someone's stranded or someone's imprisoned or someone's sick and is not able to come up. We're not talking about that. We're talking about the normal course of things, the typical situation. If I'm a person who refuses, who does not want fellowship with God's people, am I walking in the light? No, I'm not. So if I walk in darkness, I'm not walking in the light, I'm not practicing the truth. If I reject fellowship with God 's people. It's a way of rejecting God. The church is the body of Christ. If I despise the church, I'm despising Christ. Walking in the light. Knowledge of God's character. I hope you cherish that. I hope you enjoy And delight in the knowledge of God more than pizza, more than donuts. More than anything that you know God more than money, more than a nice yard, more than a nice truck, knowledge of God Knowledge of God. Walking in the light features following God's word, putting the truth into practice. Christianity's not theoretical, it's experiential. And walking in the light features fellowship with God's People. Now number four. Number four. The thing that makes any of this possible. Brethren, the thing that makes any of this possible. Walking in the light features forgiveness in Jesus. Forgiveness in Jesus. If you just wash everything else away, this is what we're about. In terms of our own zeal and passion and terms of our message to the world around us. Forgiveness in Jesus is is uh verse seven, the second part. That the blood of Jesus, his son, cleanses us from all sin. Cleanses us from all sin. If you've come to faith in Christ on the basis of his blood sacrifice, all of your sins are erased If you've come to Christ as your Savior on the basis of His sacrifice, where He's made Himself a substitute for sinners, if you've come to Jesus Christ Based on the power of his blood, all the guilt of all your sins you will ever commit is erased. It's all gone. It's all Forgiven because of your union with Jesus on the basis of his blood sacrifice. The blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin. Past sin, future sin. Known sin, unknown sin. Intentional sin, unintentional sin. The blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin cleanses us and erases the guilt of all of our sin and spares us from the coming judgment against sin. Jesus saves The blood of Jesus is the basis of our confidence in our salvation. It's the basis of our assurance before the throne of God. If someone doesn't know anything else about us, anything else about our church, if someone doesn't know anything else about us as a church, Let them at least know that we're a people who preach forgiveness in Jesus freely. It's not by works, that's by grace through faith. That you don't pay for, but we receive as beggars who have no money. Let it be said, that's a church that preaches forgiveness. And then, in fact, in the way they treat each other and the way they treat others, it shine that forgiveness, the spirit of compassion, and that spirit of forgiveness, are you awake, church, shines off of them. So that they're not these harsh, critical, legalistic people who won't welcome sinners, but by the grace of God, by the compassion and mercy of God, they welcome sinners and they understand, let it be said that we understand that God welcomes sinners. Sinners through Christ. Always through Christ. But friends, that's not legalism. That's the gospel. That's the gospel that God is accessible to sinners through Jesus on the basis of his death Let us be a people about forgiveness. Like a lighthouse in the community, shining the message of Jesus' blood. Think of the irony in verse seven. Blood? Cleanses? Did you did you ever clean anything with blood? It's a spiritual cleansing. The cross of Jesus Christ is not merely an example of sacrificial love. It is that. Amen. It is that. It's an example of sacrificial love. But first and foremost, it's a super super natural event where Jesus in his body on the tree Bore the death penalty that I deserved and that you deserve if you would only believe that his blood cleanses you of your spiritual guilt before God. Blood does cleanse spiritually, though not physically. How can we obey God? How can we obey God? Have you ever heard the Ten Commandments? Have you ever heard commandments, any commandments from the Bible of what God wants you to do? Well if you've had if you've heard any of them and you've tried to obey them on your own strength, you know That commandments cannot produce obedience. All they do is just more and more show us how disobedient we are and how corrupt our hearts are, that at the end of the day, it's not only that we can't obey, it's that we don't really want to. So, what is it that produces obedience? The gospel. The gospel of Jesus Christ produces obedience because the gospel produces in our hearts love and gratitude. The law tells us what we should do. The gospel enables us, by way of the Savior, to do it. What fills our hearts with love? What fills our hearts with gratitude? The gospel of Jesus Christ. This is why hopefully I say this enough. If I don't, somebody rebuke me and get me on track. But the gospel is not only for unbelievers. Friends, beloved, the gospel is not only for unbelievers. If you want to grow further in your sanctification, The gospel is for you. If I want to grow further in my sanctification and in my obedience, the gospel is for me. Because the gos why? Why is that? Because the gospel creates love for God in our hearts. And all true obedience grows out of love for God. Luke seven forty-seven, Jesus says, the one who's forgiven much Loves much. It's forgiveness that creates love. It's gratitude of God's forgiveness that creates love. Those who are forgiven much love much. And in John 14, 15, Jesus says, if you love me, you'll obey my commands. It's of God's mercy that creates love. For God. It's God's love. It's God's forgiveness. It's the gospel that will cultivate and increase love and gratitude in our hearts. So That's the practical application of all practical applications for the Christian life. We need to hear the gospel routinely. Urgently, so that God will continue to create in us a love that springs forth in practical obedience and sanctification. Do you want to walk in the light? Do you want to walk in fellowship with God? Or just like the world that's all around us Do you want to just blend in with the world that's all around us and the principles of the world and the morals of the world and the direction of the world? Or do you want to walk in the light that features Knowledge of God's character. It features following God's word. It features fellowship with God's people. It features forgiveness in Jesus. Well, more than forgiveness in Jesus. Forgiveness in Jesus is what makes any of these other things possible. Number five, and finally, it features Fighting against sin. Fellowship with God features fighting against sin. You know, if we didn't have a sin nature, none of this would be a problem. Peter writes in 1 Peter chapter 2, the passions of the flesh wage war against our soul. Isn't that incredible? One thing that's inside of us is waging war against another thing that's inside of us. The passions of the sinful flesh are waging war against our soul to try to keep us from godliness. We fight against sin. Verse 8 through 10. If we say we have no sin, stop it. If I think I have no sin, will I fight against sin? If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us, which is a way of summarizing that the gospel hasn't changed our hearts. If I think I have no sin, then the gospel hasn't changed my hearts. The truth is not in me. The truth has not taken root in me. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, acknowledging our sins before God, if we confess our sins He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins. It's not about confessing sins to each other. Otherwise it would say, if we confess our sins, we've We'd be faithful and just and we forgive each other. No, if we confess our sins, He is faithful, He is just, He forgives us our sins, and He cleanses us from all unrighteousness. Cleansing from unrighteousness is another way of talking about our sanctification. That in our in our desires, he'll cleanse us over time. In our thoughts. He'll cleanse us over time. In our words, and aren't you glad about this? He'll cleanse us over time. In our actions, he'll cleanse us over time. He'll cleanse us from the ways of unrighteousness and produce righteous living in our lives. God does that as we fight against sin. Verse 10, again if we say we've not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us. Barring all the details. Something was going on with these Christians where there was a a group of Christians within the church and false teachers in the church teaching that you don't have sin or maybe if you try hard enough you'll be free of sin We'll get into that in more detail as we go through the book of 1 John. But that is a heresy. That is a false teaching. Christians Sin. We are not slaves to sin. Our sin does not accuse us or condemn us before the throne of God because we are in Christ and we are justified by grace through faith. But we still sin. We still have sin. Well, what do we do about that? Well, three things. First of all, confession. Acknowledge it and confess and confess. Two times in here If we say we don't have sin, we're deceiving ourselves. Verse 8. And then in verse 10, if we're saying we don't have sin, we're calling God a liar. Look at his bookends of this little section, verse 8, verse 10. If I say I don't have sin, first of all, I'm self-deceived. That's absurd. That would be absurd for me to say that I don't have sin. I'm deceiving myself. But there's something even worse about that There 's something even worse about that. Verse 10, if I say I have not sinned, I'm calling God a liar. It's pretty simple, right? Because God comes into my life through his Bible and tells me, Matt You are a sinner and you do sin. And even though I am justified by grace through faith, and I do not fear judgment, We talked about this a little bit in our Sunday school hour. We walk in the fear of the Lord, which is to honor him, to respect him, to acknowledge his authority, but we do not walk in the fear of judgment. Perfect love, the perfect love of God shown in our hearts, casts out fear of judgment, which comes from later in 1 John. We acknowledge our sin. Confess. Confession. Verse 8. And even the beginning of verse 9, if we confess. If we confess our sin. Beloved, acknowledge your sin in your prayer time. Acknowledge not just sinfulness in general. Acknowledge your sin to God. Don't make him a liar. He's not a liar. Don't deceive yourself. Let's be a people who go to God daily and confess. Confess your sin. Not the idea of sin, but confess your sin to God. Secondly, and this is important in this process of fighting against sin, that's what we're talking about, fighting against sin, confession. And then secondly Consolation. What's another word for consolation? Comfort. Finding comfort. So look at this phrase in verse 9. If we confess our sins, that's what been exhorting us all to do in prayer, if we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive. Faithful and just to forgive our sins. He's faithful. The promise as a people who live under the the uh the refuge of Christ's blood, Christ is our priest. Christ has promised He'll always forgive us, He'll always show us mercy, He'll always receive us As children reconciled to God. Always, always, always, always, He can cleanse our conscience from our wrongdoing. He can forgive us. We confess our sins. We grieve over our sins because they bring displeasure to God and they insult God, but we don't wallow in despair. We do not we are not a people who wallow in the despair of our sin, but rather we go to Christ For spiritual comfort. Always go to Christ. Don't stop at confession. Confess and go to Christ. Go to Christ for comfort. Why would we go to Christ for comfort? Our sins should be grievous to our hearts. We should go to God. We should go to Christ to comfort our hearts, to give his consolation. But it's based on his faithfulness. And it says he's faithful and just to forgive sin. Because if he didn't forgive the sin of people who are united to Christ, he'd be unjust. Make sure you're tuned in. That's a hypothetical God has promised that all who are united to Christ have all their sins forgiven. So if you're in Christ and you go to him and he holds your sin against you, he would be unjust. In Christ, all of your sins are forgiven. And He's faithful and He's just to forgive our sin. Confession? That's got to be first. If we don't acknowledge sin, how could we fight against it? Consolation. This is the way we fight. We don't fight by a principle of works and human effort. We fight, we fight against sin by going to Jesus for help. That's how we fight against sin. We go to Jesus for help. And finally, cleansing. Cleanse us from all unrighteousness. We do pray in regards to our specific sins. We pray for specific repentance. We should be praying, asking God for repentance. God, purify my heart. God, purify my mind, purify my words. God, please help me in the way I've been treating this person at work. God please help me in how I've been losing my temper at home. Oh, that's a made-up illustration. This is um this is not confession time here. But whatever your sin is, specifically confess and specifically ask for repentance in the nitty-gritty of life. Brothers and sisters, isn't this what discipleship is? It's learning to live for Christ in all spheres of life. It's learning to live for Christ in all the different aspects of life. Confess. Consolation by going to Christ and cleansing. Cleanse us from all unrighteousness. That's something God can work in us. To walk, to walk in the light. Come to Jesus. Come to Jesus. It's through Jesus that we have fellowship with God. And as I said last week, and by the grace of God, Lord will, and I'll be saying this over and over and over again for decades. Jesus is your mediator between you and God. You do not need a mediator between you and Jesus. Pastors are not priests. And and and you don't need to come through the church to get to Jesus. No, when you come to Jesus directly, you enter into fellowship with the church You don't come through a particular prayer or through baptism to now enter into a fellowship, a relationship with Jesus. We come to Jesus based on his sacrificial death, based on his glorious resurrection. If you want to walk in the light. Outward religion is not what you need. Enjoying church is not what you need. Jesus is the need, and he's accessible to each and every one of you today. He's accessible. There's no mediators, there's no barriers between sinners and Christ. To walk in the light, God's light must shine upon us in a transforming way. In a transforming way. Let's pray. Father, we pray by your grace, mercy, power, and spirit and word, you would transform us. To love you. to be grateful, to have joy in Christ, ever-increasing joy in Christ. Oh, Father, reach forth in power to the heart and heart Stir it up, bring it to life through the message of Christ we pray. For each one of us, let us be zealous to confess our sins. And zealous and urgent to seek consolation and comfort in Christ and in nothing else in our lives or in this world. Cleanse us, Father, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.