We invite you to open with me the book of Proverbs, chapter 1. We're going to be looking at Proverbs 1, verses 1 through 7. This evening. Proverbs chapter 1, verses 1 through 7. Several weeks ago we saw in the book of 1 Corinthians, chapter 1, the truth that God's wisdom Is fundamentally something that is revealed to us in the cross of Christ. And that we receive wisdom as God's people by coming to Him in Christ. And now we're going to be turning for the next several weeks to consider some of the substance of God's wisdom as it's revealed to us in the book of Proverbs. We're going to walk together through the first nine chapters of Proverbs. I've titled this sermon A Prelude to Wisdom. Prelude to Wisdom. In an orchestral piece of music or in a musical. The prelude is the thing that comes at the very beginning. And it kind of sets the tone, or at least a good prelude, sets the tone for what's going to follow It's the first thing that you hear and it sets your expectations for what's going to come. It invites you into the world of the musical and it introduces Key themes and if you have an ear to hear, key kind of musical motifs that will come up over and over again One of my favorite examples of an effective and efficient musical prelude comes from Leonard Bernstein's Broadway classic, West Side Story. Didn't think you'd hear about Broadway musicals tonight, where with only three notes The extremely brief prelude to this rather long musical introduces kind of the musical idea that throughout the whole story comes to represent basically all of the conflict, all of the tension, all of the hope, and all of the tragedy for the entire story. A good prelude teaches us what we ought to look for. And this is important because if we begin by looking for the wrong things, if our expectations are kind of off-kilter from the get-go. We're going to end up emphasizing the wrong things, and we'll find ourselves coming to the wrong conclusions. As we come to these first seven verses in the book of Proverbs, and as we consider together the first nine chapters of this book, We find here a sort of prelude that sets before us the key themes for this entire book. We're going to see King Solomon setting out the essential themes and characteristics of wisdom. That set the tone for this entire book of Divine Wisdom. This section is going to kind of tune our hearts and set us to the right frequency to see To hear, to receive, and ultimately to walk in God's wisdom. We're going to have our expectations set about the nature of God's wisdom And what it is meant to do and how it comes to God's children. And as we consider this together, there are kind of two key questions that I want to set before you to consider. One, what is the essence of wisdom? And then two, where do we find it? So in other words, what does wisdom look like in the life of the one who has it? And what's the path to receiving it? These are the key questions that are taken up not only in this section, but really in the entire book. And the main point that we are going to arrive at, the conclusion we're going to see, is that wisdom is fundamentally a call to live in the fear of the Lord. See this clearly in verse 7, and we're going to consider what that means. But that's where our hearts are ultimately going to go and where we're going to land. This call to walk in the fear of the Lord, and so walk in wisdom. Well, let's read together Proverbs chapter 1, beginning in verse 1. The Proverbs of Solomon, son of David, King of Israel. To know wisdom and instruction, to understand words of insight, to receive instruction in wise dealing, in righteousness, justice, and equity. To give prudence to the simple, knowledge and discretion to the youth. Let the wise hear and increase in learning, and the one who understands obtain guidance, to understand a proverb and a saying, the words of the wise and their riddles. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. Fools despise wisdom and instruction. Well, as we walk through this text together and as we consider these questions and consider this main point, we're going to look at this passage through three broad points. If you're taking notes, we're going to consider first wisdom's instructor. That is, who is it that is speaking to us here in this section of the book of Proverbs, and why does that matter? So wisdom's instructor. Second, we're going to consider wisdom's essence. That is, what does wisdom look like? What does it do? And then finally, we'll consider wisdom's foundation. Where is wisdom found? So wisdom's instructor, wisdom's essence, and wisdom's foundation. We turn first to consider wisdom's instructor in this section of the book of Proverbs. Whenever we receive any form of communication, it's relatively important to know who is speaking to us. And when we open up the Bible, we understand ultimately that the author of all of Scripture is God. But God has worked by his Spirit through human authors in the inspiration and writing of Scripture. And understanding who is speaking to us in this opening section of Proverbs lays out for us some important themes for us to have our minds tuned to as we consider This call to wisdom. In verse 1, we are given this introductory title that these are the Proverbs of Solomon, the son of David, the king of Israel. Very briefly, before we consider Solomon, I want to say something about the nature and about the genre of Proverbs. Because this is a unique genre of literature in Scripture. And if we're not careful, we can easily fall into misinterpretation if we don't know the kind of writing that we're reading. The Proverbs come to us as these short, pithy sayings of wisdom that concern and call us to think about how we are to live wisely from God's perspective. They present us with general truths about life lived according to God's wisdom, but importantly, they don't come to us as these kind of absolute promises to claim. Perhaps the best example of this principle is Proverbs 22, verse 6, where the author there says, Train up a child in the way that he should go. Even when he is old, he will not depart from it. Well, surely we know that not all children who are raised by Christ-loving parents have come to embrace him into adulthood. We understand that the Proverbs present to us general truths about the patterns of life that are lived according to God's wisdom. But they're not without exceptions in the temporal blessings that they promise. And they're not promises for us to kind of claim and obligate God to do certain things. However, as I say that, saying that the Proverbs are general truths does not mean that they are somehow devoid of rich theology. Church, these are not just kind of moral tidbits for us. The Proverbs aren't just kind of the fortune cookies of Scripture. Rather, as we're going to see, they call us to interpret all of life from God's perspective. They call us to bring ourselves under God's good lordship in every domain of our existence, down to the most intensely practical areas of life. The Proverbs call us to submit all of life to the good lordship of our God. So it's kind of a brief literary overview of the nature of the genre of Proverbs. But we want to consider here who is identified as the speaker. Well, again, in verse 1, we're told that these are the Proverbs of Solomon, the son of David, the king of Israel. And we might be tempted to just kind of fly past that introductory title and get to the substance of verses 2 through 7. But we ought not do that. Because there are some very rich and important biblical themes for us to see as we think about the identity of this instructor. Because this identification of who is speaking to us not only connects what we're reading to the historical narrative of the Old Testament and one specific Israelite king. But it also connects what we are reading and how we are being instructed to some key biblical theological themes that, church, are relevant for our whole reading of the Bible. And that I want to set in front of you, point us forward ultimately to a much greater fulfillment. We're going to consider some of that fulfillment when we get to point number three. But for now, let me just kind of invite you to have your big picture wheels of biblical theology spinning a little bit. Solomon, we know, was king in Israel after his father David. And in 1 Kings chapter 3, at the beginning of his reign, he's given the opportunity to ask for whatever he wanted from God. And instead of asking for wealth, instead of asking for a peaceful reign, Solomon asks God for an understanding mind. To govern your people, that I may discern good and evil. He asks for wisdom from God, and God gives him wisdom in abundance So great, in fact, is Solomon's wisdom that pagan kings and dignitaries from other surrounding kingdoms come to Jerusalem to hear and to sit under Solomon's great wisdom. We see this in 1 Kings chapter 4, verses 29 through 34. Solomon's wisdom served as a testimony to the nations. where the king of Israel was instructing the nations in the ways of the God of Israel. Put that in your back pocket. There's something there for later for us to think about. More than just a historical example of great wisdom, though, these titles that we see here, Son of David and King of Israel, are utterly significant if we know our Bibles. Let's consider both of these. We'll take King of Israel first. In Deuteronomy chapter 17, Moses gave instructions to Israel concerning their kings that they would eventually set over them when they entered into the Promised Land. And one of the key requirements was for the kings was that they were to make for themselves a copy of God's law. They were called to have this intimate knowledge with the law of God. Listen to Deuteronomy chapter 17, verses 18 and 19. And when he sits on the throne of his kingdom, he shall write for himself in a book. a copy of this law, approved by the Levitical priests, and it shall be with him, and he shall read in it all the days of his life, that he may learn to fear the Lord his God. By keeping all the words of this law and these statutes and doing them. The king of Israel was to know and keep the law of God. He was to have such an intimate knowledge of it that he went through a process of handwriting his own copy. The king of Israel was to serve as this kind of representative ideal for the whole kingdom. Of what it looked like to know and to submit to the will of God. And by implication, that meant that he was also to teach the people of God in the ways of God. He was called to set forth this example and to teach God's people what it looked like to live according to God's law and God's commandments. Well here we have King Solomon in the book of Proverbs instructing his son and by extension all of Israel in what it looks like to apply the law of God to every area of life. We see him here fulfilling this call for what the kings of Israel were called to do. And even more than that, this title Son of David sets before us these forward-looking promises that were made to King David. Time prevents us from looking at all these passages in detail, but in 2 Samuel chapter 7, David received these covenant promises from God that his throne would be established forever. That from his seed would come a king who would reign not only for one generation, but for eternity And we're told that David's son would be the means by which God would establish his eternal kingdom and would roll back the curse of sin. The redemptive hopes of God's people were wrapped up in this figure of the son of David The son of David was the one who would come, who would rule and reign forever, and who would lead God's people perfectly according to God's wisdom. You can see that language all throughout the Old Testament. It's picked up constantly in the Psalms. We can see it in prophetic passages such as Isaiah chapter 9. So what we have here in the beginning of the book of Proverbs is Solomon, the son of David, the king of Israel. The steward and inheritor of God's redemptive promises, instructing God's people in the fear of the Lord, applying the principles of God's law rooted in God's character to every area of life. So as we think about the question, where do we find wisdom? We find it by coming under the instruction of God's anointed king. Now for us, we come under the instruction ultimately of a different king, of a greater son of David. Like I said, I hope your kind of big picture gospel fulfillment wheels are starting to spin. Hold on to those themes in your back pocket because we're going to pick them up again under point number three. But see that the wisdom and the instruction we are receiving comes from God's anointed King. It does us no good, though, to simply know who is speaking if we don't actually look at what they say. So we're going to turn next to consider the essence of wisdom as it's laid out for us in verses 2 through 6 The essence of wisdom. And the key question we're considering here is, what does wisdom look like? What does it do in the life of the one who receives it? Why do I need it? Well, this section has much to teach us about the flavor and the shape of wisdom, how it comes to those who are ready to receive it. And from verses 2 through 6, I have kind of four points for us to consider as we think about the essence of wisdom. Along with four prayers for us to think about practically how we must prepare our hearts to receive God's wisdom. So four points to consider about the essence of wisdom, along with four prayers for our own hearts to be prepared to receive God's wisdom. First, we see in the section that wisdom engages our minds. Wisdom engages our minds. We see this all throughout the language that's used in this passage. This call for our minds to be engaged in learning the way of God's wisdom. You see it in verse two, to know wisdom and instruction, to understand words of insight. Verse three, to receive instruction Verse 4, giving prudence, wisdom, knowledge, discretion Verse 6, to understand a proverb and a saying, the words of the wise and their riddles. Biblically Wisdom is a matter of our minds engaging with the truth of who God is. And then applying that truth rightly to every sphere of our lives. And this calls for us the right use of our minds. reckoning with the truth of God's word, and considering how we are called to submit to it. Another thing we see here is that this is a process that is intended to build upon itself. Notice how so many of these things that are laid out in verses 2 through 6, so many of these calls of why we need to receive wisdom is ultimately So that we can receive more wisdom, so that we can understand more wisdom. We see this point especially in verses 2 and 6. Why do you need wisdom? Well verse 2 tells you, so that you can know words of wisdom. So that you can understand words of insight. You can see it in verse 5, too, let the wise hear and increase in learning. That is, this is a process that builds upon itself. So, church, we need to understand that pursuing God's wisdom is a call for us to love God with all our minds. And I want to be clear that this is not just intellectual knowledge for the sake of intellectual knowledge. We don't want to just have minds that are huffed up and that know a lot of things about God and feel really good about ourselves for knowing a lot of things about God. But at the same time, it's not less than intellectual knowledge. We can have this tendency kind of to separate the theological brainy stuff on the one hand that maybe is for me, maybe isn't, and then the practical everyday stuff on the other hand that, oh well, I gotta do this stuff. But Scripture accepts no such dichotomy when we consider the truth and the ways of God. Friends, the most practical nuts and bolts issues of your daily obedience to Jesus only make sense if we have truly and rightly grasped the depths of who he is. They only make sense this Practical stuff of our daily obedience and all the minutiae of life only makes sense if we have been struck by the weightiness of the glory of God. And if we have seen what He is worthy of and what He calls us to do and be. So may we pray, Lord, help us to engage our minds in thinking well about who you are and what you desire for us. Help us to ponder, God, the great depths of who you are and increase our capacity to receive your truth. So wisdom engages our minds. Secondly, see that wisdom must be received. Look at verse 3. Another purpose here of wisdom is laid out to receive instruction in wise dealing. Now we're going to consider in just a second what is meant by wise dealing, but it's important for us to see here that wisdom is something that we must receive. We see a similar line of thought in verse 4. Verse 4 says that wisdom is laid out to give prudence to the simple. But what does that imply about wisdom? It teaches us that it is something that we do not naturally possess. But it's something rather that is external to our fallen sinful state that we must receive from God Right there, though, we have set ourselves on vastly different footing than the man-centered, worldly vision of wisdom that is so often out in the world. Because what does the wisdom of this world say? The wisdom of this world often says, look inside yourself. Do what makes you happy. Just believe in yourself. Live your truth. Whatever that means. This mindset can often even infiltrate the church. But our call to wisdom, church, is never look inside yourself. Rather, it is look to your God and receive. This calls us for humility. It calls for us to recognize our utter dependence upon God and the fact that we have nothing apart from Him. And so we pray, God humble us to receive your wisdom. May we never look to ourselves, but may we trust in the sufficiency of your word and receive it with hearts that desire to honor you. Wisdom engages our minds. Wisdom must be received. Thirdly, wisdom concerns practical living that's aligned with the character of God. Wisdom is practical. We see this most clearly in verse 3, but it's all throughout the book of Proverbs. The call at verse 3 is to receive instruction in wise dealing, in righteousness. in justice and in equity. And that is how you are to live out and embody God's righteousness, God's justice, and God's equity in every sphere of your life. The Proverbs are not kind of mere abstractions or philosophical ideas floating out in space No, they concern how to actually deal with the complexities and the difficulties of life in ways that reflect the character of God. in ways that align with and testify to his perfect righteousness, justice, and equity. Wisdom looks at the situations that we face in a complex, difficult, sin-cursed world, and it asks, how would God, whose standard of right and wrong is perfect, Have me act. How am I called to conform my heart and my words and my deeds to his will, not my own? How am I called as a citizen of God's kingdom to be a reflection of my king? Again, see that biblical wisdom calls us to ask a vastly different set of questions as we think about how we're called to live in God's world. We're never merely to ask what works, what gets the best results for me and mine. No, that kind of pragmatism couldn't be further from biblical wisdom. Rather, what we see is that our practical living in all the complexities and difficulties of life is ultimately about who God is and how God calls us to live as reflections of his character. Being conformed into the image of his son. And so we pray, God help us in our practical everyday living to be reflections of your character. Help us to walk in wisdom by living according to your standard of righteousness, by your grace, through your spirit. Wisdom is practical. And finally, we see from this section that wisdom is for all and for all of life. It is for all and for all of life. Book with me at verses 4 and 5. In verse 4, there's a call for the simple, the youth, to receive the prudence, the knowledge, and the discretion of God's wisdom. And to that we would say, well, of course. Of course the young need to come under God's wisdom. This whole book is framed as a father imparting wisdom to his son. So of course. The youth, the young, those that are inexperienced, need to receive God's wisdom. But that's not the only people in this verse and in this section who are called to receive God's wisdom Because in verse 5, he says, let the wise hear and increase in learning. And the one who understands obtain guidance. That is, those who are already possessing wisdom in some measure are called to pursue more of it. Church, we never graduate from needing to receive and grow in God's wisdom. It is a lifelong pursuit for God's people. If you're young, you need God's wisdom. And if you're old, if you've been walking with the Lord for many, many years, you need God's wisdom from God's Word. This is why we commit to gathering together weekly to sit under the preaching and the teaching of God's Word. Because we understand that this side of our glorification, we are continually being molded into the likeness of Christ. We are continually being shaped and we need God's guidance from His Word to shape us and to mold us. It's not as though you eventually reach a point in your Christian maturity where you've got enough wisdom and now you just get to teach. Now you're just about output. No, Christian, you are called to be a lifelong learner. We must never, ever think Oh, why do I need to come and listen to preaching about things I already know? I already heard that book of the Bible preached. Why do I need to come? The truly wise person can't even comprehend a question like that Whether you've been a follower of Jesus for five days or for 50 years, you need to sit under the instruction of God's word. Wisdom is cultivated slowly. It's cultivated over a lifetime. And it's cultivated in community. And so we pray, together as a body, God, help us to see our need for your wisdom. Help us to both instruct and encourage and receive, whether we're young or old. Mature or immature. So we consider together wisdom's essence, what it looks like, and what it does in the life of the one who receives it. But all of this would be pointless if we didn't know where to find wisdom. If all we have is kind of what wisdom is supposed to do, but we have no understanding of where it actually comes from, we'd be left in the dark. Which is why we turn finally to wisdom's foundation. Wisdom's foundation. The key question for this entire prelude and ultimately for this entire book is where Do I find wisdom? Well, to this all-important question, we are given an abundantly clear answer. Look with me at verse 7. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. Fools despise wisdom and instruction. So what is wisdom's foundation? Wisdom's foundation is the fear of the Lord That's where all knowledge, where all true insight, and we're all right living before our God begins Solomon will say the same exact thing more or less in chapter 9, verse 10, which is almost like a bookend in this first section of the book of Proverbs. The question then for us, of course, is, well, what is the fear of the Lord? If you read different commentaries on the Proverbs, you'll find slightly different answers, many of which kind of overlap with one another. The definition that I'm going to set before us, that I believe and hope is biblical, is that the fear of the Lord is a right reverence. For our covenant God. It is seeing who God is and responding appropriately with reverence and awe and obedience When I say that word reverence, it's just the idea of giving proportionate honor to whom it is due. We give honor to people based on what their position or what their title warrants. The somewhat silly example and illustration from my own heart, if the uh current host of Jeopardy, Ken Jennings, were to walk in here today I would show him quite a bit of reverence, flowing from my deep, deep admiration for the greatest game show in human history. But if by some miracle Alex Trebek, who hosted Jeopardy for 37 years, were to rise from the dead and were to walk in here, I would show him an even greater degree of reverence. Reverence is the honor we give someone based on who that person is. We'll multiply that principle out by an infinite number. And consider the kind of reverence that the God of the universe is owed. Church, we are called to recognize that He alone is the sovereign King who reigns over all. He alone is worthy of all praise, all glory, all esteem, all admiration, and in our hearts we are called here to rightly and gladly submit our lives to his Good authority. That's what we are called to in this call to the fear of the Lord, to have a right and fitting reverence for our God. And it's important for us to see here further That the fear of the Lord is not just a generic belief in God. You'll notice that the word Lord in your Bibles is in all caps. This is the covenant name of Yahweh, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. This is a call to a right reverence to the one who had redeemed his people out of slavery in Egypt. who had constituted them as a people and delivered them into the promised lands and given them these forward-looking promises that through them would come one who would bless all nations and roll back the curse of sin. This is the God who initiates relationship with his people and reigns as their personal Lord. This is not belief mere belief in some God. Oh my, do we get far, far too excited when some celebrity or politician espouses kind of a polite civil religious belief in some generic deity? That's not what we're talking about here. No, this is the God who has revealed himself in his word, and who reigns as king, and who calls for his people to gladly submit to his good authority. And friends, it's at this point in the text that we come to attention between this passage and between our hearts. Which is that left to our own devices, we will never live in the fear of the Lord. Our problem of sin, church, is far too pervasive. Left to our own devices, left to our own desires, in the deadness of our sin, we will never walk in the fear of the Lord. This is the testimony of all the Scripture. In Genesis chapter 6, verse 5, we're told that the intent every intention of the thoughts of the heart of man are only evil continually. Or think of Romans 3, we see there that no one is righteous, but that all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. No one in the state of sin and deadness will ever walk in the fear of the Lord by their own strength. And no amount of good works or of attempting to live in God's wisdom by our own will and by our own strength will ever make us right before God. And the tragedy of sin is that left to our own devices, we actually prefer foolishness. Left to our own hearts, we actually prefer sin. We can see this tragedy play out actually in the life of Solomon. Though he calls here for the people of God to walk in the fear of the Lord, if you know the history of Solomon's reign, you know that he failed to live up to his own ideal. Though he possessed more wisdom than anyone on earth, his tragic fall into sin and into idolatry ultimately revealed him to be a fool. And this is the condition of every heart born under the curse of sin. And this disposition of our hearts condemns us before a God who is perfectly holy and righteous. before a God who cannot tolerate even an ounce of sin in his presence. But here, church, is also the goodness. Because where one son of David failed, another succeeded. Jesus Christ perfectly embodied and lived according to the fear of the Lord without any mixture of motives or any stain of sin. And he died a sacrificial death for sinners And he bore on himself the wrath of God for our sin and for our foolishness before God and for our refusal to rightly fear the Lord. And he rose again in victory over the destructive power of sin and death. And we can now look to him in faith and receive his perfect righteousness. credited to our accounts. We can look to him and trust that his death makes sufficient payment for our sins. And in him we receive new hearts that are spiritually alive, that truly desire him. And that by his Spirit at work in us, shaping us and molding us into the likeness of Christ, can actually and truly walk in the fear of the Lord. But we need to see the glory of this fulfillment in Christ Church. Because Christ Jesus is not only the Son of David who instructs his people in the fear of the Lord. He is the one who makes the fear of the Lord possible through his death and resurrection. He is the true king who reigns according to the perfect wisdom of God. And he will reign forever. He brings us into his kingdom, and he calls and equips us to walk according to his wisdom. And we long for and await and look forward to the day when we will live in the fear of the Lord in his eternal kingdom without any mixture of motives in our hearts. Without any temptation to sin. Can you imagine that? Can you imagine a world in which you are not tempted to sin? In which you are not capable of ever wanting sin? Oh, may we long for this. And may we pray for God by His Spirit to shape us now. So we must see, church, that the fear of the Lord is a gospel reality. It cannot be cultivated in our hearts apart from faith in Jesus Christ. And it cannot be grown apart from looking to Christ in faith. We saw this principle in 1 Corinthians chapter 1 several weeks ago, but it just can't be said often enough. We receive and we walk in God's wisdom through faith in Christ. He, church, is the source and center of all wisdom. And as we conclude, I just want to point to one final reality from this text, which goes along with what we've seen thus far, but introduces kind of a key idea that runs all throughout the book of Proverbs and that really you can find all throughout Scripture. In verse 7, notice the contrast that's established here. You have an important contrast established here that is going to be key to the entire book of Proverbs. On the one hand, you have those who fear the Lord and who receive knowledge and gladly walk in God's wisdom. But on the other hand, you have the fool who despises wisdom and instruction and rejects a life lives in the fear of the Lord. And as we walk through the Proverbs, what we see is that the one who fears the Lord, the wise man, ultimately receives the blessing of God. But the fool who rejects God and rejects God's wisdom ultimately experiences the judgment of God. Another place you can see this contrast in very clear, stark, and stirring language is in Psalm 1. That can be your homework for tonight. Go read Psalm 1 and think about the two descriptions and the two destinies and the two visions of life that are set out in that Psalm between the wise man who fears God. And the fool who rejects the fear of the Lord. Next week we're going to look more at the anatomy of sinful foolishness. And what it looks like and how we are called to turn from it. One of the things, though, that this contrast is meant to do when we see it in Scripture is hold up a mirror to our own hearts. And it compels us to ask, is my heart characterized by wise love and reverence for God, all by his grace? Or is my heart characterized more by sin and foolishness? Am I claiming Christ, yet rejecting his instruction and his lordship over my life? What characterizes my life? The description of the wise man or the description of the fool? Well by God's grace and by his spirit shaping us together through his word May we be a people in Christ who are truly marked by the fear of the Lord. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you that you have not left us in the deadness and in the foolishness of sin. We thank you that you sent your son Jesus Christ to die a sacrificial death for sinners and to redeem for himself a people. Marked by your wisdom in Christ. And so we pray, God, that our specific body, this gathering of local believers would be marked by the fear of the Lord as we continually look to Christ in faith. God, may you shape us according to the wisdom of your word, and may our hearts truly desire. You above all things. Lord, we know that this comes to us by your grace, through your spirit, as we look to your word. We pray all these things in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.