Let's turn to Matthew 28, 16 to 20. We're in this little series called A Reminder of Purpose. Matthew 28 Verses 16 through 20. The first message we looked at Christ's authority, that as disciples of Christ, it's our joy, it's our gladness. To willingly submit to Christ's authority. That He is our Lord, that He is our master, that He is our God, that He is our shepherd, not only in our individual lives, but as a church. And then in the second message, we looked at the call to make disciples. Since we are disciples, we share in God's great work of making disciples. And remember that was the main thrust of that message. That God is the one who makes disciples. God is the one who changes our hearts. He's the one that seeks us out. He's the one that draws us. God is the one who convicts us by his law. God is the one who convicts us by his spirit. He converts us by the power of the gospel. So we looked at Christ's authority. We looked at the call to make disciples, which really is just the way we participate. In God's work of making disciples. And today we're talking about baptism, talking about the first act of obedience, the first outward act, this public act of obedience after a disciple is made. which is water baptism. Let's pray together and then we'll begin with a reading of the passage after that. Father, we pray for this time. of preaching, that both the preaching and the hearing would be done with humility, trusting in you, not ourselves. Not my ability to preach or not anyone's ability to hear, but only the ability of your word and your spirit to do their work in our hearts and minds and lives for your name. Father, I pray that you would minister to us. We fully expect that you will faithfully and powerfully minister to us by your word. We so desperately need your word, but Not daily do we sense that need. I pray you would wake each one of us up to just exactly what our desperate need is before you your throne. It's in Christ we ask. Amen. Alright, let's read the passage. Matthew 28, 16 to 20, and then we'll talk about baptism. Now the eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain to which Jesus had directed them. And when they saw him, they worshipped him But some doubted. Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go fair, go therefore. and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. As disciples of Jesus, we are called to baptize new disciples of Jesus. That's very simple again. I've tried to make these main points as simple as I possibly can. As disciples of Jesus Jesus, we are called to baptize new disciples of Jesus. And hopefully you saw in there verse 18 the first thing Jesus says, all authority in heaven and on earth has been given And that was our first message in the series. We talked about the nature of Christ's authority over all things. And then in verse nineteen Go therefore and make disciples of all nations. And that's what we talked about in the second message, which was the last message, this call to make disciples And today we're all in the next phrase, right in the middle of verse 19, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. That's part of the Great Commission. That's part of our calling as a church. That's part of our purpose as a church. A reminder of our purpose must include this call, this command to baptize. New disciples. As disciples, we are called to baptize new disciples. Now, in the back of our minds, I want this question to be lingering. What does baptism mean do or how does baptism function. In other words, if we're all sitting here and we see you can't see it now, but behind that screen is the baptistry And when a baptism occurs, what is that baptism doing for the church? How is that baptism functioning as we witness the baptism? And to summarize it. Baptism proclaims how salvation was accomplished, and baptism proclaims what salvation accomplishes. We'll camp here for just a second because I want us to understand not only the call to baptize new disciples, but how does the baptism function in the body life of a church? Baptism is a visual proclamation of the gospel. Baptism visually proclaims how salvation was accomplished. And salvation was accomplished by the death Burial and resurrection of Christ. And that's what baptism pictures. And that's what baptism proclaims. It proclaims the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. Baptism What does baptism accomplish? W how does baptism function? It preaches to us. It preaches the gospel to us. It preaches how salvation was accomplished. But there's another part to it. Baptism also proclaims What salvation accomplished in our hearts. What salvation was accomplished in our hearts? So Jesus died, was buried, and rose. That's how salvation was accomplished. But when we come to faith, we die in Christ and rise to walk in newness of life. This comes from Romans chapter 6, by the way, and we will get there later in the message. But I don't want us to think in bat of baptism in abstract terms. I want us to think of the body life of the church. Baptisms are a part of the body life of the church. of the community of faith under the new covenant. And so what does baptism do? It proclaims salvation. It proclaims the gospel visually So we do we'll get into the details of baptism, and you'll see on your outline I've got four of these. And of course I won't be able to talk about everything, but I've highlighted four. Um aspects of baptism that hopefully will at least give us an introduction to the topic. First of all, the mode of baptism. The mode of baptism. That just means how do you do it? What does it look like? The mode of baptism is immersion in water. The mode of baptism is immersion in water. The Greek word for baptism means to immerse. Or to plunge, or metaphorically can mean to overwhelm with. It does not mean pour. It does not mean sprinkle. It does not even mean wash, although it can symbolize and represent a washing. But the word means to immerse into, to dip, or to plunge, or metaphorically to overwhelm. The mode of baptism is immersion in water. I give you an example that's found when Jesus is baptized in Matthew 3, 16 to 17. And when Jesus was baptized, immediately he came up from the water, and behold, the heavens were opened to him. And he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and coming to rest on him. And behold, a voice from heaven said, This is my beloved son, with whom I am well pleased. He was immersed in the water. When he came up from the water, immersion, that's what the word means, immersion in water. When he came up from the water, is when the heavens opened, the spirit descended, and the Father made this proclamation about the Son. This is my beloved Son. And Romans 6 clarifies this. By comparing baptism to death, burial, and resurrection, we get a Romans 6, we get a really good clarification on the mode of baptism by looking at it similarly. Romans 6, 4. We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death. Pretty vivid picture. We were buried, therefore, with him by baptism into death. One of the things baptism pictures is a death. And the verse continues, in order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in new So you have buried therefore with him by baptism into death, in order that just as Christ was raised from from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life. So you see the symbolism of baptism is one of the symbolisms, not the only symbolism. But one of the symbolisms is death, burial, and resurrection. And that pictures what Jesus did to save us, but that also pictures what happened in our hearts when we were saved We died to the old self, to that old self that was a slave to sin, to that old self-righteous Full of corruption, slave to sin. We died to the old self. We are now made anew in Christ by grace through faith. Death, burial, and resurrection is what happened inside of us spiritually And therefore, the perfect symbolism for that is baptism by immersion, where it pictures death, burial, and resurrection, just as Christ died and rose. We too have died with him and have risen to walk in newness of life in him. The mode of baptism is immersion in water. Secondly, the time of baptism. The time of baptism is after conversion. After conversion. You know, these two points really symbolize what we hold to. Not symbolized, they will really summarize what we hold to at this church. Baptist churches is called believers' baptism. In other words, it's believers who get baptized. Believers who get baptized. The time of baptism is after conversion. And you can look at our passage for that. Matthew 28, 19. Baptizing them. Or no, verse 19, go therefore and make disciples of all nations. So the first is the making of disciples. Well now, what do you do with these disciples? Well this won't be the only thing that said, but the first thing that said is this. Baptize them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. And that's the proper baptism, is in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit. Spirit, because it's the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit that saved us. The Father planned salvation. The Son accomplished Salvation and the Spirit applied salvation to our hearts. Therefore, it's only right and it's only proper that we get baptized in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. The Father sent the Son Because he loved the world. And the son faithfully, obediently followed the Father's purpose, accomplished the Father's purpose. to perfection. If the son lived a obedient life, a perfectly obedient life, perfectly obeying every commandment, every precept in the law of God, all of God's righteous requirements for mankind, Jesus obeyed them all. Perfectly He was truly righteous, perfectly righteous, perfectly holy. That's an important part of understanding Jesus and what he did and even what our salvation is. Because it's Jesus' perfect obedience that's credited to us when we believe in him. And without that obedience, we have no way to stand before God justified. So Jesus came. He lived a perfect life, a righteous life, and then he died on a cross for our sin. He bore the curse of our sin. He bore the penalty of our sin. He bore our sins in his body on the tree. 1 Peter 2. 24 He lived a righteous life, he died a sacrificial death, he rose to imperishable, incorruptible, eternal life, he ascended into heaven, and as the ascended Lord, at the right hand of God, he gave us his Holy Spirit so that we might be saved. Just the Holy Spirit sent by Christ that's changed our hearts. All that to say, that's why we're baptized in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. You know there's a big story behind your salvation. Amen. There's a lot that had to happen for me and for you to be reconciled to God. And it all comes down to what the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit did to me. So we're baptized in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. But the point is that comes after make disciples. You make disciples, and then you baptize them. And disciples are believers. Disciples are people who come under conviction, see their need for a savior, and then they're converted, they're born again, they put their faith in Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of their sins. They receive the gift of eternal life. That's a disciple. And they're baptized. Acts two forty-one is a really good verse, too. So those who received the word, were baptized. And there were added that day about 3,000 souls. Added to what? Well added to the church. We'll get to that point. Later. The point is, Acts 2. 41. First they received the word of the gospel, which means they received by faith. Instead of rejecting the word, they received the word. by faith, and then they were baptized. Those who received his word were baptized. So we're converted first. We're saved first. And then we're baptized as a testimony to that salvation. I've been saved. I've been born again. I've put my faith in Jesus. And I'm showing that to you, church, testifying that because I'm submitting to the Lord's command. To be baptized. The mode of baptism is immersion in water. The time of baptism is after conversion, not before. Number three, the purpose of baptism. Now I've given you two on this. There's probably more you could roll into here. I try to summarize this. The purpose of baptism is letter A, to give public testimony to your new identity. To give public testimony to your new identity. The baptism doesn't save you. The baptism doesn't literally wash away your sins any more than the communion bread is literally the body of Christ. Baptism pictures the forgiveness of sins, just like the communion bread pictures the body of Christ But the baptism does not accomplish the salvation. It gives public testimony, or you could say public witness to your new identity as a believer. In Israel, circumcision identified you and your family as under the law of Moses. In Israel, special clothing identified priests as priests. And those who were not priests did not wear the priestly garments. When Jesus was baptized, the Father himself gave public witness. He gave public testimony to the identity of Jesus Because that's what a baptism does. That's what it is. It gives public testimony to your new identity. And in Jesus' baptism, his father gave public witness to his identity. This is my beloved son with whom I am well pleased. The purpose of baptism, letter A, is to give public testimony to your new identity And that's God's idea. That's God's plan. That's God's command. Letter B, the purpose of baptism is to get you started on the road of practical obedience. To get you started on the road of practical obedience. Obedience is always, first and foremost, a matter of the heart. Obedience is the first item of obedience is believe and love God. That's it. That's the greatest commandment is to love God with all of your heart, soul, mind, and strength. All other outward obedience and all other inward aspects of inward obedience Obedience come from that, a love for God through faith in Christ. But practical obedience. You can't have a Christian life without outward practical obedience. Being a Christian is not just an idea, it's not just a philosophy, it's not just something we wish we wish were true about ourselves. It changes who we are, it changes how we live. Brothers and sisters, if knowing Christ isn't changing the way we speak to it, to each other and it's not changing the way we speak about others, then what are we doing? Knowing Christ, being saved by Christ. sets us apart. And his spirit is working in us so that we would be a different kind of people. Practical obedience. Baptism is so funny, just because it's public and it's in front of a large larger group usually we get nervous for a baptism, but I always tell baptism baptismal candidates this is the easiest thing you're ever going to do as a Christian. This is nothing compared to battling temptation for the rest of our life. of your life. This is nothing compared to sh to uh fighting this war internal warfare against the passions of the flesh that are waging war against your soul. But because it's public, because it's in front of others, it can bring nerves. But it does get us started on the road of practical Obedience. You know, you see that in our passage also, Matthew 28. Because at the end of name of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit is what punctuation mark Yeah, comma. It's not a period. It's a comma because it's gonna roll right into something else. And what does it roll right into? Teaching them to obey. Right? That's just learning practical discipleship. Learning to obey Jesus. We all know this, right? That obeying God does not come naturally. Obeying God comes supernaturally. Only God can produce true obedience in the hearts. We have to learn obedience. So the mode of baptism is immersion in water. The time of baptism is after conversion, not before four. The purpose of baptism is to give public testimony of your new identity in Christ. Jesus calls you to do that. And secondly the purpose of baptism is to get you started on the road of practical obedience. Number four in my favorite one. That's why I've been rushing. Just dying to get to number four So the i it's important details before that. But now we really get into the heart of the symbolism. The meaning of baptism. Baptism is a symbolic act, and I want to take our to take our minds back to this question I posed it beginning. What does a baptism do? So we're all sitting here and I'm sitting down there with you and Pastor Anthony's up there and he's doing a baptism. How is that baptism functioning in our church? What is it doing? Well it's preaching the gospel. to us visually. It's proclaiming in a symbolic visual way, through symbolism, how salvation was accomplished and what that salvation looks like in our hearts and it's death, burial, and resurrection. So baptism is a symbolic act And you'll see on your outline, and if you don't have an outline, you may want to at least grab some scrap paper here to write these out. By the way, I have a bunch of passages in this section. Don't it man I I promise you if you try to flip to all of these it'll just get distracting and it probably won't be good for you. Maybe you'll have uh maybe you can just write them down, read them out later for Now just listen to them. If you think you can get to them, there's it there's the challenge. You can try and flip to all of them. But I don't I think it's probably better just to listen to them, hear what they're saying, and write them down as reference. For later. Letter A. Water baptism symbolizes spiritual baptism. Water baptism symbolizes spiritual baptism. You can also put for that, instead of spiritual baptism, inward baptism. I just wanted to get us to see that the outward physical water baptism symbolizes something that God did in the heart. Receiving the Holy Spirit. Jesus pouring the Holy Spirit into our hearts. That's spiritual baptism. Jesus overwhelming our hearts. Jesus mercying our hearts Jesus pouring into our hearts the Holy Spirit. Water baptism symbolizes that. Mark, give you some verse. Mark one eight. John the Baptist says, I've baptized you with water, but he, speaking about Jesus, he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit. Jesus baptizes with the Holy Spirit. Which is a shorthand way of saying Jesus is going to give this end times blessing of the Holy Spirit that the Old Testament looked forward to. Jesus will give Jesus will baptize with the Holy Spirit. Romans 5, 5. Paul writes, God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit. Who has been given to us? How did God's love take up residence in our hearts? How did God pour his love into our hearts? Through the Holy Spirit. The only reason God's love is in our hearts is because the Holy Spirit's in our hearts. God poured out the Holy Spirit. He poured out his love into our hearts by giving us the Holy Spirit. Spirit. That's how we experience the love of God. The presence of the Holy Spirit within us. Now, Titus 3, Titus 3 from verse 5, end of verse 5, into verse 6. The Holy Spirit, whom he poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior. The Holy Spirit, whom He poured out. I love that imagery. Pouring out the Holy Spirit through Jesus Christ our Savior, which is appropriate imagery. Because we're on earth and Christ is in heaven. So it's appropriate to picture in our mind 's eye Christ pouring out the Holy Spirit into our hearts. Of course he does that powerfully through the Preaching of the gospel when we turn to Christ in faith by the grace of God. He's pouring out the Holy Spirit. You know, water really is the perfect symbolism. for baptism. It's the perfect thing to be used to symbolize salvation, to symbolize the work of the Spirit Give you this for your homework, John 7, 37 and 38, where it is water, rivers of water in the heart. specifically that symbolizes the life of the Spirit, the life of God within the believer. What's the symbol? Water. Flowing water pictures the life and the work of the Spirit in our hearts. So using water as the symbol That happened is perfect. It's brilliant. You can't come up with a better symbolism. Water baptism symbolizes inward or spiritual baptism. Now, if you miss the symbolism of baptism , you won't be able to interpret the passages on baptism properly. So I want to say a few things about how the Bible uses symbols. Put your thinking cap on. Well, you already have your thinking cap on. Turn it up from a six and a half to a nine point five, not nine and a half. Alright. Talk about symbolism. In the Bible, it's perfectly normal. First of all, in just human language is perfectly normal. Sometimes we come to the Bible we treat it differently, which is not right. But in the Bible it's perfectly normal to talk about a symbol as if it's the real phone. You talk about a symbol as if it's the real thing. And some of the baptism passages do that. They do that not because baptism saves, but because baptism is a picture of salvation. And it's perfectly normal. It's it's typical for a symbol to be talked about as the real thing. Think about this. Jesus Says of the communion bread, this is my body. He's talking about the symbol as if it's the real thing. This is my body We understand that the bread is not his body, the bread symbolizes his body, which died on the cross. In the Bible, same context, the cup of communion Jesus says, This is my blood of the covenant. You see, the symbol is talked about as if it is the reality itself. That's what gives symbols their power. That's what gives symbols their significance. God said that old covenant priests made atonement by offering animal sacrifices. Book of Leviticus 420, for example, but many, many passages after that in the book of Leviticus, God says that old covenant priests, quote, made atonement. By offering animal sacrifices. Because it's perfectly normal to talk about symbols as if they are the real thing. We know in the larger context of scriptures Scripture is explicit on this. The blood of bulls and goats do not make atonement for sin. Only the blood of Christ makes atonement for sin. But animal sacrifices in the old covenant symbolized that. Maybe the main one throughout all of Scripture is the dwelling place of God. Literally, the dwelling place of God is heaven. His throne is in heaven. He reigns from heaven. He presides over his creation from heaven. That's the throne room dwelling place of God. But the old covenant tabernacle is talked of as the dwelling place of God and the temple on earth, architectural temple Is talked of as the dwelling place for God. They're symbols of the dwelling place of God. The dwelling place of God is heaven. That's where we want to go, is heaven where God is Where the central revelation of Himself is reigning on a throne over his creation, where the ascended Christ reigns at the right hand of God. That's where God's house is. That's where his dwelling place is. But in the Bible, it's perfectly normal to talk about a symbol as if it's the real thing. And you have to remember that when you come to baptism passages. Or you'll misinterpret them and think that baptism accomplishes salvation. Yes, the stop sign makes you stop. Hopefully. I'm sure some of you just roll right through it. Slowly, slowly. It makes you almost stop. It doesn't say almost stop, it says what? Stop. But the stop sign makes you stop only because of the law that it represents. You see the law is the important thing. thing. The the the statute, the ordinance, and the penalty attached to it. It's what the stop sign represents that makes us stop. But in real life experience The symbol functions as the law that it represents. The wedding ring is not the marriage bond. The wedding ring represents the marriage bond. The wedding ring Wedding ring wedding rings, plural, represent the marriage commitment. Did you ever hear that in the wedding ceremony? With this ring, I the wedd In other words, I bind myself to you. I wed you with this ring. Really? The ring is what accomplishes the bond? The ring symbolizes the bond. It's the love. It's the public vows under the authority of God That joins two into one. Not the ring. But the ring represents. So the Bible is this perfectly normal way of talking about symbols as if it's the real thing. And if you'll humor me a bit more, you can also flip it around. The Bible also talks about the real thing as if they're symbols. These ones are really cool. About symbols as if they're the real thing. You can also talk about the real thing as if it's a symbol. And these are really cool. Jesus said of himself, I am the living bread. I'm the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. And the bread that I will give for the life of the world is my flesh. In John, that's John 6. 51. And then in John 6. 56, just five verses later, he says that the only way you'll be saved is if you eat his flesh and drink his blood. Does he mean that literally? No, he's speaking symbolically. He's speaking metaphorically. So just as you can talk about the symbol as if it's the real thing, you also can talk about the real thing as if it's a symbol. This actually is critically important. In getting our theology right. John 1. 29, John the Baptist preached about Jesus. Behold, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. The Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. You see, the real person is spoken of as a symbol, a lamb. First Corinthians 5, 7, Christ, our Passover Lamb. has been sacrificed. The real thing, spoken of as a symbol, just as symbols can be spoken of as the real thing. I'll give you one more on this because it's probably on your minds already. Revelation 5 verse 6 And between the throne and the four living creatures, and among the elders, I saw a lamb standing, as though it had been slain. With seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent out into all the earth. Is this a vision? Of some strange man mutant lamb that lives too close to a nuclear power plant and is deformed in these crazy ways? No, it's a vision of the risen Christ. Through the symbolism of a lamb who had been slain, but yet lives in heaven And he has seven horns, because of the fullness of his power, the fullness of his authority, seven eyes, because of the infinite nature, the fullness of his insight, of his wisdom, of his knowledge, nothing is beyond his sight. Which are the seven spirits of God sent out into all the earth. He presides over all of creation by his spirit. Again, the real thing spoken of as a symbol, just as symbols are spoken of as the real thing. Baptism is is a symbolic act. Water baptism, in the broadest terms, symbolizes spiritual or inward baptism. Letter B. Baptism symbolizes entering into Entering into fellowship. 1 Corinthians 10, 1 to 2. Take a second and turn to that one. It's page 1526. in your pew Bible. Want us to see this one. 1 Corinthians 10, verse 1 and 2. Baptism is it's been called an initiation rite. It's like a threshold. It is kind of like a wedding ceremony, kind of. Uh more at least a lot more appropriate to say it's like that wedding ring in the ceremony. In 1 Corinthians 10, 1-2, we see how a baptism can represent entering into fellowship. For I do not want you to be unaware, brethren, that our fathers were all under the cloud and all passed through the sea. I'll just stop right there and just think, okay, what's that context? What is that pointing back to? It's pointing back to Israel and the Exodus, when Israel's redeemed from Egypt. Brought through the Red Sea into the wilderness. They were all under the cloud, and all passed through the sea, and all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the the sea. Baptized into Moses? You mean they were immersed into Moses? No, that's not using the word literally there. It's getting more to the symbolism, the meaning, this the significance of a baptism, they entered into c covenant fellowship with Moses. They're a part of this c covenant community of Israel. They were in crossing the Red Sea. This an incredible picture in crossing the Red Sea under the glory cloud of God, they were baptized into Moses. In the cloud and in the sea. Crossing the Red Sea was a baptism. They entered into fellowship with Moses. Remember John the Baptist's baptism. When you repented and received John the Baptist's baptism, you entered into fellowship with repentant Israel. You entered into fellowship with repentant Israel who's making a way for the arrival of the Lord. In Christian baptism, you enter into fellowship with other believers. You enter into fellowship with the church. Again, Acts 2, 41. Those who received his word were baptized, and they were added that day about 3,000 souls. Added to the church. Added to the covenant community. Covenant community. Baptism does symbolize entering into the fellowship. That's why it's the first step of outward practical obedience Letter C. Baptism symbolizes salvation from judgment. Salvation from judgment. You see this in 1 Peter chapter 3. You look this way. one up. 1 Peter 3, where baptism is compared to Noah and his family being saved in the ark. The judgment of God has come in the flood. How is Noah and his family saved? By the grace of God and ark. Salvation in this ark. Salvation. From the judgment of God. through the water. Baptism which corresponds to this now saves you. It's giving you the another part of the symbolism of baptism. It's symbolism Being saved by the grace of God. By the way, it's in the present tense. In no way in the world, in no universe, can that mean that your water baptism saved you, past tense. Because it's not talking in the past tense. It's talking to Christians, people who are already saved, says your baptism now saves you. And in the greater context The thing that baptism represents is God's saving power in your life. The death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. Letter D. Going quickly on these. But that's intentional because I only have so much time and I wanted to get all these different aspects of the symbolism down. Symbolizes enter Into a fellowship symbolizes salvation from judgment. Letter D, baptism symbolizes death, burial, and resurrection. And we've already said this. Death, burial, and resurrection. That's what we see in a picture in a baptism. And that's how it functions in the church. The central ministry of the church is the preaching and teaching of the gospel. And the communion does that in its own way. The Ministry of the Word does that. Sermons, Sunday schools, and baptisms do that. They remind us of the gospel. Romans 6, 3 and 4. Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ were baptized into his death? We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death, in order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life. You know, if you study this out in your devotions, the first couple paragraphs of Romans 6, it's really powerful. Baptism not only pictures the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. It pictures how we participate, how we personally, spiritually participate in the death, burial, and resurrection. Resurrection of Christ. And that's our salvation. In Mark 10, 38, this is a good one. In Mark 10, 38, Jesus refers to his suffering and death as a Baptism. The suffering and death he talks of as a baptism. He's going to enter into the climactic work of redemption, giving his life over for our salvation, suffering and dying for our sins. He calls his death a baptism. He's going to be immersed. He's going to be plunged into the depths of the wrath of God on our behalf. He called his death a baptism. He was baptized on the cross, baptized by the Father into the wages of sin, which is death. He called us death a baptism. And just as Jesus saw his death as a baptism, we can see our baptism as a death. A death to the old, representing our new life in Christ that we have by the Spirit. Baptism symbolizes death, burial, and resurrection. Every time you see a baptism, you should remember that Jesus Christ suffered and died in your place. And every time you see a baptism, you should remember that Jesus Jesus was risen by the power of the Father. And every time you see a baptism, you should remember that by the Spirit you've been united to Jesus Christ. And therefore Therefore, you have died to the old, and you have risen to walk in newness of life. Every time we see a baptism, we should see the gospel of God preached to our hearts. Letter E, and finally, baptism symbolizes the washing away of guilt. It's not the only blessing of salvation, but brothers. Brothers and sisters, is that not a glorious blessing of salvation that we find in Christ? The washing away of guilt, the cleansing of a guilty conscience by the blood of Christ. Acts 22, 16. Paul's recounting his conversion story, and part of it he's asked, now why do you wait? Rise and be baptized, wash away your sins, calling on his name. It's another instance where the symbol is talked about as if it's the real thing, washing away sins. Acts 2. 38, Peter said to them, Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Well, what is the forgiveness of sins if not the washing away of the guilt of our sins? The washing away of sins. sin, the washing away, the cleansing away, the erasing of our guilt before a holy God. Baptism symbolizes that. What does baptism do? It proclaims to the church the great salvation of God. Baptism is not only significant for the person getting baptized, it's significant for the person God wants to say to us that He sent His Son to suffer and die in our place, but to be risen again To eternal life, and by faith, by faith in him, you can share in that eternal life. He says, Go therefore and make disciples of all nations. Baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. If you have come to faith in Christ, It's time to get baptized. If you've come under conviction for your sin, you see your need for a savior, it's not time to get baptized. We're not going to rush you through rush you through that just because of feelings and emotions and the conviction. You have to break through to faith in Christ. You must be born again. Believers get baptized. New disciples get baptized. We're not going to fast track you past this most important step of putting your faith in Jesus. for the forgiveness of sins. Look to Christ as a mighty and merciful Savior on the basis of his life, on the basis of his death, on the basis of his resurrection. On the basis of his infinite mercy for undeserving sinners, believe in Jesus and will baptize you. And you enter into fellowship with the church, and we'll get busy on that practical discipleship and giving and serving for the honor of And for the glory of God. God. Let's pray. Father, thank you for Jesus. Thank you for your love. Thank you for your free grace that cost your son everything. He makes free to us because of his inexplicable, incomprehensible, gracious love for us. Let it in our hearts resound. That you are a mighty and merciful Savior. What else can we say? You've done everything for us, and you've done it all for your glory, all for our benefit. It's in Christ we pray. Amen.