Well, if you will, the words of which we'll examine tonight come out of John chapter 3, verses 1 through 15. Tonight we'll talk about being born again. There's many series we've done over the last uh two Sundays has been talking about what it means to be a Christian. the very foundation to being a Christian, what it is, what we do. As this morning we talked about baptism, and you can't help but talk about being born again when you talk about baptism. But tonight I want to take time and focus on this language of born again. Because it is essential. If we were taking a test at the end of our lives, this would be one of those moments where you have a little footstop, like, I guarantee this is on the test. What does it mean to be born again? As Christians, this is essential. And we see Jesus' language here that he emphasizes, he makes it clear that this is what is important. Being born again. That's not language we use in everyday life. It's not common to the everyday person. And when We say born again. There's all this this imagery of these analogies of this questions that come to mind, and we actually see Nicodemus wrestle with these tonight But it's important that we know what it means to be born again. Some of you may know, even remember, President Jimmy Carter running for office, for his one term in office. One of the key things that he kept saying when he was running, so I've been told, I wasn't alive then, but one of the key things he kept saying was that he was a born-again Christian. There's something unique about that, right? There was something different. Now he's coming on the heels of Nixon, so if you know that story, there's a lot of drama there, a lot of corruption. So he was trying to draw this imagery that he's something different. He's a born-again Christian. And we see throughout his writings as a man and even within his presence, he he pointed a lot to Jesus. Let's give credit where credit's due. He he did value a lot of the Christian values. He uh did hold to some Christian values, but he emphasized this image of being born again Brothers and sisters, let's be honest, that it's a bit of a strange thing to say that there's born-again Christians and then there's Christians that aren't born again. That doesn't make sense. What we'll see tonight is that if you hold the name Christian, truly, you truly are a Christian, not just by title, but that you are truly a Christian redeemed by Christ, that means you are born again. And if you are truly born again, then you have the title Christian or Christ follower. So tonight we must understand what does it mean to be born again. So let us look at John chapter 3, starting in verse 1, and we'll read through 15. Now there was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews. This man came to Jesus by night and said to him, Rabbi. We know that you are a teacher, come from God. For no one can do these signs that you do unless God is with him. Jesus answered him, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus said to him How can a man be born when he's old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born? Jesus answered, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh. And that which is born of the Spirit is spirit. Do not marvel that I said to you, You must be born again. The wind blows where it wishes, and you hear its sound, but you do not know where it comes from or where it goes. So it is with everyone who is born of the Spirit. Verse 9. Nicodemus said to him, How can these things be? Jesus answered him, Are you the teacher of Israel, and yet you do not understand these things? Truly, truly, I say to you, we speak of what we know and bear witness to what we have seen, but you do not receive our testimony. If I have told you earthly things and you do not believe, how can you believe if I tell you heavenly things? No one has ascended into heaven except he who descended from heaven, the Son of Man. And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up, that whoever believes in him may have eternal life. Let's pray. Father, I pray that these words Penetrate our hearts that the Spirit takes them into us, reveals the truth and the beauty of what it means to be born again in Christ. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. So we must ask, what does it mean to be born again? Simply put, simply put, it is the working of the Holy Spirit upon the spiritually dead sinners that brings about new spiritual life. Or can we even be more simple if that wasn't simple enough? It's a new nature. The sinner, dead in sin, now has the life in Christ. Because of the working of the Holy Spirit. That is the gospel message. So tonight, this message is for two groups of people, those that are already born again. This is hopefully to reassure you of your salvation in Christ. Hope give you energy and confidence in your salvation in Christ and help give some clear understanding of what we are proclaiming when we preach the gospel, the good news of Jesus to the world. And the second group that this is for is that if this is not your identity, if you don't have the identity of Christian, or you think you do, but but really it's based off of anything other than Christ and having faith in him May tonight you hear the true gospel of Jesus and come to him with confidence and be born again in Christ to have eternity with him and be his child. So this new nature, the dead sinner being brought to new life. This is what baptism is, the symbolism of the dead sinner going down into the grave and being resurrected in the Spirit. We see Paul use similar language of what it means to be born again in Ephesians 2. Ephesians 2, starting in verse 1, says, and you were dead in the trespasses and sins. in which you once walked, following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience, among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh. carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, and were by nature children of wrath like the rest of mankind. Dead in trespasses, dead Dead. Not dying, not on its last breath. No, no. When we were in sin, we were dead in our trespasses. We were spiritually dead There was no life in us. There was no value in our spirit. All we did was reject God. All we did is follow after our passions. We see Paul continue on here. We would walk following after the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air. We were enslaved to our sin. We were bound to it. There was no hope of getting out of it. This last line that he uses here, working the stuns of disobedience were by nature children of wrath. Recognize that's who we are outside of Christ. Dead, falling after passions of the flesh and of the world, and children of wrath. That's the dead sinner that must be brought to life. That's the dead sinner that must be born again into the Spirit. And this is the beauty. Verse 4 of Ephesians 2. But God Remember, get ready to see something glorious happen here. But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses. Made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved. This is what the new birth is. Brothers and sisters, we are born again when we are dead in our sins, and the Holy Spirit regenerates us, gives us a new spirit, a new heart And it follows after Christ. Then there's faith is placed into Christ. This is when faith and belief and repentance all happen because of the new birth. They're correlated there. We're going to see that tonight. That faith, repentance, belief is all correlated with the new birth. But the new birth must happen from the Spirit for those things to occur So when we're preaching the gospel, when we think about our salvation in Christ, are we thinking about being born again, being brought from the death of sin? into new life. Is that what we're preaching to the world? That's essential. That's the gospel message. There's no other gospel message. There's no other option. Are you born again by the Spirit, from death of sin to life in Christ? You must ask yourself. You must examine that. You must be preaching that. So there's six things I would like us to think about, to know about being born again. I want these things to help encourage us, but I also want these things to help focus our evangelism. Focus our evangelism. I don't want us just to go out there, out into the world and live as Christians and preach something that is not the gospel. Have these these ideas. We want them to come to Christ, but we're going to use all these different avenues. We don't need to give a a test trial to Jesus. Come. Try on Jesus. You might like him. That's not what we're talking here We want to talk about the new birth that is found in Christ alone through the Spirit. So six things that I would like us to think about and to know about being born again. The first one is we must be born again to see and enter the kingdom of God. We must be born again to see and enter the kingdom of God. And along with that, with within subcategory one, is that new birth is the start of the Christian life. It's the start of the Christian life. Look here in verse 3. Nicodemus, we we could run down a whole A whole history lesson of who Nicodemus was in his role. Just recognize that Nicodemus was a Pharisee. That means he was a Jewish leader And he was a Sanhedrin, meaning he was not just a Jewish religious leader, but he also had a political position. So he was a very powerful man in the time. He comes to Jesus and he tries to throw these accolades onto Jesus and compliment him, and we see that Jesus doesn't actually address what Nicodemus is talking about. Because Jesus recognized what's the most important thing is the gospel. So what does he say? In verse 3, Jesus answered him, truly, truly, I say to you , Unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. This is essential here. This is the gospel message that you cannot even see the kingdom of God Unless you're born again. Not only that, we see later on in verse 5 that Jesus says you cannot enter the kingdom of God without being born again. So why are we going to start anywhere else in evangelism? Why are we going to start in this idea that, okay, let's let's get these people to get morally good, get off of drugs, stop swearing, stop watching all these movies Because then this is how you become a Christian. Well that's not what we see here. They don't even see the kingdom of God until they're born again How can they repent of something if they're not born again? How can they change their morals? How can they change their values if they haven't been removed from the dead morals, the dead values that they lived in, and were given a new spirit? The new birth is the beginning of the Christian life. Pastor Matt talked about it this morning that you never expect a child to start running whilst in the mother's womb, right? I would never been pregnant. Don't plan on becoming pregnant. But I would assume it would be extremely uncomfortable, moms, if the baby was trying to run in the womb I know at times it feels like they may be doing somersaults and flips in there, but there's no expectation. Even day one of a newborn, we don't expect them to be running or even crawling So why then do we expect dead sinners to be doing anything other than being dead sinners until they're born again, until they're made new in Christ? So we must recognize, we must be born again to see and to enter the kingdom of God. We're going to lay this out because it's going to get more detailed, and we're going to see here in the second part. So the second thing I want us to know about the new birth is our new birth is not of our own doing. Raise up hands here, anyone that chose to be born Good answer. Good answer. None of us chose to be born. Now, likewise, none of us in our dead, rebellious, uh, sin nature As fallen creatures dead in our trespasses, is any one of you choosing or getting the strength to be born again? None of you are chasing after Christ. None of you are chasing after God. This is the whole idea here. That we are dead. We're rebels against God. In our sin, He loved us. While we were dead, He loved us and brought us back to life. New life. None of this is of our own doing. Look here. And Nicodemus, we we can mock Nicodemus here in verse four, because he says, Nicodemus said to him, How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born? We can mock him there, but let's be honest. Don't we ask the same questions? How can we be born again? And we start trying to put these physical things onto it. Or maybe we don't think about crawling back into our mother's womb, but rather we start saying, well, how many homeless people do I need to feed? To get saved? How many good deeds do I need to do? How many laws do I need to avoid to break? Right? We start to put some human standards onto our Christian identity. But we see here, Jesus reassure uh Nicodemus that the new birth is not by our own doing. Verse 5, Jesus answered, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. So whatever human conceived plan of how you're going to get into the kingdom of God, whatever human-conceived plan you have of steps that you're going to achieve to earn salvation, to earn the pleasure of God. None of it, none of it is going to work. Because our salvation, our new birth, comes only from the Spirit. This language here of born again is actually intentionally used by Jesus to draw a clear example of the new birth. So the imagery here is born again. So we have one birth in human flesh, and then we have the born again in the spirit. But this word again in the Greek could also be translated as from above. Oh, how beautiful is that? How perfect of wording does Jesus use here to say, you're born again of from death into life in the Spirit, but where does that new birth come from? You're born from above, from the heavens, from God. He's the one that makes us new and gives us new life And he drives this home to Nicodemus. He emphasizes here that you are, unless one is born of order and the Spirit. There's a few options that this language of Born of Water could be, and I'm going to give you what I believe are the two most prominent reasons for this language. One is that we see any example of water being used in the early parts of John 1, 2, or 3 or one and two, chapters one and two, is in uh John the Baptist's mode of repentance. So they're being they're repenting, I'm sorry, mode of baptism. They're repenting and being baptized as a symbol of that. That's a possibility, this imagery of repentance. I think the more accurate and more reasonable example is that when we see the language of water, we should correlate that to the spirit. Other places throughout even John 's own letter or or gospel, but other places without throughout the New Testament, the spirit and water are closely tied together. That imagery is used throughout the New Testament. It's actually used with in the Old Testament as well. Look at Ezekiel 32 and 36. You see this language of the Spirit flooding. The nation, the Spirit flooding and washing over a people and cleansing them. So Jesus is emphasizing here that new birth comes from the Spirit alone. And he focuses in here that not only can you not see the kingdom, but you also won't enter the kingdom of heaven, the kingdom of God. Now, to Nicodemus, this is very harsh language. He's the greatest Jew, right? He's a Pharisee, a Sanhedrin. He's the best of the best. He's been trained in all the right schools. He's even teaching in the synagogues. He's probably been very near the sacrifice during Passover. And Jesus is telling him, you won't enter the kingdom of God just because of your nationality, just because of your good works, just because of your knowledge, but you must be born of the Spirit. So our new birth is not of our own doing. Are we preaching a message that is of people's own doing? Are we telling people, come to Christ, start going to church? Start tithing, start doing good deeds, but we're never actually talking about Christ. Are we teaching a gospel? Are we proclaiming a gospel that is of human doing? Just clean up your act a little bit. Cut out a few drugs. Is this the gospel message we're preaching? Or are we preaching that it is the work of the Holy Spirit sent from heaven above? The third thing I would like us to know and think about when we talk about being born again is when someone is born again. It is a total change. It is a completely new being. Look at verse 6. Jesus continue on, that which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the spirit is spirit. Just as drawing this sharp contrast between the flesh, the old dead sinner, being born in the human body, you're doing of human things. We're all born under Adam, our federal head. Is is Adam, he has sinned, has brought uh rebellion into the world, has brought sin and death into the world, and when we are born, as humans, we fall under the curse of sin. And we are sinners That's what's so beautiful about Jesus being sent from heaven, God coming down, Son of God coming down and taking on human flesh. He's the only human to ever walk the earth and not sin. No one else in this room, contrary to what you may think about yourself, no one else in this room has gone sinless except for Christ. Because we are born of flesh. This is what we do in our flesh nature, is we sin and we rebel against God. Remember back to Ephesians 1 through 3. It's who we are. But we see here that when we are born again, we have a totally new spirit. We have something completely, radically different and changed. Because he goes on, flesh is flesh, and that which is born of spirit is spirit. Brothers and sisters, have you been born again? Have you been born of a new spirit? If the answer is yes, you are then a new image in Christ. You have the ability to fight against sin and temptation. You have the ability and the desire to worship God. That list goes on and on. We are new creatures in Christ. When you are born again, you are completely new Now we still live here in this world. We still live in our flesh bodies, and we still have the stain of sin semi within us on this earth, but we recognize That we have an eternal and new spirit that will last into eternity. While these human bodies will waste waste away and we will receive a new body, we have an eternal spirit that will last forever. Because The old has died and we have been given new. Recognize the beauty of the gospel here That while we had no ability to fight against sin, no ability to worship God in our old deadness, in our new life We have full ability. We have full confidence to live in obedience to Christ. This is where repentance and belief come from. In your dead nature, you had zero ability to believe in God. You also had zero desire to believe in God. But when you are born again in your new nature, in your new spirit, You now have the desire, you have the ability to worship, to repent, to follow after God, to believe in Christ. It's a beautiful, beautiful truth of the gospel. That we are born again and when that happens we are completely and radically changed and made new. The fourth thing I would like us to think about in the new birth Is our new birth is not by human standards. This may be a uh obvious one as we talk about this, but look at verse 7 through 10 Do not marvel that I said to you, you must be born again. The wind blows where it wishes, and you hear its sound. but you do not know where it comes from or where it goes. So it is with everyone who is born of the Spirit. Nicodemus said to him, How can these things be? Jesus answered him, Are you the teacher of Israel, and yet you do not understand these things? New birth is not based off of human standards. If it was, Nicodemus would have been the first candidate to be born again. Once again, well educated or l a religious man, probably decently wealthy. He was a politician He knew all the right things to say. So of course, Nicodemus, by human standards, would be the first person into the kingdom of God, would be the first person But we see that it is not by human standards, but it is by the will of God through the working of the Spirit. This imagery used in verse 8. Is one that we can understand, especially here in this season of fall. As the leaves fall to the ground, we all hope that they blow away into the neighbor's yard, right? So we don't have to rake them up And we don't know where that wind comes from, but we can see the working of the wind. We can see the leaves moving, we can see a kite flying. But we may be able to point in the direction of which the wind comes, but we really can't identify the origin of the wind. Well, likewise, we may be able to point in the direction we see the working of the Spirit. We see sinners coming to new life. We see God at work here in his creation, but we don't actually see the origin of it. We know it's from heaven, we know it's from the Spirit, but none of us can pinpoint the area of which it's actually happening. And, likewise, we shouldn't assume that we know who is going to be born again and who is not. This is crucial in our evangelism. If you ever go out to street evangelism, go door to door, you're just interacting with your friends and family and proclaiming the gospel to them, do not assume you know what direction the wind is blowing. Well that person, obviously they they're living a homosexual lifestyle, there's no hope for them. Oh obviously that guy, he's doing thirty years in prison for murder, there's no hope for him. Oh obviously that guy is on drugs, there's no hope for him. Brothers and sisters, that could have been said about you before Christ. Oh, that, you know, that Anthony, there's no hope for him. He swears like a sailor. Oh, Anthony, there's no hope for him. He's addicted to finding sexual pleasure in whatever he wants. Oh, but the grace of God, while we were dead in our sins, He's made us new. We don't know who will be born again. We don't know how the Spirit is working. We can see twinklings of it. And ultimately we see when the new birth happens But we cannot be the ones to assume who is born again or who will be born again. Nor should we put a human standard on it We shouldn't be preaching a gospel that for you to be saved, you must memorize the Ten Commandments. For you to be saved, you must be able to name all 66 books of the Bible in order. No, no, no, that's not what it means to be a Christian. Those things are outworking sometimes, but ultimately being born again is not by human standards, it is by the working of the Spirit. Do we have eyes for the world like that? The fifth thing I would like us to think about when we think about new birth is God uses the preaching of the gospel for new birth. Why, how? What's the mode? How does God work? I can't draw a picture for you of how the Spirit uses the preaching of the gospel, but we're reassured that that is the mode in which God uses for the Spirit to work. Look at verses eleven through thirteen. Truly, truly. So once again Jesus is saying it again, truly, truly I say to you, we speak of what we know and bear witness to what we have seen. But you do not receive our testimony. If I have told you earthly things and you do not believe, how can you believe if I tell you heavenly things? No one has ascended into heaven except he who descended from heaven, the Son of Man. This language here is very unique. So Jesus has been talking in the first person singular. Voice up until this point. I'm not going to try to break down what grammar is here, but we see that Jesus now starts to speak in a plural sense. I say to you, we speak of what we know and bear witness to what we have seen. Jesus starts speaking as the Triune God. Starts speaking as the God of the universe. And he starts to say that God is the one that bears testimony, that God is the one that brings the truth to the sinner and brings them to new life. We see John using this imagery in John 1, verse 1, that Jesus is actually the very testimony, the very word of God which has brought the grace of God to us John 1 1 in the beginning was the Word of God excuse me, was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God, all things were made through him, and without him was not anything made that was made. In him was the life, and the life was the light of men. And the light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it. The gospel message, new life comes to the sinner through the preaching of the gospel. We see in Romans chapter 10, verse 13 says, For everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. New life, new birth. How then Will they call on him whom they have not believed? Good question, right? And how are they to believe in him of whom they have never heard? And how are they to hear without someone preaching? And how are they to preach unless they are sent? As it is written, how beautiful are the feet of those who preach the good news. But they have not all obeyed the gospel, for Isaiah says, Lord who has believed what he has heard from us. So faith comes from hearing, and hearing through the word of Christ. Is this how we are evangelizing? Is this how we're living our Christian life? Preaching the gospel of Christ in Him alone, calling people into new life. Or are we doing some other craziness? Are we telling someone to do something other than place their faith in Christ alone. Preach the gospel. You're a sinner dead in your sins. Christ died on the cross for your sins, bearing the price, bearing the wrath. of God upon him. He died, was buried, and on the third day arose from the dead, and now sits in heaven, having dominion over heaven and earth. Is that the gospel message you're preaching? Are you calling sinners to repent and believe in that God? Or are you preaching something else? Are you preaching feel something? Are you preaching do something? Are you preaching anything other than the gospel of Christ in Him alone? It's our only option. If you're proclaiming something else, if you're preaching something else, you're going against what Jesus says here in John 3. You're going against what we see the example of the New Testament over and over and over again. New birth comes from the Spirit and causes the sinner To place their faith in Christ and repent and believe in Him. And that's number six. The sixth thing I want us to think about when we think about new birth is this question. How does the Spirit give us new life? So we see it's all from the Spirit. The Spirit's the one that gives new life. How's this happen? Through the preaching of the gospel. Well, how does this happen? Through faith in Christ in Him alone. Look at verses 14 and 15 back in John 3. It reads, And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up, that whoever believes in him may have eternal life Alright, what are we talking about here? Serpent, Moses. We need to jump back to Numbers 21. Numbers 21 tells the story of Israel rebelling against God, sinning against God, God sending a punishment. uh to discipline them and then God giving the the way of salvation from the punishment. So look here, Numbers 21, starting in verse 4 From Mahor they set out by the way to the Red Sea to go around the land of Edom. And the people became impatient on the way. And the people spoke against God and against Moses. Why have you brought us up out of Egypt to die in the wilderness? For there is no food and no water, and we loathe this worthless food Just a quick note. There's no food, but then they hate the food they have. Grumblers, just like we are at times, grumblers against the blessings of God. Verse six. Then the Lord sent fiery serpents among the people. And they bit the people, so that many people of Israel died. And the people came to Moses and said, We have sinned, for we have spoken against the Lord and against you. Pray to the Lord that He take away the serpents from us. So Moses prayed for the people, and the Lord said to Moses, Make a fiery serpent, and set it on a pole. And everyone who's bitten when he sees it, shall live. So Moses made a bronze serpent and set it on a pole. And if a serpent bit any one, he would look at the bronze serpent and live Now let's jump back to John. What is happening here? What's being said in John 3? He's using that that story, that that event that happened in history for Israel. And he's remember he's speaking to Nicodemus and he makes it clear here. And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, the serpent was the mode and the way that God brought salvation to the people that were being bit by the snakes and the serpents. So if they looked upon this the the breat the bronze serpent on the pole, they would find salvation. Likewise So must the Son of Man be lifted up. How does this happen, brothers and sisters? This is Jesus. This is Christ being lifted up on the cross. When we look upon him, not just with physical eyes, obviously none of us were there and saw it, but when we look to the cross, recognizing that we are sinners, just like they did in the wilderness, we have sinned against God. We have sinned against God. When we look upon Christ on the cross, when we believe and recognize that He is paid for our sins upon the cross, taking on the wrath that you and I deserve. There is salvation. in Christ. That's where the new birth comes from. When we appear upon Christ lifted high on the cross. But not only that, I believe that this imagery here of this raised up goes beyond just the cross. But we see that as Christ is raised up on the cross and he bears our sins, he's then placed into the grave. And he's resurrected from the grave. He defeats sin in death. And what do we hear? What often do we hear about the raising up? Is that Christ is raised up in the heavens, that he ascends to his righteous throne in the heavens, having dominion over heaven and earth. Being Lord of Lord, King of kings, when we peer upon him lifted up there, as the righteous king, as the righteous Lord, as we recognize his authority in our lives. There's salvation in that God and that Savior. Is that the gospel message we're preaching? The one that bore our sins on the cross and the one that sits in heaven alive today is King. That's the gospel message. That's what the Spirit uses to renew, to make us new and born again. To place our faith and belief in that Savior, recognizing that we are sinners dead in our sins. We place our faith and belief in Him, and the Spirit makes us alive. Now, we could try to draw out a timeline, the new birth. Repentance and belief, I believe that they are closely, closely intertwined that on this side of eternity we can't see where that line begins and where the other one starts and ends. Well, neither of them end, where one begins and the other one begins. I believe they're so closely intertwined, but we must recognize that the new birth comes from the Spirit, and through the new Spirit we now have the ability to repent and believe in Christ dying on the cross for us, and now as Lord in heaven. Brothers and sisters, this just continues and echoes what Paul writes in Ephesians, back in Ephesians 2. We see that we were dead in our trespasses, but God, being gracious, gave us new life. Verse 8 reads, For by grace you have been saved. How? Through faith. Now, where's your faith come from? Which one of you dead sinners, as you were laying in your filth and your children are of wrath status, mustered up some faith? We don't see that here. We actually see the difference. We uh uh quite a difference. That for by grace you have been saved through faith, and this is not your own doing. It is the gift of God. Your very faith is the gift of God. So if at any point you think you're the one that has achieved, has earned, has gotten your salvation, you're misreading scripture here. Now, did you say a prayer? Did you have a feeling? Did you place your faith in God? Yes, and amen. That truly happened. You truly experienced those things. That was only through the working of the Spirit. Ephesians continues on, verse 9, not as a result of works, so that no one may boast. So who should we be boasting in? It's Christ, in Christ alone. Your salvation, your new birth, is through the working of God, through his mercy and his grace being poured out upon each and every one of the saints. So simply put, what is new birth? This is the gospel message. What is new birth? God taking the dead sinner and making him alive and a saint and a child of God. Preach that gospel. Preach that message to the lost world. The light will go into the darkness, will destroy the darkness, the dark world around us when we preach that gospel. Anything else will fail But we preach sinners made alive in Christ in Him alive. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the beauty of the gospel. We thank you that you have redeemed sinners such as us. That while we are rebels, while we are children of wrath, while we were dead in our sins, you have made us alive. We did not earn this. We did not deserve this. It is through your grace, your love, the work of your son on the cross. May we peer upon his death, life, and resurrection with confidence, knowing that he is the one that brings salvation, trusting the work of the Holy Spirit within us. Lord, we pray for the lost world. We pray for the darkness that appears to be surrounding us. We pray that the light defeats it. That we look with hope and confidence that you are at work in the darkness. that you are destroying it piece by piece, that your kingdom is growing more and more. Lord, I ask that you give us the confidence to preach this gospel. Give us boldness to call sinners to repentance. Give us boldness to proclaim that sinners can find life, forgiveness, and peace in Christ. Give us boldness to preach for those that are lost to come and place their faith in Christ. Give us boldness to preach. that the Spirit is at work in this world. May we not be ashamed of this gospel, but may we be bold and confident in the preaching. May we live lives. that that demonstrate that we are bold and confident, that we recognize that we are truly forgiven in Christ. We pray this in his name. Amen.