The sinful flesh is prone to think that if things are really difficult It's not God's will. The sinful flesh is prone to think, if this is not comfortable for me If this is not what I mapped out, I must be on the wrong path. But consider that many of the difficulties and many of the discomforts In our lives, brothers and sisters, children of God, are instruments of God to sharpen us Many of the difficulties and many of the discomforts in our lives are the fire of God to refine us. And if there's one thing that we need as sinful creatures is to be refined and purified by God. Many of the difficulties And the discomforts in our lives are the mighty hands of God molding us As the potter molds clay into the objects that he wants to make. So let us not Be unaware of the tendencies of the sinful flesh that will see difficulties and see discomforts As outside of God's sovereign purpose for our lives, but as inside God's sovereign purpose for our lives. That he uses to accomplish his will in our lives. I hope that's our mindset this evening. That's what we're talking about this evening. We're in 1 Samuel 26. Verse 21, and we'll span over into chapter 27. And the story is David fleeing to Gath. 1 Samuel 26, 21. Going through 27 verse 12. David fleeing to Gath. We're going to look at the fact that God accomplishes his purpose. Through the suffering of his servants. Looking around the room, all of you are servants of God. All of us are servants of God, and all of us experience sufferings. Yes. God will accomplish his purpose through those sufferings. That's what we're looking at. The fact that God accomplishes his purpose through the sufferings of his servants. And here's the roadmap. Number one, first section, we'll look at the fact illustrated when David flees to Gath. That's what we'll mine out of that story. The fact that God accomplishes his purpose through suffering, through the suffering of his servants, is that fact will be illustrated when David flees to Gath. Number two, we'll look at this fact illuminated by other biblical examples. It's a major theme of the story, in fact, it is the Plot of the Bible, the sufferings of Christ , and the subsequent glories of Christ. That's from 1 Peter chapter 1. is the story of all of Scripture. Christ's sufferings that were unto Christ's glory, that's the gospel And it's because of that we know God. So the fact illustrated, the fact illuminated, and then the fact the fact applied to our hearts. As servants of Christ. That will be practical application. The fact that God accomplishes his purpose through the sufferings of his servants, and we'll take that and we'll make application for Christ Christians. Application for Christian living. I guess if you wanted them the rhyme you could call this the fact incorporated into our hearts. Sometimes you're reading a recipe and it says incorporate and that means You just gently kind of fold in the ingredients, fold it in, incorporate it into the rest of the ingredients till it all becomes one. That's what we want. We want this truth incorporated into our hearts, till it's just a part of our hearts, a part of um are are the way we think about the world, that God accomplishes his purpose through the suffering of his service. That's not easy to do. I mean that's not easy to do. When suffering it's easy to say that's what we believe, but then when the suffering comes, what happens with our faith? When the suffering comes, what happens with our jesus? Joy. When the suffering comes, what happens with our attendance at worship? When suffering comes, what happens with the way we s uh s see things and speak about things at church? Are we only seeing the negative? Have we ever gotten to a point where it's like we can't even see anything that God is doing? We should be so negative because of all the sufferings and all the negativity of the world around us can seep into our hearts. We want the opposite Let's go ahead and um pray and then we'll go right into some verses here in first Samuel 26. Father, I pray that you would help us in our time in your word this evening. Give us a fresh encouragement. Give us a fresh reminder of your sovereignty. Give us a fresh and renewed strength in our faith. Give us a revived focus. on your power to accomplish exactly what you purpose to accomplish, even in our discomforts, even in our difficulties, even in our sufferings. Would you remind us that you everything is right on schedule? Everything is in your hand. You've got the whole wide world in your hand. Help us to see these things by faith. Through your word, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's start with just a few verses. Verses 23 and 24 in chapter 26. Verses 23 and 24 in chapter 26 of First Samuel The Lord rewards every man for his righteousness and his faithfulness. For the Lord gave you into my hand today, and I would not put out uh I would not put out my hand against the Lord's anointed. um answering Saul, speaking to Saul, and he had the opportunity to kill Saul, but since Saul was God's anointed king, at the time Saul was the king, David did not put his hand against him. And then in verse 24, he says this: Behold, as your life was precious this day in my sight. So may my life be precious in the sight of the Lord, and may He deliver me out of all tribulation. Tribulation is a word to underline. Tribulation is a word to just get on the table right now because David experienced a lot of tribulation. Many of the psalms are born out of David's tribulations. Inner tribulation, outer tribulation, tribulation from his family, tribulation from the nation, and Tribulation because of his own sin, many sufferings, many hardships. Scripture teaches that God rewards those who diligently seek him or who earnestly seek him. You see this mindset in David. The Lord rewards every man for his righteousness and for his faithfulness And David sees in this instance his righteousness and his faithfulness is what? His righteousness and his faithfulness in this occasion is not putting his hand against the Lord's anointed. And so David, David is expecting and praying and hoping that the Lord will reward him for his righteousness and his faithfulness. And then he says in verse 24 to Saul As your life was precious in my sight, may my life be precious in the sight of the Lord. As I have preserved you, may the Lord preserve me. As I have shown you mercy, may the Lord show me mercy. As I have shown you undeserved favor and sparing you, may the Lord show me an undeserved favor and sparing me. And deliver me out of all tribulation. That's quite a prayer, isn't it? That God would you you deliver me out of all tribulation. Now he's expecting what? He's expecting tribulation. He's not praying, take tribulation one hundred percent out of my life. David's not foolish enough to expect that. But God, that you're you would be there as my deliverer in the midst of tribulation, that you would, so to speak, set a table before me in the presence of my enemies. And so, tribulation, and then real quick also look at verse 7 and 27, just ahead of time to see how long David is in Gath. And the number of the days that David lived in the country of the Philistines was a year and four months. So we're not talking about a week with the Philistines. We're not talking about six months with the Philistines. We're talking about a year and a third. Right? Is that math right? A year and four months, David in the country of the Philistines. Let's get into our first section. This fact Illustrated when David flees to Gath. And what is that fact? I'll say it again just so we get this incorporated into our hearts. God accomplishes his purposes through the suffering. of his servants. So suffering is not outside of God's purpose, but is part of it, and he uses it according to his will. You know this fact is illustrated when David flees to to Gath. Um first of all, David's faith is his anchor. So this is 26, verses it's the last paragraph in chapter 26. Alright, the last paragraph in chapter 26. David's faith is his anchor. You have to be anchored before the tribulation comes. Amen? If you're not anchored before the storm comes, you're in trouble. And your ship is in trouble. You must be anchored first. David's faith is his anchor. Verse 21. Then Saul said, I have sinned as an understatement of the History of the world right there. Saul saying I have sinned. Return, my son David, for I will no more do you harm, because my life was precious. In your eyes this day. Behold, I have acted foolishly. I've made a great mistake. And David answered and said, Here is the spear, O king. Let one of the young men come over and take it. The Lord rewards every man for his righteousness and his faithfulness, for the Lord gave you into my hand today, and I would not put out my hand against the Lord's anointed. Behold, as your life was precious this day in my sight, so may my life be precious in the sight of the Lord, and may He deliver me out of all tribulation. Then Saul said to David, Blessed be you. So David went his way, and Saul returned to his place. Because of what? Because because David? No, because of God. This is preached on recently from this very lectern. It's because of God's role in David. And David understands that. David's faith is his anchor, you see in verse 23, righteousness. Which is another way of talking about practical obedience. So David has a heart anchored by a desire for practical obedience. Does that mean David's life was perfectly obedient? No. But he had a heart set on obedience. Are our lives perfectly obedient? Of course not. But there is such a thing as having our hearts set on obedience. We are a people who desire to obey God. Praise the Lord for that Because that's one of the fruit of our salvation, of our regeneration. Says righteousness, but then he says faithfulness. Faithfulness. Also verse 23. That's what David had. That's what David wanted. And that's what we have by the Spirit. And that's what we want. That's what we pray for. Let's be faithful to God. Don't we want to be faithful to God? Don't we want to be faithful to his word? Don't we want to be faithful to our spouses, faithful to our parents, faithful to our children, faithful to each other, faithful to the world and preaching a biblical gospel, not a man-made gospel? Faithfulness, biblical, spirit-wrought faithfulness. So there's righteousness, which is practical obedience, and doing the right thing, not the wrong thing. There's faithfulness and sticking with it, sticking to it, standing firm. David also has a heart desiring God's favor and sensing his need for God's favor. Beginning of verse 24. As your life was precious this day in my sight, so may my life be precious in the sight of the Lord. Would you just isolate that phrase with me? My life precious in the sight of the Lord, to live under the pleasure of God, to live under the affirming I of God. The favor of God is what this is. That God would not be our enemy, as God is our enemy when we are lost in sin, when we are rebels. Romans five. We are God's enemies, God is our enemy, and that's That's the problem. That's what we need to be saved from, God's judgment against our sin. Salvation is when that hostility is removed. Salvation is when that alienation is removed and we're reconciled to God and no longer enemies but friends. Still our God, still infinite, holy, perfect God, and we are his servants, we're infinitely inferior to him. But his judgment, his wrath, his anger is not against us. And our hostility is no longer against him. In fact, when our when we're saved, we still have hostility in our hearts Hostility toward our own sin, not hostility against God. So David has a heart on righteousness, a heart set on faithfulness, a heart desiring and seeing his need for God's favor, and then this is the last one This is all David's faith, his anchor, some of the different aspects of the anchor of faith. David has the heart that understands and that relies upon God's saving power. Because where is David expecting deliverance from? From verse twenty four. May del he may he deliver me out of all tribulation. May he deliver me out of all tribulation. May He, God, deliver me Out of all tribulation, that's the saving power of God. David believes in the saving power of God. Man, that's saving faith. In fact, when you have that for the first time ever, that's when your sins are forgiven. The first time ever when in your heart you believe in the saving power of God through Jesus Christ, all your sins are forgiven, and you have the But believing in the saving power of God doesn't end and it doesn't diminish. It stays, it abides. In fact, it increases and grows, intensifies. This is the anchor of faith. Brothers and sisters, this is the anchor that we have in Christ. As those saved On the basis of the death and resurrection of Christ. We have hearts set on righteousness, hearts set on faithfulness, hearts desiring God's favor, and we One of the ways you could say that is we're seeking God's approval, not man's approval. Amen? We don't need the commendation of the lost and fallen culture, but the commendation of Almighty God. And a heart set on God 's saving power. So David's faith is his anchor. Now David flees, but David flees with a purpose. David flees with a purpose. Verse 1 to 4, moving into chapter 27. Then David said in his heart, Now I shall perish one day by the hand of Saul. There is nothing better for me than that I should escape to the land of the Philistines. Then Saul will despair of seeking me any longer within the borders of Israel, and I shall escape out of his hand. So this is a wisdom move. This is a practical decision to flee from the guy who has proved himself a liar has proved himself godless and has proved himself that he wants you dead. So David decides in his heart that he's going to go into the land of the Philistines. to escape. So that Saul , right smack dab in the middle of verse 1 is an important detail here. Then Saul will despair of seeking me any longer within the borders of Israel. So he flees with a purpose. He flees so that Saul will give up seeking his life. That's his purpose. Now let's keep going, verse two. So David arose and went over, he and the six hundred men who were with him. So he flees not only with a purpose, but brothers and sisters, he flees with an army. Six hundred men who were with him to Akish the son of Maoch, king of Gath. And David lived with Akish at Gath, he and his men, every man With his household. So it's not just the army, not just the men. That's the way you summarize groups and summarize uh numbers, populations of armies in scripture, but it's representative of Uh the families. It's like the feeding of the five thousand or just like the Exodus. You have the the the fighting aged men are listed, but it's representative of a m of a much larger multitude that includes women and children, the families. David lived with lived with Akish at Gath. Verse three He and his men, every man with his household and David with his two wives. Well, don't get thrown by that. We already said David had sin in his life. We already we already said That David's obedience was an imperfect obedience, just like our obedience is an imperfect obedience. And it's another reminder to us, what? That God is merciful. That David is still alive is proof that God is merciful. That I am still alive is proof that God is merciful. God's mercies are fresh and new every morning because Every day is a merciful gift from God. Every breath that we breathe is a merciful gift from God. You know that the wages of sin are death, and you know that we still sin. Why are we alive? Vessels of God's mercy and messengers of God's mercy. God wants the world to know that He is merciful. So yeah David with his two wives, Ahinoam of Jezreel and Abigail of Carmel, Nabal 's widow. And when it was told and when it was told Saul that David had fled to Gath, he no longer sought him. And wasn't that David's exact purpose? I'm going to flee to the land of the Philistines in hopes and with the prayer that Saul will give up looking for me and trying to kill me. That's exactly what happens. That's an answered prayer. That's God's wisdom. That's God's providence. David flees into enemy territory. Enemy territory, enemies in quotes. Because, friends, this is still in the promised land. At the time the Philistines were exercising dominion. If you go back to the end of Joshua, God had given Israel the whole plot of land. But then what happened in the book of Judges? Remember, people continued a cycle of rebellion, and then God would raise up surrounding people, surrounding nations, surrounding cities. um to exercise dominion and judgment over Israel. And at this time, I mean this basically is think the Gaza Strip Um but a little bit further north. So if you go if you go Jerusalem and then go straight west to the shoreline of the Mediterranean Sea, Gaza Strip. But just also further a little further north, that's where we're talking about, where the Philistines currently have dominion. So we say enemy territory because rightfully this land is part of the inheritance promised to Abraham. This land rightfully at the time is for Israel, but Israel in their sin forfeited plots of the land, swaths, large swaths of the land. So that's why I put enemy territory. Um now under Dave's uh uh Dave. Did I just call King David Dave? I'm so sorry. Classic blunder. That one will go down. Boy, you'll be telling me about that for decades, brother. Under Dave's Dave's kingdom. Under King David's rule and then Solomon , God would grant a more of a sprawling dominion to Israel. Um but then with Solomon's apostasy and judgment against Solomon and the dividing of the kingdom that starts to be chipped away at, chipped away at until ultimately because of their sin. The northern kingdom is sent into exile. The southern kingdom is sent into exile. And now the southern kingdom from Babylon does receive a historical restoration to Jerusalem, rebuilding the temple, reestablishing the worship in the the priesthood and there's a there's a provisional uh restoration of the southern kingdom but and then the eschatological restoration doesn't come till the coming of Christ and the giving of the Spirit. So ultimately both share in that full restoration and that full salvation. But all that to say, David is fleeing to enemy territory, but but it shouldn't be enemy territory. It's rightfully part of the promised land that God promised and gave to Israel. And when he's there, David flourishes by God's providence. So David's faith is his anchor. David flees with a purpose. He flees with an army. He flees to, quote, enemy territory, end quote. And while he's in um this territory, he flourishes by God's providence. And you'll see two things when we read it. Number one, he's given a city. He's given a city. And number two, he continues the work of driving out the enemies of God. David is given a city, and David continues the work of driving out the enemies of God from the promised land. And that's what we're getting at when we say, even if David is fled , He is seeing the purpose of God fulfilled in his life. He's given an inheritance and he continues to drive out. the enemies of God. And this comes from verses five through twelve in chapter twenty-seven. Then David said to Akish , If I have found favor in your eyes, let a place be given me in one of the country towns that I may dwell there. For why should your servant dwell in the royal city with you Basically, this city's not big enough for the two of us, but in a very diplomatic way, that he doesn't want to cause trouble. He wants to be a he wants to be uh at peace. So give me, um let a place be given to me in one of the country towns. Now verse six, so that day, that very day, Achish gave him Ziklag. Ziklag. Cool name. First city. Keep that name right there fresh in your mind. Keep that on the front burner So that day Akish gave him Ziklag. Therefore Ziklag has belonged to the kings of Judah to this day. What was he doing that whole time? Well, verse eight. Now David and his men went up and made raids against the Gesherites. The Geersites and the Amalekites, for these were the inhabitants of the land from of old, as far as Shur to the land of Egypt. David would strike the land and would leave neither man nor woman alive, but would take away the sheep, the oxen, the donkeys, the camels, and the garments, and come back to Akish. Um Judah. This is a very strategic move and uh it's an important part of this process of David being anointed and appointed as king from the historical standpoint. We know it's going to happen because of God's decree. But David is taking spoil. Verse 10, when Akish asked, Where have you made array today? David would say Against the Negeb of Judah, or against the Negeb of the Jeremiah, or against the Negeb of the Kenites. David would leave neither man nor woman alive to bring news to Gath, thinking, lest they should tell about us In other words, lest they should tell the truth about us and say, So David has done. So David was deceiving Akish. David was lying about where he was making raids because he didn't want him and his army to be attacked. By the army of the peoples of the cities that he was living within. Such was his custom all the while he lived in the country of the Philistines. So Um this year and four months was a time where David was leading raids against the pagan cities and pagan kings that were still in the promised land. That was obedience. That's what Joshua and Israel were commanded to do. And it actually was accounted as a sin of the tribes, the sin of Israel to stop purging the land from the pagan worship of the pagan worship and pagan nations. And David is continuing the work of God. And Achish trusted David, verse 12. Akish trusted David, thinking he has made himself an utter stench to his people Israel. Therefore he shall always be my servant. That's going to be a very important point for the next three or four chapters. That Akish trusts David. And thinks that David has set himself against Israel. Has David set himself against Israel? No, not at all. David has set himself against the enemies of God Not the nation of God, not the people of God. He's away from the capital city. He's away from the temple, but God is still fulfilling his purpose through David. And he is um fulfilling his purpose for Israel in the land. And he's fulfilling his purpose in increasing David's strength and dominion. I mean this massive narrative that we're in the in uh about David, such a huge part of it is God giving strength and God giving dominion to his anointed king. And ultimately that's that's foreshadowing, that's prefiguring Christ, the Christ, the universal dominion of Christ, where all authority in heaven and on earth has to be given to Christ, the anointed of God. Ziklag, Ziklag. Is that still in the front burner? It's probably burning by now. That actually was part of the inheritance given to Judah. Joshua 1531. At one point, Judah had dominion there. But don't forget the book of Judges. Don't forget the book of Judges. Um where a lot of what Israel had gained in the initial conquest was lost because of their sin And you can't lose your salvation, but you certainly can lose the enjoyment of some of the blessings of your salvation if you fall into sin. So David praise it once. one time God would restore to him the joy of his salvation. Not restore to him his salvation, but restore to him the joy of his salvation. Because when you fall into sin, you're forfeiting certain the enjoyment of certain blessings. Um you could you could forfeit the enjoyment of hope. And you can be downcast for extended periods. You could forfeit you could forfeit the um the joy and the blessings of the Christian fellowship if you fall into sin You basically cut yourself off from the people of God. And what happens? Man, well what I've seen in those instances it's just a downward spiral of negativity and bitterness. So you can't forfeit your salvation, but you certainly can forfeit some of the enjoyment of the blessings that come with salvation. Um David fleeing to Gath, but God is still accomplishing his purposes. David had to flee for his life to be spared, but God is still accomplishing his purpose. um driving out the enemy and increasing David's strength and dominion. Now let's look at this fact illuminated by other biblical examples This is the second section. And what's the great fact that we're talking about? Well, you should have it memorized by now. It's that God accomplishes his purpose through the suffering of his Servants. God accomplishes his purpose through the suffering of his servants. In fact, illuminated by other biblical examples, I've listed them on your outline, and I'm going to read some Bible verses, but I think if you try to turn to these now It 'll just be too much. It'll be on overload. I'm going to try to go quickly. It was so hard to pick which ones to include and which ones to leave off. Number one, Joseph suffering in Egypt Joseph suffered greatly. His brothers betrayed him and uh sold him into slavery, then then he was uh Betrayed and framed and lied about, falsely accused in Egypt and sent into prison, forgotten about. Listen to Genesis forty-five, five, where Joseph says to his brothers, and now do not be distressed or angry with yourselves, because Because you sold me here. For God sent me before you to preserve life. Isn't that amazing? From a historical perspective, from man's perspective, the brothers sold Joseph. But from the greater perspective, from the heavenly perspective, Joseph, who in the narrative, what's one of the key things that Joseph does? Joseph interprets the Word of God. Joseph is the great interpreter. He's the interpreter. And here's what he says. He says, God sent me before you to preserve life. So, yes, on the human perspective The brothers are accountable for their real sin committed against God and against Joseph. But from a deeper level level, it was God working in this situation. God sent Joseph for a purpose. And now here's this classic verse in Genesis fifteen twenty or fifty twenty fifty five zero verse twenty. As for you, you meant it for evil, but God meant it for good to bring it about that many people should be kept alive as they are today. God sent Joseph to Egypt, where he suffered, but it was to raise him up to basically be a savior. Not a spiritual savior, but a savior from a historical standpoint from the famine and from the certain death that would come because of the famine, God used Joseph and through Joseph, God provided a place of refuge and survival for Israel and Israel. family. So God accomplished his purpose through the suffering of Joseph. God also accomplished his purpose through the suffering of Israel in Egypt. First you have Joseph in Egypt Then you go to the book of Exodus, now you have Israel in Egypt for over four hundred years. And they would become slaves. Slavery would be harsh. It brought great suffering. Beginning of Exodus, they're crying out to God for salvation. What is God doing while Israel is in Egypt? He's increasing their numbers, preparing to make them a nation. It's such a simple He's increasing their numbers greatly. What's some of the first facts you get in the book of Exodus? How much God increased their numbers. And then when the time was right, God brought them out and made them into a nation and displayed his glory in judgment over Pharaoh and his army. It was all for a purpose, and if you want homework, Genesis fifteen, where God prophesies this will happen to Abraham. It's still Abraham at the time. Genesis fifteen God also accomplished his purpose through the suffering of Daniel. Daniel's suffering in Babylon. Daniel was suffering in Babylon in exile. Uh but being a faithful witness to the one true God. Isn't that what Daniel was? He was a faithful witness to the one true God in a pagan city, to a pagan king. And through that pagan king to a pagan empire. Do you remember in Daniel that there's an epistle of Nebuchadnezzar where Nebuchadnezzar writes a letter to the entire kingdom? Which is the biggest kingdom I did was the known world at the time, the biggest kingdom. Uh because of Daniel's witness and God's work in and through Daniel and God's uh Uh revelations giving dreams to Nebuchadnezzar, a lost person, but then through Daniel giving the interpretation. Um Daniel four, one through three This is a letter of Nebuchadnezzar. Listen to this witness borne about the living God to his kingdom. King Nebuchadnezzar to all peoples, languages, and nations that dwell in all the earth. It's a big audience, right? Peace be multiplied to you. It has seemed good to me To show the signs and the wonders that the Most High God has done for me. How great are his signs! How mighty his wonders! His kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and his dominion endures from generation to generation, which is different than the kings and kingdoms of this world. Kings come, kings go. Kingdoms rise, kingdoms fall. To all peoples, nations, and languages that dwell in all the earth about the reality of God, the signs of God, the wonders of God, and the sovereign rule of God over all kingdoms. But that was through Daniel's ministry and through Daniel's witness, through Daniel's interpretation of God's dreams. God used Daniel mightily in the midst of Daniel's suffering. Number four, God used or God accomplished his purpose through the suffering of the early church Well he still does that today, but uh I'm talking specifically about Acts chapter eight. The church suffering in Jerusalem, the infant church, the baby church, the newborn church In Acts 8, verse 1, says there arose on that day a great persecution against the church in Jerusalem, and they were all scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles. The apostles state. I think just a short time after that, the apostles do go for some ministry up in Samaria, but then they return. A great persecution, churches scattered, but then three verses later. Verse 4. Now those who were scattered went about preaching the word. God, in his great sovereignty and his infinite wisdom that confounds our imagination. Had a persecution come against his church so that the church would scatter and through that scattering would bring the gospel to more and more cities, more and more leaders, more and more people families homes so that more and more churches, biblical churches could be established for the glory of God. That's God's purpose in this era of history. Send the gospel forth and through that gospel establish biblical churches. The church is God's idea. The church is God's design. And there's no true spiritual mindset apart from God's design in biblical churches. But God accomplished that through suffering. Uh get through Paul. Paul's suffering just about everywhere he went. I guess your homework on that will be the book of Second Corinthians is a really I mean you see it in the epistles and uh other places too. You see it in Acts Of course you see it in Acts the narrative. But where Paul reflects on it the most and talks about it the most and talks about what God did through it the most is Second Corinthians the book and then also I guess Philippians. Paul talks about how he was imprisoned, but through his imprisonment God used it to spread the gospel. He says it served to advance the gospel, even though he's in chains and imprisoned. It's incredible. By the end of Philippians uh chapter four, someone get the verse. I think it's 11th He refers to believers in Caesar's household. Think about this. Believers in the household of Nero. One of the most wicked Leaders, world leaders to ever exist. Through Paul's ministry, through Paul's imprisonment, advancing the gospel, there are believers, Christians in the household of Caesar. And of course, Jesus suffering, death on a cross. God accomplished his purpose Through suffering and ultimately, centrally, we have to say Jesus suffering death on a cross To defeat sin, to defeat death, to defeat Satan, and bring salvation to a multitude, that's what we're about. He suffered unto glory. Hebrews 2. 9 says, because of the suffering of his death, he was crowned with glory and honor because of the suffering of his death, so that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone. Chapter 5, verse 8 and 9 in Hebrews, although he was the Son, he learned obedience through what he suffered. He learned obedience through what he suffered. Um and being made perfect, he became the source of eternal salvation to all who obey him. There's one, Pastor Anthony, that'd be a great book title. The Source of Eternal Salvation. Right? And then it's a book that just expounds and opens up the glories of Christ. But he he had to suffer. He had to suffer to become a source of salvation for me. and for you. And of course number seven, I left that blank to see if you could guess. Talking about suffering. We're in the Bible Giving examples and characters. Who have I left out? Yes, Job. Someone whispered it. Say that with conviction. Yeah, Job. Job's suffering brought Job to a deeper knowledge of God. Sometimes we miss this at the end of the book. There was a purpose in all of this. Job's suffering brought Job to a deeper knowledge knowledge of God. Job's suffering and all that he went through brought him to a deeper experience of repentance and faith in God. There's one thing I want. right there. A deeper knowledge of God and a deeper experience of repentance and faith in God. Job 42, 5 and 6. This is part of Job's it's a it's a paragraph long his his closing repentance where he finally gets it I had heard of you by the hearing of the ear, but now my eye sees you, therefore I despise myself and repent in dust and ashes. Sometimes God just allows suffering and not just allows but um brings suffering into our lives because through that suffering He's going to bring us into a deeper knowledge of who he is. And sometimes through that suffering, we'll have a clearer sight of who we are as sinners. And as weak and as in de daily desperate need for God, sometimes the sufferings will just wake us up and bring us into a deeper experience of repentance and a deeper experience of faith in God. That was Job's story. See a lot of chapters to tell that story over four forty chapters. Uh now quickly and and I do see the time. I know you'll have grace for me 'cause I haven't done the night shift preaching, which is what Eric called. He said, Man, you haven't done the night shift in a while Um yeah, so my mental clock on that night shift preaching slot is maybe a little But I I'll I'll um I'll tell you what I'll do. I'll we'll go through this third section because it's so important quickly and I won't I won't read the verses, I'll just tell you what the verses to prove these out because I don't want to be just throwing points out there with no biblical proof. You know that's a big thing on my heart. So at the very least I'll tell you the verses. Um so this fact um of God using our sufferings for purposes applied to our hearts as those united to Christ, dear brother and sister, child of God, your suffering is not in vain, and your suffering is not indefinite. It's not going to be And you do not suffer alone. And I don't mean like we're with you. I mean that God is with you. You've been united to Christ and you suffer with Him. Number one, suffering increases our faith. It teaches us to trust in God in deeper and deeper ways. It teaches us to lean upon God in greater and greater ways It increases our faith. Second Corinthians 1 9. Alright, 2 Corinthians 1 9. Secondly, suffering produces humility. Suffering produces humility. Um suffering will if we If we persevere through suffering seeking God instead of getting mad at God , suffering will help us to see the sufficiency of God's grace in our lives. That He is enough, that His grace is enough, that His power is perfected in our weaknesses, as the suffering exposes our weaknesses. We learn to see and appreciate the sufficiency of God's grace. That's 2 Corinthians 12, 7 to 10. Paul had to learn and be told again that God's grace was sufficient for him. And there was a particular suffering God was not going to take away because God had a purpose for that suffering in Paul's life. Um number three, suffering produces endurance and godly character. It does produce endurance and character, and I know that because Romans 5, 3 to 4 basically says that word for word. Suffering produces endurance and endurance Endurance produces character. That's a quotation from Romans 5, 3, and 4. Suffering produces endurance and it produces godly character. So if I want endurance, And you want endurance, and I want to grow in godly character, and you want to grow in godly character, then there's going to be sufferings in our lives. Fourth and finally, suffering produces faithfulness and maturity. It stirs up in us a spirit of steadfastness. Now that's parallel to endurance, I understand, but there's another verse I want to give you. It produces faithfulness and maturity. That's James James 1, 2 to 4. That's a classic passage on how God uses suffering. I know that the sinful flesh is prone To think that when things are difficult, well certainly this can't be God's will. But I want to tell you, brothers and sisters, the sinful flesh is wrong about that. The sinful flesh is in contrary to the story of the Bible. I know the flesh is prone to think when things aren't comfortable for me. I heard a preacher say one time the number one idol in America is personal comfort. about that. The flesh is prone to think it's not comfortable, it's not what I wanted, it's not what I mapped out. Must be the wrong path. The flesh is wrong about that. Difficulties and discomforts. Oh God, let's pray. We pray that you would use these as instruments to sharpen us in our service to you. We pray that you would use them as a fire to refine us We pray that you would use them as your mighty hand to mold us into the vessels that you want us to be. We pray that you would continue this great work of molding us into the likeness of Christ For your name, for your glory, according to your word, and by the power, the infinite power of your Holy Spirit. It's in Jesus we pray. Amen.