Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarrettville, Maryland. Visit us online at northharford. org. We've done two studies in Daniel 1. The first study was God is in control. He's the sovereign king. Over his earth. The earth is his. Wherever you are in this world, if you look down and see a patch of ground, that belongs to God. The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. God is in control. The second When we say that God is the sovereign king, when we say that God is in control of all things and he rules over all things all things. That's not just an abstract philosophy about life. That's in he has an actual purpose that in his kingship he is a Accomplishing this purpose. He is number one, God is in control. Number two, God is at work, fulfilling his purpose in Christ, in history, not floating above history with these kind of spiritual principles. Principles and morals. He's in history working out his purpose. Tonight will be the third study in Daniel, looking at verses one through thirty. So we're breaking all kinds of barriers and setting records tonight. Uh it's that kind of book. You can do larger portions because of the narrative uh structure or the narrative nature of the book. Tonight is God reveals truth. God reveals truth. And what's in view it here Is a supernatural revelation of truth about the future from Daniel's perspective. God reveals the truth about how and when he's going to establish his Kingdom. If you've been here, I've been going back to this ad nauseum that the central prophecy of Daniel, the central prophecy of all of history, is that God is going to establish his kingdom Uh in in Daniel, he's going to establish his kingdom in the days of the Roman Empire. The central prophecy of all of Scripture, he's going to establish his kingdom in general, through a Savior, through a Savior King. who is Jesus Christ. But in Daniel, we looked at this in the introduction to this study. We'll get to the actual passage, that main passage next week at the second half. Half of chapter two. The central prophecy is God is going to establish his kingdom on earth in the days of the Roman Empire, which is exactly what he did in the First coming of Christ. But tonight is God reveals truth. God reveals truth. Verses 1 through 11. In the second year of the reign of Nebuchadnezzar Nebuchadnezzar, this would have been 604 BC. Daniel and his three friends are in exile. In the second year of the reign of Nebuchadnezzar, Nebuchadnezzar had dreams. His spirit was troubled. That's important. Troubling dreams. Disturbing dreams. He's confused. He's confused, he's scared , maybe upset, he was deeply bothered by the dreams that he was having And you'll see by his reaction, that's the case. But it says his spirit was troubled and his sleep sleep left him. Some dreams, huh? Some dreams. Be summoned to tell the king his dreams. So they came in and stood before the king. And the king said, Said to them, I had a dream, and my spirit is troubled to know the dream. He wants to know what it means. Then the Chaldeans said to the king in Aramaic O King, live forever. Tell your servants the dream, and we will show the interpretation. Now, this is important to the storyline of what's going on. happen and where how God provides for Daniel and God uses Daniel. Nebuchadnezzar doesn't want to tell them the dream. I could tell you a dream right now I had an everyone can come up with some kind of interpretation or meaning for it. He tells them, you tell me the dream and you tell me the interpretation. We'll see if they can do it. Verse 5, the king answered and said, Said to the Chaldeans, The Word for me is firm. If you do not make known to me the dream and its interpretation, you shall be torn limb from limb, and your houses But if you show number one the dream and number two its interpretation, are two things. And its interpretation. You shall receive from me gifts and rewards and great honor. Therefore, show me the dream and its interpretation. But they answered a second time and said, Now let the king tell his servants the dream, and we shall show its interpretation. You get the idea of what's important in the narrative Right? Over and over and over again. The dream is interpretation. The dream is interpreted. You tell me both. No, no, no. You tell us the first, we'll tell you the second. No, you tell me both. I'm going to have you executed. No, no, no, no. You tell us, and then we'll give you the interpretation. Verse 8, the king answered and said, I know with certainty that you are trying to gain time, because you see that the word from me is firm. They're stalling. They're afraid. If you do not make the dream known to me, there is but one sentence for you You have agreed to speak lying and corrupt words before me till the times change. Therefore, tell me the dream. And I shall know that you can show me its interpretation. If you can tell me the dream, then I'll know you actually will I can trust your interpretation. Verse ten, the Cal Chaldeans answered the king and said, There is not a man on earth who can meet the king's demand. Now, these Chaldeans Speak the truth. From the mouth of the Chaldeans, there is not a man on earth who can meet the king's demand. For no great and powerful king has asked such a thing of any magician or enchanter or chaldean. The thing that the King asks is difficult, and no one can show it to the king except the gods whose dwelling is not with flesh. Now from their fallen perspective They're polytheists, they're not believers, they don't have faith in the one true God, but still they know that it is impossible from the perspective of man to give the king what he wants. It's impossible. Possible. No one can do it. It's beyond man 's wisdom. It's beyond man's power. It's beyond man's Insight. No one is in a position to help Nebuchadnezzar. Verses twelve through sixteen. Because of this, the king was angry and very furious, and commanded that all the wise men of Babylon be destroyed. This is a blanket, a judgment, a a widespread execution is called for. So the decree went out. Culture, there's nothing stronger than the decree from the king. So the decree went out, and the wise men were about to be killed And they sought Daniel and his companions to kill them. Then Daniel replied with prudence and discretion to Ariok. you know these uh well stories in chapters one through six of Daniel, mainly biographies, they've been called uh hero stories Just in terms of their genre, one characteristic of Daniel that really stands out is his faith in God. But just as much is his practical wisdom His patience, his prudence, his foresight. And that comes from God also. So it's Daniel's faith, but also here highlighted, Daniel replied with prudence and discretion to everyone. Ariok, the captain captain of the king's guard, who had gone out to kill the wise men of Babylon. He declared to Ariok, the king's captain, Why is the decree of the king so urgent? Urgent. And Ariok made the matter known to Daniel. And Daniel went in and requested the king to appoint him a time that he might show the interpretation to the king. Now wisdom we've already seen. Faith. Daniel's faith. At this point, God had not revealed to Daniel Daniel, the dream or the interpretation. Daniel is placing his trust in God that God will provide, no matter what. He's just trusting God. He's not mapping It out in his mind. He's trusting in God, the being of God, God Himself. God is his God. God is his shepherd and protector. Daniel went in and requested an appointment. He made an appointment with the Seventeen through thirty. Then Daniel went to his house and made the matter known To Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah, his companions, and told them to seek mercy from the God of heaven concerning this mystery Oh boy, if there's a clause or a verse that you highlight, 18 would be it. Seek mercy from the God of heaven concerning this mystery. Daniel knows if he's going to know the mystery of Nebuchadnezzar's dream and to be able to interpret that mystery, to interpret the dream, God's going to have to show him mercy. Because he's going in to speak with the king. And he's already said, I'm going to give you the interpretation. God must provide. God must show up. God must show mercy. The primacy of prayer, depending on God's mercy, and Actively calling out for mercy from God. And he asks his friends to seek mercy from the God of heaven. To spare them from death. I mean, what's the way they're going to be spared from death if he can provide and give Nebuchadnezzar with Nebuchadnezzar is seeking. Again, you see the wisdom of Daniel, the faith of Daniel. Those are kind of intangibles, but we we see it applied in the situation. The first thing in terms of practical application, Daniel's thought is first thing, sub point one under practical application. First thing We've got to ask God for help. We've got to ask God for help. Brothers, seek mercy from me. Seek mercy from God. Now that's a reminder. That's a reminder. Reminder to all of us, a sobering reminder. We should be crying out all the time to God to help us. Verse So Daniel's companions might not be destroyed, right? That's the sp specific mercy. men of Babylon. I think there's a quick point I would want to make on being specific in prayer. Get to the point. Pray for a specific thing. Pray for healing. Pray for a reconciliation. Pray for an opportunity to do A, B, or C. Pray for specifics. Pray for someone's salvation. Verse nineteen. Then the mystery was revealed to Daniel in a vision of the nights. Then Daniel blessed the God of heaven. Let's For just a little bit, camp out. I guess it would be more of a rest stop, not a camp out. On the mystery was revealed to Daniel in a vision of the night. Special revelation. Special revelation. Now generally And uh typically when there's an introduction class or sermon on Daniel, it'll be it'll be laid out in the chapters one through six of the stories, the biography Of Daniel and his three friends, and then seven through twelve are the prophecies, the visions. That's generally true. There's nothing wrong with that. That's true. That's generally true. But there is a vision in the Beginning, the central vision, the central prophecy is happening in chapter two. It's not just Nebuchadnezzar that has the dream, but Daniel is shown a vision In the night. It's special revelation. It's a vision that's going to equip Daniel with the wisdom and the knowledge that he needs. The mystery was revealed to Daniel in a vision of the night. So Daniel has a vision in chapter 2 before the visions at the end of the book. That's not always pointed out. So that's why we wanted to take a rest stop on there, but it's important because what you get in chapter two is the central prophecy, the central promise of the coming kingdom. Every other vision and every other interpretation as the book of Daniel goes along This flushes out the details of it. It just looks it gets closer and closer. It looks at the different stages of how that's how that kingdom is going to come and when that kingdom is going to come. So Daniel has a vision. Special revelation This is God's answer to the prayer. This is God's answer to the prayer. The cry for mercy. God shows up in a supernatural way. to Daniel to give Daniel something he would not have otherwise. And now you have Daniel's response is this blessing, this prayer, this Worship. Then Daniel blessed the God of heaven. Daniel answered and said, Blessed be the name of God forever and ever, to whom belong wisdom and might. He changes times and seasons. He removes kings and sets up kings. He gives wisdom to the wise and knowledge to those Who have understanding. Well, number one, he's blessing the name of God for God's great wisdom. No man in the world has the wisdom to address this situation but God has the wisdom so God gets the worship. God knows what the dream was. God knows what the interpretation is. God is the source of all of this. He praises God for his wisdom We should praise God for his wisdom. So many times and when we all struggle with this because of our sin and because of our weakness, the weakness of our flesh. We think we know how things should happen. And if they dare if they not happening just as we think or as we map out so we blow a gasket in our minds. It could be small things, it could be big things. God is the one who is wise He knows what we need. He knows what needs to happen in our lives. He knows the timetable that they need to have they need to happen in. Because he's working through all of That we may rely upon him more and not trust in ourselves, and not think that we are wise, but see that we are foolish and trust in his wisdom. Daniel worships God for his wisdom. Blessed be the name of God forever and ever, to whom belong wisdom and might. Secondly, he worships God for his power. God has the power to do this. Thinking do you have the power to enter into someone's mind and dreams in the night in a vision and reveal you Your wisdom and knowledge to that person, only God has the power to do this. Only God has the supernatural power to reveal divine wisdom In this way. So he's worshiping God, verse 20. He's blessing God's name for God's wisdom and God's might, God's power. To be able to communicate this word. Think about it, it's a transcendent being. This is a transcendent being who has the ability to communicate to people in many different ways. And here specifically a vision of the night. He also blesses God's name and worships God. Number one was wisdom, number two was power, number three Verse 21, he changes times and seasons, or different eras, different epochs of history? Who changes them? Do you and I change them? Is democratic vote changing? Is the president change them? God changes times and seasons. And it In other words, he moves history from one era to the next, from one stage to the next. God is progressing things forward on God's time with time table, not table I don't know what a table is on God's timetable to accomplish his purpose. God knows exactly what he's doing. He knows exactly what he's doing and where things are headed. He changes times and seasons He removes kings, king out of there, God did it. He sets up kings. King enthroned. God put him there. God does it. God's sovereign government of the world. He gives wisdom to the wise and knowledge to those who have understanding. So here, number four, he's blessing and wisdom. Worshiping God, blessing his name for gifts of wisdom, gifts of wisdom and truth. He gave Wisdom to the wise and knowledge to those who have understanding. And it's pride when we think that we are the wise one. We are the smart one. We have the answers. God gives grace to the humble. God exalts the lowly. We trust in God's wisdom. If we have any wisdom, it's because Of what Daniel says here, it's because he, subject, gives verb wisdom, direct object. He gives wisdom. And knowledge to those who have understanding. So are there people in the world with who are wise and who have understanding? Yeah. If God gave it to them. Verse 22, He reveals deep and hidden things. He knows what is in the darkness, and the light dwells with him. Now this goes beyond just general gifts of wisdom and knowledge. This is special revelation. He reveals deep and hidden things. The only things, the secret will of God, the hidden will of God, only things that God would know unless He reveals them. He Reveals deep and hidden things. Just think the Bible. Just think the Bible. Like if you've never read the Bible, never heard anything about the Bible, never ever, literally, it's hard to imagine. But it never Read anything or heard anything about the Bible, you would have no clue about, me neither. We would have no clue about how God redeems sinners We we wouldn't even know what God who God is, or what a sinner is, or what the word redeemed means. We wouldn't know any of it. God must reveal that to us. He must teach us. So the Bible. Revelation. And then, of course, inside our hearts, we need the work of the Spirit, right? That we embrace and receive and understand and love God's truth. We're not just learners of truth. Brothers, sisters, we're lovers of truth. We're seekers of truth. It warms our heart, gives us hope Daniel, I don't know if you could tell, but verses twenty through twenty-three really captured my heart as I was preparing for this. Daniel worships God for his wisdom. He worships God for his He worships God for his sovereign government of the world and of history. He worships God for gifts of wisdom and truth that he gives. And number five, you worships God for special revelation. God teaching things that we have no clue of otherwise. That's what happened for Daniel in that vision of the night. Finally, number six, he gives thanks and praise Praise for the answered prayer. He gives thanks and praise for the answered prayer. Verse 23, to you, O God of my fathers, I give thanks and praise. That's where I got the point from thanks and praise. I give thanks and praise for you have given me wisdom and might and have now made known to me what we asked of you. For you have made known to us the king's matter. Going back to the promiscy of prayer. Promise of prayer. And God gave an answer. Now praise God for that. That's God's love. That's God's mercy. They were asking for mercy. It's not because of the merits of the prayer. It's definitely not because of the inherent righteousness or godliness of Daniel and his friends. They're sinners saved by grace, just like you and I are. God do a mighty, mighty work in their hearts. Mighty work in Daniel's life to reveal this mystery. Well, let me take a breath before we do How we doing on time? We're doing great, right? I told you the narrative nature of the text, boy it moves. And I hope you're gleaning some of these spiritual applications. Because I but there's all throughout. This should this kind of attitude That we see exemplified in Daniel should define our our lives. See the primacy of prayer, the trusting in God's wisdom in general, the trusting of God's uh wisdom and representation Revelation and special revelation in the Bible. You know, crying out for mercy, trusting God to answer prayer. This is life for the child of God. This is life in a fallen world. This is Kingdom Living. Before we get to twenty-four to thirty. Any questions? I mean this is this is the way we should start. This is how our prayers should start really, you know, not just be Jimmy Jimmy Gimme or whatever, you know, that worshiping God or all of these days. Yeah. Yeah. Uh uh the comment was that this is how we should begin our prayers with the foundation of thanks and praise and then get into your expressing your needs and asking for things which is biblical, which have done in the right way and done in faith is is right and proper and spiritual and God honoring. He wants that. He commands that. But we start with thanks and praise. We get that model in the Lord's Prayer too. Our Father who art in heaven. Hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come. Your build it starts with God. It starts with thanks and praise. That's a great point. That's a great, great point. And sometimes I think the way that that works In our minds, you know, there's there's the prayer itself that just honors God for what it is and brings us brings us in the presence of God by faith. But For me, like when I try to discipline myself to pray, to begin prayer with worship and thanks, it forces me and helps me Forces is probably the wrong word. I don't want it to sound like this is like something I don't want to happen. But it helps me, it ministers to me to think about God's attributes, to think about God's name. to think about the actual things that God has done in history, to think about actual ways He's intervened into my life. It it just gets me out of this self-absorbed, um, sinful flesh that I carry around with me everywhere. It disciplines me to get God focused and that helps that helps with the rest of the prayer. Any any follow up to that thought or uh any other any other thoughts Yeah. In that case it's not a it says trade for this later, but in that case you're actually bringing queries. It's a huge stress relief. Yeah, yeah. If you didn't hear this comment it's about that prayer can relieve stress and anxiety and b I mean almost everyone I talk to now is um how over busy they are, how frantic romantic, how crazy things are, don't have time to do anything. And I I'm fighting that same battle. I'm not telling you I'm outside of this, you like I'm inside inside some kind of bubble that's uh free from From all of these struggles, but we're so busy and w we get anxious, we get worried, we're racing all around, and the best thing for us will be to Stop, get away, and pray and ask God to help us. It really is the most practical and most relevant thing we could do. Because God will help us. God is the only one who can help us Great, great thought. God-centered prayers and going to God with our anxiety, various anxieties and troubles. If you read the Psalms, it's a m major, major theme in the prayers and the songs that you see in the book of Psalms. This is going to God with your troubles. Going to job God with your sorrows. Crying and groaning and agonizing before the throne of God. Great stuff. Great stuff. Alright. Verses twenty Do we still have any skeptics in the crowd who don't think that there's any way Pastor Mack can get through thirty verses in a night? Crazier things, crazier things have happened. Verse twenty For now, Daniel still has something to do. He still has to go into the throne room Of one of the most bloodthirsty, ungodly kings in the history of the world, who himself thinks that he's a a deity and can do whatever he wants. Men of Babylon, he went and said thus to him, Do not destroy the wise men of Babylon. Something of a mediating role, the role of a mediator. An interceder, intercessor that Daniel takes on here. Bring me in before the king, and I will show the king the interpretation. Shooting courage of Daniel, confidence that what he received was from God and therefore sufficient. And now I want to go off on a rabbit trail and preach a sermon on the sufficient Of God's word. Trusting in God's word. He has God's word. This is the only weapon he has when he steps in before the king. What does he have? He has God's word. That's it. And of course the the presence of God through the Spirit. What does this mean objectively? What does he have? He has the things that God showed him, taught him. So I love the courage of Daniel here to When the rubber meets the road, to actually put this into practice. Put it into practice. I've been trying to say this a lot lately. We're not just bottoming Bible believers. We don't want to be just Bible-believing Christians. We want to be Bible practicing Christians, Bible-doing Christians. Christian truth is always and everywhere experiential truth. It's meant to change us, to change the way we live, to change the way we prioritize, to change the way we talk. It's transformative, experiential Truth. Verse 25 Then Ariok brought in Daniel before the king in haste and said thus to him, I have Found among the exiles from Judah a man who will make known to the king the interpretation. The king declared to Daniel, whose name was Belteshazzar. Are you able to make known to me the dream that I have seen and its interpretation? Daniel answered the king and said, and I gotta tell you, I was getting I was I was getting to the end of this passage in my preparations and this ended up being my favorite point. Because the first thing Daniel does is point away from any notion that It's because of his ability or because of his wisdom that he's come up with this answer. He wants to be clear where the answer comes from. From. He wants to be a witness for the living God in the throne room of Nebuchadnezzar. That's what Daniel wants to do. No wise men, enchanters, magicians, or astrologers can show to the king the mystery. That the king has asked. And what's implied there? Well, what's implied is the answer to Nebuchadnezzar's question, are you able to make known Now in one sense Daniel will make known, but he wants to be clear, in another sense, in the deeper sense, I am not able. I'm not the one who's able. Wants to get this through. No one can do this. But verse 28, but there is a God in heaven who reveals mysteries, and he has made known to King Nebuchadnezzar. Right in case you're in case you thought I was making too much of that point before. He has made known to King Nebuchadnezzar, and here's what Daniel is saying. He had God in heaven has made known to you through me. Daniel's a prophet. Daniel's a messenger. Daniel's an ambassador. Daniel's a witness. God has made known to the king through Daniel. Daniel's just a mouthpiece. He doesn't want the glory He doesn't want the credit. He wants to be a witness for God. God is the one who revealed this truth. God is the one who reveals mysteries. There's a God in heaven who reveals mysteries. And he has Has made known to King Nebuchadnezzar what will be in the latter days. So he already, before he even gets into the content of the dream of the interpretation, which we'll He's given Nebuchadnezzar what it pertains to. The future. Things that are going to happen in the future. The latter days. It's not a dream about the past. It's not it's not a dream about right now, although that's uh included a little bit, why it's so troubling to Nebuchadnezzar. But ultimately, centrally, centrally, that's why I've been saying the The past three weeks, the central prophecy of Daniel. Centrally, it's about the latter days. It's about what's going to happen to this kingdom and the next kingdom and the next kingdom and the next kingdom. The latter days. What will be in the latter days? The dream pertains to the future. Your dream and the visions of your head as you lay in bed are these. To you, O king, as you lay in bed, came thoughts of what would be after This after right now, in the future, is what he's saying. And he who reveals mysteries has made known to you what is to be. But as for me, this mystery has been revealed to me. Not because of any wisdom that I have. Did you did you think I was making too much of that point and and maybe imposing that upon Daniel that this is what Daniel was thinking? No no no no no. This actually was overflowing in his heart and mind, not because of any wisdom that I have more than all the list He's not smarter than other people. He didn't figure this out on his own. He didn't figure this out by personal study in the archives or the library or something. God revealed the mysteries to him. That's why he says, it's not because of any wisdom that I have. And we should think the same thing about ourselves and our salvation in any spiritual biblical Truth that we grasp or are able to teach someone else. It's not because of me. It's not because of me. I'm not the smart guy. I'm not the wise guy. God's word, God's Holy Spirit, God's providence, God's power, God's mercy. To use us. Think about it. To use sinners, weak, pitiful sinners like us to use us in each other's lives and in the lives of others to bring us Truth to be ambassadors. That's where Daniel is. He does not have a high view of himself, is really all what I'm trying to say here. But in order that the interpretation may be made known to the kingdom, King and that you may know the thoughts of your mind. So there you go. It cycles all the way back to those two things Nebuchadnezzar wanted to know. Number one, he wanted to know first tell me what the dream is And Daniel is going to meet that criteria because God revealed it to him, or that you may know the thoughts of your mind before the interpretation, in order to make that interpretation known to the king So he's going to give the dream, he's going to give the interpretation. What else do you want, Nebuchadnezzar? That's what he wanted. And God provided it. The latter days is going to be the thrust. The future. What's going to happen after this? God, who reveals mysteries, has made it known. Questions or comments? Comments. If not, we'll even cheat ahead. We got f we have fourteen minutes. I'm itching to get into the dream. Alright, let's keep let's put let's press on. Verse thirty-one, he does he begins to do Daniel begins to do the first First thing that Nebuchadnezzar wanted, what was the first thing Nebuchadnezzar demanded of his enchanters and wise men and the Chaldeans? The dream. You saw, O King, and behold, a great image, a great statue, a large, large statue. This image, mighty and of exceeding brightness, stood before you, and its appearance It was so big, this uh image, uh probably of a king, something like that, represented That and we'll see we'll see this as it goes on, represents kingdoms in general, but it so it's an image, a statue of some kind of king figure. But what becomes important is what it's made of. The head of this image was a Of fine gold. Its chests and arms of silver. You see, it's what it's made of is the key issue at this point. What it's made of, the imagery, the prophetic imagery in this dream of building materials of an image that represents a kingdom or king. Kingdoms. The head of the image was fine gold, its chest and arms of silver, its middle and thighs of bronze, its legs of iron Its feet, partly of iron and partly of clay. As you looked, a stone was cut out by no human hand. It's a divine Just like there was no human who could come up with the knowledge for this dream and its interpretation. No human could do that. This is no human hand It's a d it's a divine hand that cuts the stone. Now let's just stop right there. Right in the middle of verse 34. It says no human hand. What do you have so far in the dream? You have two elements of the dream. What are those two elements? No, just in the dream in general. The stone and the image and the cache. The stone and the image. Yep. That's if you have two things. You have an image that is different different sections are made of different things. image and what was how is that described? It's so big it's terrifying. And then what do you have? Little stone. that it's frightening to see it. And then you have a stone. Now what's more powerful? From a human perspective perspective what's more powerful we're going with the image we're going with the image but you forgot something about the stone what's the power source of the stone it's God the stone is in the hand of God. Don't judge by appearances when it comes to the kingdom of God. This is where this is headings, right? So Giving things away. Spoiler alert. It's the power of the one who holds the stone. It's the nature of the stone. But this is what you have. You have an image Giant image and you have a stone. And it struck the image on its feet of Iron and clay and broke them in pieces. This is shocking to me. I would love to see uh this in an animator, a good animator make this into I guess it could be CGI or something, what this would look like. If this happened from a worldly perspective, the stone would just bounce off of it. That's what makes sense. So the unexpected nature of what happens is shocking to me, but it's exactly what's going to happen in the latter days. It struck the image on its feet of iron and clay. It doesn't it doesn't bounce off, okay? And broke them in pieces. Then the iron, the clay, the bronze, the silver, and the gold all together were broken in pieces, and became like chaff on the summer threshing floors, and the wind carried them away, so that not a trace of them could be found But the stone that struck the image became a great mountain and filled the whole earth. Now, basic question to the meaning of this vision. What's victorious? The stone. The stone is victorious. That's the central prophecy. The victorious kingdom of God that's going to strike these world-sprawling kingdoms of Which is unbelievable. I mean that's just unthinkable that this little stone could destroy this frighteningly large image. But something happens to the stone. It's almost as if it's endowed with a supernatural power for growth and expansion. It became a great mountain and filled the whole earth. We are going to stop there. Because ultimately, this is talking about the power Of the gospel in the church era to spread the kingdom of God over the whole earth. This is the Great Commission. This is the Great Commission to take the message of salvation to all nations' tongues. and tribes, sprawling the kingdom of heaven in spiritual victory, not geopolitical victory. It's not an earthly kingdom. Christ's kingdom Kingdom is not of this world, but in spiritual victory, pushing through the gates of Hades and all these little districts and dominions of the devil all over the world. World, saving sinners for the kingdom of God. This is the kingdom of God. Saving sinners for all eternity through the gospel. This is the way the stone works. It's God's stone. It's God's kingdom. He Strikes these kingdoms of the world. And what we'll learn is that it's in the days of the Roman Empire that God establishes this kingdom. It's in the days of the Roman Empire that that stone hits the kingdoms and then grabs. Gradually throughout history, gradually that kingdom, that stone grows and fills the whole earth. The whole earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of God as the waters cover the sea. It will happen. It is happening. Think of the presence of the kingdom of God on earth, all over the earth right now. It's been gradual. It's been ups and downs. There's been Battles, there's been persecutions, there's been struggles because it is spiritual warfare. Compare where the kingdom is now. To where the kingdom was in Acts chapter 2. There's no question, this is the most successful kingdom that has ever existed on earth. Again, if you think this is an earthly kingdom or Geopolitical kingdom, you'll miss it. You won't see that victory. You won't see that conquest. The kingdom of God. Just think about us. It's a spiritual kingdom. So we have spiritual goals, and we reach those with spiritual means. Means, spiritual weapons, and spiritual warfare for spiritual goals in a spiritual kingdom. It's a kingdom of heaven that's in power, it's manifest On earth , the world-sprawling kingdom of righteousness, the righteousness that is by faith in Jesus Christ. Nothing can stop God from completing this kingdom from growing this r stone to be a mountain that fills the earth. And if you want in your devotions tonight as you drift off to sleep, read Matthew thirteen and just read some of the things Jesus through the kingdom parables teaches the nature of the kingdom. You see that it grows, it expands, it grows expansively like a mustard seed that grows and grows and grows. It's gradual, but it expands. It grows outwardly. And then right after that, another one is is the parable of where the kingdom of heaven is like leaven. So not only does the kingdom of heaven grow expansively, it grows outwardly. the stone to the mountain, the seed to the big tree. But once it's in a place, it impacts. It grows within a place like leaven inside a lump of dough. And it works to fill and impact that whole lump. The kingdom of God gradually expands over this earth. Snatching sinners from darkness, bringing them, transferring them into the kingdom of God's beloved Son. And uh this is the central prophecy of the book of Daniel. This is the thing of history. This is God's plan. To establish his saving reign on earth through Jesus Christ. It's a kingdom of redemption. It's a kingdom of the Holy Spirit. And uh I'm thankful to be in it because I don't deserve it. I don't even deserve to hear about it, let alone be able to be be able to be with you tonight and talk about it. But I praise God that He erased my sins. I praise God that He erased your sins. I praise God that He gave us new hearts by the power of the Holy Spirit And I praise God and I thank God that we have an inheritance in heaven that nothing in all of creation can take away from us.