Welcome back. It's good to see you guys again. We are today Going to transition from the Pentateuch to the historical books. We will not do all of this the historical books, so make sure you have one of the handouts that's on that lectern in the back The historical books from Joshua to Esther. Today I hope to get through uh for uh 1 Samuel, no 2 Samuel rather Through 2 Samuel, doing the same thing that we did for the books of the law, which is the setting when the book begins. The setting when the book ends, what's the main storyline, and then looking at some of the key verses from each book. But first, let's review The overarching story of Scripture, just to keep that overall context in our minds as we look at these smaller parts of Scripture. Bible starts with God's creation. That's one bookend. The other bookend where the Bible ends would be. New creation. New creation. That's right. There's a lot we can say about this. We can talk about Eden. We can talk about the age of innocence of man and then the fall into sin, the man's rebellion, which brings about the need for judgment and also brings about the need for redemption. But the summary point is creation to new creation, right in the middle, the hinge point The high point, the center of everything is going to be what? Christ, right? Christ. Which again is shorthand for the incarnation, for the redemptive work of Christ. And you're going to bracket it all. Before that, you have the old covenant. Recorded for us and described for us in the Old Testament. And Christ inaugurates. And establishes the New Covenant, which we learn about and which is described for us in the New Testament. Talk about this whole story. Essentially this whole story of the story of judgment and redemption. Story of judgment and redemption. Of course before that you have the fall. Into sin, and the story of redemption will have a uh climactic end with the return of Christ. And the final judgment, the resurrection, and the eternal state, the state of glory. And remember this whole thing, this whole story , From the first chapter to the last chapter, from creation to new creation, the whole thing is all for the kingdom. glory and praise of God, so that it has a purpose. There's a reason why we exist. There's a reason that this church exists. There's a reason that history And all parts of history exist is because God is establishing his kingdom, a holy kingdom, a righteous kingdom, for his glory and for his praise. That's our purpose. That's our purpose, and that's our heart's desire is to live for the kingdom, glory, and praise of God. And when we do that, we're fitting in properly to God's story and to God's eternal purpose. Any questions on that review of the whole thing before we get into the historical books? If this were a course that you were receiving credit For and it's not. But if it were on the final exam, the first page of the exam would be a blank page. And it would be draw the overarching story of scripture. Just have you reproduce. story of the Bible. And it's so important not just not just to remember that overarching story, but to remember the reason. To remember the purpose because that's where it comes into practical application. It's one thing to believe all of these things are true, but it's another thing then by faith to live in line with it, to live for the glory and praise of God. Alright, so today we're going into The historical books of the Old Testament, that second major section. Did I spell that right? So many times when things are on the whiteboard, like right in front of my face, they don't look right to me. But I'll take your word for it that that's spelled correctly. Alright. We're going to be on this sheet this morning. And you'll see. The review in whatever's in red and italics, you've been here enough weeks, you know that that's a review. So the first thing we did was look at the Old Testament, how that goes from creation. to around 430 BC. It moves from Eden, Adam and Eve in Eden. That's the beginning point of the story. And it ends, the Old Testament ends with restored Judah under Persian rule. Or restored Judah under under Persian dominion and they're waiting for the promised Savior. They're waiting for the kingdom of God. They're also waiting for the forerunner of the Savior or the forerunner of the kingdom of God, and that would be who? The figure the New Testament begins with? John the Baptist, right. And then we looked at the first major section of the Old Testament, the Pentateuch, or the law, or if you want to use the Hebrew word for law, Torah The books of Moses, Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy, which takes us from creation to 1406 BC. That moves from Eden. At the beginning to Israel in the plains of Moab, at the Jordan River, but across from Jericho. So there's they're still east of the Jordan. The Trans Jordan area On the threshold. Think of a doorway. You have a threshold that you would step over into the promised land. That threshold is the Jordan River. But when the Pentateuch ends. Israel under the old covenant is in the plains of Moab, and that Changes this morning when we get into the historical books in the book of Joshua, the first big thing that happens is what? God takes Israel from the place of Moab through the Jordan River, not over on a bridge, but supernaturally through the Jordan River. into the promised land, that area west of the Jordan. So again, Pentateuch from creation to around 1406 BC. And the historical books, just an overview of the historical books, you can see the books from Joshua to Esther. And this runs from 1406 to around 430 BC. So it picks up with Israel in the plains of Moabs. And it goes all the way through the whole history of Israel in one way or another to 430 BC. So from Israel in the place of Moab to again restored Judah under Persian dominion. That's the notes. That's the historical note that the Old Testament ends with. Restored to Judah. That means brought back from Babylonian captivity. Into Judah, into Jerusalem, to rebuild the temple, to reinstitute the sacrifice, to renew the old covenant, to rebuild the city, to rebuild the walls. But still under Persian rule, and they're waiting. Again, they're waiting for the arrival of the Savior. They're waiting for the promised kingdom. We're awaiting the forerunner of the kingdom in the spirit of Elijah, who would be John the Baptist. Now, let's go through this worksheet. that you have and we'll start with the book of Joshua. Alright, the book of Joshua we'll do what we Same thing we did for the Pentateuch. Beginning, ending, the main storyline, and then we'll look at some representative verses and take any questions. So you should know this by now. The book of Joshua begins 1406 in the plains of what? Moab. Plains of Moab. Alright, it ends. It ends with the renewal of the covenant. At Shechem. This will be Joshua 24. But if you want to memorize where Joshua ends, what is the historical notes? That Joshua ends. It's the renewal of the covenant at Shechem and the death of Joshua. And we are told that Joshua was 110 years old when he died. And from some verses in Joshua We could estimate that this book of Joshua ends around 1375. We can only get an estimate. But we're given enough information that we can estimate it's around thirteen seventy-five-ish. So thirteen seventies , early thirteen eighties Estimating, estimating that this is the time frame where Joshua died, but before Joshua died, there's this Important moment, this important national covenant renewal at Shechem. And that's the context where you have this famous verse where Joshua says, As for me and my household, what? We will serve the Lord. Right, choose this day whom you will serve. This is at the covenant renewal at Shechem. So now you should now what's the story in between? What is the story in between? Entering, or yeah, the plague to Moab. Sorry, I messed that up. What's the story in between the Plains of Moab and the covenant renewal at Shechem? Three things. The story of Joshua summarized in three things. Alright. Entering. The promised land, that's number one. Conquering the promised land That's number two. You can put an asterisk on that. It was not perfect and complete in every way, but absolutely they conquered. Entering the promised land. Conquering the promised land, and the third one, which is so important, is allotting the promised land to the tribes of Israel It's a major section of Joshua that is dividing the land and allotting the land, giving this portion of the land to you, the tribe of Judah. It's pointing at you, Blair, because you would have been the chief of the tribe of Judah. But this is important in Joshua. Entering, conquering, and then dividing or allotting the land. And all of that in our minds I need to be understand as this is God giving Israel the land. God giving Israel the land. God he had promised. He's being faithful to his promise. He's moving his plan forward. He's giving Israel the land. But how that plays out historically, where the rubber meets the road on the ground on earth, you have Israel From the place of Moab, entering the promised land, conquering the promised land, and allotting or dividing the promised land to the tribes of Israel. And for the allotting, you want to put in parentheses 13. ninety nine thirteen ninety nine B C because we know from different verses I can get you those if you want. There's just a few verses where you can do the math and you can find out that it was seven years for this initial conquest of the land. Seven years of the initial conquests before the allotting of the land. Which is important because God accomplishes his plan progressively. He does things gradually. Israel And the early chapters of Joshua does not enter the promised land into a sit into a situation where you all where they already possess the cities and the villages and the land and the different tribes. own major portions of the land. That's not the case. They have to go to war. And it's seven years of conquest before they get to a point where they have control of the territory. And they can allot different areas to the tribes of Israel. But Joshua is such an important book of the Bible because of this very thing All of this is God fulfilling his promise to Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and Israel to give this land to Israel, and Israel is meant to be his chosen people, lights of the nations. To love him, serve him, worship him, and learn his law and administer justice, righteousness, and mercy in society. So this is Joshua Beginning, place of Moab, ending, renewal of the covenant at Shechem, and the story is entering, conquering, and allotting. Entering, conquering, and allotting. the promised land. Let's look at some representative verses. Let's turn to Joshua 1 1 to 5. If someone can get there, Vince, could you read Joshua 1, 1 to 5 for us? Sure. Or if someone's already there, Vince, you can get the next one. Joshua 1, 1 to 5. After the death of Moses, the servant of the Lord, the Lord said to Joshua, the son of No Moses servant, Moses, my servant is dead. Now therefore arise, go over this Jordan, you and all of his People into the land that I am giving to them, to the people of Israel. Every place that the sole of your foot will tread upon, I have given to you, just as I promised to Moses. From the wilderness and this leaven as far as the greater river, the river Euphrates, all the land of the Hittites, to the great sea See toward the going down of the sun shall be your territory. No man shall be able to stand before you all the days of your life, just as I was with Moses, so I will be with you. I will not leave you or forsake you. Thank you. I mean if the historical and the theological both stand out in this opening paragraph. God is with them. God will give them the land. He will not leave them. He will not forsake them. He will give them victory. He's giving them the land. But you see the progression Go over this Jordan, verse 2. Go over this Jordan that's crossing over, that's entering into the promised land. And then you have God giving the inheritance, giving the land, and they will possess it. Vince, now can you do chapter 10, verse 40 to 43? Okay. Forty to forty three. Let me try this. Believe it or not, I forgot my glasses, but I'm gonna try it. So Joshua conquered all of the land, the mountain country, and the south. And the lowland and the wilderness slopes, and all their kings, he left none remaining, but utterly destroyed all the breathed. As the Lord God of Israel had commanded. And Joshua conquered them from Kadesh Barneah as far as Gaza and all the country of Goshen. Even as far as giving all these all these kings in their land, Joshua took at one time, because the Lord God of Israel fought for Israel Then Joshua returned and all of Israel went into the camp at Gilead. Thank you. So again you have the theological and the historical The theological verse 42, the Lord, God of Israel, fought for Israel. He's giving the victory, he's winning the battle, he's gaining this inheritance One of the key words that stood out was conquered. Conquered. Some translations would say struck. But you have uh military conquest. Military victory. God giving the land. Now this is just a portion of the conquest. This is specifically That southern area of Israel, southern area of the promised land. So this is not the whole conquest. This is just a snippet. And then finally, could somebody read 21 Chapter twenty one, verses forty three to forty-five So the Lord gave Israel all the land which he had sworn to give to their fathers, and they possessed it and lived in it. And the Lord gave them rest on every side. According to all that he had sworn to their fathers. And no one of all their enemies stood before them. The Lord gave all their enemies into their hand. Now one of the good promises Which the Lord had made to the house of Israel failed all came to pass. Thank you. If I were preaching on this, and I read that paragraph To start thinking about what I would focus on. The first thing that comes to mind is the faithfulness of God. God is not making things up as He goes, these are not arbitrary decisions. We can't think of history, the history of redemption we cannot think of as a random. But God promised the land. To Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Israel, because the promises transfer to the next generation according to God's grace. God promised the land And it should not surprise us that God, because he is faithful, is giving them the land. So you have again the theological and the historical. Go all the way back to Genesis. Chapter 12, verses 1 to 3, the call of Abram, the initial call, the initial promise to Abram. God would make him into a great nation. Then from that nation would come one who would bring the blessing of God to the nations. And that's what God's plan is for Israel. To make them a nation. He's given them the law. He's given them the worship. They're in covenant with God. He's giving them the land. And From that nation ultimately would come the promised seed of the woman, the Savior, the Redeemer, the Christ, the one who would bring blessing not just to Israel, but would bring blessing to the nations. to the world to win back the nations to God. And that is the inheritance of God's people ultimately is the world, is the earth. And God is progressively moving toward that through the Great Commission and bringing the gospel to the nations to establish Local churches to establish true worship all over the world. It's an amazing thing. But it's all because of the promises of God and the faithfulness of God to do this. Any questions on Joshua or any practical applications from Joshua of all that we've talked about? I think there's a good one there, trusting the faithfulness of God that He'll be faithful to His promises. But are there any other thoughts or questions on Joshua before we go to Judges? I I have one, but it's probably something I don't know. It could be a anyway. It's not anyway let me Go ahead. Just say we'll so we'll be the judge of it. Alright, yeah. Genesis twelve, those first verses, right? Yes. What the church was grafted in. So does Israel as a as a so-called nation, because we are Israel now I think, right? Rural yeah, spiritually. Yeah. So in a sense, in a sense. Not the exact same way. Does God owe the people of Israel the Israeli people. I've always believed he did. But this but looking at it in the you know, from studying over the years, does God owe them the same blessings? Are they still the the people that God He owes them eschatological salvation. He owes He owes them a Savior, He owes them an eternal kingdom, He owe He owes them the Holy Spirit. And he's already provided those things. He's already made good on his promise. Does he own physical prosperity and a and like a political protection of some sort? The restored Israel See the restored Israel is the Israel who is brought into the new covenant. This is the story of Yes, yes, Gentiles, but first Israel. First Israel. The church is established with national Israel, with ethnic Jews. This is the early chapters of Acts. The new covenant, the kingdom of God, is established in Israel, in Judah, in Samaria, the lost sheep of Israel. There's Jews from every nation under heaven. There at the day of Pentecost, many of them were converted, and they go back to their nations, back to their homes, and almost immediately have the gospel, the seed of the gospel, the seed of the kingdom planted in all the nations. After the church is established, after the promises are fulfilled to Israel in Israel, then the Gentiles are grafted into that restored Israel. But you have to have the restored Israel first. See that's often I think what is skipped and and when that is skipped it makes it look like God didn't fulfill his promises to Israel And the fullness, the full inheritance is yet to come. We're not in the consummate state right here. The people of God don't have Stewardship over all the earth right now and perfect righteousness and holiness unto God. Well that is coming, but um The initial fulfillment, the inaugural fulfillment, has already come. That's what the New Testament is about. So great, it's a great question. Alright, let's go to judges. Judges, again, that we can only get an estimate for this. An estimate for the beginning of judges would be 1375. If you want to go, you want to just remember like 1380s, 1370s. It's around 1375 where Judges begins after the death of Joshua. After the renewal of the covenant. And the book of Judges will end around 1100. Around 1100 We know that because of say a little bit more about this when we get to Ruth, because we know that Ruth Was the great grandmother of David. So if you can you can estimate there that uh the book of Ruth is happening at the end. of the era of the judges. Did you say around eleven hundred around eleven hundred, yes. Judges S And judges end, what's the situation? It goes up to or just before Samuel. And Samuel is the final judge. Alright, so the book of Judges goes up to or just before the time of Samuel , who was the final judge of Israel. 1 Samuel seven fifteen. Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life. Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life. But it's within his lifetime that the monarchy is established Now, what is the story of judges? Story of judges Cycles is one of the important words for understanding judges. You have cycles of idolatry Judgment and then salvation through judges. Now there's more detail on the cycle, but this is in generally speaking a cycle that you'll see Israel and different parts of Israel go through Cycles of idolatry, judgment, salvation through judges Idolatry, judgment, salvation through a judge, idolatry judgment, salvation through a judge. So you'll see the cycle. And there's more detail in in that. For example, after the judgment, the people crying out for help, the people crying out for a savior. But there's one more component that is often overlooked. Let me say this last thing and then I'll come to you, Eric, for your question. There's another component of judges that is often overlooked. And the lessons and sermons and lectures I heard on judges I don't think I ever heard this, what I'm about to say, made an important part of the story of Judges. There's another part of the story of Judges that is often overlooked, and as you have You have this cycle of idolatry, judgment, and salvation interspersed with long eras of peace and rest. Long eras of peace and rest. And I was called the judges not only as a disciple, but it's this unstoppable downward spiral of wickedness with nothing good. Worse and worse and worse and worse, and that is not the case. You'll have 40 years of peace and rest. 80 years of peace and rest. The land has rest. The land has peace. That's a major blessing from God. That's an extended era of obedience and worship and the blessing of God. So it is not an unstoppable downward spiral. Now, when you get to the end of judges, there are If there's a long narrative that does emphasize just how wicked things were at the end of Judges But it was not a non-stop downward spiral to that point. It was more of ups and downs, ups and downs, and then you have the lowest low that you could get. And it's only during that session Where it is said at that time there was no king in Israel. Everybody what? Went to their own divorce. Everybody did what they wanted. Everybody went to their own things. Everybody did what was right in their own eyes It's only during that last era where you get that. That is not the whole era of justice. And so yes, you have the cycle, idolatry, judgment, salvation, but you also have interspersed with times of peace and rest. Um all right. Eric, was your kind of touched on when you were mentioning kings? Is Judges where Israel starts asking God saying That will be first Samuel. That will be first Samuel. Yep. Any other questions or thoughts? Alright, let's go to I'm sorry. Did you have one Vince? Yeah I'm just thinking as a parallel to our own nation, but I'm not gonna be firm about it, but it just seems like that's what's going on. We have these cycles and I was a kid, things were horrendous in the seventies, the eighties seemed conservative, the nineties seemed googy again. It's like up and down, but there's this deal where I'm wondering where it's gonna drop. Like Yeah, and it's a biblical thing that just because one generation is faithful and obedient and sees the blessing of God does not guarantee that for the next generation. But you said you can say the opposite too. Just because one generation is idolatrous And it hates God and loves wickedness and has and has weekly parades for wickedness does not mean that the next generation will be worse Does not mean that the next generation will be the same. The next generation, God can bring revival, He can bring awakening, He can bring a long era of um spiritual Blessedness and the love for God. It is only since the nineteen sixties, seventies, only in American history Since the 1960s and 70s till now, do you have an era, an extended era, where the church is declining and losing influence? The majority of American history is the opposite. The opposite. It's the spread. It's the it's the fruitfulness. It's the influence of scripture and a desire for a biblical church. Not that it's been perfect. Nothing in this age is perfect. Nothing in our own discipleship is perfect. Nothing in our own local church is perfect. And nothing in the the broader church and the nation is perfect. But there certainly are eras, eras, generations. You see that very early in scripture. You see it modeled most clearly in the book of Exodus. Uh Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy into Joshua, where you have the generation of the Exodus. was by and large defined as unbelieving and wicked, and then the next generation was by and large defined as faithful. And devoted to God. And Scripture says that for the days of Joshua and All the days of the elders who outlived Joshua, there was by and large faith and obedience. But we know that that's not the case for the rest of yes. When we think about the history of our nation. Of course there'll be some diff differences because we're not Israel under the old covenant with that unique place in the world. But there's certain principles we can glean from it. Alright, now we'll look at some representative verses. Judges 1. Twenty seven to thirty judges one Anyone want to read Judges one twenty seven to thirty for us I'll do it. Manasseh did not drive out the inhabitants of Bethsheon. And oh, did you look at the names and think I don't want to read that? Now you have to remember next time for Joshua 1, 27 to 30, just assign it to someone, don't ask. He did not jug out the inhabitants of Bethsheon and its villages, or Tanah. And its villages, or the inhabitants of Dor, or and that's an easy one, Dor. And its villages Or the inhabitants of Ibliam and its villages, or the inhabitants of Megiddo and its villages, for the Canaanites persisted in dwelling in that land. When Israel grew strong, they put the Canaanites to forced labor But did not drive them out completely. And Ephraim did not drive out the Canaanites who lived in Gizer. So the Canaanites lived in Gizer among them. Zebulun did not jive out the inhabitants of Kitron or the inhabitants of Nahalal, so the Canaanites lived among them, but became subject to forced labor. So you have different cities. Different villages where Israel, the different tribes Did not attempt to take from the inhabitants. They rested on the laurels. They got comfortable with what God had given them, and they stopped. The conquests, and that was disobedience. And then putting them to forced labor was also disobedience. Because all of the all of these Remaining um Canaanites and different peoples would be a snare to them. It would become a snare to them. Their False beliefs, their false worship, their gross immorality and atrocious practices And so you see early in Judges that even though overall God gave them the land, the overall territory, The different tribes, the different leaders did not continue to take the whole land and drive out all the peoples. That is that was disobedience. Judges 2 One to seven. Now the angel of the Lord went up from Gilgal to Bochim. And he said, I brought you up from Egypt and brought you into the land that I swore to give your fathers. By the way, this is the pre-incarnate Christ. is the angel of the Lord who saved Israel from Egypt. He brought Israel up out of Egypt. Paul teaches that in 1 Corinthians 10 But you already have this in the Old Testament. You have the angel of the Lord who is sent from Yahweh, but also is Yahweh himself and worthy of worship. So this is the pre-incarnate Christ, the angel of the Lord. And he says, I brought you up, I brought you into the land. I said, I will never break my covenant with you. Another hint that this is the Lord. Because the covenant was between the Lord and Israel. He says, I'll never break my covenant with you. And you shall make no covenant with the inhabitants of the land. You shall break down their altars. But you have what? Not obeyed. You have not obeyed my voice. You said, well we got rid of most of the altars. We have houses to live in. And so we won't break down the rest of these altars. He says, you've not obeyed. What is this that you have done? Verse 3 So now I say, I will not drive them out before you, but they shall become thorns in your sides, and their gods shall be a snare to you As soon as the angel of the Lord spoke these words to all the people of Israel, the people lifted up their voices and wept, and they called the name of that place, Spokim. And they there, which means uh weeping ones or those who weep, and they sacrificed their to the Lord, the sacrifice there, to Yahweh. Verse six. When Joshua dismissed the people, the people of Israel went each to his inheritance. to take possession of the land. And the people served the Lord all the days of Joshua and all the days of the elders who outlived Joshua, who had seen all the great work that the Lord had done for Israel So this was a wake-up call. This did bring conviction of sin and did bring repentance. Because you go, it's so interesting. The passage starts with their disobedience. And then God is going to discipline them, and in judgment, in discipline , of Israel. He's going to stop fighting for them and he 's going to allow These people who've remained in the land and their altars, which is representative of their false gods and false religion, God is going to allow them to be a snare to the people. But then it ends with this statement about their faithfulness for the rest of Joshua's life and for the rest of the elders that outlived Joshua. So there's a discipline which leads to a conviction of sin, which leads to an obedience to God. That's why we should not despise the discipline of God in our lives. When He disciplines us, it's for our own good. It doesn't feel good at the time. It doesn't feel great at the moment when we're disciplined and chastised. But if we respond the right way, it does bring maturity and it does bring blessing. And that's what happened here. Just to speed things up, we'll go to uh some of the final the final key verses. of Judges. Judges chapter 17, 6. Now it's not until chapter 17 where you get this language In those days there was no king in Israel. Everyone did what was right in his own eyes. Also, Judges 18:1. In those days there was no king in Israel. Uh and then also in 191, in those days when there was no king in Israel, and then finally 21 25, the last verse. In those days there was no king in Israel. Everyone did what was right in his own eyes So you actually only have that statement twice where everyone did what was right in their own eyes. And then what it does is it brackets off this last portion of judges. To tell us just how wicked it was in this final generation. I was taught that The whole era from in between the conquest to the time of the kings in 1 Samuel, the whole era was an era where every single generation was just was unbelievers, everyone did what was right in their own eyes. And you had and you had this You always had nothing more than a few believers scattered here and there, but that's not true. Look at those interspersed eras of good leadership and of peace and rest for the land for long eras, for like generations. And if our theology Has taught us anything in this general portion of Scripture is that that can only happen by the providence and blessing of God for obedience and love. Otherwise, it would have just been nonstop judgment. You wouldn't have had that cycle. You'd have just had nonstop judgment, historical judgment. But that is not what you get in the book of Judges. So just to review. It begins , Joshua begins, or sorry, Judges begins after the death of Joshua and the renewal of the covenant at Shechem Around 1375, it ends around 1100, up to or just before Samuel, who is the final judge. And it is true that that era, that generation was widespread unbelief, widespread wickedness. The story, cycles of, what are those three things? The cycles of what? Do you remember? Idolatry. Judgment. Salvation. Salvation. Idolatry, judgment, salvation. Great. Interspersed with times of peace and rest by the providence and blessing of God. Alright, Ruth. There's no beginning and ending. We'll just say when the story happened. The story happened around, around 1080, 1070, again, we don't know exactly, but it's toward the end of judges. That's where Ruth is probably best to remember, it's just toward the end of the time of the judges So late in the period of judges. Now the story of Ruth is a story of Three things primarily. Number one, the conversion and the faithfulness of a Moabite woman. Ruth was a Moabite. By um by heritage, the conversion and faithfulness of a Moabite woman. Secondly, the redeeming love of a man from Judah, which is I mean that should pique our interest. The redeeming love of a man from Judah, because who is promised ultimately was going to come from the tribe of Judah? Go ahead. The Messiah. Come from the tribe of Judah. It would have been the Messiah. It would have been the line of the tribe of Judah with the redeeming love. For his people and a redeeming love for mankind. You get in Boaz, a type of Christ. So you had the conversion and faithfulness of a Moabite woman. The redeeming love of a man from Judah and the two of them, this is the third part of the story, the two of them become the great-grandparents to David. To David, yeah. The great grandparents to David. So you have Ruth and Boaz. This really is um Ruth is an extended genealogy of David, extended not in the terms that it goes back and back and back, but it zooms in on this One story that tells where David comes from. Ruth and Boaz will give birth to Obed. Obed will give birth to Jesse. Jesse will give birth to David. And it's from the house of David that the Messiah will come. Are they grandparents or great grandparents? Great-grandparents. Did I say it wrong? Yeah, great grandparents. Yeah, I heard grandparents. Great grandparents. It goes Ruth and Boaz, and then it goes Obes, Jesse, David. Ruth One Sixteen and Seventeen Here's that faithfulness of Ruth. But Ruth said, Do not urge me to leave you or to return from following you. For where you go, I will go. Where you lodge, I will lodge. Your people will be my people, your God will be my God. Where you die, I will die, and there I will be buried. And may the Lord do so to me and more also, if anything but but death, parts me from you. You see here Ruth binding herself to Naomi and binding herself to Yahweh and to Israel. And then four chapter four, thirteen to seventeen So Boaz took Ruth, and she became his wife, and he went into her, and the Lord gave her conception, and she bore a son Then the women said to Naomi, Blessed be the Lord who has not left you this day without a redeemer, and may his name be renowned in Israel. And that Redeemer, that kinsman redeemer that maintains the inheritance, that maintains the family name and the family integrity is Boaz and he becomes a type of Christ, the Redeemer, the kinsman, Redeemer whose name is renowned in Israel. So you have the conversion and faithfulness of Ruth, this Moabite woman, you have the redeeming love of a man from Judah, great grandparents to David. Another important theme. An important theological theme in Ruth, well, really in all of Scripture, but really comes out in Ruth Is the providence of God, the divine providence and kindness of God, even in the midst of difficult situations, where the world would look at and say, Well, obviously the blessing of God is not upon you, but by faith. With eyes of faith and a heart of faith, God's children can see God's kindness and providence even in difficult situations. So, Ruth 2. 12, just as an example The Lord repay you for what you have done, and a full reward be given you by the Lord, the God of Israel, under whose wings you have come to take refuge. The Lord repay you. The Lord reward you. There's this belief. That God in kindness, God in providence, does reward those who believe and give their lives to Him. And then also , go down to verse 20. And Naomi said to her daughter-in-law, May he be blessed by the Lord, whose kindness has not forsaken the living or the dead. That's good theology. God 's kindness has not forsaken the living or the dead. Naomi also said to her, The man is a close relative of ours, one of our redeemers. One of our redeemers. So it's an understanding in in the famine and what drove Naomi and her family out of Israel, out of Judah. and and the losing of her husband, the losing of her family, the losing of her her heritage, her family name. But still God 's kindness to the living, so Naomi and Ruth, and also his kindness to the dead, to Naomi's family, who has Died and gone, but God is still showing kindness and faithfulness. And it's from these people in the book of Ruth that David comes. And it's from David that the Messiah comes. So really cool Remember that scripture, I erased my diagram, is tracing out where the Redeemer will come from Teaching us what he'll do, teaching us how he'll do it, but also tracing out where he will come from. So that's the importance of Ruth at the end of the day. Great grandparents. David, let's push on. We'll try to get through 1st and 2 Samuel. Although, man, 2 Samuel is so important. The last thing I want to do is rush through that. So maybe we'll just do 1 Samuel and wrap it up. Yeah, let's let's do that. Let's do that. We'll do first Samuel and we'll wrap it up. So 1 Samuel begins. Again, this is another one we could just estimate. It begins around 1100. With Samuel's conception and birth narrative. 1 Samuel reminds me of how the Gospels begin , except for John, which begins a different way, but And Mark also doesn't give the narrative, but Matthew and Luke give these conception and birth narratives. Conception and birth narratives of John the Baptist and of Christ. And 1 Samuel begins with a conception and birth narrative of Samuel around 1100. Just to give you an idea, by chapter 8, Samuel is referred to as an old man. The story moves moves through the life of Samuel. He's not a boy forever. By chapter 8, he's an old man. By chapter 10, Saul's annoying to king. So we know chapter 10 is in the year 1050. We know that for sure. So the book of Samuel beg 1 Samuel begins, Samuel's conception and birth narrative at around 1100, and it ends with Whose death? Any guesses on whose death the book of 1 Samuel ends with in the year 1010? Saul. Yeah, Saul. And that's why and and now you can know right from there what 2 Samuel is going to be all about David. Right? If 1 Samuel ends with the death of Saul, 2 Samuel is the 2nd Samuel could be Titled The Book of David. Alright, that's 2 Samuel. So 1 Samuel ends with Saul's death in 1010. And we'll finish with some. Oh no, we have to do the story, right? We have to do the story. Alright, so the story A lot happens in these historical narratives, but the story can be summarized in this 1 Samuel tells the story of the transition from the time of the judges to the monarchy. The time of the judges to the monarchy, or you could say the United Kingdom. I like to say monarchy because it's going from the time of the judges ruling to a king. To an anointed king ruling over the kingdom. So that's one part of the story, the transition from judges to monarchy, which begins with Saul. But once Saul is established as king, he's rejected by the Lord. And the Lord chooses David as the king. That happens while Saul is still reigning as king. Where Saul is rejected, and David is chosen, and there's this preliminary anointing of David, this Foreshadowing that David is going to reign as king over Israel, but that won't happen until the book of 2 Samuel. Real quickly here, because they're so important, some representative verses, chapter two, verses seven to eight. The Lord makes poor and makes rich. He brings low and he exalts. He raises up the poor from the dust. He lifts the needy from the ash heap to make them sit with princes and inherit a seat of honor. For the pillars of the earth are the Lord's, and on them he has set the world. What again is that pointing us to? The providence of God. The work of God in history These are not arbitrary historical events, completely up to the whims and decisions of humans. God is working out his purpose. Chapter 8, verse 7, 1 Samuel 8, verse 7 And the Lord said to Samuel, obey the voice of the people in all that they say to you, because they have not rejected you, but they have rejected me from being king over them. The people of Israel did not have a good motive behind their desire for a king. With their twisted motive for their king, the twisted reasons for why they wanted a king, they were rejecting God's lordship over them. 1 Samuel 13, 13. And Samuel said to Saul You have done foolishly. You have not kept the commandment of the Lord your God with which he commanded you. For then the Lord would have established your kingdom over Israel forever. And now verse 14, but now your kingdom shall not continue. The Lord has sought out a man after his own heart, and the Lord has commanded him to be prince over his people, because you have not kept what the Lord commanded you. And who is Who is he who is Samuel alluding to in that prophecy? David. David. Go down to verse 22. So 13 22 and 23. So on the day of the battle there was neither sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people but Saul and Jonathan But no, this is wrong. This has got to be wrong. Um, but I'll finish reading it. And Jonathan, his son had them, and the garrison of the Philistines went out to the pass of M'Cmash. Give me one second. Let me skim this and see if my if my scribbled notes I wrote this down the wrong way. Um I 'll have to get back to you on that. Finally, let's go to first Samuel. 16 7. But the Lord said to Samuel, Do not look on his appearance or on the height of his stature, because I have rejected him. For the Lord sees not as man sees. Man looks on the outward appearance, but the Lord looks on the Any guesses On the heart. That's right. So Saul was impressive in the eyes of man, but his heart was wicked and full of unbelief. David, in this part, and when he shows up in the narrative It's just a little boy. It's just a little boy. And that was God's chosen. It actually would be David, that little boy, who God would use David to establish the kingdom of Israel like never before, and to establish their territory, to establish their dominion, and then in the reign of Solomon that was taken to the next level Where you have Israel at a golden era in David and Solomon's reign with dominion over the surrounding nations. All right, let's pray together. Father, we thank you. Thank you for your goodness. Thank you for your work in history, but thank you for your work in our lives. We love you, Lord. You have first loved us. You've given us your Holy Spirit. You've given us your word. Open our hearts. Continue to open our hearts to your word And by your Spirit, would you continue administering your grace to our hearts? It's good for our hearts to be strengthened by your grace. And this we ask in Christ's name. Amen. Amen. Thank you, man.