Matthew one eighteen through twenty-five Now the birth of Jesus Christ took place in this way. When his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph, before they came together. She was found to be with child from the Holy Spirit. And her husband, Joseph, being a just man and unwilling to put her to shame. Resolved to divorce her quietly. But as he considered these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not fear to take Mary as your wife, for that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus. He will save his people from their sins. All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son. and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which means God with us. When Joseph woke from sleep, he did as the angel of the Lord commanded him. He took his wife, but knew her not until she had given birth to a son, and he called his name Jesus. So uh the a question that I want to ask, and I told you before the prayer, you probably think it's a trick question. Uh Um 'cause it may sound pretty easy, but I want to use it to get the wheels turning and to get you talking. So when we come to a doctrine in Scripture that transcends our understanding. Or when in other words, when we come to a teaching in in the Bible that doesn't fit within the box of human logic as we understand it. What do we do with that teaching? How do we respond to that teaching? Even just what are some of the different ways people do respond. to those kinds of things. And um and whatever answer you give, my next question is gonna be why? Or why is that the right response or why is that the wrong response. Alright, so so the table's open. What do you what do you think? What's your answer? What do we do when we come to doctrines or come to Yeah, Meg. Um believe it in faith. Yeah, great answer. We believe it in faith. And that's not baseless. Faith is the basis, right? We we believe it, we receive it in faith. Great answer. Anyone else? Tom. Yeah, I would I would think of it. Uh we're working. Okay. Skepticism. Okay. So well let's let's stay there. I want to make sure I understand what we're saying. So we're not we're not saying that's the right way to To respond. We're just saying that's a way. Right, right. Right. That there must be something wrong with what's written. Right. That's right. So do all kinds of historical reconstruction and do all kinds of speculation. Uh just to kind uh uh just to uh wiggle our way out of uh a difficult situation. Uh say it again. Which becomes man's words Man's word, not God. Right, right. So so if it doesn't fit into our categories, or if it doesn't fit into our preconceived notions of reality or logic We dispense with it. We leave it be. We say it can't be true. It can't be right. Right. Right. We can't we can't understand it because it's unique, uh we can't comprehend how this this could be because it's a miracle. It's it's a miracle, it can't be explained by scientific inquiry, it can't be explained by human logic, it transcends logic, but that does not mean illogical. I mean it the only way Something transcending logic, the only way that can be illogical is if human logic is the standard of truth and reality. And the fact is it's not. So It requires a humility to believe God's word, to take it as it is, God's true word, and take it on faith. John? That's right. It does go back to that, that prime miracle. God made everything out of nothing. Just by his own power. Think of the power there that to create the world. So Nothing is beyond God. Um maybe saying that faith. But it's not Like it's um , yeah. It's it's a great point. This this is uh I mean arguably this is the central point that needs to be made. There is no contradiction between faith and logic. There's no contradiction between reason, a right use of reason, and faith. Faith in God. The problem is from man's perspective, from us naturally speaking, we think there is. We think you either have faith or you could be reasonable. You could believe in God or you can use logic. But that's that's from our fallen perspective. The fact of the matter is, the most reasonable thing there is is to believe God and His Word and to take it at His Word. And so when something comes and transcends Our grasp of logic doesn't make it illogical. It just shows us again that we don't have the mind of God. We're created beings. And if we could understand and fully comprehend any of these truths, We would um we would be as smart as God. Amen. Amen. That's right. Over and over again, God has proven himself. He's revealed himself in his his power, his mercy, his grace, his goodness, uh all of his attributes. He's proved, he's demonstrated. Um and what is the Bible but a story of uh God shining forth the goodness of himself, man rejecting that, and then God responding again in grace and mercy to shining forth more of himself in love. Um So I start with that discussion because we do come to the doctrine of the incarnation. tonight in Matthew one eighteen to twenty five. Just means coming in the flesh. The eternal son of God at a point in history, entering into history by taking on a human nature to himself. A central miracle. Let's read through again and uh bring out some of the other some of the elements of this, but some of the other core Christian doctrines that connect to this. doctrine of the incarnation. Now the birth of Jesus Christ took place in this way. Now it actually gives the story of the conception of Jesus Christ. So it's really the background of the birth. And then, of course, the birth and the naming. Really a big deal here. The naming is a really big deal. The nature of the conception, and then the naming of that baby. So here's how it happened. When his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph, that means pledged to be married, before they came together, she was found to be with child. from the Holy Spirit. So hang on to that phrase. The child was conceived supernaturally, a human baby, in the womb of a human woman by the power of the Holy Spirit. That's right. That's right. Born without sin. And verse 19, and her husband Joseph, being a just man And unwilling to put her to shame, resolved to divorce her, or resolved to put her away quietly to break off the betrothal, to break off the marriage. But as he considered these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream. So reminiscent of prophetic visions. Here an angel of the Lord coming to visit Joseph in a dream. Pretty cool stuff. Pretty cool Stuff. Special revelation. And here's what the angel says. Joseph, son of David. Remember that links back to the uh the genealogy. That was all about Jesus being the heir of David and the fulfillment of God's covenant promise to David. Joseph, son of David, do not fear to take Mary as your wife. See again, they were betrothed, but he had not yet taken her as his wife. For that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. You have that phrase again, from the Holy Spirit or of the Holy Spirit. And there you get the word conceived. So The conception is being dealt with, and then obviously the birth will come. Verse 21, she will bear a son. And you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. Let's just stop right there for a little bit and Camp out. You 'll name you'll call his name Jesus, which means the Lord saves, or it could be It could be stated, the Lord is salvation. It's God's covenant name or God's memorial name, as it's said in the prophets. I know that said in Hosea. Yahweh, or in the Bible, it'll be in all caps. Lord, the Lord is salvation. You'll give him the name Jesus because he is the Lord who saves. And then it says, the nature of the salvation He will save his people from their sins. He's come to save, not from Pharaoh. Not from Nebuchadnezzar, not from Assyria, not from the Canaanites, not from Goliath, not from any of these Typological enemies of the typological kingdom in the old covenant. He's come to save from sin He's come to take away the guilt of sin. He's come to transfer us out from under the curse. of sin and death, to deliver us from the judgment of God against our sin, to deliver us from the wages of sin, which is death. He's come to save from sin. But it says his people. Now his people, first and foremost, are going to be those within Israel, the faithful remnant within Israel. Anyone who would repent and believe. Salvation came first to the Jew, then to the Greek, first to within Israel, and then Gentiles were grafted in. So first and foremost, his people Yeah, are faithful Jews. And ultimately, ultimately, any true heir of Abraham And a true heir of Abraham is not just an heir by blood, but an heir by faith. True children of Abraham. And the true Jew, true Jew, as Paul argues in Romans, is not one who is just circumcised outwardly, but circumcised in the heart, inwardly, which is the work of the Spirit. So first and foremost, faithful Israel are his people. He's going to save them from their sins. Not apostate Israel. Judgment will come upon them. The kingdom will be taken away from them and given to a people bearing fruits. All this will happen in the book of Matthew will be explained. But the Gentiles are then grafted into that one body of Christ. Jesus saves This is his name. The Lord is salvation. This is our message. This is our peace. That Jesus has saved us. This is what church is about. Jesus saving us from sin. If Jesus doesn't save us from sin, we have no hope. We have no hope, we have no future, we have nothing truly meaningful to offer the world around us. But Jesus does save from sin. You will call his name Jesus, for he'll save his people from their sin. When we talk about the incarnation, we're talking about the person of Christ. The person of Christ. Well, I don't know why I want to write everything up there, but it's just going to take longer, so I'm just going to keep going. The person of Christ, Christ incarnate, is one person with two natures. One person with two natures The person is the eternal Son of God, or God the Son. Which should already get our wheels turning thinking about the Trinity. We'll get there in the next section of the lesson, hopefully. Right now we're just on the person of Christ. He's one person with two natures. A divine nature, fully divine nature, and a human nature, fully human nature You are one person with one nature. I am one person with one nature. Jesus is one person, the eternal Son of God. And one person and two natures, divine nature or human nature. There are some good cross-references for this. Keep a ribbon or some kind of marker in Matthew and turn to John 1. I know you know this verse, but it is a classic, and it is uh the way John starts his gospel because it's so important. John 1. 1, in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. Let's just stop right there. One of the ways the pre incarnate Christ is referenced in the Old Testament. I'm thinking of some examples. From Ezekiel and Jeremiah right now is the Word. The Word of God appeared. The Word of God appeared. And um It's not just a message, but it's another way of talking about the angel of the Lord, who is sent from God, but also equal to God. Uh Christophany, or it just means an appearance. Of Christ. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God. So you see that there's some kind of distinction The word is with God, but then the word was God. There's some kind of identity. So obviously the nature of the word is beyond human comprehension. The Word is a with God and the Word is God. There's something unique going on here, something supernaturally unique about the Word who was there in the beginning. means he's there before creation. And then verse 2, the very first word in verse 2 is Is this an understatement to say that it's important? What's the very first word in verse 2? He. The word is a person It's a personal word. He was in the beginning with God. Verse 3, all things were made through him. So he was the agent of creation. Creation doesn't happen Apart from the agency of the Word, God, through the Word, creating everything. All things were made through Him, and without Him, nothing was made that has been made. And then skip down to verse 14. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us. And we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. The word Was there in the beginning. He was the agent of creation, which means he was not a created being. He was with God, so personally distinct, but he was God. Same in essence as God. And at a point in history, he became flesh and dwelt among us. He took on a human nature to himself. He came to earth and lived among us. And we have seen his glory. Well, when we see his glory, what glory are we seeing? We're seeing the glory of God. The glory of God revealed through God the Son. in the flesh. We've seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. So it's it was true in Jesus' earthly ministry, and it's still true today. When we believe in Jesus, we believe in God. When we love Jesus, we love God. When we hate Jesus, we hate God. When we come into a relationship with Jesus, we come into a relationship with God There's no second step there that needs to happen. You worship Jesus, you're worshiping God. When you pray to Jesus, you're praying to God. You can multiply as many examples as I could. Jesus is God. He's the mediator between God and man. And when we come to him in faith, we come to God. One person with two natures. Another cross-reference, another classic one, would be Philippians chapter two. Philippians two, beginning in verse five Have this mind, or have this mindset among yourselves Which is yours in Christ Jesus, who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God, a thing to be grasped But he emptied himself, taking the form of a servant. So he existed as God, but he emptied himself. Well, how did he empty himself? It tells us how. He took the form of a servant Being born in the likeness of men. That's how he took the form of a servant. That's how he emptied himself by being born as a man, being born in the likeness of men. This is God This is Christ Jesus, who was in the form of God, he was God, and he became a man. Verse eight. And being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death. even death on a cross. Which should make our minds shoot right back to what the angel told Joseph, he'll save his people from the sins, because that's how he saves his people from the sins. from their sins. He dies for their sins. He dies for your sins. He die for my sins. He died in the place of sinners. As a human. If If he's go he has to be a human if he's going to be savior, because he's going to be a substitute sacrifice for the sins of humans He's not a savior of angels. He's a savior. He's a repre he's a covenant representative head over humans. Those who would Turn and believe and be saved. Becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. Therefore, God has highly exalted him. Still in Philippians 2. Verse nine, therefore God has highly exalted him, and has bestowed on him the name that is above every name. Now we're getting into the reward, the exaltation of Christ, the glorification of Christ in his resurrection and in his glorious ascension, seated at the right hand of God in heaven. This this is the result, this is the reward of his Becoming a man, humbling himself to the point of death, death on a cross, therefore God has highly exalted him And bestowed on him the name that is above every name. I'm going to find out that name in just a few seconds here. Verse 10: so that at the name of Jesus Every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. His name is Jesus. His name is Lord. Jesus Christ is Lord. And it's by his blood shed on that cross. Which is the center of that little passage right there. Death on the cross. Um by his blood shed on the cross, we can know God God. We can know God. That's the blessing. That's the reward. God is our reward. God is our treasure. He's the inheritance. That's what we live for. And that's what our hope is in God, knowing God, loving God, being loved by God, seeing God, singing to God, enjoying his presence, enjoying his glory It's all about God. This passage is so incredible. It starts with the preincarnate Christ. And the incarnation, it ends with the exalted Christ, but with everything coming into submission to the exalted Christ. Right in the middle is A shameful death on a cross? I mean the wisdom of God just confounds human wisdom. Because death on a cross, death on a Roman cross was not a story of victory. Like you didn't win in that scenario. You were a criminal, you were despised, you were publicly shamed. It was it was specifically designed to be the most shameful, despicable public display as Dr long, drawn out suffering, excruciating suffering. People throwing things at you and mocking you and spitting on you and laughing at you and Death on a cross? Right, but it's because of what he was doing through that that makes it the greatest victory that's ever been won. And attains for him the highest glory. It's incredible that you see that at the end of verse 8, death on a cross, and then in verse 9, highly exalted. Highly exalted, but this is the story of the cross. Another verse, Colossians 2:9. For in him, in Christ The whole fullness of deity dwells bodily That's crazy. Do you see what a miracle this is? Because if there are ever two things in Scripture that are completely different, it would be God and man. God is uncreated. Man is created. God is infinite. Man is finite God is outside of time, not bound by time. Man is within time. Man is bound by time. Here you have the fullness of deity. Dwelling in time on earth in a human body. It's a great, great miracle. God would become A man. In him the fullness of deity dwells bodily That's still true today, for the still incarnate, yet exalted Christ, still true, he's still God and man. When Jesus ascended into heaven, it didn't reverse the incarnation and he put off the human nature. No, he's still a human He's our representative, our human brother, savior, lord, master before the throne of God. And he's God's representative, ruler over his people, over the universe One more on this. Hebrews 1. 1. And I'm just giving you some favorites, some classics, some selections Hebrews one one Well the first paragraph of Hebrews outlines the whole of the whole Bible, pretty much. The whole Bible, pretty much. Long ago, at many times and many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets. Essentially a summary of the Old Testament. At least the climactic and central story of the Old Testament. God speaking to the f our fathers through the prophets. And then verse 2, but in these last days He is spoken to us by his Son, whom he appointed the heir of all things. Through whom also he created the world. Sound familiar? He is the radiance of the glory of God. Now, is there a greater radiance? Is there something that's more beautiful than that? If you're the radiance of the glory of God, you're God. He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature. There's God's nature, his nature, same thing. No difference, no difference in nature, no difference in essence, no difference in being. Just a distinction of persons within the essence of God. And he upholds the universe by the word of his power After making purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the majesty on high, having become as much superior to angels. As the name he has inherited is more excellent than theirs. And the whole rest of Hebrews just explains and applies that very thing that he sits on the match Majesty sits at the right sits down at the right hand of the Majesty on high. And then he just explains that, the different aspects of it, how it's the fulfillment of Old Testament uh scripture, and what that means for believers today. And How we should live and where our hope is, where our assurance is, and on and on and on. Of course, the reason we turn to this passage right now is verse 3. He is the radiance of the glory of God in the exact imprint of his nature. If seeing the glory of God by faith is the thing that transforms us. If seeing the glory of God by faith is the thing that sanctifies us. comforts us and fills us with joy and fills us with peace and fills us with love, we must always have our hearts fixed on Christ. Because it's in Christ that the glory of God is revealed to us. Christ must always be put forth, always be preached. The gospel must always be preached. Christ in all of his glory, the person and the work of Christ reveals the glory of God to us, and the glory of God revealed to us sanctifies and comforts the heart. So the preaching of the gospel is not just for evangelism. It's for the health and strength and sanctification of believers, for the purification and for the efficacy of the church It's what makes worship possible. Honestly, this is how worship happens. God reveals Himself through His Word by the power of the Spirit through Christ and His work Through Christ and his completed work. I'm getting off on a tangent here. So the person of Christ is one person with two natures. But that brings our minds Immediately to the doctrine of the Trinity. The adjective would be triune, a triune God, three in one. God that is one in essence, who exists in three Distinct persons. God is one in essence who exists in three co -equal, co-divine, co-authoritative persons. Sometimes it's called the Godhead. We call it the Trinity. God is one essence in three persons. Now Just making sure we're precise on our language here to help us avoid heresy. Think about how this differs from the incarnation. In the incarnation, Christ is how many persons? How many persons? See, that's why we need to review it. One person, how many natures? Two. Get this man a coffee. No, I know he n I know he knows this. I do need coffee. All right. Hey, that's why that's why I paused to make sure we get this. If there are well, you know, Christianity falls apart without these two doctrines and without the doctrine of inspiration of scripture, like John said earlier. So, incarnation, just talking about Christ, he's how many persons? One person and how many natures? Two, right. One person with two natures. One person with two natures. Talk about the Trinity, we're talking about the Godhead. God is one in essence, who exists in three persons. It's not one plus one plus one. They're not parts of God. There's no composition in God. There's no pieces in God. God is One, there's three persons. And when you have the Son, the Sun is the full essence of God. And when you have the Father, you have the full essence of God. And when you have the Spirit, you have the full essence of God. Otherwise, the Son wouldn't be God and the Father wouldn't be God or the Spirit wouldn't be God. They co-inhere each other. It's a unique relationship. that they have with one another. Because God's being, his essence is incomprehensible. It's unique. It's an infinite essence, uncreated essence of God exists in Three persons. Does it boggle the mind? It should. I hope it does. Well, yeah, I hope it does. There's nothing like this in human experience. You can have three things that you add together and get a fourth thing that's a composition. But you can't have a one essence, one complete essence that exists in three persons. And the only way to We can understand something of this because it's revealed in the Word, and because we do know We are able to think through some things by God's grace and by the word He's given us. There's a difference between a thing's essence and personhood. Right, so uh a rock. Does a rock have an essence? Yeah. Does a rock have personhood? No. Right, so we all it's easy to grasp that Just something being, something having an essence or an existence is different than something having a personhood. Now we're different than a rock, right? Because we have an essence, right? We're not an illusion. We're real created things. And we are unlike the rock. We have a singular personhood. We're things, we're people. But the rock is a created finite thing. We are created finite things. We're different than the rock as we were made in the image of God and we're human persons. But we're the same as the rock in that we're both created things. We're both finite things. We're both completely dependent on God for our existence. Now when you get to God, uh we'll be even before we start thinking about the nature of God It's already easy for us to grasp, or relatively easy, that an essence is different than personhood. So that to say that God is one in essence and three in persons shouldn't be too much of a stretch to where we would say, well, that's completely illogical. No, it transcends our grasp of logic. But if God's essence is infinitely superior than our essence, why can't He have three persons instead of just one that we have? One personhood Anyway, things to think about, things to meditate on. Whenever we get to doctrine of the Trinity, we don't want to go I mean whenever we get to any doctrine. We don't want to go beyond scripture. But we don't some of these um Some of these doctrines that do require some contemplation and some meditation to really bring us to a place of wonder and awe at who God is. We want to just be sure That we stay within the boundaries of what's written, of what's revealed, and not go off into speculative philosophy on the nature of God. But it is the nature of God This is the Christian God. And so we should be able to talk about it. That God is one in essence, who's revealed himself in three persons. In fact, the fullness of His revelation of himself as Father, Son, Spirit is his redemption of sinners. Because to save sinners, the Father sent the Son. The Son did the work of redemption, ascended to heaven, and the Son, by the Father also. poured out the Holy Spirit. So it's actually a historical revelation of the Trinity, the Father sending the Son, and the Son sending the Spirit, that God makes Himself known. His redemption, in other words Here's the summary statement. His work of redemption is his revelation as Trinity. Does that make sense? His work of redemption is his revelation as Trinity. We're saved by the Father sending the Son, and the Son's work, and then the Son sending the Spirit. Alright, so here we go. Incarnation, we've got it down. Glorious miracle. Trinity. We're talking about the eternal nature of God. So important. And we'll talk about we've got to put that lower. Man. We have to talk about man. Go back to Matthew, because in Matthew one 18. Now the birth of Jesus Christ, well he's going to be born as a man By the power of the Holy Spirit. Verse 18, from the Holy Spirit. Verse 20, from the Holy Spirit. And in this paragraph, the implications of that. are not all drawn out. What's emphasized is that this Human baby is from the Holy Spirit. This human baby is going to be God with us. Verse 23. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call him Emmanuel, which means God with us. Think about that. Think about the magnitude of this. A little baby is God with us. This is Christianity. This is Christianity. God coming as a man to save men from their sins. So he has a true human nature , but is without sin. And we do have some verses. to look at for that. But first I want to if you want a copy of this just email me or or text me and I'll make a photocopy of this sheet. When we talk about Jesus as having two natures, a divine nature and a human nature, this is essential to our salvation. If he's not God, he can't save. If he's not a man, he doesn't save us. He's God and man. This is what qualifies him to be a savior. This is essential doctrine Jonah, okay, so here's what this sheet is. This sheet is just highlighting some verses that teach that only God saves. So if we're going to be saved, who's going to do the saving? God. Only God saves. So this baby is God. Otherwise, the baby wouldn't be able to save. 'Cause he's he grows up, okay. He doesn't stay a baby. But in this passage, he's a baby in the womb. Um So only God saves. Jonah 2. 9, salvation belongs to the Lord. It's a climactic statement in Jonah's prayer. Jonah knows. Uh he saved because God saved him. Psalm three eight, again, salvation belongs to the Lord. Psalm thirty-seven, thirty-nine. The salvation of the righteous is from the Lord. He is their stronghold. in the time of trouble. And of course, those who are truly righteous are those who are counted righteous by grace through faith. Faith. That's not the self-righteousness. Being self-righteous and being truly righteous are completely different things. Pharisees, self-righteous. Tax collectors who came to Christ in faith, prostitutes who came to Christ in faith, who saw their need for mercy. Truly righteous in the eyes of God. He didn't come to save the righteous, but he came to save sinners. He came for the sick, not the healthy. The salvation of the righteous is from the Lord. Psalm 62, 7. On God rests my salvation and my glory. My mighty rock and my refuge is God. Isaiah 43, 11, one of my favorites. I, I am the Lord, and besides me there is no Savior. Jeremiah 323. Truly the hills are a delusion. The orgies on the mountains. That's where uh the worship of idols That involves sexual immorality and orgies which are taking place. The hills. The hills are a delusion, which means false gods. Still in Jeremiah 3. 23. Truly in the Lord our God is the salvation of Israel. They don't seek false gods for salvation. Seek the Lord for salvation. Hosea 13:4. I am the Lord your God. From the land of Egypt. You know no God but me, and besides me, there is no Savior. How'd you get out of Egypt? I saved you. Besides me, there is no Savior Hopefully, this is reminding us of God 's purpose for all things, to reveal Himself as Savior. That we would know him as Savior and sing songs of him as Savior to worship him as a gracious Savior. This is the center point of God's purpose Revelation 7. 10, salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and to the any guesses? And to the Lamb. At that point, the incarnate Son. Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. So just as you saw The Son of God is the agent of creation. You also see the Son of God here called the Lamb as the agent of redemption. Revelation 19:1. After this I heard what seemed to be the loud voice of a great multitude in heaven crying out, Hallelujah, salvation and glory and power belong to our God. This climactic song of all things. Of all things. We're heading just to the climax of this song, singing to the Father and to the Lamb in the full power and blessing. Of the Spirit, singing of God's salvation. And I've thrown this in here just for good measure from Acts 4. Um eleven and twelve. This Jesus is the stone that was rejected by you, the builders. Which has become the cornerstone. And there is salvation in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given among men By which we must be saved. So if it's by Jesus' name that we must be saved And if it's by Jesus or in Jesus that there is salvation, what does that say about Jesus? Jesus is God. He is God. And And um he's also a man. Turn to Hebrews two, fourteen. Since therefore the children share in flesh and blood He himself likewise partook of the same things. Partook of what? What same things? Flesh and blood. That through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death. That is the devil. And deliver all those who through fear of death were subject to lifelong slavery. And we don't have time to go through all the different aspects of what's being said there about why he Did this. The point we're just highlighting is that he did do this. He partook of flesh and blood in order that he might save As it's called in the beginning of verse 14, the children. Give the children victory over death. Give the children freedom, liberation from bondage to the devil. Break us from the fear of death. For surely, verse 16, for surely it is not angels that he helps But he helps the offspring of Abraham. Therefore he had, he had to be made like his brothers in every respect. So that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in the service of God to make propitiation for the sins of the people. That's exactly what John was talking about in 1 John chapter 1. Or 1 John chapter 2 that we just we just preached on last Sunday. He's a merciful, faithful high priest in the service of God. He makes propitiation for the sins of the people. Verse 18, for because he himself suffered when tempted, he is able to help those who are being tempted. And that's us. That's us. We are daily being tempted. And the flesh within us is wanting to drag us off into the allurements of temptation. Thank God we have a high priest who uh who is for us. One more in Hebrews chapter four, verse fourteen. You see, he must be God if he's going to save, and he must be a man if he's going to save people. Since uh did I say the verse 414, Hebrews 414. Since then we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, which is a way of talking about uh an actual historical event, you know it as the Not the resurrection. The ascension, yes. I mean closely, very closely related. I probably would have given you half a point on the test. Who has passed through the heavens which really that is the historic fulfillment of what part of the The priesthood ministry under the Old Covenant symbolized because the priest, the offering was made outside the tabernacle or then outside the temple. And then the blood was brought inside passing through the holy place and bringing it to and on the Day of Atonement into the presence of God symbolized by the most holy place. Passing through, right? Passing through. And that is just a symbol, that just foreshadows, Jesus passing through the heavens into the dwelling place of God. To be seated at the throne forever. Not like on the Day of Atonement when the high priest was to go in and come out before he died. Anyway, the book of Hebrews draws all that out in detail. Jesus the Son of God. Since therefore we have a great high priest who passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession. And come back to that. That'll be the last thing I say tonight. Let us hold fast our confession. For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses. But one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin. Let us, then, with confidence draw near to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and find grace to help. In time of need. Because we have a high priest there, verse 15, who sympathizes with us in our weakness. And he is able to help us. He has compassion. He's accessible. And he has compassion. And he wants to help. Let us hold fast our confession. Our confession Speaks of many people. Confession speaks of one. I know there's in God's providence and the way He works in our lives. I know there's differences in how He works in each one of our lives. But when we're sharing our testimony, when we're telling our testimony of how we came to faith, at the end of the day, we all have one confession. We all have one testimony. Jesus saved me. God brought his word into my life. He showed me that I was a sinner. He showed me that I'm guilty, under condemnation, need a savior, however you want to say it. Different ways you could say it. He showed me that I'm a sinner, he showed me that I need a savior, and then through that very same word, the scriptures, God showed me the Savior. He showed me Christ. He showed me his life, his death, his resurrection, his offer of salvation, the forgiveness of sins, and that message of Christ crucified Changed my heart. So my confession and your confession and my testimony and your testimony is that Jesus Christ is Lord, Jesus saved us. This is our confession. And I know there's a time and a place for sharing the details and the providences of how all God works all that out in our lives. I don't want to belittle that But if I'm 100% honest with you, I've just heard too many quote-unquote testimonies that almost never get to Jesus, or he's just tacked on at the end. And it really is a story of how I got into religion and came to really find fulfillment and meaning in this church or this preacher or or this relationship or all these other things, secondary things, external things, things of works, things of religion. Things of feelings and emotions. But what about sin? What about the blood of Christ? This is our confession. This is our testimony. Christ, He is our salvation. So when we share our personal testimony, don't let this the details and the providences drown out the actual testimony that Jesus saved us. Because sharing our testimony is really just one way, just one way of the many ways, one way we can share the gospel with a dark and dying world. Our confession, hold fast our confession of Christ, our brother and our exalted Savior Well, you know what we didn't get to tonight? Something that I always harp on. But the New Testament writers harp on it too. How Christ in his first coming is the fulfillment of prophecy. And that's verse 23. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel That comes from Isaiah 7. It's Isaiah 7, 14. This will have to be homework for you because we just don't have time. But for the full impact, you read Isaiah 7, 1 through 17, and you'll see this. Isaiah seven fourteen. And Matthew quotes Isaiah seven fourteen. And the fulfillment of it is what Matthew said. All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet. It's fulfilled the birth of Christ as the Savior. Now in the original historical context, Isaiah 7 and Isaiah 7. 14 is not about eschatological salvation from sin, the end-time salvation from sin. It's about a typological salvation from Syria and from the northern kingdom. It's about God saving Jerusalem and Ahaz from An alliance between Syria and the Northern Kingdom. So as Neil said earlier, There will be a short-term fulfillment, a short-term, I've called it a provisional fulfillment, a typological fulfillment in that original context. But the ultimate fulfillment is in Christ, his first coming, coming as Savior. Now, unless we let the New Testament Here's specifically Matthew. More specifically, Matthew 1, 22, and 23. Unless we let the New Testament shape our principles of interpretation, we'll never believe that. We'll never believe that Because Isaiah 7 doesn't say anything about Jesus. It doesn't say anything about eschatological salvation. But you see, it's a typological short-term fulfillment and then the ultimate fulfillment And this is why we have the New Testament. The New Testament as the Word of God, of the full light of God's revelation, the full light of His gracious redemption in Christ. And page after page, paragraph after paragraph, the first coming of Christ and Christ setting up his church is the fulfillment of prophecy. It's a fulfillment of all scripture, the law, the prophets, and the psalms. Not the postponement of fulfillment, the fulfillment And it's just another example where if if I if I as a teacher were to limit Isaiah 7. 14 limit it in a literalistic way to its original historical context, we wouldn't be able to accept Matthew's gospel. We just wouldn't. So we need this apostolic lens, is what I'm saying. We need this apostolic hermeneutic that's given to us in the New Testament. We need that in order to properly understand the Old Testament. Defines its fulfillment in Christ. All right, let's pray.