Well the words in which we'll examine tonight come out of Joel chapter 2, starting in verse 28. Joel chapter 2, verse 28. He turned there. It's just to recap where we're at a little bit. We saw uh Joel prophesying the judgment, the day of the Lord to come upon. the nation to come upon them for their rebellion against God. Uh they have lost their fields. The the enemy armies have surrounded them. It appears as though they're going to overtake them. Their joy is gone. Everything about their life was destroyed or going to be destroyed. Because God was pouring out judgment upon them for their wickedness. And then we saw last week the turn. The call to repentance, turning from their sin, looking towards Him, looking to God. And he pours out blessings upon them, right? He pours out his blessings upon them. Their fields grow. They produce an abundance. Uh the enemy is turned back and destroyed. Right? These are all physical things. They have joy in their life. They go back into the temple and they can worship accordingly. They can worship God rightly. And if you remember last week we talked about the physical blessings of the repentant heart, but here we're going to see that the physical blessings are just a glimpse, they're just a glimpse of the eternal blessings that will come. Through the blessings of God. The heart that turns away from their sin, and the heart that turns from their sin and then turns to God receives both a physical and eternal spiritual blessing from God. And we're gonna examine that tonight. We're gonna see the greater blessing while the fields are great, while the enemy being destroyed is great The salvation of our souls is the grand prize of faith and obedience in Christ. But we must deal with another problem here. We see we have a turning in Joel, we have a turning from one day of the Lord, the judgment coming upon them. We see the blessings being poured out upon them, and then we get a glimpse of a future day to come upon them. It's a future day that's going to come upon them. It's a future day that's going to affect them, and it's a future j Judgment that's going to come to them So we see this cyclical in the life of Israel and that they they come in obedience to God, He blesses them, they slide away from God and in disobedience they get disciplined. And they turn back to God, He blesses them, and then they go back into their wicked ways, and it just happens over and over and over and over again. It's truly the story in the narrative of the Old Testament. From essentially chapter 3 of Genesis, we see the same story. God blessing them sliding away, failing away, falling away, God disciplining them, them coming back, and God disciplining them again. And Joel does not leave us thinking that that that narrative is over here. We actually see that it is going to continue. throughout their history. But there's an eternal blessing, there's an eternal salvation that we will see and we know is Christ. So just up front the only way to be saved from the judgment of the day of the Lord is through faith in Jesus Christ If we thought that their blessings were from anything else that they were doing, if we thought that we had some kind of good works because you're perfect attendance here on Sunday nights is going to get you into heaven if you think that because you tithe, if you think because uh you you've been in church every day since you were born, if you think It's because you've never broken a law that you've been caught for. You think that's what's going to save you from God's judgment? You are wrong. It is Christ and Christ alone. And if we miss that at any point, we will just go back to our old wicked ways rebelling against God. We must sit in the truth that salvation comes from the Lord. Salvation comes from the Lord in the name of Jesus. So let us read Joel chapter 2, starting in verse 28. And it shall come to pass afterward, that I will pour out my sphere on all flesh, your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your old men shall dream dreams, and your young men shall see visions. Even on the male and the female servants, in those days I will pour out my spirit, and I will show wonders in the heavens and on the earth, blood and fire and columns of smoke. The sun shall be turned to darkness and the moon to blood before the great and awesome day of the Lord comes. And it shall come to pass that everyone who calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved. For in Mount Zion and in Jerusalem there shall be those who escape, as the Lord has said, and among the survivors shall be those whom the Lord calls. Well the first thing I want us to examine is how the physical blessings are just a glimpse of the eternal blessings We notice here that Joel has been pouring out the physical blessings we talked about last week. But then in verse 28, he makes a pivot. He makes a change. And what's the change? He says, and it shall come to pass when? Afterward. Alright, so we've got to set ourselves in the historical setting. The physical blessings that Joel talks about was for the people that he was prophesying to. Alright? It was for that people group in that time. They received the physical blessings. But then Joel doesn't want him just to sit there. He doesn't want 'em to get fat and happy off of the the wine vets that are overflowing. He doesn't want 'em to get lazy and sit back because the enemies are gone. But what he does is he points their minds to the future There's going to become a day. There's coming a day. And the blessings that come from the Lord are greater than the physical blessings you see right now. There's coming a day that's going to be greater than today. Could you imagine how they feel right now? Everything has been destroyed. The enemies have been all around them. And now they're sitting and they're hearing that the fields are going to overflow, they're hearing that their enemies are away, they're hearing that their hearts are going to be filled with joy. They're at the pinnacle of their existence, right? But what does Joel say? It's gonna be more and it's going to be better He wants them to look forward. He wants them to place their hope in the right things, not in just the physical blessings that God has provided. So the physical blessings are just a glimpse of the eternal blessings. The first blessing that God promises that is going to come to them is that God promises He will pour out His Spirit on them. His Spirit. That's important. He's not just saying you're going to become charismatic, you're going to get uh a spirit, there's just going to be some angel influence, there's just going to be a spiritual nature to you. No, what does he promise? His spirit. Very personal. Very intentional. How much greater is it that it's his spirit, the creator of the universe, the very one that's going to redeem them and save them? It's his spirit he's putting and pouring out upon them. Look at verse 28 So it should come to pass afterward that I will pour out my spirit on all flesh Now if you know your Bibles, you you would know that in Jeremiah 31 we have this promise hinted at. Well it's actually more than hinted at in Jeremiah 31. This promise is is shouted at there. It's the new covenant. The new covenant promises that we, as God's people, will have his spirit. That identity change is huge. While we are rebels against God, while we just follow after our own passions, we followed after our own flesh. We did what we wanted. That has been ripped out of us, and the newness has been poured into us, and it is the very Spirit of God. What a way of living What a way that that should impact our lives. And we see this. Joel wants them to see that there's going to be a day when God dwells with you through his spirit and not in the temple. That's important. These people think of God's dwelling with them in a tabernacle or temple. He's in a physical building, in a physical room, that they never actually get to go and see for themselves. That's how God functioned with them. That's how God interacted with his people at that time. Well what's he saying now? That room's not going to be worth anything because my spirit is going to be poured out upon you. This this imagery that he's using here is like If you've been to Niagara Falls or any waterfall that it's just overflowing and and wherever that water splashes and hits, it just spreads out. It's uh it's unstoppable really. I mean, it is an extremely powerful force if you've seen um some of these huge waterfalls that it's is uncontrollable. It just goes all over the place. Whereas when when they think of God, he's in a box in a room, when he's talking about God, he's talking about God just going everywhere A a flood upon people. A flood going out upon the world. So it's not limited to one building in one room in one nation in one continent No, no. He's saying this it's going to be poured out upon the people. He's turning their hearts and their minds to the greater blessing of his coming spirit. The second blessing that we see, or the promise that we see about the blessing, is that the blessings are not limited to a specific group of people. Continue on in verse twenty-eight. It says your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your old men shall dream dreams, and your young men shall see visions. Even on the male and female servants, in those days I will pour out my spirit. Alright, so we see that if at any point the people are thinking, we get the blessing, we get all the goodness of God, He loves us because of our nationality, Joel's telling them you're wrong. That the blessings of God, the future blessings of God, does not care about the blood type you have. Does not care about your family tree It's going beyond that. Your sons and your daughters, this language shall prophesy in 28 there, this language is showing that there's not a hierarchy. You know who was who 's the important people in that time? The the religious leaders. That was the the old guys. I don't know how old they were, so I don't want to s put an a age on it. But it wasn't the kids, right The Pharisees and the leaders, the Pharisees weren't at this time, but the the leaders of the time in Joel's day weren't kids But what's Joel saying is that it's not going to be limited to a specific group, a hierarchy group, that even your kids are going to be prophesied. Even your kids will see the wonders of God He says it's not just for children. He then points it. Your old men shall dream dreams, and your young men shall see visions. He's trying to show that it's not limited to one specific group of people He's he's washing away any idea of age being uh a determinant. But then he pushes in farther. He pushes in farther and then says, You're male and your female servants. In those days I will pour out my spirit, even on the male and female servants. Now some of these servants could have been Israelites. There's there's reason to believe that uh Israelites would have become servants uh to pay off some debts, but there's also uh an understanding that these servants would have been other nations Other nationalities living within the people group of Israel. And God's promising that He's going to pour out His Spirit even on them. Even on the very least of who you think is worthy of the Spirit, that Spirit is going to be poured out upon them. Whose Spirit? God's Spirit This is shattering the understanding and the limits of God's blessing. Well the physical blessings really are limited to the fields. The physical blessings were limited to the area in which they lived. We see that the eternal blessings that God is promising go way beyond any physical boundary, go way beyond any maps that boun put a boundary around a certain people group. God 's blessing goes to all people, all flesh. This language of all flesh is is showing that that it's it's Doesn't matter the type of flesh. It doesn't matter the skin color, the tone, it doesn't matter the DNA. It doesn't matter about that. It's God pouring out his spirit upon the people whom he chooses. Now this isn't new. Genesis 12, you'll turn there quickly, you'll see Genesis 12 talked about this Early on, God promised that people other than Israel would be blessed because of Israel. 12 verse 3. I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you I will curse, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. Which families of the earth? All. You see this promise. This isn't new uh information. This is God just reassuring them that he's he was being really serious when he said all the nations, all the families. Also look at uh Isaiah 49. Isaiah 49 verse 6 gives a similar language showing that God's grace and his mercy and salvation is going to go to the ends of the earth. Verse 6, he says, It is too light a thing that you should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob and to bring back the preserved of Israel. I will make you as a light for the nations, that my salvation may reach to the end of the earth. Praise God. Praise God that it goes to the ends of the earth, that his blessings is not limited to a piece of his creation, but it's going to be poured out upon all of creation. This is good news, brothers and sisters. May we rejoice in this. You and I benefit from this reality. think there's not too many Jewish na ethnic Jews here that that think your your identity is rooted in in your your bloodline, but we are Christians because Regardless of our blood type, regardless of our nationality, Christ's blood has paid for our sins, and through faith in him, we now have a new identity. The new spirit, which is of God. This is good news, brothers and sisters. The third thing that we see, just the that the physical blessings are just a glimpse of the eternal blessings, is that God will do great things. God will do great things. Notice here in verse 30, and I will show you wonders in the heavens and on the earth, blood and fire and columns of smoke. The sun shall be turned to darkness and the moon to blood. We pause there. I love this, that I will show you wonders in the heavens and on the earth. It's it's like God doesn't even recognize or care about the physical blessings he's just poured out upon them. He's gonna show wonders. God, you you you brought back the fields from nothing God, you you took our famine and made it into a feast. God, you destroyed the enemies that were that were jumping over our walls, coming to to kill us in our sleep, coming to take us captive and and send us off into foreign nations. God, you've saved us. God, you've brought our joy that that that was down. Our heads were down in the mud. We were miserable. You've brought back joy into our hearts and our lives What do you mean you're going to show us wonders? You've already shown us wonders, right? You've already you've already shown us the amazing things you've done. Well God's saying that's just a glimpse. I'm gonna do great wonders. Now we know post-Christ what those great wonders really are We know that the true, miraculous, wonderful works of God were revealed in Christ. Through his earthly ministry, we see him do miracles that truly were amazing. And then as we see him die on the cross and resurrect from the grave, and then ascend to heaven to his throne, are we starting to see that the wonders and the miracles of Afield are nothing in comparison to Christ. And that's what Joel wants them to see. Joel wants them to look forward Now, the problem is the audience in Joel's time and Joel himself never got to fully see and understand the wonders. That God spoke of. They never fully got to see and understand how the Spirit of God would be poured out upon all people. And we're going to examine where that happens, how it happens, and take a glimpse of just how glorious our God really is. But we must see that the eternal blessings The eternal blessings are way greater than the physical, and God uses the physical to point us to the eternal. And this is a good thing, and Joel promises that this is going to come to God's people. But point number two. It doesn't end there. Joel's pointing them to the eternal blessings that are coming, but then he's also warning them. Why is Joel warning them? It's because Joel knows the heart of man. Joel knows the heart of his people. While they receive these physical blessings, they're going to be obedient to God for a short time. He knows that ultimately they're going to rebel against God. Rebel against God. And they're not just going to rebel against God as they have been in the past, but he knows that his people, Joel knows that the Israelites are going to rebel against God on the darkest day of history. And he's warning them. The judgment for such a wicked act is coming upon you. The judgment for such a people that is going to put the son of God to death There's going to be an extreme judgment to come upon you. And he's pointing to that before the great and awesome day of the Lord comes. He's warning them. The Lord will judge the rebel on the day of the Lord. The Lord will judge the rebel on the day of the Lord. He's trying to point the people's mind that they can't just slack off. They must seek after the Lord. And we now know that this was used through history. That everyone that came after Joel should have received the scroll of Joel, should have been able to read it and should have been able to follow it So the Pharisees in Jesus' day that knew the Old Testament, knew their scriptures, should have known the warning about putting the Messiah to death. Should have war ha known the warning about rebelling against God and not following after him. But Joel wants them to know that a great and terrible judgment will come upon a people that rebel against God. Judah experienced the historical restoration, yet they rebelled against God and rejected the Messiah. They've experienced restoration. God kept his promise. God did exactly what he said he was going to do. I will restore you. I will make you a nation. He'll be great. He gives them the land. He gives them their place. He gives them and allows them to build the temple. And yet They rebel against him. And yet they kill the Messiah. They reject the Messiah and kill him. Say, Anthony, maybe that's too harsh of language to use. Let's turn to Matthew 27. Let's see how the New Testament refers to what Israel does. Now, as you're turning there, let me frame this. I'm talking to Israel as a nation. I'm not saying each every individual person in Israel was in this crowd and put and and rejected the Messiah and called for his death. But Israel's a nation, especially the leadership of Israel. did call for the death of Christ. They were the ones that lied about him. They were the ones that that got him persecuted and hung on the cross. So look with me. Matthew 27 Uh I'll start in twenty-fourth. So when Pilate saw that he was gaining nothing, but rather that a riot was beginning, he took water and washed his hands before the crowd, saying, I am innocent of this man's blood. See to it yourselves. So just so we we catch up where we're at. Uh Jesus is before Pilate. Uh Pilate questions him, he can't find any fault, and then Pilate says, I'll release either Jesus or Barabbas. You pick. Who do you want release? Jesus or Barabbas? The murderer, the rebel. Who do you want? And what do the crowds shout? Barabbas. Give us Barabbas And what Pilate does is he says, I'm clean of this. The man's blood is not on my hands. See to yourselves, verse 25. And all the people answered, His blood be on us and on our children. Then he released for them Barabbas, and having scourged Jesus, delivered him to be crucified. Do you hear the rejection? I can't get anything clear. The people rejected the Messiah that came to save them. The people rejected God 's son that lives amongst them. The people rejected the Messiah that was born of their people. They rejected him. And all the people answered, His blood be on us and on our children. If that's not a rebellion against God, I I don't know what is There's there's nothing else more more rebellious than to kill the Son of God. Now we also know that our sins are used for Christ's death. We know that our sins are are the forcing function of why he went to the cross, but we must recognize the physical people in the physical time of Jesus' death was he was persecuted by Israel as a nation. By the the leadership of Israel, they persecuted him. And God promises to judge them because of their rebellion against him. God promises to pour out his wrath upon a people that would reject the very Messiah amongst them. And we see that Jesus promises to punish rebellious Israel. So we see that the rebellion and the rejection of the Messiah is promised to have a punishment. We read in Luke 21. You can turn there if you want, but you read it along with me And this isn't the only section where Jesus foretells of the punishment and the destruction of Jerusalem and the temple, but this was uh is one of the places where we see that Luke twenty-one tw starting in verse twenty. That that Jesus foretells of the destruction coming upon Israel because of that generation's rejection. of him. That generation will receive the punishment that God will pour out upon them, and that punishment will be in the form of the destruction of Jerusalem and the temple. It's evident. He talks about it here. He talks about it in Matthew, uh Matthew 24, that there's a destruction going to come upon the people, and he gives Clear examples of how the city will be surrounded, right there in verse 20, but when you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then know that its desolation has come near. What's what city is he talking about? Jerusalem, where he's speaking. And then then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains, and let those who are inside the city depart, and let not those who are out of the country enter enter it. So what he's saying is there's when you see the army surrounding this city where he's talking, there's going to come a destruction. If you can get out, get out now. If you can get out, when you see the armies, get out. He's telling them what to do. He's telling them and promising that there's going to be destruction. Look at verse 24. They will fall by the edge of the sword. And be led captive among all nations, and Jerusalem will be trampled underfoot by the Gentiles until the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled. You see that there's going to be a destruction. Jesus promises a punishment for rebellious Israel. He promises a punishment. And we see the punishment come upon them. Have you been to Israel? Have you been to Jerusalem and saw the beautiful Jewish temple? Nope. No. You know why? Because God led armies in 70 AD to surround the city for three years and and just destroy it. Uh you should read some of Josephus. Actually that I just saw Josephus is a uh Jewish historian. His book is on that table up there. That's the providence of God that I was going to talk about. I had to take Dorothy up there during Matt's sermon this morning and saw the book was lying there. You can turn to page, I think it's 570, I think, and you can read about how this Jewish historian records the events that happen happened in 70 AD. How the army surrounded For for years. They they prevented any food from getting into the city. And then slowly there was battles and and the and the uh the The Jerusalem militia put up a good fight at times, but finally they they broke over the wall, and then at one point they get into the temple and start to set it on fire. Rome gets into the temple, sets the temple on fire, and then just Starts to pillage it and destroy it. Josephus writes about how the hot the fire was so hot in the temple that the gold had melted and started running down the cracks of the road. Destruction Uh Josephus, uh this is gruesome. Josephus talks about how the famine was so terrible in that time that mothers were selling their children for food. You see the punishment that's poured out upon people that rejected the Messiah. The total destruction of Jerusalem. The Jerusalem you see today is not the Jerusalem of that time because that city was flattened essentially. Flattened, the temple has been completely destroyed, and this is God pouring out his judgment upon that generation that rebelled against him. That is just a glimpse of eternal punishment that we will receive if we rebel against him. A destroyed city? Just like the physical blessings are just the glimpse of the eternal blessings, the physical destruction is just a glimpse of the eternal destruction. Israel received the punishment that they deserve for rejecting the Messiah. And we should look at that and go, Woe to us. Let us repent of our sin today. If if God was willing to march an army around the city and burn it to the ground for a nation's sins, how much more is he going to punish us for our sins? May we see the awesome day of the Lord before us and repent of our sins and turn to Him. Let us take this as a warning. Joel is telling this as a warning to them. They didn't heed to it We see that the nation rebelled and put to death the Messiah. But may we tonight heed to this warning. Do we want the blessings, the physical blessings? Absolutely. Do we want the eternal spiritual blessings? Absolutely is the maximum. I should have started with yes. And then said absolutely. Then let us turn to the Lord. Joel is using this to point our hearts to the Lord. He's promising that Jesus is the only way out How do I know this? This gets us to point three. The only hope of salvation is found in Jesus. The only hope of salvation is found in Jesus. You don't have to turn with me, but let me go back to Joel 2. I'm gonna read and then we're gonna get into Acts. Joel II, uh 31, before the great and awesome day of the Lord comes, so there's the warning. Verse 32, and it shall come to pass that everyone who calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved. For in Mount Zion and in Jerusalem there shall be those who escape. As the Lord has has said, sounds very familiar to what we read in Luke, right? It's a specific group, specific place, giving instructions to escape. That's the physical escape, but we have an eternal one calling upon the name of the Lord. And among the survivors shall be those whom the Lord calls. So you see the the warning there. Now let's turn to Acts chapter 2. Acts chapter 2. If you've been wondering why did we end up in Joel? Why have we been studying Joel? It's because of Acts chapter 2. It's because the very first message, the very first sermon that was ever preached in the new church after the ascension of Christ, the very first sermon ever preached, quotes Joel chapter 2. So do you think it's important for us to know it? Do you think it has value for us today? I would say so. Peter thought it was important. Actually it's the very it's it's almost the very first thing he says in his sermon It 's a good way to start, right? Start with scripture. He points and roots it in Joel chapter 2. The only hope of salvation is found in Jesus. We see here, let's read Acts 2, starting in verse 14. Before I go there, Pentecost has started. The people have started to speak in tongues. They've been able to understand a language they've never they they're being able to speak a language they've never studied and people are starting to think that this group has gone crazy They're drunk. But look look what Peter says in uh Acts two fourteen. But Peter standing with the eleven lifted up his voice and addressed them. Men of Judea, and all who dwell in Jerusalem, let this be known to you, and give ear to my words. For those for these people are not drunk, as you suppose. Since it is only the third hour of the day. It's too early to be drunk, is what Peter's saying. Verse 16. But this is what was uttered through the prophet Joel. Okay, so before we read the prophet Joel, which we've already heard, Peter's saying, what you're witnessing here at Pentecost, these people speaking in tongues, the Holy Spirit poured out upon them. Sound familiar? Peter is saying, you were told about this. You knew this was coming. And It's here. Let us rejoice because the promise God made in Joel is here. The Spirit of God is being poured out. Let us rejoice because all people, all flesh can receive the Spirit of God. Brothers and sisters, let us rejoice, and that is what Peter is doing in this sermon. He's telling them to rejoice because the prophecy is true. It's good news for those who hear it. So verse 17, and in the last days it shall be. Notice that's a change. One of the only changes Peter makes in his his citation of this scripture. He's he's changing intentionally Because he's showing that the spirit's being poured out. And what he wants to do, it says, in the last days it shall be God declares that I will pour out my spirit on all flesh. So what is Peter announcing by saying in the last days it shall be? He's saying this is the last days. This is it. Now we can debate of what that means, but we must notice that there is a historical change that is happening in this moment. There is a historical change that the Holy Spirit has been poured out upon a cost. There's a historical change that that now the bride of Christ, the church, is alive and she is kicking. She is moving forward. She's going into battle. She's growing in a good way. She's multiplying in a good way. There's a historical change. And if the day of the Lord is connected with this, the last days Could be about the former things, right? Could be pointing back to the former things. And we know that Israel is going to receive the just punishment for putting them aside to death. So so Peter's starting to connect all of this. He's starting to show that salvation has come, the Spirit of God is being poured out, and Israel will receive the just punishment for putting to death the Messiah. This is about 33 A. D. So he's pointing forward the day of the Lord is still to come. They have not gotten off the hook, yet salvation is here. He wants them to be rooted that salvation is here. The Spirit of God is poured out. And we know this. He then cites that passage in from Joel. He cites it. He's saying, This is for you. You are living in it, brothers and sisters. He's telling them, this is the good promise that God has promised to us, and it's the sphere being poured out. So what does this look like for us? How are we now living in this reality? How is Peter connecting it? We're going to read through his sermon, different passages, and see how he's connecting it. And showing that Joel's prophecy is fulfilled at the day of Pentecost and at the destruction of Israel in 70 AD How's this happen? Acts 2. 1. The children of God received the Spirit. Now remember that was the very promise he had. God promises he will pour out his spirit on them. And then Acts 2, 1 through 8 The children of God received the Spirit. That's why Peter starts the sermon here. He's showing the connection. They've received the promise that God had of his spirit being poured out upon them. It's a good thing. It's a good thing. Letter B. Jesus established salvation for all people. He established salvation for all people. We see in this uh look at two Acts two verse five. Now there were dwelling in Jerusalem Jews, devout men from every nation under heaven. Which nations under heaven were there? Every Alright. And and how much of the flesh was the spirit going to be poured out? It starts with an A and ends with an L L. All flesh, right? Do we I can spell. Short words. Do you see that God is keeping his promise and it's being fulfilled right here? The nations were gathered together because it was a Jewish holiday. How ironic. The nations were gathered together. Jews from all over the world were gathered together in Jerusalem for a Jewish holiday. And this is when Pentecost started. Why? And if you read Acts, you know why? Because the Spirit's poured out upon them. They then live there for a few more months and get trained up and discipled, and then the persecution of Saul comes. And it scatters them back to their homelands. And now God has taken the gospel out of one town in Jerusalem and gave it to a group of people from across the world and now has forced them back to their homelands. And the gospel now goes around the world. Gospel is going to the ends of the earth. It's what Jesus instructed them to do in Luke and in Acts, and now they're accomplishing it. Now that they're a work, but through the power of God. This is good news. Jesus established salvation for all people. Look at 2. 21, it's the same in Joel, and it shall come to pass that everyone who calls upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. There is no greater verse in all scripture. Charles Spurgeon says it this way, what a glorious gospel verse this is. This one of the great lifeboat texts of the Bible He who can get into this boat shall certainly sail to glory and safety. Whosoever? Whosoever? There's no exception of character. Whosoever his past life may have been. Whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord, hear no hard conditions. Prayer, trust, confession of that trust. All these make up calling upon the name of the Lord. And whosoever shall do this not only may be not only may be but shall be saved It's not a possibility. Peter's not saying it's a possibility. If you call upon the Lord, you'll be saved. Joel's not saying it's a possibility. If you call upon the Lord, you'll be saved. He says it is a certainty. If you call upon the name of the Lord, the Messiah, Jesus, you will be saved. Let us rejoice in this reality. Let us see the prophet Joel prophesying about days such as these. That's why we're here. That's why you and I are children of God. It's because you've called upon the name of the Lord. You've placed your faith in Christ, in Christ alone. Joel promises Peter preaches this in his very first gospel message, his very first sermon, and he connects it back to Joel. Alright, I have time so I'm gonna do it. We see that this is unfolding. Joel uh I think Peter is arguing that these events of which Joel prophesied are fulfilled or are being fulfilled in this generation's time that Peter's preaching to. The Spirit's poured out, he just saw that. Your sons and daughters shall prophesy, young men, old men. Male servants, female servants, we see that it's all types of people there at Pentecost receiving the Holy Spirit, hearing the preaching. And then he goes on, and that the spirit will be poured out, and wonders in the heavens above, and signs on the earth below, blood and fire and vapor of smoke, the sun shall be turned to darkness, and the moon to blood. Alright, let's we we read this already, but we see wonders happening. Wonders, miracles that Jesus did, right? Wonders, what about the the wonder of when Jesus ascended into heaven? Wonder or not wonder? Wonder. So a miraculous thing. This language we we get real scared when we see blood and fire and vapor of smoke. And there's about a hundred different uh views of this, but essentially all of them refer to either judgment or about the sacrificial system in the temple. I lean more on the sacrificial system in the temple because we see that Jesus fulfilled every type of sacrifice that ever needed to go into the temple. There's no need for you and I ever to go into the temple. Because we are fulfilled in Christ in Christ alone. And then the the really scary language, which isn't scary, is that the sun shall be turned to darkness and the moon to blood. When did the when did the sun turn to darkness? We have the end of times. Or what what was the other? Yeah. When Jesus died, the sun went dark Now, moon to blood. You study that, write me up a 40-page paper on your answer. Alright. But ultimately we see that there's a historical change here There's a there's a a a kingdom being destroyed and a new kingdom being established. I think this language is very clear of that happening there. But I'm willing to disagree and be quite content. But ultimately, it's all before the day of the Lord comes, the great and magnificent day. Peter is warning his people right now because he starts it with, in the last days it shall be. He's connecting it for them to see it. It's happening before them. And then it shall come to pass, everyone who calls upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Amen and amen. This is the truth. So what's the last blessing that we see that Jesus brings to us? He fulfills what he promised. Is that Jesus defeated all enemies and established his kingdom? Jesus defeated all enemies and established his kingdom. Now Peter continues preaching here. Who would have loved to have been there when Peter was preaching, right? A hot gospel being preached right here. Matt, you and I gotta step it up to get more like Peter, I think. But I mean he's he's filled with the Spirit. He's preaching. He's he's been a witness to Jesus in the the ascension and he's just he wants he wants the world to know Well look here what he says in Acts chapter 2 verse 30. Being therefore a prophet and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him that he would set one of his descendants on his throne, he foresaw and spoke about the resurrection of the Christ, that he was not abandoned to Hades, nor did the flesh see corruption. This Jesus, God raised up And of that we all are witnesses. Being therefore exalted at the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, he has poured out this that you yourselves are seeing and hearing. So what's he doing? Peter's saying, you're witnessing what has been prophesied. Verse 34, for David did not ascend into the heavens David, pretty powerful king, great king, the king everyone's looking for. But just like Hebrews, what what Peter's doing is pointing them that Jesus is the better one. Jesus is superior to David. But he himself says, the Lord said to my Lord, sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. Sounds like a powerful man, right? Sounds like a powerful king. Sounds like a great kingdom that his enemies are just being destroyed and being put under his foot so he can rest upon them. This is what our Savior has done. This is the great news of the gospel. This is what Joel was warning his people of was to look forward to that day. When the spirit's poured out, and that God's judgment will come upon a generation and a people group, and look towards the Messiah, look towards the Savior, and recognize that there's a new kingdom. That's going to be greater than the pr uh the current kingdom with the corruption of man in it. We're going to see the perfect kingdom in the presence of God through the work of Christ and the outpouring of the Holy Spirit. That's the kingdom that we're told to look forward to. That's what Joel is calling his people to look forward to. They don't realize it. They can't identify it. But we now looking back with Christ's eyes through the lens of the New and Old Testament, we now see the fulfillment of that promise From Joel. But it doesn't end there. What's Joel say? He he stirs up the people. In verse thirty-six, let all the house of Israel therefore know for certain that God has made him both Lord and Christ, this Jesus whom you crucified. He's saying, he's now the king, and you are the ones that crucified him. He continues, 37. Now when they heard this, they were cut to the heart. And said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, brothers, what shall we do? Why are they cut to the heart? It's because they heard the gospel They heard the Messiah. They recognized that their people were the people that put him to death. And they recognized that the day of the Lord is going to come upon them. And they're crying out, What chance do we have? What did Spurgeon say? That great lifeboat that came and rescued us is whosoever calls upon the Lord. And that's what Peter tells them to do in verse 38. And Peter said to them, Repent Be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. Here we are. This is the good news. No matter how great your sins are, no matter how grand they are, you turn to the Lord. Whosoever calls upon the Lord, you repent of your sins, be baptized, and the Holy Spirit pours out upon you. He's talking to the nation, the people group that put them aside to death. So if they can be saved and forgiven other sins, brothers and sisters, so can you and I Turn to the Lord. Joel has been prophesying and calling us to turn from our sin and turn to the Lord, and he has done it again tonight. And we see Peter doing the same thing. Peter's showing us That we must turn from our sin and turn to the Lord, finding forgiveness in who? Jesus. In Jesus alone. If that's news or new to anyone here, please come talk to myself or Pastor Matt. I hope what it does to those that are already redeemed by the blood of Christ, you already have faith in him. It stirs you up with confidence. It excites you for the world you live in. It draws you to confess your sins before Him and it gives you hope for tomorrow. May we see that our Lord has been faithful throughout all generations. He has kept his promise, and he has called us to turn from our sins and turn to him. Father, we thank you for this truth. We thank you that you are a God that forgives. You are a God that that sees our sins. There's nothing hidden from you You see our depravity, yet you've called us to you. You've called us to come before you, to confess and repent of our sins. To call upon the name of the Lord and you will give us the identity as child. You will give us the identity as citizen of heaven. We enter into your kingdom and live in that reality now. Pray this in Christ's name. Amen.