The words we'll examine this morning come out of Revelation chapter 19, verses 11 through 16. Revelation 19, 11. To 16. The King of Kings. The King of Kings. This is why we are gathered this morning on any Lord's Day is to worship the King. of kings. I've been working through a mini-series of how Christ is prophet, priest, and king. This is preparing us for the Advent season If you've looked at your calendar, that's not too far away. That is just a few weeks that we will be thinking about and celebrating Christmas and the coming of Christ as a baby. The coming of Christ to take on flesh, laying in the manger, growing up as a little boy, but that entire time He is the King. The King is there. He is established. It's not seen, it's not understood, but He is the King. Beloved, as we study this, it's so important for us to recognize Jesus as King Not just a king, not just like a really good one, but he is the king of kings, the supreme, the highest. There is no authority higher than him. There's no one that tells our king what to do. There's no power or enemy that defeats our King. I want us to dwell and to think about the glorious truth that Jesus is the King. King of Kings. And when we leave here today, that we are a little bit more encouraged, a little bit more hopeful for what the future holds for us. I know growing up as a young lad in a little town called Peckway, Pennsylvania, there was a lot of dragons I had to fight. Or at least I would get a stick and it would become a sword and I would fight dragons. Me and the Amish boys, we would destroy any foreign beast that we could get our hands on, at least imaginary. But isn't that a bit of how we are, men? Uh for sure, man. I think ladies you are the same way that you know, as a young lad, if you get a a stick it becomes a sword. And in the mind you are just defeating and you're victorious. You're this glorious knight. I love that imagery. I love books about knights and movies about knights fighting. And I sometimes think like, man, I wish I could go back to that day and be a knight. and die from a toothache. You know, like you know, there's problems there, but there's that aspect of like, okay, this I'm I want to be a knight and I want to go in into great battles. And ladies, you know, part of your dream is the young girl is that this knight in shining armor comes and rescues you. Think how fortunate my wife is. It happened. I came in rescue. I don't know where I rescued her from, but it happened. Right right, aren't we kinda we we dream of this world and we we write books, we read books and movies about this world of just the Magical battles and fighting and glorious things happening But we must recognize that the knight that rides out into battle, the knight that goes into the town with his banner, is riding on behalf of a king. The king is on his throne. The king has domain and power and authority over the land. And the knight is riding out to do the work of the king. Beloved, we are those knights. If you are a Christian, you are that knight, riding out into battle. And there are spiritual dragons all around us that need defeating. And God has called us to this. How can God command us, broken sinners? Have no strength of our own to go and fight and destroy the spiritual dragons all around us is because we are serving a great and mighty King. And this is where our minds must be set on. And we'll see as we we work through this passage and this sermon, we'll see why it's so important for us to recognize that Jesus is the King of Christians. Kings. You'll be encouraged to know that Jesus is the King of Kings. You will have hope when you understand that Jesus is the King of Kings. And little knights, you will pick up your sword and fight the dragons when you understand that Jesus is the King of kings. So let us look at this passage in Revelation. A glorious imagery that John has of the heavens. May we see what he has to tell us of how glorious our King is. Join me in Revelation 19, starting in Verse eleven. Then I saw heaven opened, and behold, a white horse. The one sitting on it is called faithful and true. In righteousness he judges and makes war. His eyes are like a flame of fire, and on his head are many diadems. And he has a name written that no one knows but himself. He is clothed in a robe dipped in blood. And the name by which he is called is the Word of God. And the armies of heaven, arrayed in fine linen, white and pure, were following him on white horses. From his mouth comes a sharp sword with which to strike down the nations, and he will rule them with a rod of iron. He will tread the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God the Almighty On his robe and on his thigh he has a name written, King of Kings and Lord of Lords. King of Kings And Lord of Lords. This is our God that we are worshiping. Just notice the scene that John explains to us. He he gives us language and the imagery for us to just start to see it. This is powerful imagery. It's very powerful. It's intentional for us to get a a glimpse and an understanding of this miraculous vision John has. But notice the heavens are opening up. They're opening up the highest place of our understanding as humans. Is broken open for the king's arrival. The dwelling place of God has been pierced open and given we have a glimpse into it as our king Comes down to us. And behold what he rides on: a white horse, the stallion Not just a normal horse. It's not just some average horse that, yeah, it's just cool, he's riding a horse. But it's a white horse. The horse of victory. The horse of victory, the one that is bringing the king into the presence of his people. Now, when was the last time we saw Jesus riding on a beast? Is going to the cross. It is the holy week as he rode in on a colt. Not this mighty stallion of victory, but here the scene has changed. While a king rode in on a colt to his death , We now see that he's riding in on a white horse in victory. And he's riding in, he's showing his victory status. And then in this, we see multiple names for him. faithful and true. In righteousness he judges and makes war. His eyes are like flames of fire, meaning whatever he sees, he is purifying. We see actually in the very beginning of Revelation, John gives us vision of Christ in the heavens, and this was part of that imagery. We must understand that the the flames, the eyes of flames of fire, show the the judgment that when he looks upon wickedness and sinfulness, it's burnt up, it's destroyed, it cannot stand. his g his his gaze. But here we see he's arriving as the king. His eyes are like flames of fire. And what's on his head? Diadems. Crowns. But notice the S at the end of those words. Multiple crowns. Multiple objects that demonstrate and show to the world that he is the King of Kings. Right, when we think of a king, if you saw when England changed from the queen to the king and the whole ceremony there, they placed the crown on his head, and at that moment he officially became the king of England. But it was just one crown. It was large, it's pretty, has lots of jewels on it, but it was just one. It's probably the most powerful king We can think of. Here is our king riding in on a white horse of victory, eyes of flames of fire, with multiple crowns on his head. Why is this? It's because there's no king greater than him. There's no king that he has to go to to get permission to ride in on the horse of victory. This king is the king of kings. And then notice in verse 13, he is clothed in a robe dipped in blood. Clothed in a robe dipped in blood. I believe there's two aspects to this blood that we see on the robe. One is the blood that he shed for us. The day that Christ hung on the cross for our sins, his blood poured out from his body, demonstrating his death for sinners like us, fulfilling the law. To atone for the sins of man through the blood of a perfect sacrifice. We see his blood is dripping off of him as a symbol and as a sign that his blood is flowing for sinners like you and I. His blood is flowing for the sinners that have not recognized him as king yet, but will one day. But I also believe that the blood that is on his robe is the blood of his defeated enemies. They cannot stand before such a mighty and powerful king. That when the enemies see him, when the enemies face him, they are destroyed. And we'll talk about that later in the sermon, but they're destroyed in one of two ways. And one of that destruction is the eternal punishment that they deserve. This is our king riding in on a white horse , multiple diadems and crowns on his head. Robed dipped in blood, but then he's followed by a great army. The armies of heaven are arrayed behind him. The armies of heaven are following after their commander into the great battle. Notice what they're wearing. It's not their blood on their clothes. It's not the blood of their enemies that they have defeated. No, they're they're white. How can they be dressed in white, following after the great king, is because he is the one that has died. He is the one that has defeated the enemy. Enemies, and now they're just following after their king that wins all the victories for them. But could you imagine this scene? John gives us a lot of language and helps us try to see it, but really try to picture it. The white horse, Christ riding down on a white horse, crowns on his head, a robe dipped in blood, and armies, the angels, the armies of angels behind him. in orderly fashion. I can only imagine some of the noise that is coming out of the scene. The shouts of the warriors coming before him, the shouts of their praises to their king. Announcing to the world that the king has arrived onto the scene. This is our king. And in case we have any doubt who this king is. Verse 13 tells us he is called the Word of God. Now, how do we know that's Jesus? It's because John tells us in John 1 that the Word of God is God. The Word of God took on flesh. And then John, throughout the entire gospel, shows how the Word is Christ. Christ is God. Christ died on the cross for sinners like you and I, buried in the cross. The grave rose from the dead and is seated at the right hand of the Father, having dominion over heaven and earth. John is affirming that our King of kings is Christ Jesus. He is the very Word of God We should rejoice in this, beloved. May we praise and celebrate that Jesus is King. May we have hope and acknowledge that He is the King of kings and no one is over Him. But now let us understand who this king is, what he does, and how he is working. What is the king's reign? Or another question is: how far does the power and authority of Jesus go and travel? Who is under the authority of Christ? Well, simply put, his reign is everywhere. Christ is king over all things. Christ is king over all things. Now we have a hard time understanding this because we look at the world around us and we go, does not appear as though the world recognizes Christ as King of Over all things, right? And you are correct in saying that. But just because the world and God's enemies reject him as king, does that mean that he's not king anymore? It doesn't take away his status, right? I often joke in our household is you know like I have to go to the doctors or the dentist and I'll say like, oh, I don't believe in the dentist. What do you mean you don't believe in the dentist? Well the atheists, when they deny that God is real, they get to act like he's not there, and they can just say they don't have to deal with him. Well, I'm trying to do the same thing. I'm just trying to act like the dentist isn't real, I don't have to go to the dentist. But that's foolish, right? You're going, Anthony, you're gonna have mushmouth, you're gonna be nasty, and you need to go to the dentist. Well the same thing applies to the atheists and those that reject the supremacy and the lordship of King Jesus. Jesus. Just rejecting his authority does not mean that he is no longer king. He is the king over all things. Psalm 24:1. The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. The world and those who dwell therein. The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof, the world and those who dwell therein Do you see that? The whole world is God's, belongs to Him, and then everyone who dwells within the world. News flash, that's everyone. Pastor Matt has used this analogy before, and it's a great one. Is God is a gardener and he designed the garden, right? The world, all of creation. He designed that garden. And you do not get to determine how the gardener gardens his garden. The gardener determines that. He says what he's planting. He says how much he's watering. He says what he's doing. And that's what we see is it's all his. Not a single one of us has breath in our lungs if it wasn't for the sovereign God that gave us that breath. Not one of us has the wealth and the bank account that we have if it was not for the blessing and the mercy of the God that has created us. Not a single one of us will ever stand before the Holy God and say, I am righteous, if it was not for the great King that died in our place. Beloved, it all belongs to him. Colossians 1:16 says, For by him all things were created. Where? In heaven and on earth. Visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities, all things were created through him and for him. This is the king. All things. That's not vague. Do not trying to figure out, well, what about these things? No, it's all things were created through him and for him. Alright, so let's drive this home. We, humans, created for him, right? By him, through him, for him. We belong to him. Even your enemies, even the people you don't like, they belong to him. Even the world that rejects him, they belong to him. He created them, they belong to him. Even Satan. He created him. He belongs to him. Now we see rebellion happening, right? That's our problem as we see the rebellion happening. But it does not change the reality that Christ is the king over all things So why theologian once said, there is not a single square inch of this creation of which Christ does not declare mine. And beloved, we should hold on to this truth. This should be how we think about everything in our lives. That Christ is King. And it all belongs to him. You see this in our passage in Revelation. He's coming out of the heavens. He's coming down to make war. He's coming down to the nations to bow down to him. We see the spiritual battle happening later on in Revelation. And never at any point do we see Christ backing away or pulling back saying, well that's not mine, I don't have the authority to touch it. That's not how this works. Christ reigns over all. So why is this important to us? Why is this important to us Christians to understand that Christ reigns over all things? Well, the first thing is that nothing, nothing, Is outside of Christ's reign. Yeah, you said that, Anthony, we heard you. But no, I don't think you're thinking about it clearly if you're not rejoicing in the reality that nothing is outside of the reign of Christ. Nothing. What's your greatest sorrow and trial in your life? Christ is king over that situation. What's the greatest pain in your life? Christ is king over that situation. What has brought you the most joy in your life? Christ is king over that situation. Your family, your finances, your jobs, your friendships, your enemies, your car. The attacks of the enemy, Christ is king over all of it. Beloved, we will be encouraged when we hold and recognize this reality. The second thing that this is important for us to understand, that Christ is king over all things, is that we obey Christ in all things. Think about that that thinking there. Think about thinking. It's hard. But we're working it out that Christ is King over all things. Therefore, if we are to be obedient to the King, right, we want to be obedient to the King, Christ. We must be obedient in all things. Not just church things. Right? Not just Christian-y things. But we should be obedient to our king and how we should interact and treat our spouses and our children, our enemies, our co-workers, our boss, our finances, our taxes, our civil magistrates. We should obey and follow after Christ in all things to include the spiritual battle that lays before us. The temptations and the sins that we are fighting against. Beloved, we obey Christ in all things because He is the King of God The third aspect of why this is important to recognize Christ as King over all things is what we call all to acknowledge Him. That's our gospel message. That's why I love this imagery of the knight. We are those knights riding in on a horse in all the knights' armor, and we have the banner of Christ, and we go into the new city. and we announce Christ is King and rules over all of you. You have two options. You come to obedience in Him, faith in Christ, and you will live an eternal and joyful life, or you rebel and reject the authority and kingship of Of Christ, and you will receive your just punishment. God That's our gospel message. Change up words, but the meaning's there. We don't have to go and try to think, well, I gotta convince these people, I've got to twist their arms to follow after. We're just saying Christ is King, and you have one of two options. Follow and obey and come to faith, or reject and receive the punishment. This is our message that Christ is the King over all things and we call all people. All people to acknowledge this truth. And lastly, of the importance of Christ being king over all things, is that no one and nothing outranks Christ No one and nothing outranks Christ. Notice how the angelic beings are following after Christ. They're not leading him. Notice how the kings, you'll see in the rest of Revelation, how the kings are submitting to him. The nations, the powers, the principalities of the air are submitting to him. He is the king over all. No one and no nothing outranks Christ. So where should you go for authority? Where should you go for all approval? Where should you go for all hope, for all strength in this battle? It's to the great King of Kings. But what is the king's authority? This is point number two. What is the king's authority? Alright, so he reigns over all, but what power does he truly have? I can't unpack all the power of and the authority of Christ, but I think if we we dwell on this one aspect, especially in this section of Revelation. It'll help us to think about other sections of our lives and other authority of Christ. So Christ, the King Christ, his authority is he declares what is righteous And what is unrighteous. The king determines what is righteous and what is unrighteous. Or let's take out the fancy words and say he decides what's right and wrong. Right? Parents, that's who we are in our homes. Right? Why can't my daughter have a Snicker, uh, candy bar every hour on the hour? It's because I've determined that's wrong, because then I won't be able to have a Snickers bar every hour on the hour. Right? But that's what we that's what we understand within the home. Bosses, you understand and you dictate what's right and wrong within your workplaces Governments, politicians, as part of their role is to decide in the society what is right and wrong. But here we We see that if King is, if Christ is King over all things, Jesus is King over all things, there's nothing outside of his reign, he determines what is right and wrong in all things. All things And we see that here in Revelation. Notice how he's coming down in verse at the end of verse 11, he says, the one sitting on it called faithful and true, and in righteousness. He judges and makes war. What's the role of a judge? Is to see something brought before him, a case, and then that judge determines if the case is right or wrong, who's in the wrong, what's the punishment Who has been uh offended within the case and then give out the reward of the punishment to the offender. That's what Christ is coming in. He's in righteousness. He judges. So right there, we have to recognize that he is deciding what is right and wrong. But we can rejoice in this because we also see that his title is the that he is faithful and true. Jesus isn't just working off of emotions like you and I would do. Right, that that reaction parents come back to us. Right? How often do we just make a decision of what's right and wrong based off of the emotion we have at that time? I don't want to get up off the couch. I don't want to go do this, so you're not allowed to do that. But that's not how our king operates. He is true. He is faithful. He's deciding what is right and wrong and then judging the world based off of that. We see that when he comes and strikes down the nations, in verse 15, this is based off of if they are right or wrong, according to the king. Psalm 111. 7 says, excuse me, the works of his hands are faithful and just. All his precepts are trustworthy. The works of his hands are faithful and just. All his precepts are trustworthy. All of what he decides can be trusted. All of what he determines is righteous. And his work is good. This is our king. We see that his authority determining what is right and wrong is evident. And this is also what we are proclaiming to the world. Christ is king over all. Alright? We're announcing to the world, the nations, that Christ is the King. Jesus is King. He reigns. He reigns over all. You are under His power and dominion. And we are now pleading with them to follow after him, but we can also call out what is right and wrong. We don't have to fear what the world says. is right and wrong. That's why it's so important for us to understand that Christ is the one determining righteousness and unrighteousness. It's important because if he is the one determining what is right and wrong, the world does not get to determine what is right and wrong. The world doesn't get to. But friends, let's be honest. There's many things that we decide what is right and wrong because we fear the world more than we fear the king. heaven. Right? Well we this hot button social issue, we're just not gonna touch it. I I disagree with it. As long as I don't talk about it, I'll be okay. Or we say we actually indulge in the sin. We indulge in what the culture has said is right and wrong and the world has said is right and wrong because we want to appease the world of which we can see But we are completely forgetting that Christ is the King. We push that off. Oh, we can't see him. He's invisible. We're just going to push him away. And really He does determine what's right and wrong, but that's only at the end. We don't have to worry about that now. No, friends. Christ being king, Jesus being king is a reality today. It's a reality of the day. You may say, well, look, Revelation 19, that's at the end of history. I believe this is a present reality, but even if you're saying this is at the end of history, is it an absolute truth that it's going to happen? Right. So if you say this scene and this vision of Christ being king isn't right now, but it's at the end, it's so true, right? It's still going to happen. Well then, why are we saying that Christ isn't the king? Now, we also see that he has ascended into the heavens. Matthew 28, he has ascended into the heavens, seated at the right hand of the Father, having dominion over Heaven and earth, or all things. He determines what is right and wrong, so we should not fear the world. We should not make decisions on what is good and bad according to the world The second reason this is important is we will be judged according to his decrees. One day you will stand In the throne room of God. One day you will stand in the throne room of God and he will look at you. He will look at the books of works. And out of the books of works, all of our deeds, all of our actions, all of our thoughts will be revealed and seen. And if just one of them is just a little off-color, just not quite right. You will receive the just punishment of eternal separation and damnation in the lake of fire. Is anyone going to be just a little off-color? Right. How about like the whole book is going to be off-colored if that's what we're basing it off of. He determines what's right and wrong, and we will be judged according to that. But then notice this. This is at the end of Revelation, the books of works is laid open and the book of life is opened, and in that he judges who is righteous according to the book of life. How are we placed into the book of life? Is through the blood of the king himself. He writes our name in the book of life. So we see that the whole world would be judged according to his decrees And we must understand that if we are to be made righteous, if we are to withstand the judgment, we must be washed in the blood of the king. But also we must live according to the decrees of the Christmas of the king. We recognize Christ as our king, alright, so we're going to follow after him. We are the we're those new knights, so we're the knights fighting in his kingdom. We recognize him as king. Do you think that if we are Christians, we're still called to follow and obey the King? Yeah, we don't get a pass just because, okay, you're now a Christian, you've been forgiven by the blood of Christ, you just get a pass, you don't have to follow and obey Christ. No, we're called to it even more. We are passionate about this. This is our new nature. This is what we do. And the newness, the new birth, we desire to follow after the king. We desire to know him and to obey him. And we recognize that his decrees are righteous. So then the question is, how do we know his decrees? By his word. By the revelation of the word through the law and the prophets, and through the revelation of Christ and the Gospels. We see and understand what it means to be a good knight in the kingdom of Christ. We see what we shall be doing to be obedient in this fight before us. Friends, may I encourage us here that Christ is King over all things? He is the one that determines what is right and wrong, and that he is the only one we should fear. Not the world. And we he is the only one we should seek we should seek guidance in how we should live. So often, uh in my own life and in many examples of cases I've counseled through is that we come in with a problem, right? We have this problem, it's either Within our marriage or our children, or uh we're having trouble in this situation at work. And we want, we as humans, want the answer that's going to solve the problem immediately. Change jobs. Divorce. Move away. Don't talk to them. Right? These are the quick and easy answers, easy square quotes, that we try to solve this with. Because we recognize that the commands and the obedience to Christ isn't necessarily the easy way here in this life. But it is the only pure way. It is the only way that will give us hope. Sure, there's actions, there's physical actions we should be taking. Taking in many situations, but we must look to Christ for how and what we should be doing. If we were just living by the world standards, any time someone would upset us, we would just never talk to them again. But if we are living by the king's standards, when someone upsets us, we should address the issue with them. We should demonstrate love and patience with them We were living by the world standards. The moment we didn't like something that the civil magistrate would do, we would cut off their heads. But the king instructs us to pray for the civil magistrate. To proclaim the gospel to the civil magistrate, and to obey them in far as we do not break the law of God. By the world's standards Marriage wouldn't even exist. Especially not marriage between a man and a woman. Especially not marriage that is eternal, long-lasting, meaningful. Just be a slumber party with some extra benefits. But the king commands us that a man and woman cleave together, become one. And a man and woman grow and multiply in their actions. We must recognize that what the world tells us is absolutely wrong, but what the king tells us is absolutely righteous. And we should be seeking after his law and his commandments. This brings me to my last point of the king's work. We see his reign is over all things. We see his authority is determining what is right and wrong, and that's why we see him riding on the white horse, judging the nations. But what is his work? What is the king's work? This is let's work this out a little bit. There's two things we see in verse 15. From his mouth comes a sharp sword with which to strike down the nations. and he will rule them with a rod of iron. So if we understand the work of the king, the two aspects is he strikes down the nations and he rules them. He strikes down the nations and he rules them. Now I believe this striking down comes in two forms. One is he strikes them down and makes them a new creation in Christ Right? This is the striking down that you and I have received. We once were dead, we were put to death, and we were brought to a new life in Christ Jesus. Jesus. Amen. Amen. This truth that we were our old, nasty, sinful, disgusting self was put to death by the blood of Christ and brought to life in new life by the blood of Christ. Christ. Praise God for that. That is part of the slaying or the striking down that the king does. We rejoice in this. First Corinthians 15 tells us Starting in verse 50, I tell you this, brothers, flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God, nor does the perishable inherit the imperishable. Behold, I tell you a mystery: we shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed changed in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet, for the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised imperishable, and we shall be changed. For this perishable body must put on the imperishable And this mortal body must put on immortality. When the perishable puts on the imperishable, and the mortal puts on immortality, then shall come to pass the saying that is written Death is swallowed up in victory. O death, where is your victory? O death, where is your sting? The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law, but thanks be to God who gives us the victory. Through our Lord Jesus Christ. Do you hear the language of death and new life? That the old is put to death, the old is destroyed, the old is struck down by the king's hand. By the king's sword. But the other aspect of the striking down is the punishment. This actually gives us courage, beloved, that we see that all will be struck down. Either all will be struck down and be made new in the likeness of Christ, or it will be struck down and receive the eternal punishment of the wrath and the rebellion against the holy God. This is how nations are struck down. This is happening today. Do we believe that nations can be saved? Do we believe that people within nations, people within the leadership of nations, can be saved as Christians? Yes or no? Yeah, no, no, how about this? Absolutely. The miraculous God that did the miracle of saving a sinner like you can also do the miracle of saving a sinner like the President Trump. Can save the sinner like President Putin, can save the sinner like some crazy out there warlord in some tribe. Do not doubt the power and the authority and the work of our king He will strike down the nations, either in new life or in the eternal punishment. So we see them striking down the nations, but then also he rules them. He rules the nations. We see that as part of his role in Revelation 19. Isaiah 9, very classic passage for the rule of the new king. Isaiah 9 verse 5, this is the Christmas story, right? For every Buddha the tramping warrior in battle tumult. And every garment rolled in blood will be burned as fuel for the fire. Here it is. This is the Christmas story. For unto us a child is born. To us the Son is given. Hear this. This is baby Jesus we're talking about here. Here it is. And the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and of peace there will be no end on the throne of David and over his kingdom to establish it and to uphold it with justice and with righteousness. When's this? From this time forth and forevermore, the zeal of the Lord of hosts will do this. Do you hear your king ruling the nation? Do you hear your king determining what is justice? Do you hear your king bringing peace into this world? Beloved, we must see the work of our king as good by striking down the nations, but also by ruling them. The only hope we have for our judges in society to make just decisions Is if they understand the Creator of the universe and the just judge. The only way we can lead and guide our families if we understand our great and heavenly Father. Now, how does he do these works? I'll conclude here. How is this work done? Right? We really struggle with this because we're saying the temptation is to say it's not happening now. That's only at the very end of history. Anthony. That can't be happening now because everything's bad, everything's wrong. That's only at the end. But notice the sword of which Christ yields. The sword he uses, where is it coming from? Verse 15. From his mouth comes a sword with which to strike down the nations. From his mouth. That's not the sword that's cutting off heads. That's not the weaponry of a fierce army breaking down walls. That's the this is the weapon, the most powerful weapon we see in scripture is the sword coming out of the mouth of our king. And what are the what is this sword? It's the very words of the gospel being preached to them. nations. It's the very words of God being proclaimed day in and day out all around all of his creation. Do you hear this? This is our hope is that through the preaching of the word and advancement and proclamation of the gospel, nations are struck down and nations are ruled by the king. Do you understand that this is why we spend and value the time preach we spend and value the time reading the word? This is why when we preach the gospel, we don't go with tricks and little ways to do kind of gimmicks to win people over. We preach the word of God because it is the very weapon that the king y wields. to strike down the nations and to rule them. The word of God is the most powerful weapon all of humanity throughout all of history will ever see. And our king is the one that is using this instrument of war. He is the one wielding it. He is the one pushing it forward. And this is why I get so excited about this, is because this is the king, little knights, that we obey. This is the king that has sent us on the mission to the ends of the earth. to preach the gospel with the very same sword that is coming out of his mouth. This is the king that has told us, little knights, to go into the public square and to promote and proclaim peace and justice for all people. This is our king. O little knights, this is the very sword that cut you down and brought you into this little army of pathetic knights working for a mighty king It's the very sword that we are announcing and proclaiming. This is the very sword of which we live by. It's the very word of God. Beloved, do you see his work being done around us if we understand what his weaponry is? Do we have a little bit more hope that the king is at work now? He's not lazy. He's not sitting in heaven just waiting for us to fall apart and be in shambles, but that the king is advancing with his sword the gospel. The king with his sword is going to the nations and proclaiming the good news of Jesus Christ. The king with his sword is calling the sinner to turn to Christ. This is our king that we serve. This is our victorious king riding down on a white horse, crowned with many crowns, eyes like flames of fire. This is our king that is dripping in blood because of the great battle of which he has won with his own death. This is our king whom the heavenly hosts and the heavenly armies are following after. proclaiming and announcing his arrival. This is our king that the nations will be struck down and the nations will obey him. And there is no king more powerful than him. There's no one that outranks him. And this is why on his robe it is written, and on his thigh it is written, King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Beloved, this is our King. I call you. I plead with you to calm and follow this king. Christian, you are that warrior, you're that knight, go into battle, fight the dragons that are before us. With strength and courage and use the sword that is coming out of the mouth of our King. If you're not a Christian in here. I plead with you to come. I plead with you to come and acknowledge him as King. Acknowledge Christ that has died on the cross for your sins. Acknowledge him as the only way, the only truth, the only life. The only way of salvation is in Christ Jesus. I plead with you, unbeliever, to come to Christ, to see that he has died in your place, the death that you deserve. I plead with you to recognize that without the blood of Christ you will stand before the Holy God and receive the just punishment. And I plead with you not to delay. You will not get better. You will not get smarter or more wise. You will not get richer and one day come to the conclusion that Christ is king if you ignore and deny him now. See his glory. See his work on your behalf. And see the only hope you have is in Christ. And with this With this hope, let us live lives of joy, promoting and proclaiming that our King reigns and that all will bow down to him. Let's go before our Lord in prayer. Holy God, we thank you for your word. We thank you that Christ is King. That Jesus reigns now. There's no one that outranks him. There is no one that tells him what to do. There is no one, no power, no authority that he fears There's no enemy that is strong and mighty like him. So, Lord, I ask that you give us eyes to see the Lord and Savior as he truly is. Give us courage to proclaim that the King reigns now. May we not fear the world We not think that the enemy will win, but we know that Christ is victorious. We pray this in his name. Amen.