Well, the words we'll examine this morning come from Exodus chapter twenty, verses one through two. 7. Exodus chapter 20, verses 1 through 7. I'm continuing my miniseries through the Ten Commandments. The law of God, and this morning we'll be focusing on commandment two and three. But our focus is that we are loving God in this. If you remember in Matthew 22, 37 through 40, Jesus is talking with the Pharisees and they're trying to challenge him. What's the greatest commandment? What should we be doing? And Jesus tells them to love God. Right? He says, Love your neighbor. And he says that's the first and second greatest commandment. And then he says this All the law and the prophets hang on these two commandments. All the law and the commandments hang on these two commandments that we are to love God and love our neighbor. So this morning we're zooming in and looking at how we are to love God. And uh if you've read the Old Testament, you work through Exodus and Leviticus and Numbers and Deuteronomy, you're probably saying there's a there's some interesting things in there. That's the polite way of saying. There's some interesting things in there, right? Unique is maybe another way you could say that. The teens would probably say strange or weird, right? But what we're seeing here in that we God gives the Ten Commandments in Exodus 20. And then throughout the rest of the Old Testament, the lawgiving, he's showing case law, or he's showing how then shall we live, how should we obey the Ten Commandments. So when we see some of the Levitical laws of how the priests are to go into the temple and how they should dress and how they should conduct themselves in the temple, sure, it sounds strange to us. It sounds unique unique to us. But what's happening there is they're being instructed, how are they then to love God? And then we get to witness, we get to see the revelation of that, that Jesus comes and fulfills that He fulfills the priesthood. He fulfills the sacrificial system in the temple. And now we are worshiping God. We are loving God by being obedient and worshiping and recognizing Christ. Or same with some of the laws on how we are to love our neighbor. We're told not to murder Right? And then we have some case law that what if someone sneaks into your house in the middle of the night and you kill them? What are you to do? He says, well, that's not a case of murder. That's a case of self-defense. And the law lays that out for us. But when we're looking at the Ten Commandments, we have two aspects of it: loving God and loving neighbor. Loving God and loving neighbor. And today we're going to examine the loving God section. You'll see on your handout there the the Ten Commandments. I put the first three for us. Uh I think it's been two or three months since I last got the to preach on the law, and we we covered the first commandment, which is you shall have no other gods before me. We talked about the righteous worship of God. Now this morning we're going to talk about commandment number two. You shall not make for yourself a carved image. We need to unpack that. What does that mean? What are we talking about there? And then commandment number three, you shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain. And I really want to unpack that one as well to try to understand what that means. Why God gave that commandment and how we are to understand it in our own lives. It's not just saying a swear word or just using the Lord's his actual name in a statement, um, but what's it mean? What's the heart of it? And that's that's so important when we're talking about the law of God. It's not just the outward actions that God's so worried about. That was the Pharisees' problem. It was all about the outward action. So they made extra laws and extra protections. They would fence us or fence the people from getting too close to breaking the law. Right, they were just trying to think about how do we prevent the outward action. But God's not as concerned about the outward action, the outward expression of it. God is much more, or arguably completely concerned about the inner man, the heart of man. What's your heart? Do you love your neighbor? That's why you don't murder Do you love God? And that's why you worship Him rightly. And overall, my purpose this morning throughout this entire series is to show that the law of God is good. Alright, so if you leave here this morning, you're going, what? I have no idea what Pastor Anthony was talking about. Take this home. That the law of God is good. It's not salmific. It's good. It's good. It's righteous. It's justice. So one of our issues in today's society and culture is that we have separated the law of God and said that's for Christians. That's only if you believe in it. We get to do and operate and conduct ourselves however we want as long as we're not in the church. When you go to church on Sunday, then you love the Ten Commandments, you love the law of God But then when you're at work, when you're at school, when you're in the government, when you're at the grocery store, when you're at your house, you get to do whatever you want according to what's in your brain. This is the postmodern idea that we have is that we get to do what's according to our feelings and what we like. But that's not what God instructs. He gives us his law, which is good and righteous, and the true definition. So ask yourself if this is the law of God spoken by God, it's righteous, it's the law. It's justice. Is that only for you as an individual, or is it for all of creation, all of those made in the likeness of God? Are we pleading with them to follow the commandments of God, to love God, and to love their neighbor? We know that this works out perfectly and is only possible. by the new birth and the indwelling of the Holy Spirit, but that does not stop us from proclaiming what is righteous and justice in society. And we must use the law of God for that standard. Not man's made law. Not man's standard, but God's standard. And that's what I want us to focus in. So join me as I read Exodus 20, verses 1 through 7. And God spoke all these words, saying, I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery. You shall have no other gods before me. You shall not make for yourself a carved image, or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath. beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. You shall not bow down to them or serve them, for I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children to the third and fourth generation of those who hate me. But showing steadfast love to thousands of those who love me and keep my commandments. You shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain For the Lord will not hold him guiltless , who takes his name in vain. Let us start in verse 4, which is the second commandment. And often we s when we are just summarizing the Ten Commandments. We have simplified it to you shall not make for yourself a carved image. Right? And there's great debate. even in today and in circles that we would agree with that we're part of of well what does this mean? Can we have images? of God. What are those images like? What are are we worshiping them? What are we to do with these? What about idols? What does this mean for us today? So let us just take it line by line. All right, well we'll talk through the law and the scriptures that is is right here for us. And then after that I want to take it to make it more personal for us? What are we doing within our lives as Christians? What are we doing within the life of the church? And what are we asking for and what do we believe is justice in the civil or the the uh um society. Tried to be clever, keep it a C, so I did civil, but I want to say it's more society which is influenced by the civil magistrate. And that's why we'll We'll use that. Let's look at verse 4. What's the commandment? It starts simply with that we should not make for yourself the carved or graven. Maybe you have a translation that says graven. But it's the forming of the image. It's that language there that it's forming. Out of a material, you're forming an image. Alright, so so if you're thinking through your mind, well, what's what's actually happening there is we're taking a piece of creation And then we're trying to shape that piece of creation into some kind of likeness or some kind of image of what we would say is the heavenly. Or of God. Alright, so we're taking creation and we're trying to form it into the image or an understanding of God. But notice that it's preventing us from doing this in any way. It's saying you shall not make for yourself the carved image or any likeness of anything that is in the heaven above. Or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. So maybe just Simplified. Don't make a graven carved image in the likeness of God in anything. Don't try to say, well, I'm going to make it into this fish or this calf. Or this bird, or this tree, and this is to draw my attention and make me think about God. This is what we see happening in Exodus 32, right? So often we think, wow, these these Israelites, they're so foolish. They're so they're just so foolish. They're down there, they know Moses is up on the mountain, they see the cloud, they know something amazing is happening up there. But they're nervous, they're scared. So what do they do? They carve, they get all this gold, and then they create a golden calf, a golden image. And they're starting to worship false gods. And they're starting to seek after someone other than Yahweh, another God other than Yahweh. But I don't believe that's actually what's happening in Exodus 30. Yes, they're scared, they're uncertain, they're gathering up their gold, they're making this golden calf, and they're crying out to other gods, but notice in the same time they're also worshiping Yahweh. The term Lord is used there. They're trying to worship God. And what's happening is in the uncertainty. Is they're scared, they're not sure if Moses is ever coming back. They've just experienced Yahweh leading them out of Egypt by the work of Moses. And that they're they're now uncertain, they're getting scared, so they're trying trying to say, how do we worship God? How how can we worship we do this? How can we feel secure right now? How can we feel comfortable right now? How can we get back to that good feeling we had as we crossed the Red Sea? Well, we need some graven image. We need something to put our focus on. We need this golden calf to worship. And they're just following the example of the world they just came from. We gotta think about all the the multitude of gods that Egypt probably had. The images of false gods that that the Egyptians would worship. The images of pharaohs and and Pharaoh that they would worship. And they would say this was their connection to God. That's what Israel is trying to do in chapter 32. They're trying to get some special unique connection to God. And in this time, they're saying it's okay if it's Yahweh, the true God, or any other God that would listen to us as we worship this. Calf. They're trying to connect to God. So, yes, are they are they foolish? Absolutely. Yes, they're being foolish. But let us not act like we wouldn't be tempted. In the same way. Let us not act like when we are uncertain, when things are unclear, when we are doubtful, when we feel as though God is not listening and God is slow to answer, that we're not tempted to try to find. Something unique, something new, something like how the world tells us to connect to the spiritual. seek as we're seeking to connect with God, we're seeking something else. But notice, let's get back into Exodus 20 here. Is that if the commandment was simply you could not make a graven image, you could not create something, well then we could not have any kind of artwork. Do you hear that? You could not have any kind of artwork. Because the commandment, if we're just reading verse four, it says, You shall not make anything in the heavens above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. So, no artwork whatsoever. That's good for me. I'm a terrible artist. That makes things simple. But remember, God's not just concerned with the outward Right? He's not just saying, nope, no artwork. I'm the creator. I'm the one that designs. No, what happens here is we need verse five to help us understand this. Commandment fully. Because it says, you shall not bow down to them or serve them, for I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God. Do you see that? It's not just the reality of making the creations. It's not just Christians or or God fears, you cannot make art, you cannot make sculptures. No, what the issue is, is if we are using these creations, We're creating out of creation, we're trying to form something in an effort to bow down and to worship them. Or an effort, as we see the Israelites doing in chapter 32, and an effort to bow down and worship the creation in order to somehow get a special connection to the creation. That's the warning here. That's the commandment. Is that you do not, you do not make a creation form something in order to try to connect with God You don't need that. That's false worship. That's not loving God rightly. And often it starts in a good intended or a good intention. Right? I want to worship God better. I want to worship Yahweh better. If I make this creation, I'll use the golden calf image. If I use this golden calf, when I look at the golden calf, I'll pray to it and that will help me Remember Yahweh, and then I'll have a connection to Yahweh. But is that what we need? Is the golden calf the way, the truth, and the light unto the Father? Absolutely not. Is the golden calf our communication our entrance into the heavenly realm? Absolutely not. not. Do you see the issue here? Is with the good intention, I just want something to help me remember to think about Yahweh, so I'm going to use that golden calf to think about Yahweh and pray to that without adding something into our lives that's as A barrier or a gateway to God, which is not commanded. And then we've seen how over time this has gotten polluted. We have the the pagan worship that they are truly worshiping these these idols and statues and creations in a way of worshipping them, in a way of of communicating with their gods, and then we see the polluted Christian version of them. them when we have idols and icons that we are kissing, holding when we pray, talking about. When we lose something, we go to that idol or icon to pray to God, because that's how we'll find that item. You go, Anthony, that's foolish. You're making things up. If you've ever been to Jerusalem, It's packed full of that kind of idol worship. Go to Golgotha, the church of Golgotha, down there as there, and down at the bottom of the stairs you go up. There's where they believe the rock where Jesus was crucified is, and there's this this uh pan with a rock on it and oil's just dripping down out of it. And people are going there and bathing in it and holding icons and medallions under it, trying to get something special and holy, trying to feel a connection. to Yahweh. And you think you're just you're missing it. You're all about the rocks and what's happening here and the buildings and the church and the images. But you're not connecting with the true God. You've missed our Messiah that has died on this land, not the land itself. This is the commandment. It's to not make the graven image, to not make a creation that we need or we use in an intensity or in a way to try to worship God. Notice in verse 5 that he continues and says, I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children to the third and fourth generation of those who hate me. So he's connecting this false worship. When you start to bring in idols and creations to worship, that's a false worship of God. It's demonstrating that we actually hate God. It's demonstrating that we don't know God. We don't worship Him. And this language here of zealous, excuse me, of jealous could also be zealous. This this energy, this passion God has for his people, and the passion God has against the wicked. Now this this verse is called Tension for many of us, maybe even confusion, because it says he's visiting, God is visiting the iniquity, the wrongdoing of the fathers on the children to the third and fourth generation. So now we start to think: well, is God saying that if my father worshiped an idol, if my father was following and breaking this commandment, that now I'm going to be judged? Well, no. That's not what he's saying. Because look in verse 6, but showing steadfast love to thousands of those who love me and keep my commandment. What God is expressing here when he's talking about the third and fourth generation is he's showing how terrible sin is and how destructive. Sin is. How how it can destroy not just your life, but it starts to overflow into the life of your children, your grandchildren, your great-grandchildren. Children. Let me work in the reverse. How many of us are sitting in here today redeemed by the blood of Christ because we had a parent, a grandparent that was a Christian that share the gospel with us. Right? Probably many of us, if not all of us, have some kind of connection. And we start tracing that back. Now, some of you have the opposite testimony. You grew up in a household where the gospel was never mentioned. Church was never a thing. Christ was never a topic. How many painful situations did you face? How many sins were just so prevalent in your household because of that type of household that you grew up in? Now, does God do miraculous work and save sinners? Even out of a household like that, absolutely praise God that he does. But we should value it, especially as Christians, we should value and say we want to be obedient to God to benefit the next generation. To share the truth of God's law to the next generation. And verse 6 encourages us, saying that God's showing steadfast love to thousandths to the multitudes. I argue this language here is kind of there is no end to the number. So if God don't think like once God counts to a multitude of thousands, he has to stop loving men. No. He shows his steadfast love to the multitudes when they love him and keep his commandments. Don't put a cap on it. It doesn't end. That's how great God's love is. But the heart of those of who He's demonstrating and showing His love to is those that love Him. And keep his commandments. Notice the love first. We love God. God has been revealed to us in Christ, and we've we've love him because he first loved us, and then we keep his commandments. It's not reverse. Keep my commandments, then you'll love me, saying, love God and keep my commandments. And God shows his love to us. So let's talk about the second commandment. How should we understand it in our lives? And I I feel pretty comfortable that none of you have a golden calf in your house right now. That you're worshiping at night. If you do, come talk to Pastor Matt. We'll come visit you today, most likely, alright? But right, we we it's so easy for us to go, yep, second commandment, check, we're good to go. But let me draw out some areas where I think maybe as individual Christians we are tempted to break the second commandment without even realizing it. Are you trying to recreate that first moment you came to Christ? Right? Are you trying to recreate the youth camp? Where you heard the gospel? Are you trying to recreate the the environment of a concert where you just felt extra spiritual? And like if I could just life is really hard right now, things are difficult right now, if I could just get back to put a time frame on it, it's probably in the 1900s, that long era ago, where I was at a youth camp and I just had this Emotional, spiritual high of God. If I get back to that, everything will be okay. Aren't we trying to make something, create something for a unique connection with God This is one of the issues we see with the Second Great Awakening in the Americas. a number and multitude of people coming to faith in Christ. And the second Great Awakening wanted to follow after that. And how they thought was to do this was that we have to stir up the emotions. We have to get excited. We have to get the people feeling it. And then they'll respond. And in just historical studies, we see a a major shift from the first and second grade awakening. of those that came, came to faith during the second great awakening, had an emotional experience to those that were still walking with the Lord afterwards. If we're always chasing some kind of creation, we've got to create an emotion, we've got to create an experience, we've got to create a time in our lives to feel a unique connection to the Lord. Beloved, do we actually know the Lord? Do we know him? If we can't pray unless we hear a special song on the radio, well then do you truly love him If you can't confess your sins unless you're in this certain environment, a certain situation that just draws it out of you , why are you not grieved by your sins? Christians, we need to stop trying to create a connection with the Lord and recognize that our connection with the Lord is found and based. In Jesus. We go to Him. We commune with Him. There's no barrier. We don't need an image. We don't need an experience. We don't need a special situation. Cry out to God. There's nothing holding us back from Him. So as Christians, we need to stop trying to create something for us to experience. What about the church? What about the church? I'm talking here in North Hartford, but I'm also talking in America, especially, but universal. The universal church around the world. The church is at risk of breaking the second commandment. You shall not make for yourself a carved image or taking something out of creation, trying to create a special, unique relationship with God. The church is at risk at breaking that when we are always or trying to draw people to church or to Christ with something other than Christ. Hear me out. When we are trying, the church is trying to draw people to Christ with something other than Christ, so the gospel. What do I mean? And if someone came to me and said, Pastor, you know what would get people in here and would get people saved? Is if we just had a good old gospel banjo playing c concert in here some night. Now I'm going to say, yeah, I like the banjo playing concert. Dave could do that for us. But is that what's going to get people saved? If we just put on the biggest pageant. If we just if we had a great pageant, people would come in here, they would feel good, and then they would be saved. Oh I didn't know I forgot. I missed that scripture where pageants get people saved. If uh Pastor, if you would just change the painting and get some windows in the sanctuary and offer some coffee, more people would come here and more people would get saved. Coffee saving people now? Right? I'm trying to make a mockery out of this because this is how we function often as churches. We create something else. If you just did this, Pastor, people would get saved. No, if we just preach the gospel, the Spirit will save people. If we just proclaim the truth of Christ, people will get saved Should can we get new lighting? Yep. Can we could we put windows in the sanctuary? That's it for a different debate. It's debatable. Can we have coffee? Yes. But that's not what's getting people saved Beloved. May we not think that, oh, if we just did this one thing, we'd solve all the problems. And I believe the church is in danger of breaking the second commandment when we're thinking. that way. Remember, remember, Jesus says, no one comes to the Father except through me. This is to say some people come to the Father through me, some people come to the Father through pageants, some people come to the Father through just community groups. All good and okay things. But it's through him that people come to the Father. So may we not put a barrier, a creation before people. Now, my third section here: the civil, the civil magistrate or just society. I believe that we are in grave danger of breaking the Second Commandment as a nation, as a society, when we are establishing something as higher than God. Now we we miss this, beloved. We are very challenged by this one in America. But I have had great conversations. with true Christians, true brothers and sisters in Christ, when I say, Well what about the law of God in this situation? And they say, Yes, but in seventeen seventy-six we have a US Constitution that states we have have these rights. Sure, true. Hear me, I'm a barrel chested freedom fighter. I bleed red, white, and blue. I love America, but that can't be our standard of truth. That can't be, well, if we just follow the Constitution, we just follow this system, then we will be an extra special people or person. No , nation, politicians, don't put a barrier between us and Yahweh. Don't put a barrier between us and God. Don't establish anything higher than God, that we must worship that in part or in full before God. Let me move on to the third commandment, and then I'll come back to the civil magistrate and their role there. But as we look at the third commandment, this then brings us to verse 7 in our passage, Exodus 20. Verse 7. It says, You shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain, for the Lord will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain. Now , often this one commandment gets boiled down to one thing. When you're mad, don't use the Lord's name. As a curse word, right? And we say, cool, good, I don't do that. I'm healed. I'll never break the third commandment. But that's not what the commandment is only talking about. I'm going to just encourage you. I don't want you to start using the Lord's name as a curse word. But may we not oversimplify what the third commandment is all about. It says, using, taking the name of the Lord your God in vain. This vainess is just pointlessness, uselessness Meaninglessness. That's that's the imagery and the understanding of vain. So what is being commanded here is that we should not just be flagrant with the Name of God. We should not just be flagrant, just throwing it out there whenever we feel like it or we want to really solidify an idea. I swear on, and then throw out his name As I as a trump card. Oh you can't you can't go any farther, I swear. I I I said absolutely it's by God that I do such a thing. Or also we can't be using the name in vain. How often do you hear someone say, I'm a Christian? And you say, Well, how are you a Christian? Oh, well, I was baptized when I was five And uh, you know, I have a Bible at my house. Well, that title Christian is just meaningless then. It's just it's just a void of meaning. It has no purpose to it. So this this understanding of not taking the Lord's name in vain is not just don't use his name as a cuss word or curse word. Don't swear by it, but we don't use the name of the Lord as a trump card or as a proof of which God has not said. We also don't say that the Lord has commanded something. That he has not. We don't say the Lord has said something is a sin that he has not. All of this is using the Lord's name in vain if we say the Lord has said X, Y, and Z and it's not true. So let us see how this one unpacks with in our lives. So as Christians, where are we at danger? Where are we at danger of breaking the third commandment? I believe often we are at danger of breaking the third commandment when we are swearing by the name of God. When we have to have God's name used in something for us to keep our word. I promise I will be at your house at 3 o'clock tomorrow. I swear by God I'll be there. Yeah. So so what happens if I don't show up at three? Is God gonna strike me down? He probably is. Thank you, John. But you see, we're just throwing his name out there. We're just using it. And it's like our words don't have any meaning. Unless I mention the name of God, then you can't trust me. But what does Jesus tell us in Matthew 5:37? Let your yes be Yes, and your no be no. Can't we just be honest? Can't we just be genuine people We don't have to have this this threat or this this overhanging oppression that could come down upon us or just this lie. Honestly, I think most of the time we're just lying when we say such things. Just trying to build our case. Trying to make ourselves sound extra holy or spiritual in some way. Just stop it. It's void in meaning. It's vain. And I believe it's breaking the third commandment. Here's the other area Christians, I don't know if I hear it so much in this church, but I do hear it quite a bit in the Christian world. Stop saying the Lord told me and then make a statement. That's how that's how young guys get to to marry the girl they want, right? You go up to her, the Lord told me that I'm gonna marry you. Stop it. It's not a good pickup line, guys. Alright? I'll tell you how Ken uh Kenzie's pickup line for me someday, but that's not the pickup lines he used there But I but this is this is genuine. I hear this so much. The Lord told me, the Lord spoke to me. The Lord told me to do this. And often it's used as a Trump card. The Lord told me to start this ministry. Well then who am I to say? No, I don't think the Lord told you to start a uh get drunk at the the bar ministry. Right? Well well no the Lord told me. He he told me I had to do this Why do we just use the Lord's name? Why do we proclaim that the Lord has revealed something unique to you that he has not revealed in Scripture? This is the breaking of the commandment. Now, I believe there's many brothers and sisters in here that maybe you're feeling a little guilty right now because you're saying, uh, Pastor, I've said that. I maybe even said That this morning. Let me reframe and help you understand what's happening. When we say something as though the Lord told me, X, Y, and Z, what we're saying is that the Lord has audibly Or supernaturally spoken to me, that then when I speak it, I'm saying, Thus saith the Lord. I'm speaking on behalf of God. Do you hear the danger in saying that? Right. But what happens? Many of you are going, but Anthony, I thought about my friend that I hadn't talked to in so long, and so I called them up to check up on them and pray for them. Yes. That's not the Lord speaking to you. That's the Holy Spirit at work in you that's giving you a conscience. Alright, so I just want to help you reframe that. If that's what you're saying, the Lord told me. Don't say that because of what you're saying it has happened. But absolutely, friends, the Spirit does work in us like that. The Spirit does cause us to think of things. The Spirit does move us to go. I do feel as though I said I see this void, I see this need, and I think maybe I could do something. Let me talk with the pastors, let me talk with the church and start something there. Absolutely. Absolutely. But be very cautious if you're saying the Lord told me. And then you're speaking. Speaking on his behalf. We have the Word of God. We don't have a multitude of revelation, a new and unique revelation. That's how the cults are started. Mormonism, special revelation from God, right? Islam, a special revelation from God. The Lord told me to go to the cave, the Lord spoke to me, beat me up in a cave, and I spoke it out. Be very cautious with saying such a thing. Think about it. What are you saying when you say that? And what do you mean? What about the church? Ah, the church. How's the church in danger of breaking the third commandment? Church, we need to be very cautious of saying that the Lord commands something that he does not. Thus saith the Lord, do not and put in something that's not in Scripture. The Lord says that women cannot wear pants. Okay. Does it say it there? Our young adults have been talking about modesty for the last two weeks, so that's why it's on my mind. But is that in scripture? Can the church say that the Lord says it is a sin to wear pants? We have plenty of you may have a lot of good arguments of why pants and women aren't aren't a good fit. I I don't see that in Scripture. So we need to be very cautious. Of saying, the Lord has said, this is a commandment. If you do it, you are in sin. Unless Scripture tells us, let us not say that it is so. The other part that the church is in great danger, and I use this word church just as a title, is when a church keeps calling themselves a Christian institution Or a Bible-believing church where Christians are just following after the Lord when they deny everything in Scripture, they refuse to acknowledge it as the Word of God, and they don't walk in obedience to God. Right? I think I I think we can just travel around the Americas and see churches that are all about, yes, we are a Christian church, but they haven't broken open the Bible in decades. They don't care what the Word of God says. They're going to live whatever brings them feeling good inside and whatever the culture has told them to say. Stop using the title as a Christian institution. If you don't want to walk in obedience to Christ. Fair statement for the church? Now, what about the civil magistrate? We'll conclude here. How are they in danger of breaking the third commandment Come talk to me afterwards when this rubs you the wrong way. Nations, stop saying that the Lord is on your side when you are a rebellious people against him. Stop saying that you will achieve something because God is behind you when you're just slaughtering the innocent in the womb. Stop saying that you are a Christian nation and people that God loves so dearly and will not destroy when you hate and rebel against God and every other action you do. It's frustrating to me, and we just see society. Let me just vent a little bit. We see society and we say, why, Anthony, why is our nation the way that it is? It's because we have rebelled against God. And we are under the guise that we haven't. We've fallen for the lie that says, no, no, we're good people. We're righteous. We're the just people. We're the best in the world. Look at your standard. That shouldn't be our standard, the best in the world compared to everyone else. No, we should be going off of the word of God and his law. And we should be calling ourselves our families, our societies, and our politicians to walk in obedience to the law of God. Do you want to see a Christian nation? Do you want to see a a flourishing of righteousness and justice in society? Do you want to see a nation that God is truly behind? You will only find that when the people are seeking to walk in obedience to Yahweh. You'll only know this and experience. You will taste and see justice in society. The people truly fear the Lord rightly and value his word. Stop saying that God's going to bless us when we've rebelled against him and everything else. Stop saying that God is for us, who can be against us when we are against him. Guess what God does when his people rebel against him? He sends enemies. He sends the immigrant to reign over them. He sends a punishment into the land to oppress his people until they turn their hearts to him. Friends, may we love God. May we love his commandments. May we have no other gods before him. May we not need some kind of special creation to connect us to Him. May we see that it is only found in Christ. And may we not be vain with the Lord's name. May we not just throw it around with meaninglessness, but may we have reverence for who He is. And a calling in our lives. And may we love him and walk in obedience in all areas of our lives. Let me pray, and then we'll continue in singing. Holy God, I ask that you Bring to life your word to us, Lord. Reveal to us where we have sinned and broken your law. Reveal to us where we have fallen short. Your law. And Father, remind us that the only hope we have is in Christ. That you restore, that you forgive, that you make new. You don't just make an individual new, but that you are making all of creation new. So Lord, I ask that you make us people that love righteousness and justice according to your law That you make us a people that love you, because you first loved us. I ask that you make us a people that love our neighbors because they're the image-bearers of you. And I seek that we honor you with all that we do. From the moment we wake up , the time we go to sleep. We seek to walk in obedience to you, proclaiming your goodness to the lost. and to ourselves. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.