It is a blessing to be with you and get to open up God's Word together. Let me invite you to open up your Bibles to 1 Timothy chapter 4. We're going to be in verses 13 through 16 this evening. 1 Timothy 4, verses 13 through 16. I've titled this sermon on preaching and preachers. It's important to me as uh we walk through in in the evenings um this series on worship that it is clear to us that worship does not just mean singing. Singing is one aspect of our worship. It is one element. It's a commanded element. We saw that several weeks ago. But worship in and of itself, we uh saw from the book of John, is a spiritual reality of our hearts. Seeing and savoring Christ. And central to worship, we're going to see this evening, is the proclamation of God's word. Whenever I enter my house, which I do just about every day, I'm faced with an object lesson See, Patty Lynn and I are crazy enough, we'll say, to be committed to this church and yet live 40 minutes away in Haberty Grace. But one of the great benefits of living in a city that uh was incorporated in 1785 is there are a lot of very old houses. If you were to come to my house, as you're walking through the front door, right by our door on our front porch, you would see a sign, a plaque that reads circa 1840 on the outside of it. Now that's really old for a house. We think that based on the research we've done, the foundation was poured in 1842. Just for context, that's about 20 years before the Civil War began. There were 26 states in the Union at that time. And to the people who built it, the year 2023 probably would have felt like an impossibly distant future. And yet here we are in 2023, living in a house that's 180-some odd years old. Now a house does not stay standing and in livable condition for that long just by accident. It needs to be cared for needs to be tended to. Broken things need to be fixed. Stewardship needs to be exercised and time and effort have to be exerted in the work of preserving and sustaining You can contrast a house that old and in livable condition with many of the structures I see on my drive to work or church, which are clearly not nearly as old, but uh have fallen into disrepair. Through neglect. For a structure to remain for generations, care has to be taken to preserve it, to sustain it, and to build it up. Well that metaphor of a house is acts. Because in 1 Timothy, Paul refers to the church as the household of God. He calls it a pillar and buttress that is a load-bearing support of the truth. And he's he's writing to Timothy, he says, so that Timothy will know and will be able to teach how one should conduct themselves in the household of God. In 1 Peter 2, verse 5, Peter describes those of us who are in Christ as living stones, who are being built up in Christ as a spiritual house. a holy priesthood in Christ to offer sacrifices of worship to God through Jesus Christ. The Church of the Living God, which we enter through faith in Christ, which is expressed in local congregations. Is described as a spiritual house. And the question before us tonight is: how is God 's house preserved, sustained, and strengthened? We know how to care for a physical house, or if you're like me, you know how to call someone who knows how to care for a physical house. The Lord hasn't given me those gifts. But how is the household of God built up and strengthened for generations of faithful gospel ministry and gospel witness? Well in our text this evening what we're going to see is that one of the chief means, I would say the chief means by which God sustains strengthens and expands and builds up his church is through the proclamation of his word. Paul the Apostle is writing to Timothy the young pastor, and he's encouraging and exhorting him as he serves the church in Ephesus. Instructing him in what faithful gospel ministry and faithful body life ought to look like. And he sets before Timothy with this great urgency and great passion. the priority and the centrality of preaching the word of God. Being dedicated both as a pastor and as a whole congregation. to the centrality, to the sufficiency of Scripture. To borrow a phrase from a recent sermon series, this is an essential of church health. And as we're going to see in this text, it is a matter of eternal significance. The main point we're going to see in this section of 1 Timothy this evening is that God preserves sustains and strengthens his church through the preaching of his word, carried out in local churches by faithful preachers God preserves, sustains, and strengthens his church through the preaching of his word, which is carried out in local churches by faithful preachers. Now before we jump into this text and walk through it together, I just want to admit to you that there's an inherent difficulty in preaching a text like this, in uh preaching about preaching. can lay aside the fact that when you preach about preaching you feel like at least you're opening yourself up to scrutiny. There's also the fact that this text is first addressed to Timothy the preacher. We can assume that it would have been read to the whole church. We can assume that it would have been circulated to surrounding churches, but there's still the question, and I've wrestled with the question of how does one preach to the congregation? A text addressed to the preacher. Well, it's a bit like we are listening in on a vital conversation. When I was a kid, I always wanted to strain my ears to listen to what my parents were talking about in the next room. I'm sure some of you all did this or do this actively. And it was because I wanted to know what was going on in the family, what was important, what was of value, what was worth discussing, what was vital to the family life. Well, we encounter a similar situation here. As we listen to Paul the Apostle encourage Timothy the preacher. We're listening in on a conversation and we're learning what's important, what's valuable, and what matters within the family of God, what we as a body are called to be committed to. See, our discipleship and our growth in likeness to Christ is not just a matter of learning to obey specific commands. It's also a matter of having our intuitions and our longings, our priorities, and our desires be shaped by the Spirit of God through His Word. So as we look at this text and see the priority of preaching, we must learn together to long for the Word of God, to love biblical, faithful within the local church. To see is that commitment to the proclamation of God's word is not just for pastors, it's a whole church endeavor. Together, 1 Timothy chapter 4, beginning in verse 13. Paul writes, Until I come, devote yourself to the public reading of Scripture. to exhortation, to preaching. Do not neglect the gift you have, which was given you by prophecy when the council of elders laid their hands on you Practice these things. Immerse yourself in them so that all may see your progress. Keep a close watch on yourself and on the teaching. Persist in this, for by so doing you will save both yourself and your hearers We're going to walk through this text together and see three things in the passage. We're going to see first the preaching, second the preacher, and third the purpose. So these are going to be our three points this evening, the preaching, the preacher, and the purpose. Well, first in verse 13 we see the preaching. And I want you to notice first from this whole passage the urgency and the gravity of Paul's language here. Look at the language he uses. Devote yourself. Do not neglect. Practice. Immerse yourself. Keep a close watch. What Paul's laying out here and what he's exhorting Timothy in is a matter of great importance. This is not the language of casual suggestion. This is a weighty matter of fundamental importance for the body of Christ. And we need to see that from the outset. The Word of God, Church, is not a mere trinket that adorns our service of worship kind of like a knick-knack on a shelf. It's there, but we don't look at it. It's there, but it's unnoticed. No, the Word of God is the very lifeblood of our body. It's central to our worship gathering, and it's essential to our growth in Christ-likeness. We need to see from the outset that it's the very Word of God that constitutes us as a people, that defines for us who we are and sets forth how we are reconciled to God in the first place. We need to see this. If God has not spoken, if he has not revealed himself, we're still dead in our sins. We're still wandering in the darkness. It's by God's gracious revelation of himself in the Word, and in the Word made flesh, His Son Jesus Christ. That we are brought out of darkness into life, that we may know him truly through faith in Christ. So devotion to God's word is an urgent matter, and we see this in the language that permeates this text. Flowing from that, then see in verse 13 that Paul exhorts Timothy that God's word is to be the source and substance of of the preaching and teaching that takes place within the church. He exhorts Timothy first of all to be continually devoted to the public reading of Scripture, to exhortation. and to teaching. See here that the teaching and the exhortation are fundamentally anchored to and flow out of the reading of Scripture. The scripture, the word of God, is the source, the foundation. And in the context of this whole letter, we're meant to see a contrast here. Because Paul has continually warned Timothy in this letter and in 2 Timothy against false teachers who devote themselves not to God's word, but rather to myths. to what he calls speculations, genealogies , deceitful and demonic practices that reject the good, right use of God's creation. Paul warns Timothy that there are false teachers who devote themselves to something other than the Word of God. And Paul warns that these teachers are motivated not by God's glory, but by a desire to benefit themselves. ultimately by their own pride, using the church as a means to benefit themselves financially. And Paul is here saying to Timothy, you see what these false teachers devote themselves to. You see what they're about, you see what motivates it, what motivates them, reject it. And you devote yourself wholly and completely to the proclamation of God's word. When we gather together as the people of God, what we proclaim must be centered upon saturated with and always circling back to the Word of God. Scripture, Church, is not a garnish to our gathering. It's the main course. It's the meat that nourishes us, that sustains us, that equips us and convicts us. The reading of Scripture that Paul is calling for here is not some kind of mere formality, mere external act of physically reading. And it's not merely just a springboard for the preacher to read a passage and then get to what he really wants to talk about. No, it's the source and the substance from which all teaching And all exhortation is to flow. The word of God is central to our gathering. And I want us to see that this kind of steadfast and unwavering commitment to and devotion to the Word of God is not a burden. It's freeing. It is good, church, that we don't have to come up with what we're going to be about or talk about or do when we gather each week. As we prepare to preach, we don't have to scour the news for sermon ideas or wait for some mystic inspiration to strike, and that is such a good thing. Rather, we are free as a whole body to allow God's word to set the agenda and to shape the priorities of our hearts. If you look up at the beginning of chapter four here in ver 1 Timothy, he describes uh those who are dedicated to false teaching, what he actually calls teachings of demons. And he describes it as utterly miserable. It rejects the good use of God's creation. It insists on this outward legalism that doesn't profit, that doesn't cause true spiritual growth. It's described as utterly miserable. Devotion to God's word is utterly freeing as we follow King Jesus. We are free to let God define for Himself what is important and what is vital to the body life of the Church. And it's here, I think, that this command can reveal a deficiency in our hearts. Because intellectually we may, yes, affirm that God's word is central and that God's word is essential. But don't we often go looking for spiritual wisdom and spiritual satisfaction elsewhere? Don't we often think, if we're being honest with ourselves, that oh if we just had this new ministry or if we just made this change to the layout of our building, oh then we'd be better at attracting visitors, then we'd grow as a church. I want you to know that I feel this temptation when I prepare to preach. I feel this temptation to think that if I can just think of the perfect illustration, that if I can phrase this point just right, oh, then it will land and then it will have impact. As though what the body really needed is my ability to articulate something. No, what we need is the word of God And if we see rightly what Scripture is, and we understand that Scripture is essential and scripture is sufficient. Church, what we have here in our hands is the word of God. The eternal God of the universe has spoken and we have access to it. To understand this command, to be devoted to the reading of Scripture, to understand the urgency of Paul's tone in this passage, we have to see the glory of what Scripture actually is. Think with me on just a few texts. There are many others we could look at. 2 Timothy 3, verses 16 and 17. Scripture is inspired by God. It is literally God wreathed. And it is profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, that we might be adequate, that we might have everything we need. To faithfully follow after Christ Jesus. Think of Psalm 19, verses 7 through 14. The psalmist writes that the law of the Lord is perfect, reviving the soul. Do you believe that? Do you believe that when your soul is weary, when you are beaten down by life, that you will find rest and revival? Through sitting under God's word. Think of Psalm 119, verse 20. The psalmist writes, My soul is consumed with longing. For your rules at all times. Oh, that this might be the song of our hearts, Church, that we might see Scripture rightly, and with urgency and joy devote ourselves to it. So God's Word is the source and the substance of all preaching within the body of Christ. And notice next from verse 13 what the preaching of God's word does. It exhorts and it teaches. And these are two functions that go together. Preaching teaches in that it explains the truths of God's Word It instructs, it seeks to bring clarity. It lays before the people of God the rich depths of truth in ways that are understandable. Now there's an assumption here that underlies this command to teach that's obvious, but sometimes the obvious things are the most important things for us to actually say. There's an assumption here that God's word is actually understandable. It's actually intelligible. By his grace By the Spirit's guidance, God's word can actually be understood by God's people. Yes, there are difficult texts. Yes, there are complexities. And yes, our good knowledge of God's word will never be exhaustive. But if God's word can be taught, then the assumption is that it can be learned. Well, preaching also exhorts in that it calls for a response of faithful obedience. It sets the truth of God before us and compels us, by God's Spirit working within us, to orient our lives completely around the truth being proclaimed. All doctrine, all teaching, all explanation of God's word is practical in that it calls for a response of faith in your heart and in your life God's word engages our minds and our wills, our volitions, which are two things that really can't be so easily separated. We're called as followers of Jesus as the word is proclaimed to see Christ and to walk in him To know him by looking to Christ in faith, and to obey him in our lives by looking to Christ in faith, as the word is proclaimed. So we see first here in verse 13 that preaching is from God's Word. It explains the truths of God's Word, and it calls for a spirit-fueled response of faith in our hearts. As we submit to Christ's authority. And church, we're called as a body to be dedicated to the Word of God. This is a dedication that can't just be kind of cultivated in the abstract. It can't be a theoretical dedication. It can't be something we merely uh attain to by putting it on our website or in our bulletin that we're really devoted to God's Word No, it happens in the week-in, week-out, ordinary rhythms of our gathering as we gather for worship, as we sit under the word of God. As we submit ourselves to the Spirit's work in our lives What we do, church, in the ordinary rhythms of the body life of the church, what we do in the ordinary course of life Will become instinctive for us, or should become instinctive for us, when life becomes difficult. When the trials of life come, we go to what we instinctively know and what we have trained ourselves to do. So as a church body, may we train ourselves and dedicate ourselves to sitting under God's Word in the ordinary course of our body life so that when trials come When we experience suffering, when there are funerals, we instinctively go to the Word of God as our source of comfort and hope and peace and joy. We're called to be dedicated to sitting under the proclamation of God's Word. And that proclamation is to be carried out in the body by faithful preachers of God's Word. equipped and dedicated to the task of preaching. This brings us to point number two. The preacher. So we've seen the preaching. The preaching does not happen in a vacuum. It's not impersonal. It's not disembodied. It's carried out in local churches by men who are gifted, affirmed, and dedicated. To the proclamation of the word. As one author put it, preaching is the bringing of God's word from men to men. So the question before us is what characterizes the preacher of God's Word? Well, we see several things here in verses 14 through 16. And church, you need to know this because you need to hold your pastors to this standard. You need to pray these things for them. And you need to support and pray for such men to be raised up in our midst. Those who preach do so for your spiritual benefit. To see you built up in Christ as the Spirit works in your heart, to exhort and to encourage you in your walk with Christ. We'll first see from verse 14 that the preacher is equipped for the task by the Spirit of God. Paul tells Timothy in verse 14 not to neglect the gift that he has. Preaching for the church Within the body, true biblical preaching is a spiritual gift of God's grace given by the Holy Spirit of God to build up the church. For a cross-reference on this, I would point you to Ephesians chapter 4, verses 11 through 13. What this means is that the ultimate strength, the operating power underlying Any and all true preaching of the Word of God is the Holy Spirit, working in power, as the word goes forth to convict. to correct, to train, and to pr impress upon us the beautis beauty and the majesty of Jesus Christ. The power of preaching, Church, is not fundamentally in the force of our language or the skill of the person speaking. And praise God for that. It's in the Spirit of God, who works as his word is proclaimed and goes forth. The preacher is utterly dependent on the gracious gifting of the Holy Spirit for this task. And all of us, church, are utterly dependent on the Spirit of God to work in our hearts, pointing us to behold Christ when God's word is preached And this calls for us to trust that God actually intends to work in our hearts as we come each week to sit under the preaching of the Word. This is how God actually intends to mold you into the likeness of Christ. Through sitting under the preaching of his word. This is a supernatural event that bears spiritual fruit in the heart. And again, it's not fruit born out of the preacher and his skill. But the Spirit of God working as the word is proclaimed So the preacher is equipped for the task by the Spirit of God. Secondly, see that the preacher is under God's authority and affirmed by the church. We also see here that Timothy's gifting and his call to preach and teach within Christ's Church was affirmed publicly by the elders laying on of hands and was accompanied by prophecy. Now, regardless of the specifics of the circumstances within the early church and the apostolic age, regardless of where we church land on the spiritual gift of prophecy then or now , What is clear from this passage is that Timothy's call to preach was seen and was affirmed by the good authority structures that Christ has placed over his church. The elders laid their hands on him. This would have been seen and known by the whole church. Every preacher who would proclaim God's word in Christ's church is under authority. Ultimately, the authority of Christ. Which is then expressed in biblical local churches through the authority structures that Christ has established. The elders as shepherds And the whole congregation, as those who Matthew 16 teaches us, hold the keys to the kingdom. This is to say that polity matters for preaching. And I have to be careful here, or else I will go off the uh off the road of preaching about preaching and take my motorcycle on to the back road of preaching about polity, so I have to be careful here. But preaching is not mercenary work. It's not carried out by hired hands who have no authority over them and can do whatever they want. That kind of mindset has wreaked havoc on the church. In many places and in many ways. No, preaching is carried out by godly men under authority, dedicated and submitted to local churches. In the ordinary course of the body life of the church, those who preach should be those who are known by the church Who are affirmed in their aspiration to ministry and who are committed to a specific local body. Now hear me, don't mishear me. This is not some tirade against guest preachers. I'm not an anti-guest preacher. This is in the ordinary course of the body life of the church, preaching is done by men under authority, under the authority that Christ has established for his church. Well next in verse 15 we see that the preacher is utterly committed to the task and dedicated to growing in it by God's grace. Just look at the language here in verse 15. Paul says, practice these things. Immerse yourself in them. Preaching is not a casual sport for the preacher or for those sitting under the preaching There must be an ongoing and unwavering resolve to grow as a preacher of God's Word. And again, this should underscore for us the gravity of what takes place when God God's word is proclaimed in his church. There's also, though, an interesting paradox here. We've noted that preaching is ultimately a spiritual gift of God's grace. And yet it's something that the preacher is called to cultivate, to persist in, and to grow in. Well, this is really the same paradox that lies at the heart of all Christian growth and discipleship. As Pastor Matt taught us this morning, it is all of God's grace. It is all God's work, our growth in Christ. And yet we are called to walk in obedience, to pursue holiness. Which we do by looking to Christ in faith, by his Spirit working in us and conforming us into Christ's likeness. Preaching is a gift. The preaching also must be cultivated and pursued by those who preach and by those who sit under the preaching of God's Word. Notice also here in verse 15 that the progress and the growth of the preacher is something that should be seen by all. Paul wants Timothy to be immersed in the work of preaching so that all may see his progress. His progress and his growth as a preacher is to be a spiritual encouragement for the whole church. As pastors grow as preachers and teachers of God's Word, the whole church benefits. Christ nourishes and strengthens and builds up his church Through faithful preaching. I think there's also an implication here, and I've alluded to it, that churches should be dedicated to growing as hearers of God 's word. It's important for you to persist in sitting under faithful, Christ-centered preaching. To be dedicated to being here, to hear God's word proclaims. To pray earnestly for God's Spirit to work in your hearts, to even very practically cultivate the discipline, if it's what you need, of going to sleep a little bit early on Saturday night so you are awake. And ready to sit under the preaching of God's word. We are called to grow as a church. In our capacity to both proclaim God's word and to have God's word proclaimed to us Well finally we see in verse sixteen that the preacher is to be marked by consistency in his character and in his teaching. Paul says, keep a close watch on yourself and on the teaching. There are two objects of concern here, the preacher himself and the truths he teaches. To keep a close watch on oneself is a call to personal holiness to character that aligns with the truths that are being preached and set before the congregation. And this is utterly essential, Paul says, to the task of preaching. We need to understand this. A preacher who is an excellent speaker, who is moving and passionate, but who is entrenched. And a life of unrepentant sin is not a gifted preacher in any sense of the word. We need to reject such men Don't allow them to remain in pulpits. I've here heard people use the language of, oh, well, we just can't lose them for the kingdom. That is flawed, fundamentally flawed logic. If someone is in unrepentant sin, they are not gifted or competent to preach God's word. The life of the preacher must be consistent with the truths he proclaims. And that's not about perfection, but about trajectory, about personally seeing and savoring and walking in Christ. And compelling the whole body to do so as well. Can't lead others where you yourself are not going Well then to keep a close watch on the teaching is to continually hold up the Word of God as the source and standard of all truth. To test and refine all that is taught according to, again, the testimonies. of Scripture, the Word of God. This is something we're all called to do. To hold up God's word as the source and standard of all truth that is proclaimed. We are called to love God with all our minds. Well, these are weighty matters. The proclamation of God's word is at the very heart of the body life of the church. It's at the very heart of God's design for our discipleship. And as verse 16 closes, we see that what's at stake in the preaching of the word is eternity. We look finally at the purpose. So Paul's final encouragement here reveals the ultimate purpose of this call to treasure God's Word, to preach faithfully, and to live consistently. Paul says, persist in this, that is, persist in keeping a close watch on yourself and on your teaching, for in so doing you will save both yourself and your hearers. Salvation is at stake here. The public preaching of the Word of God is one of the chief means by which God has designed that the gospel goes forth and dead sinners are brought to life in Christ. As we look at a passage like this, we need to be careful theological reasoners, lest we wrongly think from this passage that there's any aspect of our salvation that's man-made. We always want to interpret Scripture in light of Scripture. We always want to understand what is less clear in light of what is totally clear in God's Word. The scripture is overwhelmingly clear that our salvation is entirely a work of God's grace in Christ. Freely given and freely received through faith in the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. So when Paul says you will save yourself and others, Through persisting in preaching, he is not introducing to Timothy a work that must be accomplished in order to earn salvation. Nor is he saying, and this is important, that you, Timothy, or you preacher, in and of yourself, are able to produce saving faith in the hearts of your hearers through your preaching. How we get historically to the Second Great Awakening and the attempt to reverse-engineer conversion and bring it about through external means is to be rejected. So what does this mean? Well, for the preacher, faithfully persisting in a life of holiness, and true teaching of God's Word will be the visible outward fruit accompanying genuine conversion. It's the good works that God has prepared beforehand for him to walk in. All who belong to Christ, all who have been truly brought from spiritual death to spiritual life, will persist, will persevere to the end. And this will be displayed by a life lived faithfully under the Lordship of Christ. Good works always accompany true salvation. This is true of every believer in Christ Jesus, and it's true of those called to preach and called to teach his word. So the preacher will save himself in that his faithfulness to King Jesus to the end will demonstrate outwardly, through visible fruit, that he truly belonged to Christ. Well not only will his life of faithfulness and faithful preaching of God's Word demonstrate true conversion It will, and this is magnificent, be used by God as the means through which he miraculously brings sinners from death in sin to life in Christ. God brings about salvation in the heart of sinners. God convicts sinners of the reality of sin, the reality of s judgment before God and the utter need for forgiveness through faith in Christ. God does this. Through means. And if you just think back to your own life and your own conversion, you know this to be true. You didn't just wake up one morning and out of nothing with no context become a follower of Jesus. There were people who shared the gospel with you. You heard the word proclaimed in one way or another. There was a call at some point for you to respond in faith. Well, these are the means that God has chosen to use in bringing the gospel to the lost. It's the preaching of the gospel, church. carried out in biblical, faithful local churches that witness to a world in darkness that the light has come in Christ. We must believe and we must grasp by faith that when the Word of God is proclaimed, God's Spirit is at work to awaken dead hearts and to open blind eyes To see and to save her Jesus Christ. We should see in this as we conclude the gravity of the ministry of the Word. We're dealing in eternal matters. as well as the confidence we should have. The word must be central. It is the means by which God intends to sustain and strengthen and build up and expand his church as the gospel goes on. Forth. Faith we know comes by hearing, and hearing requires proclamation. What we proclaim must be the word of God centered upon Pointing all who will hear to the person and work of Jesus Christ. And we must trust and have confidence that God will work in hearts as his word is proclaimed. It will not return voice. Just see the confidence Paul has in this verse. Persist in this, for by so doing you will save yourself and your hearers. There's not any ambiguity there. There's not any uncertainty as to whether or not God will do what God intends to do through the preaching of the word. Church, do we trust this? Do we believe that when God's word is preached faithfully, that it will have the effect by God's grace and by God's Spirit that He intends for it to have in our own hearts? In this church, in Jarretttsville, in Harford County, and in the nations, we must remain utterly committed to and confident in the Word of God as the center of of our worship. As we conclude for just a moment, I want you to think with me. Thought a lot about time this evening. Think with me forward a hundred years into the future. It's hard for us to think in those terms, I know, but just go with me for a second. None of us will be here. And more than likely, none of our children are going to be here either If a hundred years from now North Harford Baptist Church is still standing as a biblical, faithful, Christ-treasuring church, we know it will be by an act of God's grace. And we know that God will have sustained, God will have strengthened, God will have nurtured and grown his church over that time. Through what appears to be just the utterly ordinary week in, week-out proclamation of his word, which is actually the most extraordinary thing of all. It will be through God by his Spirit working as his word is proclaimed to point his people to see Christ and rest in him. So may we be faithful now. May we have confidence in his word now. And may we now joyfully labor by committing to the ministry of the word For fruit that we may not get to see in this lifetime, but will have an eternal impact by the grace of God. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you That in you we find the words of eternal life. God, thank you that you have graciously revealed yourself to us. You have not left us in the darkness of sin, but you have awakened our eyes. God, I pray that we would see Scripture rightly that we would be committed to it and God that by faith we would anchor ourselves anchor our worship gathering to the proclamation of your word through preaching, through our singing, through our prayer, through all God that we do and all that we commit to, may we be committed to the proclamation of your word. Praise this in Jesus' name. Amen. Go in grace and peace. You are dismissed.