Before we get into this particular sermon, I want to give a little reminder of the overarching purpose Of every sermon, every whatever, at least what every sermon should have this overarching purpose, is always the same: to exalt Christ as Lord and Savior. For the glory of God and for the good of our souls. Now we should come with that mindset. We should come wanting to hear a sermon, wanting to hear the word of God, hungry, thirsty, desperate to have Christ exalted as Lord and Savior for the glory of God and for the good of our own souls. Now, getting into this week's message in particular, let's take our Bibles and turn to Ephesians 1, verses 4 through 6. Ephesians 1, verses 4 through 6. Looking at the topic of predestination unto adoption. Predestination unto adoption. It could have easily been predestination and adoption, because both of those words are in the passage But I've chosen unto instead of and because I want us to see the relationship between these two concepts. And if we sever them and try to look at one apart from the other, we'll miss the point. So, predestination unto adoption. Ephesians 1, 4 to 6. Even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world. That we should be holy and blameless before him. In love, he predestined us for adoption to himself As sons through Jesus Christ, according to the purpose of His will, to the praise of His glorious grace, with which He has blessed us in the Beloved And the beginning of verse 5, I'm sure that jumps right out at you. The beginning of verse 5 is where the title comes from. He predestined us for adoption. That's predestination unto adoption. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, I pray for humility I pray for clarity. I pray that your word would be preached faithfully. And I pray that it would be heard and received in faith with joyful hearts. We pray for your Holy Spirit to be at work in our minds as we receive. As our hearts, as we receive, as we hear your word, as we contemplate your word, would you turn us to Christ? Open our eyes, the eyes of our hearts, open them wide to your amazing love, to your amazing grace, how sweet the sound. Father, we pray that you would help us in our time of need. Be our strength where we are weak. Be our wisdom where we are foolish Be our endurance. Be our reminder where we are forgetful. Be unto us matchless grace through Jesus Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen. I want to give you a list of things, and I don't want you to answer out loud, but I want you to think, uh, what list is this? Alright, I'm going to give you a list of things, and if you had to put a title on this list How what would you put for the title? So what is this list? Again, don't answer out loud. If we all start answering out loud, uh it'll just be distracting. But what list is this? Or what is this a list of? Temptations, trials, and suffering. What list is this? Indwelling sin and guilt The accusations of the evil one. The lies of the evil one. The schemes or the traps of the evil one, the enticements and the allurements of the world The fallen culture around us. What list is this? Earthly treasure. Earthly pleasure. What list is this? Now, we could all put it in our own words and still get the same main concept. Don't expect anyone will have it word for word the way I put it. But here's what this list is. This is a list of all the things that can derail us from God's will if we're not on guard. That's what these things are. Every single one of these things can get us off course from God's will. Every single one of these things can distract us. From being passionate about God's will. This is a list of things that can derail us from God's will if we let our guard down So the question is, how? How can we stay alert? How can we keep awake, as the scripture says How do we keep ourselves ready and armed and on guard so that we can stand against and resist? The plethora of things that can derail us from God's will. Well, the first thing, the first thing in answer to how Is we must remember our identity in Christ. That's number one. We must remember that through faith in Christ, brothers and sisters, we Are children of God. That's number one. When we are aware, when we remember that we're children of God, then we give ourselves over to prayer. When we remember that we are children of God and we're excited about it, then we give ourselves over to the reading of the Bible and to the hearing of the Bible. When we remember, when we are aware that we are children of God, we give ourselves over to the fellowship and worship and love of the local church And see, all of these things are God's means of grace to build us up and keep us on guard. But if we forget that we are children of God, we will not be diligent in any of them. Remember that through faith in Christ, you are a child of Almighty. God, there's no better status, there's no higher status you could attain to. You are a child of God. In Christ, you can know, you can know that you were predestined for adoption as a child of God. This passage is telling us about things that we can know because we have had faith in Christ And predestination is one of those things. In Christ, you can know that you were predestined for adoption as a child of God. So the way I've broken this message up in the body is number one, we'll talk about predestination. Number two, we'll talk about adoption. And then number three, we'll talk about some personal and practical application. Now, predestination could take five messages on its own. Adoption could take up five messages on its own. And the personal application for either of those Is a lifetime of learning. So what we're getting here is a reader's digest version. A condensed version Of predestination, of adoption, and then of some of the main personal and practical applications Because what's the point of learning things if we don't have any idea of how to go live them out, which is what God wants. Hear the word, be doers of the word. Hear the word, keep the word, hear the word, obey the word. So we'll get to that application. Now first on predestination, look at verse 4, which says it in one way, even as he That's talking about God the Father. Chose. That's the action verb. Remember verbs from elementary school? This is the action verb. So he is God the Father, the subject. Chose is the thing that he's doing, and then us Is the object. He chose us. Now, in the context, who is the us? It's very simple. Look at verse 1. Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, to the saints who are in Ephesus and are faithful in Christ Jesus. In the original context, it's Paul writing to the Ephesians, the Ephesian Christians, and he says, God chose us. He chose us. Now you can take that. You can take the principle out of that and say it applies to all believers. All believers anywhere throughout all time, all believers. But in the context, that's who it refers to. That's verse 4. In verse 5, says it in a different way, but it's the same meaning, or the same idea. T. That's the what part of the sentence? The subject predestined, that's the action verb us. That's the object. He chose us, he predestined us And it simply means to destine beforehand. The King James says destinate, same thing, to destinate beforehand The other translations, the other major translations will say predestined to destined beforehand. When you preheat an oven. The meaning of that is not difficult. It's not confusing. It means you heat the oven beforehand. Heat the oven beforehand, then put in the brownies. Preheat. A movie preview. You get to view some of the movie beforehand. You view some of the movie before it's released. Preheat, preview, predestined, or King James predestinate. Means to be destined beforehand by God's free and gracious will to be a child of God through faith. And that's the connection. Predestined Verse 5, predestined us for adoption. Alright, predestined us for adoption. That's predestination unto adoption. Or even verse 4, where he says it in a different way, he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him. Which is only true about those who are adopted. So again, they're parallel statements. They're hitting on some of the same truths, just saying them in different ways. If God put his love upon us. Five hours ago, that would be cause for great rejoicing. Amen. If God put his love on us five years ago, that would be cause for great rejoicing. Are you tracking with me? If God put his love on you fifty years ago That would be cause for great rejoicing. If God put his love on us 500 years ago, he decided to put his love on us. That would be cause for great rejoicing. Is this cracking? Am I losing you? Am I keeping you? Have you jumped out of the car yet? Five hours, five years , five hundred years. I even forget the illustrations that I used. Whatever whatever time frame. Now what if God put his love upon us? From before the foundation of the world? What if God put his love upon us from eternity past and in eternity past? Would that be cause for great rejoicing, or is it now a cause for great confusion and for rejecting God's law? Great rejoicing, great rejoicing. The message of predestination is very simple. God has put his love on you from before the foundation of the world. That phrase comes right from the text. This should cause great gladness. Now, because of our man-centered culture and man-centered philosophy, that we like to run things through the filters of man's categories. Some of us have been programmed to be afraid when we see this word. When this word in Scripture, the book begins because it's meant to be an encouragement to the saints of God. It's meant to fill our hearts with great rejoicing and great assurance and great humility and give all the glory to God. We've done this thing in modern culture. And I've heard it said we've bring we've tried to bring God all the way down, we've tried to bring man all the way up so that we're on the same exact level, he's just a little bit better. And that's not the God of Scripture. Predestination unto adoption. Now let that connection between the two resonate in your heart. Because if there's no predestination, then there is no adoption. If this didn't happen, we wouldn't be saved If this didn't happen, nobody could be saved. Praise God for predestination unto adoption. So cross-reference to 2 Timothy 1:9. 2 Timothy 1:9, talking about God who saved us and he called us to a holy calling, not because of our works. But because of his own purpose and grace, which he gave us in Christ before the ages began. Listen to this We're saved because of his own purpose and grace, which he gave us in Christ before the ages began. 2 Timothy 1 9. Romans 8 29 -30 For those whom he foreknew he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son, in order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers. And those whom he predestined, he also called. And those he called, he also justified, and those whom he justified, he also glorified. 2 Timothy 1. 9, Romans 8, 29 to 30. Another word in Scripture that's used for the same doctrine is election. You'll see that, for example, in 1 Peter, the first paragraph of 1 Peter. But I want to read for you part of our church's statement of faith, part of the Southern Baptist Convention's statement of faith. Article 5 on what's it's titled God's Purpose of Grace. Article 5 in the Baptist Faith of Message 2000, which is our statement of faith. And it reads this way. Election is the gracious purpose of God, according to which he regenerates, justifies, sanctifies, and glorifies sinners. It is consistent with the free agency of man. And it comprehends all the means in connection with the end It is the glorious display of God's sovereign goodness and is infinitely wise, holy, and unchangeable. It excludes boasting and promotes humility. And that's where our hearts need to be Boasting is excluded. Humility is promoted. And understanding our salvation in all of its aspects, in all of its parts, understanding salvation as this. Quoting again from Article V, quote, the glorious display of God's sovereign goodness, end quote. That's the business that the church is about. That's the purpose of salvation. Salvation history, salvation personally for every one of us. The glorious display of God 's sovereign goodness. Natural man doesn't like that. Natural man does not vibe with that. We want a display of our own goodness. We want a display of our own greatness. We want a display of our own accomplishments. We want a display of our own wisdom, of our own power, of our own name, of our own kingdoms, of our own little trinkets and treasures that we collect. But God wants a display of God's goodness. And God wants a display of God's power, and this is how he's chosen to do it. By predestinating you unto adoption. And those he predestinated, he called, and those he called, he justified. Those he justified, he will also glorify. Predestination unto adoption. And you'll see on your outline an A, B, C, D, E. And this is just to highlight some of the exegetical points of this text So letter A, the motive, the motive of predestination is love, and we see that at the end of verse 4, in love. In love, he predestined us. What's the motive? The motive is love. Seeking the well-being of others In love, parents care for their children. In love, spouses repent of selfishness And put their spouse ahead of themselves. In love. Are you awake for that one? In love, spouses forgive. In love, parents forgive. In love, friends help when nobody else is able to help. In love, children obey and submit to their parents. In love, Christians do not hold grudges against one another, but freely forgive and seek reconciliation. In love, pastors are to serve the church with the Bible and with prayer and with practical care, staying biblical, staying centered on the Bible, staying centered on the gospel. That's a God-defined love. In love, the church faithfully brings the gospel to the world and to the lost. See, love leads to the action that's the motive. The motive is love. Let it be the result. The result is adoption. The result is adoption. From verse 5, in the middle of verse 5. For adoption to himself as sons. For adoption to himself as sons. In love, he predestined us for adoption to himself as sons. I've heard many Christians struggle with this and this might be a struggle for you. Um How do I know if I'm predestined or not? Do you believe in Christ? Yes. You believe that Christ is sufficient for salvation? Yes. So then you can know that you're predestined. Yes, but how do I know if I'm predestined? Let's not go in circles. You know you're predestined the same way you know that you're forgiven. Because you're in Christ by faith. You know you're predestined for the same reason you know you're going to heaven. Because you're in Christ by faith. So, okay, so heaven's the future, but it's the same principle when looking to the past. You know you're predestined for the same reason, you know, you are filled with the Holy Spirit Because you are in Christ through faith. And you know you're predestined for the same reason. You know that on the last day you will be risen and receive a glorious resurrection body To forever dwell in the presence of God. You know that you're predestined for the same reason. You know that you'll be risen because you are in Christ through faith. So you have to keep these things together, predestination unto adoption, and you have to keep these things embedded in the Bible's story. If you take them out of the Bible story and bring them over to the realm of human philosophy, you'll just be in a maze of confusion and speculation and doubt, and it will hinder your assurance. Don't put these ideas in the realm of human philosophy. Leave them in the Bible's story. If you take them out of the Bible's story and put them into the realm of Personal speculation, you also will be in a maze of confusion, and a maze of not only confusion, but just constantly doubting and wondering. You know you are predestined because you are a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. Anyone who's not a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, and then you will know that you are predestined unto adoption. Faith is the way in. Faith is the way in to the kingdom of God. The result, adoption. Let us see the way. The way Five B through Jesus Christ. Through Jesus Christ. Verse five Toward the end through Jesus Christ. The motive love, the result adoption, the way through Jesus Christ. Everyone on earth and everyone in this room Spiritually speaking, morally speaking, is living how they want to. Their will is not being violated. Everybody's living out their free will. We're all living how we want. Morally Ethically, spiritually, those who don't want to live for God are not living for God. Those who do want to live for God are living for God Are striving to live for God through faith in Jesus Christ. Just that we know that if we're on that side of it, the side uh where our will wants to live for God, Where our will is striving to live for God, we know that that's a result of God's grace. Not our own strength Not our own wisdom. So we're if you're on that side of it, just remember we're not better than unbelievers We're not smarter naturally, more spiritual, naturally, ethically, morally advanced than other people. Because then you have something to boast in, yes? Then there's room for boasting. But scripture says boastings excluded. We're saved 100% by God's grace That's the main application, really. That God gets all the credit for this. God gets all the glory. God gets all the thank yous. The way is through Jesus Christ. Everyone on earth And everyone in this room is living how they want to, morally, spiritually. The problem is, though we're living out our free will, naturally speaking, the will is enslaved to sin. And one thing we don't have is we don't have the power to change the nature of our will. We don't have that power. That's why we know anyone who's going to come from this side whose will is to not live for God to this other side over here. You guys are usually the bad side. Today you're the good side. Anthony told me that. Whenever I do this, it's always this side, it's the bad stuff, and the good stuff's over here. Try to balance it out. This side this morning is those whose will, enslaved to sin, living out their free will. Not believing in God, not living for God. Now on this side, if if you're brought from that side to this side, where you are striving to live for God and wanting to live for God, it's a result of God's grace. And as a Christian we have now two wills, two natures. Because the flesh, the corruption of the flesh still lives within us, but the Holy Spirit and the desire to please God also dwells within us. So we're fighting this battle, always fighting this war. So, what's the answer? What's the remedy? What's the solution to someone who's on this side? Jesus. This is Jesus. Don't be a philosopher. Jesus is the answer. Jesus is the answer. You can be saved now. Right now. Right now. If you put your faith in Jesus on the basis of his righteous life, On the basis of a sacrificial death where he died for sins, he died to gain the forgiveness of sins. If you put your faith in Jesus Wait now, wait this instant, and any instant that follows, ever, when you're brushing your teeth tonight, if you put your faith in Jesus Christ, you are saved and you know that you've been predestined unto adoption. Through faith in Christ. Faith, faith, faith, faith in Christ is what saves. Are you with me on that, church? We need to know this. We need to know how sinners can be saved and have an assurance of salvation and all the blessings of Christ. It's coming to faith in Christ on the basis of the gospel. The motive, love, the result, adoption, the way, Jesus, the basis. Letter D, the basis. This comes from the end of verse 5 The purpose of God's will. Look at the end of verse 5. It says, according to the purpose of his will. According to the purpose of his will. And there's no authority over God that now brings, as a higher authority, brings down to God parameters for what his will can be. There's no standard of right and wrong above God. That now setting up guidelines for what God can and can't do. This is fair. That's unfair. This is right. This is wrong. This is loving. This is unloving. There's nothing There's no standard of authority over God. God is the standard. He is the right. He is the wise. He is the perfect. He is the pure. And according to the purpose of his will is the basis. You know, brothers and sisters, we do not reject Bible teachings just because we do not yet fully understand them If that were the case, then we all would have quit a long time ago. We don't reject the things the Bible teaches just because we do not yet fully grasp them or fully understand them. And I know this is one of the tough doctrines, one of the tougher doctrines of the Scripture. It's like the incarnation. Jesus, one person, is 100% fully God. And 100% fully man. We cannot grasp the depths of that. But we do not reject it Just because we don't fully understand it. We can't possibly expect the wisdom of God and the knowledge of God to fit in our little box of limited human logic. The truths of God transcend our limited grasp of logic. Incarnation. Inspiration. The inspiration of Scripture is another one of these things That this book is truly authored by human beings with a with a stylus or an ink pen. On some kind of paper or scroll, and at the same time 100% authored by God, who's invisible, who dwells in eternity. Man is the author. God is the author. This transcends the limits of our grasp of logic How about the Holy Trinity? The Holy Trinity is another one of these tougher doctrines. But we don't reject it just because we don't fully grasp it. One God, unchanging God, who exists eternally in three persons, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, that does not fit into the little puny box Of limited human understanding. But we don't reject the doctrine because of that. We don't reject God because of that. We are in more awe and praise of God because of his wisdom. Another one is substitution. Substitution. Sometimes we hear this so often. It can go over our head. We need the Spirit to stir us up. It's a big pot, isn't it? We need the Spirit to stir us up to just how amazing and miraculous the doctrine of substitution is that when Jesus died on the cross When Jesus died on the cross, he was taking our guilt as his own. Literally, spiritually, legally, before the throne of God. Taking our sin, taking our guilt, receiving the wrath of God as our substitute. That blows the mind. Brothers and sisters, this transcends Human logic, but that does not make it illogical because humans are not the standard of logic and wisdom and knowledge and right and wrong. God is the standard. The basis is God's will. Now, since this is tougher doctrine, as a church, what we must absolutely be committed to is showing grace And patience, understanding, and love to those who aren't quite where we are in our understanding of this doctrine. You don't need to be exactly where I am on my understanding of this doctrine. I've grown over the years. I've had to learn over the years, and I'm still growing and still learning. Hopefully you're still learning and still growing. And One day we'll all intersect with when we all have the full knowledge that's not tainted by our sin anymore, and at that point we'll be in heaven. So even if we have disagreements, then we won't care about them anymore. But we won't have disagreements then. But even then, we still won't have a full grasp because we will never have the mind of God. There's a difference between having a full understanding of God's truth from a human perspective and then having the mind of God Himself, which is always a different level. The basis is God's will. We don't all need to be exactly the same place at exactly the same time and are growing in understanding, but but where we do need To lock arms, where we do need to be on the same page is number one, agreeing that the Bible is the source of truth, not philosophy. The Bible is the source of truth, not philosophy, not speculation, heaven forbid, not popular opinion But the Bible. The Bible is the source and standard of truth. And number two, where we need to be on the same page is let's all just keep in the spirit, cultivating a humble and learning spirit. A humble and learning spirit. I'm not where you are, but I'll commit to growing and you commit to growing. You're not where I am, but you commit to humility, and I'll commit to humility. And let's just all keep our feet on the same platform here of the Bible is the inspired and authoritative word of God. Just stay on that platform with me. That's all I'm asking. The end goal is verse six. The end goal is to praise of God's glory. Verse six to the praise of his glorious grace. With which he has blessed us in the beloved. So it's not just God's glory, it's the praise of his glory. His glorious grace, his glory put on display is what that means. His wisdom, his power, his grace, his love. All of it's put on display. And we respond in praise. That's the praise of his glorious grace. That's the ultimate end of all things. All things, everything, everywhere This is the end of the story. The praise of God's glorious grace. At least I got one amen for that. If I were to say free pizza, everyone is like, yes, when does that start? Dwelling with God. With all the all the saints of God from all ages, with no sin, so everyone's perfect in holiness, right? No Satan, no curse of sin and death, no sickness, no suffering, no war. No cancer, no broken bones, no aging, no nothing, nothing, none of that. Just God And his perfectly glorified, perfected saints, and all the angels praising God forever for his glory and for his grace and his wisdom and his power. It's good or bad. It's good. That's where we're heading. Now keeping that perspective for eternity will ground us for life in this world. Number two, adoption. And what I'll do just calling an audible here. Anthony, do I have the authority to call an audible here? If you don't know what an audible is, now that may be embarrassing. If you know what an audible is, will you raise your hand? Okay, that's that's good. That's more than I thought. In football, you come to the line of scrimmage, you're about to roll you're about to start the play, but you read the defense on the spot and you change the play on the spot. That's the audible. And you have to do it audibly. So I'm calling it audible and I'll save the adoption notes for another time. Right now, let's just look at the word and and uh define it. And on the spot I'll just cherry-pick like one of the applications. All right. Adoption, verse 5, predestined us for adoption to himself. Adoption is being brought. No wait, I said this is the bad side. Adoption is being brought out of darkness into the family of God by receiving the Holy Spirit. You can memorize that, right? Adoption. God adopts us into his family. He brings us out of darkness into his family by giving us the Holy Spirit. Romans 8, 15, and 16, you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received the spirit of adoption as sons. By whom we cry, Abba Father, the Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. First John 3 1 is a great verse. See what kind of love that the Father has given to us, that we should be called children of God, and so we are. Children of God through faith in Christ. That needs to be your concern today. If you're alienated from Christ, if you've not put your faith in Christ, You don't need to be worrying about the deep doctrines and all the philosophical questions that can come up with those doctrines. What you need to worry about is you are accountable to God and you will one day stand before God in judgment But your urgent need is today turn to Christ in faith and be saved. Receive the forgiveness of sins. Receive the gifts of eternal life. Be reconciled to God Receive the hope of heaven. Receive the hope of resurrection. Be liberated from sin's enslaving power over your heart. Come to Jesus in faith. Come today and be saved. One application, one application. As an adopted child of God You must look to Christ daily for endurance. You must look to Christ daily for endurance. If you want to be a child of God and strive to live as a child of God, be ready to not fit in with the world around you. Amen? Be ready to be made fun of. Be ready to think you're weird. Be ready to think you're some kind of fanatic. A strange religious fanatic. Just be ready to not fit in with the corrupt, the fallen culture, and society around us if you're a child of God. And that also comes from 1 John 3. The reason why the world does not know us is that it did not know him. The fallen world does not align itself with Christ. And so it will not align itself with the people of Christ. But but but but but we keep preaching the gospel because so the people who are not aligned with Christ Can be changed by the gospel and get aligned with Christ. And that's our plea. That's our invitation. That's our cry. Get aligned with Christ. Get on the side of Christ. Get on the side of hope. Pray for endurance, children of God. Pray for your endurance and pray for my endurance. Pray for the endurance of the church as a whole. That we do not lose heart, that we do not lose focus, and that we do not lose faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. He has predestined us to be adopted as sons, and that is what we are. And if we are sons, we are heirs. Heirs of God and co-heirs with Christ. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for Jesus and for all that is in him. Pray that you would strengthen our hearts in the faith. I pray that you would increase within us a hunger for your word. I pray that you would fill us all with a spiritual mindset that we wouldn't be just about the outward things, that we wouldn't care so much about the logistics And we wouldn't care so much about our way and our preferences, but our hearts would just be captivated, captivated with the living Christ and all that is in him and all that he's doing within us. Let us be a people whose hearts are always fixed on Christ and whose mouths are always singing the praises of Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen.