Well, if you would take your Bible and let's turn to Titus chapter 3. We're finishing up our miniseries on Titus this morning. Mini-series called A True and Godly Church. A True and Godly Church, but also reminding us that we want to be true and Godly Christians. We want to pursue true and godly living, a people based on God's truth, living by God's Grace in order to live for him and not the world. This idea of being true and godly comes from Titus 1:1. Paul, a servant of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ. For the sake of the faith of God's elect, and their knowledge of the truth, which accords with godliness, their knowledge of the truth, which accords with godliness. Truth and godliness. And in chapter one we talk about this one pillar of how truth leads to godliness. Truth leads to godliness, and then as we grow in godliness, we have a greater and greater desire for the truth. So we come back to the truth. And when we receive the truth by faith, we grow in godliness. And as we grow in godliness by the grace of God, we come back to the truth because our hunger for God's truth, our appetite for God's truth, keeps getting greater and greater. This pillar of God's truth leads to godliness and also the pillar of God's grace at work within us. We definitely need the truth of God that comes from outside of us, but it needs to be internalized. We also need the inner work of God, the inner work of God's Spirit, the inner work of God's grace, so that we might not only hear God's truth. But that we might also apply God's truth to our lives. Amen? That's God's will to be hearers and doers of his word. Now today, Titus 3. The title is very simply Reminders for Christian Living. Reminders for Christian Living. Why? Do we need reminders for Christian living? Because you already know the answer to this Because life is very busy. And we are prone to forget what's most important. Life is busy, and life can be stressful. Trials come and distractions come and the worries of this world can carry us adrift And because of sin that lives within us, and because of the uh the weakness of the flesh, we're prone to forget what we need to remember most So we all need reminders for Christian living. Well, to start with Titus 3. Just verses one and two. Actually, the idea for that concept of reminders comes from the very first word of chapter 3. You can see it on your Bible down on your lap. We'll read verses 1 and 2, and then we'll pray before we go any deeper into it. So here we go. Titus 3, verses 1 and 2. Remind them. To be submissive to rulers and authorities, to be obedient, to be ready for every good work. to speak evil of no one, to avoid quarreling , to be gentle, and to show perfect Courtesy toward all people. And those are just a few of the reminders for Christian living in Titus chapter 3. And that's where we are this morning. Let's pray. Father, we pray that you would open our minds to receive your word, to understand your word, open our hearts. To your word, we pray that you would administer your grace , your power, and your encouragement to our hearts by your Holy Spirit and by the word of your truth. Show us Christ. Help us to rely upon Him to find rest for our souls in Him. Father, I pray that you would fill our hearts with joy and a cherishing of Christ. That we would love him and worship him in our hearts, even as we receive his word. It's in Christ we pray. Amen. I know personally I need a lot of reminders in life, and not even just for spiritual things. I'm just prone to forget things. I've got all kinds of reminders in my phone. Does anyone in here have reminders on their on their phone? I have a reminder on Monday night to take out the trash. I have a reminder on Wednesday for a prayer and staff meeting. I have a reminder on Thursday night to take out the recycling. I have a re Another reminder on Sunday morning for prayer with the pastors. That's just a few. I've got all kinds of reminders. And I also need people in my life who would remind me. of important things. So I need people to remind me. We often say to each other at home, me to Becky or Becky to me, hey, will you remind me of this later tonight so I don't forget Will you remind me of this later in the week so I don't Forget. And spiritually, we all need reminders. The Bible is full of reminders. Full of reminders. Reminders of God's goodness. Reminders of what God has done for us. Reminders of God's purpose. Just reminder after reminder. Reminder of God's commands. So that we would know how to live. Reminder of God's promises, so that we would trust in Him and believe in Him. Just reminder after reminder. Now the world The flesh and the devil want us to forget. The world, these are the enemies of the children of God. The world, the flesh, and the devil want us to forget what's most important. They want us to forget God's goodness, forget God's commands, forget God's will for our lives, forget God's promises of the gospel, forget the sufficiency of the blood of Christ. Right. But God wants to remind us, and one of our ministries to each other in the church is to remind each other of what's most important and help each other and build each other up in Staying on track for the Lord. We all need help. We all need encouragement. And we all need reminders. Today we're looking at four crucial reminders for children of God. And keep this saying in mind as we go through that remembering aids obeying. Does that make sense? Remembering aids obeying, like glasses aid seeing, or crutches aid Standing, remembering AIDS, obeying. It's important to keep that saying in mind. This way we don't hear this just as information. But we receive God's reminders, keeping their purpose in mind, that we would obey God and live for his glory. And the first Reminder is about Christian character. We need to remember Christian character. That's number one on your outline. Remember Christian character. This comes from verses 1 to 3. Remind them to be submissive to rulers and authorities, to be obedient. That's where I got that idea of obey. Remembering, AIDS, obeying. Here he says, remind to be obedient, to be ready for every good work. Verse 2: to speak evil of no one, to avoid quarreling, to be gentle. To show perfect courtesy toward all people, for we ourselves were once foolish, disobedient, led astray, slaves to various passions and pleasures, passing our days in malice and envy, hated by others. and hating one another. As you see those reminders in that passage, how are you doing on those? How are you progressing in those? Now none of us will be perfect in those, but hopefully we're in the battle. Brother, sister, stay in the battle Be in the battle. Do not lose heart. Do not lose sight of what God has called you to. Do not fall for the lies. and the distractions of the evil one. But stay on track in cultivating Christian character. Character matters. Do you want an employee or do you want a coworker who is great at the skills but has a horrible attitude and just cannot work with others? I'd rather have the one with a good attitude and who is really great at working with others who is just mediocre or average at the skills. That's who I'd personally work with want to work with because character matters. Remember Christian character. When you look in a mirror What you're seeing is a reflection of yourself. When you look at the moon, what you're seeing is a reflection of the sun , the light that comes from the sun. And when people look at Christians, what they should see is a reflection of God's character. They should see a reflection of the love of Christ. They should see a reflection of the kindness of God. They should see a reflection of the patience and the compassion and the joy of the Holy Spirit. Remember Christian character. I have an A, B, C, and D under this, under remembering Christian character. First of all, remember that we are called to be law-abiding citizens. We are called to be law-abiding citizens, to be good citizens. This is verse 1. Remind them to be submissive to rulers. and authorities to be obedient, to be ready for every good work. The rulers and the authorities is the state It's the government. It's the rulers and authorities that in God's providence, in God's wisdom and design, it's the rulers and authorities that God has put over us. In society. We're to be submissive. We're to be obedient. And we're to be ready, always ready, for every good work. Remember that we are called to be law-abiding citizens. Brothers and sisters, it means that we are not to join in societal chaos or upheaval. We are not to stir on and poke and make worse chaos and upheaval. We're certainly not to be involved in criminal activity. We're not to have a contentious, rebellious, trouble-making spirit toward the authorities, but Submissive to rulers and obedient to be law-abiding citizens, friends, is part of our call as children of God. 1 Timothy 2. 2 is one of those verses that's a really good summary, encapsulating the Christian life and what we should be striving for. 1 Timothy 2. 2 Lead a peaceful and quiet life, godly and dignified in every way. That's what God wants from us. Don't I have to do something huge for God? Don't I have to do something radical and big for God to show him my devotion to him? Here's what God calls his children to. Lead a peaceful and quiet life, godly and dignified in every way. That's what God calls us to. To be law-abiding citizens. Brothers and sisters, let's take it upon ourselves to set an example To our friends, family, neighbors, and each other of being law-abiding citizens who do not stir up chaos or join in upheaval In society. Letter B. Remember that we are called to be gracious in speech. This comes from the beginning of verse 2. Speak evil of No one. I don't think that leaves any room for speaking evil of a person. I don't think it leads to anywhere. Speak evil of no one. We're to be gracious in speech. Not vindictive, not hateful, not harsh, filled with malice and unrighteous anger. Child of God, you are called, we are called to speak evil of no one, to be gracious in spirit Speech. God has been gracious to us. We were sinners. We were hostile toward God. We were enemies of God. We were rebels against God. And He Showed us grace. Therefore, like the mirror that reflects, and like the moon that reflects, we are to reflect God's grace to other sinners. Amen? Let's be gracious in speech. Did you notice that our mouths get us into a lot of trouble? Have you noticed? Hopefully you have noticed, this is not rhetorical, hopefully you have noticed how much words can hurt somebody. Don't belittle others. Be kind in speech. I'm preaching as if to a mirror. I'm preaching to myself, and hopefully, you'll glean something from it as well. Be gracious in your speech. Be considerate of others. Don't be so harsh. And critical and mean, mean-spirited, and rough and sarcastic with a dig here and a dig there. Our speech Hurts others, but it also has the power to build others up. Speech is powerful, and just as much as we can hurt others with words of malice We also can help them with words, if you haven't gotten this point yet, of grace. Words of grace. Let's purpose in our hearts to reign in our tongues, beloved. Let's do it more than ever. Colossians 4:6, let your speech always be gracious, seasoned with salt, so that you may know how you ought to answer, answer each person. Remember your call to be a law-abiding citizen. Remember your call to be gracious in speech. Letter C. Let's remember our call to be peacemakers. This is the next part of verse 2. Avoid quarreling. Avoid quarreling. There you go. Two words that we'll take the rest of our lives to grow in and make progress in. Here's an opportunity for an argument. Here's an opportunity for a debate. Here's something that's Going to start to some kind of division or to some kind of quarrel. What does the text say? Run away from it. Avoid it. Avoid it like the plague. Avoid quarreling. Avoid quarreling and all that it would lead to. Means to refrain from stirring up trouble. And also, conversely, it means to proactively pursue reconciliation. Proactively seek to heal rifts Proactively forgive others from the heart so that in your heart you could just move on for the glory of God. Forgive, erase the offense, and move on for the glory of God. But if you're unable to forgive, and sometimes we are, sometimes we're not, if you're unable to forgive, avoid that grudge. And seek reconciliation. These are some of the hardest things to do in living for God. Amen? I mean, this is tough. The relational aspect is tough. It's easy just to sort of immerse ourselves or lose ourselves in the public and the formal Gathering for worship and signing worship and signing up for a ministry and and joining in for the outreach effort. The hard part is the central part, and that is the relational part. Of loving each other and caring for one another and reconciling with one another and avoiding quarreling. Avoiding quarreling. To be peacemakers, avoid quarreling and letter D. Remember our call to be holy Remember our call to be holy. Verse 3. For we ourselves were once foolish, disobedient, led astray, slaves to various passions and pleasures. Passing our days in malice and envy, hated by others and hating one another. We ourselves were once this, but now in Christ we are different. You can see the before and after. This is really just the after, but he's pointing back to who we used to be when we were enslaved to sin. Just some examples of what that looked like. But the point is that's not who we are anymore. We are no longer to be foolish No longer to be disobedient, no longer to be led astray, no longer to be slaves to various passions and pleasures. No longer passing our days in malice and envy, no longer hated by others because of how we were treating them, and no longer hating one another because of selfishness. No longer, no longer, God has saved us and he set us apart. That means he's made us holy. He sanctified us. He continues to sanctify us because it's now an ongoing process to grow in these things. But we are called to be holy. Remember That we are called to be set apart from the cultures, decadence. Remember that we are set apart. Called to be wholly set apart and distinct from the cultures violence and selfishness And greed and materialism. And remember that we are set apart, we are holy, set apart, distinct from the culture 's sexual deviance God has saved us. He has filled our hearts with his Holy Spirit. He has united us to Jesus Christ. And brothers and sisters, never forget that God has made you holy. Remember that you are called to live a holy life. Pray daily for holiness. Beg God to kill sin in your heart. Beg God to grow up and to stir up and to stimulate godly desires in your heart. And godly thoughts in your mind, and godly words from your mouth, and godly habits and hobbies and priorities in life. Beg God is the only way forward for helpless sinners. So we must remember Christian character. Remember our call to be law-abiding citizens. Remember our call to be gracious in speech to everyone. Not just the people we like. Remember our call to be peacemakers, not only in what we avoid the quarreling and the trouble, but what we proactively pursue the forgiveness and the reconciliation. And we must also remember our call to be holy, set apart for God Almighty. Are you with me on this? And all that remembering aids obeying. And obeying glorifies God. So remember Christian character. Number two, remember Christian identity. Remember Christian identity. This is verses four to seven. But when the goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior appeared, he saved us. Not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit. whom he poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ, our Savior, so that being justified by His grace, we might become heirs according to the hope of eternal life. Verses four to seven is like a treasure chest. Where do you start? Where does it end? Glory, the glories of what God has done for us in Christ. Christian identity. Remember your identity in Christ. Remember who you are in Christ. And so much of Christianity can be summarized just by thinking about our relationship to Christ, what he has done for us What he continues to do in us, and what he's promised to do through us by the work of his spirit. Just a few words on the importance of identity. Children need to know, for example, That they are loved. They need to know I am a person who is loved. They need to know that they're cared for. They need to know I am cared for. This person cares for me deeply. This is such basic stuff, but it's so important. for parenting or grandparenting or even honestly any relationship being a friend. I just chose children as an example. They grow up and they learn who they are, their sense of identity is shaped. And right at the core of that is knowing that they are loved, knowing that they are cared for. Also, children need to be taught and disciplined that they have a duty to respect others. A duty to respect their parents and guardians. A duty to obey parents and guardians. That's part of their identity too. As a child, they have duties. A spouse needs to know that he or she is cherished. They need to know that he or she is desired. It's part of the identity, being a husband or wife, and growing in and understanding and enjoying and appreciating your identity as a spouse That I I am cherished, I am desired. And also part of the identity of a spouse is to understand responsibility. You have a responsibility to be trustworthy. You have a responsibility to serve your spouse. You have a responsibility to be faithful to your spouse. Identity is so important. We'll not Make a millimeter of genuine progress in Christian living if we forget our identity in the Lord Jesus Christ. We need to remember who we are. And this one has not an A, B, C, D, but if you peeked at your outline. It says an A B C D E. Alright? So, A B C D on helping us remember our Christian identity. First of all, remember that in Christ we have been saved. First, in Christ we have been saved. This comes from verses four. In the beginning of verse five. But when the goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior appeared, that means came to earth and was made manifest that it appeared. He saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy. You are saved. In Christ by faith, you are saved from the guilt of sin. All the guilt of all your sin has been completely blotted out from your record forever. Amen? You are saved from the guilt of your sin. And therefore you also are saved from the penalty of our sin. When the day of judgment comes, you will be saved because you've already been declared righteous in God's eyes through faith in Christ. You've been saved from the guilt of sin. You've been saved from the eternal penalty of sin. Can it get any better than that? Yeah, actually. It is better than that. Not that that's bad, it's just saying there's more to it. There's more to it. Because in Christ by faith Beloved, you've also been saved from the reigning power of sin in your heart. Is that good news? And you've also been saved from the blinding impact of sin in your mind. Is that not good news? You've been saved from the ongoing tyranny, utter tyranny of sin in your life if you've been Saved through faith in Christ. You are saved. So When you wake up in the morning, even on your worst day, you do not need to be confused about your identity. You do not need to be wondering who you are. You are saved. You are a child of God. And nothing can ever change that. You're saved. And if you notice at the end of uh at the end of that, it's verses four into verse into verse five, you see that it wasn't because We did good works. It's because God is merciful. Verse 5, he saved us not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy How did we get saved? Why did we get saved? It's not because we were obedient. It's not because we did good things. It's for this. God had mercy. God had mercy. In Christ by faith, remember that in Christ you are saved. Letter B. Remember that in Christ you are a recipient of mercy. You are a recipient of mercy. Just to highlight again the end of verse 5. He saved us, and then here's the end of verse 5, according to his own mercy. Mercy has a couple different aspects to it. One aspect of mercy is alleviating the effects of sin in someone's life An act of mercy is when you come into someone's life with a good deed and help alleviate the effects of sin, help alleviate the effects of living in a sinful world, helping the homeless Helping the hungry, helping the lonely, helping the hurting, helping those who've been abused. All of these are just some examples of Acts of mercy, ministries of mercy to come in and help the one who is suffering and help alleviate the effects of sin in their lives. And the specific example of mercy, the supreme example of mercy, is God restraining his judgment against us. It's God refraining from pouring out his judgment on sinners. Every day the sun comes up, every day that exists is a day of mercy. Because God continues to hold back His judgment. He continues to give opportunity for sinners to be saved. He continues to give opportunity for repentance. Why? Because of his mercy. Because he wants people to come to know him. And he wants people to grow to love him. And he wants people to learn how to serve him. He wants people to enjoy what it means to have fellowship with Christ, to be filled with the Spirit, to have the hope of eternal life. God wants that for sinners. It's an amazing thought. It says mercy. Remember. Remember that you are saved. Remember you are a recipient of mercy. You did not earn salvation. And let her see, remember that you're filled with the Holy Spirit. Remember that in Christ you are filled with the Holy Spirit. This is the end of verse 5 into verse 6. He's now fleshing out how this salvation came into our lives. Like you use a an IV to administer some kind of fluid. That's how it gets in. How did this saving? How did this mercy come into My personal experience and yours. End of verse 5 and to verse 6. By the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit, whom he poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior. And now I'm about to do one of my preaching gestures that I have been made fun of thoroughly by multiple people. Well, God pours out the Holy Spirit. That's the imagery here. He poured out the Holy Spirit into our hearts, giving us new life. That's what regeneration means. New life. New life for you. New life for Pastor Matt. The old Matt who was a slave to sin is The old man who loved sin is dead. The old man who hated God is dead. He's been made alive. Not by religion. Not by right, not by good deeds, but because of God's mercy by the Holy Spirit being, you ready? What Poured out on the wicked sinner, so that the wicked sinner might experience regeneration and renewal In communion with Christ. That's what my life is about. Communion with Christ. And if you're in Christ by faith, that's what your life is about. Communion with Christ. By virtue of the Holy Spirit. You can't have Christ without the Holy Spirit. And you can't have the Holy Spirit without Christ. So if you don't, if you haven't received the gospel and believed the gospel, If you don't believe in Jesus Christ as Lord, don't go around talking about the Spirit working in your life and the Spirit told me this and the Spirit led me to do this. You must come to Christ. You must come to Jesus. And I say that because that's so common. I see it all just about every week. Everybody's so spiritual. Everyone has these spiritual experiences. Do you know Christ? Do you love Jesus? Has the Holy Spirit been poured out? And then for those who do believe in Jesus Don't hold back in talking about this. This is the best stuff in the world. This is better than football, better than Thanksgiving. It's better than pie. And you know how much I love pie? Really home at this time of year. I get on that pie kick. But it's nothing, nothing, compared to communion with Jesus Christ. Remember, remember, you've been saved, you're a recipient of mercy, you're filled with the Holy Spirit, a helium-filled balloon acts And behaves differently than a balloon that you just blow into with your own breath. Right. And a spirit-filled person acts and behaves differently than their old selves. You probably thought I was going to say than the rest of the world, and yes, that's true. But let's examine our own lives. We're different now. Letter D, remember that in Christ you are justified by grace. That's the beginning of verse 7, so that being justified by his grace Justified in this context means God declaring you righteous in his eyes. That's pretty simple, right? Because when God declares something, it's the truth. It's the state of affairs. When you put your faith in Christ based on his sacrificial death You were immediately justified by God. Immediately God declared, this one is righteous in my eyes. To understand justification, just picture a courtroom And picture a judge bringing the gavel down and saying, innocent, not guilty, let them both free. And now just picture the courtroom is heaven. And picture that the judge is God. And you're the defendant, and you're standing before God in judgment And the gavel is in God's hands. And God brings the gavel down and says, innocent, righteous, go free. That's what justification is. And if you believe in Jesus, there's no additional thing you need to do to be right with God. You already did all that you can do, and that's Come to Jesus in faith. When you come to Jesus in faith, you're justified by God. You are justified by his grace, which is a gift that we don't deserve. That's what grace means. In Christ, remember that you are saved, you are recipient of mercy, you are filled with the Holy Spirit, you are justified by His grace, and letter E, you are an heir of eternal glory. You are an heir of eternal glory. This is the end of verse seven. Justified by his grace, we might become heirs according to the hope of eternal life Heirs according to the hope of eternal life. In this life, you can have an inheritance. Maybe a family member will Leave you a large sum of money. Maybe you'll inherit a large plot of land. Maybe you will inherit a classic car or something like that from your grandfather or great-grandfather, really cool, great condition, classic car. But the best inheritance is to come after this life. The inheritance you need to really be excited about is the inheritance That you'll receive after you live in this body. Because for those who've been united to Christ by faith, when our bodies die , And we know that's going to happen. When our bodies die, for those who are united to Christ by faith, our souls depart the body. Are made righteous. They're perfected in righteousness. And our souls enter into heaven where Christ is. Where the angels are, and where every single departed saint that's ever lived is worshiping and serving and enjoying The glory of God and all of his perfection. That's the inheritance. And then further down the road, when Christ returns, you receive a resurrection body like Christ has. And He'll renew the whole world. And God at that time will bring all the wicked to final judgment. God will purge this earth of all the causes of sin, of all the effects of sin, of all sin. And all that will be here will be the risen saints of God in the presence of the glory of Christ. That's better than a car. That's better than acreage. That's better than cash. Remember, you are an era of eternal glory. And now, the last two points on the outline, you know me by now that I On purpose, these are supposed to be short points, okay? These are supposed to be short points. So far, we remembered Christian character, and we've also remembered Christian identity because remembering aids obeying. And third, remember Christian charity. Remember Christian charity. We are called to good deeds and to be generous. and sacrificial with the way we help others. First this comes in verse 8 No, no, no, that's wrong. No, that's that's right. I turned to the wrong page, and that page was wrong, but the outline is right. That's good. He says in the middle of verse 8, be careful to devote themselves to good works. Good works. No, we should never think that we're saved by good works. But we should never forget that we are called to good works, to do good. That's a charity. Remember Christian charity. And also read verses 12 to 15. When I send Artemis. Or Tychicus to you, do your best to come to meet me at Nicopolis, for I've decided to spend the winter there. Do your best to speed Zenus the lawyer and Apollos on their way See that they lack nothing, and let our people learn to devote themselves to good works, so as to help cases of urgent need and not be unfruitful. There it is again. Learn to devote ourselves to good works, especially in cases of urgent need. Verse 15: All who are with me send greetings to you. Greet those who love us in the faith. Grace be with you all. Let's be rich. in good works, rich in good deeds, especially in cases of urgent need. Let's be a model of generosity. Now, you don't need the church for your good deeds. Everything that you are led by the Spirit to do. Don't come to the church and see if you can get the church to start a whole new comprehensive program getting the church to do this good deed. No, you go do what God has called you to do. We all have good deeds and good works and acts of mercy. All of us. All of us that God calls us to do in our individual lives as just disciples of Jesus Christ, trying to be rich in good deeds in our own lives as God calls us to be. Don't don't let it don't create this unnecessary brick wall between you and doing what God has called you to do because the church isn't going to facilitate this huge program for what God has called you to do. Is this making sense? Just go and do what God has called you to do. Give to that ministry. Give to this ministry. Go help over here. Go help over there. Give that gift. Send that offering. Make that phone call. Send that card. Just do it. Be rich in good works. But do it for the glory of God, not for your own glory. And fourth, remember Christian unity. This is verses 9 to 11. Remember Christian unity. Avoid foolish controversies, genealogies, dissensions, and quarrels about the law Why? For they are unprofitable and worthless. As for a person who stirs up division, after warning him once And then twice have nothing more to do with him. Knowing that such a person is warped and sinful, he is self-condemned. That's an amazing passage You get one warning, troublemaker. You get one warning, divisive person. You get one warning. Warn them once There's no repentance, if there's no genuine repentance, and humble receiving of that warning have nothing more to do with him, which is one of the passages on this fellowship and You no longer count them as a brother or sister, but as an outsider. That's how important unity is. This unity hinders the gospel. Disunity hinders the upbuilding of the local church. Disunity hinders what God wants to do through his people and through his church We must strive for a biblical unity, not a vague idea, feeling of unity like what the world would say, but unity based on the truth, unity based on the Word of God Unity defined by the love of Jesus Christ toward one another. One simple way we could strive toward greater unity is every single person come for God and His Word. Come for God and His Word. And the more I come for God and for His Word, and the more you come for God and for His Word And and everyone else comes for God and for his word, not for some other personal concern or personal preference or personal comfort. We're all coming for God. We're all coming from His Word. We more and more, for His Word, we more and more are built up in the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. Remember. Remember Christian character and what God has called you to. Remember Christian identity and who you are and what you have in Christ. Everything else will flow from that. Remember Christian charity. Be rich in good works. Don't hesitate. God puts something on your heart. Just go do it. Don't make a big deal about it. And remember Christian unity. Growing in unity will make us more effective in doing God's will. And when people do God's will, God is glorified. Jude 24 and 25. Now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling and to present you blameless before the presence of his glory with great joy to the only God our Savior through Jesus Christ our Lord. Be glory and majesty, dominion, and authority before all time and now and forever. Amen. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for Christ. And we do join our hearts in faith, and we pray that you would help us to remember That the reminders from your word are there to help us, to aid our obedience in glorifying you. Help us to daily remember Every morning, every evening, to remember your love for us in Jesus Christ and what you've called us to. It's in his name we pray. Amen.