All right, the message is from Galatians two, one to fourteen. It's not that ministry is all about my feelings, but it is a really good feeling that there's uh that everyone in the church to my knowledge, because we haven't had any pushback on this, everyone's on the same page with salvation is through faith, not by works. And and our uh statement of faith, the Baptist Faith of Message two thousand, allows for some differences on different areas of doctrine and some of the finer details, but this is an essential doctrine. This is a core doctrine. This is a doctrine where we all plant our feet on the same exact uh footing on the same foundation that we are justified by faith, not by works. And that's part of the biblical gospel. That's part of the biblical gospel. The overarching topic will be salvation for all people. Jesus is called in Scripture the Savior. of the world. He brought salvation first to the Jew and then to the Gentile. Salvation is for all people. And um let's go ahead and read the passage, and then we'll back up and I uh we'll work through that general point first, and then we'll work through those four points that you see on your outline. So here's the passage from Galatians 2, 1 to 14. Then after 14 years, most scholars put that at either 48 or 51. I'm not going to get into the details, but just to give you a little bit of a glimpse into when this is happening. After 14 years, I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas. Taking Titus along with me, I went up because of a revelation and set before them, though privately, before those who seemed influential, the gospel that I proclaim among the Gentiles. In order to make sure I was not running, or had not run in vain. But even Titus, who was with me, was not forced to be circumcised, though he was a Greek. Yet because of false brothers secretly brought in who slipped in to spy out our freedom That we have in Christ Jesus, so that they might bring us into slavery. To them, we did not yield in submission, even for a moment, so that the truth of the gospel might be Preserved for you. And from those who seem to be influential, what they were makes no difference to me. God shows no partiality Those I say who seemed influential added nothing to me. On the contrary, when they saw that I had been entrusted with the gospel to the uncircumcised Just as Peter had been entrusted with the gospel to the circumcised, for he who worked through Peter for his apostolic ministry to the circumcised Worked also through me for mine to the Gentiles. And when James and Cephas and John, who seemed to be pillars, perceived the grace that was given to me, they gave the right hand of fellowship to Barnabas and me, that we should go to the Gentiles and they to the circumcised. But when Cephas came to Antioch, I opposed him to his face, because he stood condemned, for before certain men from James He was eating with Gentiles. But when they when they came, he drew back and separated himself. Fearing the circumcision party, or literally those of the circumcision. Verse 13, and the rest of the Jews acted hypocritically along with him. So that even Barnabas was led astray by their hypocrisy. But when I saw that their conduct was not in step with the truth of the gospel, I said to Cephas before them all, if you, though a Jew, live like a Gentile and not like a Jew, how can you force the Gentiles to live like Jews. So quickly on the truth of the gospel. I want to show how that's a central concern here. So you can see Toward the end of verse 5. Actually, let's just look at all of verse 5 again. To them we did not yield in submission Even for a moment. That's the false brothers. Verse 4. False brothers secretly bringing in. Remember that phrase from Jude, how the false teachers, quote, crept in unnoticed? That's the MO of false teachers, false brothers. But in verse 5, to them we did not yield in submission even for a moment. Why? Why do you not yield to this false teaching? So that the truth of the gospel might be preserved for you. If we forfeit, if we forfeit The truth of the gospel, we forfeit everything. That's the heart of being Christian. That's the heart of being a church. That's the heart of our message It's the centerpiece of our worship, the truth of the gospel. And you see this phrase again in verse fourteen, when I saw that their conduct was not in step with the truth of the gospel. It's quite a picture there. You have the truth of the gospel for what it is, but then you have their conduct, which is what? It's how they're acting. That's how they're behaving. What Paul's saying is the way they're behaving is in conflict with the truth of the gospel. That's not where we want to be. It's the last place we want to be. You'll see your introduction point I've written out on the outline, the truth of the gospel , which that phrase is verse 5 and verse 14. The truth of the gospel of salvation, which is for all people, must be guarded and defended. That's part of our ministry. That's not the whole of our ministry, but that's part of our ministry to guard and defend the truth of the gospel. Now, why is that? Well, you know that the truth of the gospel is always under attack. It's always under attack. God's word is always under attack. Not just God's gospel, which is what He's provided for us in Christ, but also God's law, God's righteous Principles are always under attack. God's word is always under attack. So we have to guard, contend for the word of God. And here it's the truth of the gospel. And this gospel and this salvation is intended for all people. That's why I want to make such a big deal about the Great Commission and world missions. And uh sending missionaries and supporting missionaries and establishing biblical, true gospel ministries all over the place and bringing it bringing the light into the darkness. Salvation is for all people. Verse 2. The gospel that I proclaim among the Gentiles. Verse six where Paul says God shows no partiality. Now there he's talking about the within the professing church, those who Seemed influential. But that language is used elsewhere in terms of God shows no partiality between peoples and between nations. Salvation is for the world. Verse 7 He says, I had been entrusted with the gospel to the uncircumcised, and Peter was entrusted with the gospel, the very same gospel. to the circumcised, Paul to the uncircumcised, Peter to the circumcised. And both are apostolic ministries. Verse eight, Apostolic Ministries. Um, also they gave the right hand of fellowship to Barnabas and me that we should go to the Gentiles and they to the circumcised. So Jew and Gentile salvation is for all. Salvation comes first to the Jew, then to the Gentile. Gentiles are grafted into that church of the Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ. That's the historical order of salvation coming to the world. It comes through Israel. In fact, it comes through Jerusalem, Day of Pentecost, the Spirit's poured out, and then It's uh it's a spreading and ever-infiltrating work of the light of salvation to the darkest parts of the world. And that work continues. That work is not Complete. That work will continue. Um, the truth of the gospel which is for all people, must be guarded and defended. Now I want to point out verse chapter one, verse one and chapter one, verse four Because uh we've been talking so much about the gospel, we've got to at least, even if it's cursory, we've got to define what the gospel is, give the content of the gospel. That's the first thing Paul does in this letter. Uh chapter one, verse one. Paul, an apostle, not from men, nor through man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father, who raised him from the dead. That's the resurrection. Now go to verse 4. Who gave himself for our sins? That's the crucifixion. He gave himself for our sins. To deliver us from the present evil age. That's salvation. So in verse 1 and verse 4 of the first paragraph, you have the death and resurrection of Christ and the salvation that it brings. That's the gospel. And then the actually the theme of the well, there's lots of topics that he deals with. It is a short letter, but the the uh the theme is gonna emphasize And highlight that you also have to have a proper response to the gospel. Not just the proper content of death and resurrection for salvation. but the proper response, which is saved through faith. Saved by grace through faith, not saved by faith plus law keeping. So that and that response to the gospel is what this circumcision party was twisting and changing. And bringing this false gospel that Paul um speaks very vividly, very powerfully against this false gospel. So you'll see the four points that we'll work through. Number one, the gospel does not require circumcision. Alright? Number one, the gospel does not require circumcision. We're back in chapter two, and this will be from verses one through three. After 14 years, I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas, taking Titus along with me. I went up because of a revelation and set before them, though privately, before those who seemed influential. The gospel that I proclaim among the Gentiles, in order to make sure I was not running, or had not run in vain. But even Titus, who was with me, was not forced to be circumcised. though he was a Greek. We'll get to the circumcision issue We'll talk about that. Um he mentions that here because what he's saying is we didn't buy into it. We didn't compromise just so we could be accepted with these false brothers, which he calls in the very next phrase. False false brothers. Um Paul brings to the leaders in Jerusalem the gospel that he preached. The gospel that I proclaim among the Gentiles, in order to make sure I was not running or had not run in vain And Titus, who was with him, was not forced to be circumcised, though he was a Greek, because obedience to the gospel does not require circumcision Being saved, being a child of God, does not require circumcision. You're already into the topic, even though he hasn't fleshed it out yet. It's already introduced. Titus was not circumcised, even though he was a great Reek, Paul did not compromise just to appease the uh these false brothers and their false gospel. He brought their gos he brought his gospel, the true gospel. Um And he wasn't going to add to that Number two, second point, the gospel must never be compromised to appease false believers. Verses four and five, the gospel must never be compromised to appease false believers. Yet, because of false brothers secretly brought in, who slipped in to spy out our freedom that we have in Christ Jesus It 's freedom from uh keeping the ceremonial law of the Mosaic Covenant, so that they might bring us into slavery. To them we did not yield in submission even for a moment, so that the truth of the gospel might be preserved for you. So if you would have compromised, if they said, you know what, Titus needs to be circumcised, or Titus is not saved, and Titus should not be in ministry. So Paul says, Okay, we're gonna then we're gonna circumcise Titus, well he's saying that would That would hurt the gospel. He says we I love how he says, not even for a moment. We did not yield in submission. even for a moment. Well, why would he? We wouldn't want to do that, would we? To compromise the true gospel for a false gospel? And he says he's not compromising. Why? So that the truth of the gospel might be preserved for you. You know, there's a certain conviction, there's a certain strength of conviction. that will come when we see each other defending the biblical gospel. When I hear you, overhear you Explaining and defending the biblical gospel. And when I overhear you in your conversations explaining to someone that salvation is by faith, not by works, That strengthens me. And it should strengthen you when we read this passage. And when you hear this preached with clarity, that salvation is by grace through faith, not by works, not by law-keeping. The gospel must never be compromised to appease false believers with a false gospel that will add requirements to salvation that God has never added. I mean, if we're clear on anything, if we're going to stand up and speak boldly about anything, this has to be it. This has to be it. Because salvation is based on the truth. We can't have faith in a lie and be saved. We have faith based on the truth and are saved. And so don't be afraid. And don't be timid. Be kind. Be gentle. But be bold. Be clear. Speak clearly that salvation is by faith, not by works, not by law-keeping And we do not need to be ashamed. We're standing up for the gospel and not, as Paul says here, not yielding in submission even for a moment, so that the truth of the gospel might be preserved for You. The gospel does not require circumcision. The gospel must never, ever be compromised. to appease false believers. At number three, the gospel never needs to be supplemented with tradition. Never needs to be supplemented with tradition, uh, etc. Never needs to be supplemented with anything to make it powerful unto salvation. The gospel is uh It's a complete, sufficient, all-sufficient, the power of God unto salvation. What in the world could we ever add to it to make it better? Um the gospel never needs to be supplemented with tradition. Verses six through ten. And from those who seem to be influential, what they were makes no difference to me. God shows no partiality Um which is just another way of saying God doesn't play favorites. You know, in the flesh we want to play favorites. And that's a temptation to play favorites With our friends or with our family or whatever. With people we know who were support us. We play favorites to them so that they now they'll show favoritism to us. God shows no favoritism Those I say who seemed influential added nothing to me. And what he's talking about is the gospel that he preached Because Paul received his his gospel and his understanding of the gospel through direct revelation from God. Paul's gospel was complete. It was not incomplete, and then he came to Jerusalem, and then they gave him what else he needed. to complete his gospel. They added nothing to him. His gospel was the gospel. They added nothing to me, he says And verse 7. On the contrary, when they saw that I had been entrusted with the gospel to the uncircumcised, just as Peter had been entrusted with the gospel to the circumcised. For he who worked through Peter for his apostolic minist ministry to the circumcised worked also through me for mine to the Gentiles. And for mine, what that's referring to is for my apostolic ministry. Right? Peter for his apostolic ministry. And then he also worked through me for mine, my apostolic ministry to the Gentiles. And when James and Cephas and John, who seemed to be pillars, perceived the grace that was given to me. They gave the right hand of fellowship to Barnabas and me that we should go to the Gentiles and they to the circumcised Only they asked, only they asked us to remember the poor the very thing I was eager to do. Zooming out now, looking at verses one to ten, it's this picture of Paul and also Titus and Barnabas coming coming to Jerusalem. He's recounting when they came To Jerusalem and he presented his gospel and the heart of his ministry to the leaders, pointing out uh James, Cephas, and John. Uh Cephas is Peter by name. They didn't add anything to it, and also they affirmed it. They gave them the right hand of fellowship and they said, Yes, this is the gospel. This is true gospel ministry. And there was no conflict between those who understood the true gospel. There was no conflict. They were of one accord. They were on the same page. The gospel never needs to be supplemented with anything. I just put here tradition as an example, but the gospel is the gospel. It is a self-contained message that has within it the power of salvation. The gospel does not require circumcision. Don't need to be circumcised to be saved. But you can put that on any law. Any commandment. Salvation does not come by way of law keeping. Salvation does not come by us keeping law. Salvation comes by grace through faith. Practical obedience is a result of that. The gospel does not require circumcision. The gospel must never be compromised, even for a moment, to appease false believers, because we have to preserve the gospel. And number three, the gospel never needs to be supplemented with tradition, and that's why um the leaders at Jerusalem accepted and affirmed and gave the right hand of fellowship to Paul and his apostolic ministry to the Gentiles because it was sufficient. And number four, the purity of the gospel is worth public confrontation. The purity of the gospel is worth public confrontation. It has to be worth it because that's what Paul does. Verse eleven to fourteen. When Cephas came to Antioch, but when Cephas came to Antioch, I opposed him to his face because he stood condemned. For so he goes, um he goes right to Peter, face to face. But there's more to the story, so let's keep reading. For before certain men came from James, he was eating with Gentiles, like sharing table fellowship with Gentiles. But when they came, he drew back. And he separated himself fearing the circumcision party, fearing those of the circumcision. Um and apparently, certain men coming from James is, or at least includes, the circumcision party. And it Sparked within Peter the fear of man. It says, You separated out, you separated from the Gentiles, you drew back, separated yourself, because you feared. Those of the circumcision. Verse 13, and the rest of the Jews, Jewish Christians, Jewish, at least professing Christians, acted hypocritically along with him. So that even Barnabas was led astray by their hypocrisy. But when I saw that their conduct was not in step with the truth of the gospel, I said to Cephas , before them all. So it's more than just face to face. At the very least, this is all who were involved in this I said to Cephas before them all, if you, though a Jew, live like a Gentile and not like a Jew, how can you force the Gentiles to live like Jews? Why are you acting like they have to fulfill more requirements of law keeping before you can have this table fellowship with them. Why are you acting like you're above them? Why are you separating? Why are you drawing back? Obviously it's hypocritical because before the circumcision party got there In Antioch , Peter had no problem sharing table fellowship with the Gentiles. He didn't have that fear of man. But when the circumcision party got there, now comes the fear of man. So he draws back, he separates himself. Paul's right there. And if uh if there was any conversation, I wish I had the rest of it, it would be what happened after that. That's the question Peter uses to con or Paul uses to confront Peter and the rest of the Jews, even Barnabas, which is incredible that this happened, because Barnabas uh was known for his encouragement and even welcoming Paul. Um when others were afraid of him. That's just incredible that you would see even Barnabas was led into this practical hypocrisy Their conduct, verse 14 sums it up. What did Paul see when he saw this drawing back and separating from the Gentiles? Well, he saw that their conduct was not in step with the truth of the gospel. And why was their conduct not in step with the truth of the gospel? They gave in to the fear of man. There's this circumcision party. And because of fear of the circumcision, they drew back, and the rest of the Jews acted hypocritically along with him, even Barnabas was led astray. By their hypocrisy. Just for a little bit of background, I mean, for the whole background, you really have to read the book of Acts. We'll just do a few here. Acts 11 one to two. So in verse eleven in Gal you can turn to Acts eleven. I'll just banter a little bit while we're turning there. In the Galatians 2, 11, uh Paul's in Antioch, and then Cephas came to Antioch, and that's where this confrontation Happens. And it happens because this circumcision party comes, this men from James come. And caused fear, caused the separating from Gentile believers. So let's see some other things about this um what was going on. Not with every Jewish believer, certainly not. But this certainly was a movement within some of the Jewish professing believers at the time. It's one of the main controversies With that's dealt with in the New Testament itself. Acts eleven, one and two. Now the apostles and the brothers who were throughout Judea heard that the Gentiles also had received the word. So when Peter went up to Jerusalem, the circumcised party welcomed him gladly. Oh, wait a minute. No. The circumcision party criticized him. The circumcision party criticized him, saying, You went to uncircumcised men and ate with them Acts 11, 1-2 tells us what the cer the heart of the circumcision party is. Look at what happens here. The gospel Goes to the Gentiles. And now the apostles and the brothers who were throughout Judea heard that the Gentiles also had received the word of God. You'd think they'd be very happy about this In Jerusalem. So when Peter went up to Jerusalem, the circumcision party, or those of the circumcision, criticized him. Could you imagine that? They criticized him. Imagine if missionaries came back And they told us they brought the gospel to a particular unreached people group and that there was salvation and they established churches and we just criticized them. What are you going to them for? That's what's happening here. They're criticizing The circumcision party is plain as day right here. They're criticizing verse 3. You went to uncircumcised men and ate with them. You know what it mirrors, doesn't it? It mirrors the Pharisees' critiques of Jesus during Jesus' earthly ministry. Why is he eating with these people? What are you doing at their house? Why are you letting this woman anoint your feet, wash your feet If he knew what kind of woman she was, he certainly would not allow this. And you see that same spirit reflected in the circumcision party. And now you can turn to 15, uh chapter 15, 1 and 2. But some men came down from Judea. And we're teaching the brothers, unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved. Could it be any clearer? That's the circumcision party. Criticizing table fellowship with Gentiles, eating with them, that's Acts eleven. Now Acts fifteen, here's the Actual, the actual teaching of the circumcision party, unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses, listen, listen, you cannot be saved. And after Paul and Barnabas had no small dissension and debate with them, which means it was a really big dissension and really big debate with them because this is a really big issue. Paul and Barnabas and some of the others were appointed to go up to Jerusalem to the apostles and to the elders about this question. And then go down to verse five. But some believers who belong to the party of the Pharisees, that's why the spirit may maybe reflects the spirit of the Pharisees. Toward Christ. Some of the believers who belonged to the party of the Pharisees rose up and said, It is necessary to circumcise them and to order them to keep the law of Moses. So there you go. Um plain as day in the scriptures, the circumcision party. And Paul came into direct confrontation with it And he saw the fruit of that teaching, the fruit of that spirit, when he saw this hypocrisy, when he saw this conduct that was not in step with the truth of the gospel. If uh Jews and Gentiles can't have table fellowship based on shared faith in Christ, then we could never have no one can ever have table fellowship with anyone. If Christ doesn't reconcile Jew and Gentile Then Jew and Gentile can never be reconciled. Circumcision isn't going to reconcile Jew and Gentile. Um it's it's the blood of Christ that destroys that dividing wall of hostility. It's the blood of Christ that reconciles the two, Jew and Gentile, together into one man, and then reconcile that one man to God through Christ. That's Ephesians chapter Um back to Galatians. Let's go back to Galatians. And just once again on verse five and verse fourteen, the truth of the gospel that's for all people, and it must be guarded and it must be dis It is always under attack in every age. It's not something that developed later on in church history. It's always been there since the dawn of the church age. Having to defend the biblical gospel. Verse 5, so that the truth of the gospel might be preserved for you And verse fourteen, um, not in step with the truth of the gospel. Brothers and sisters Whatever else we do, we must hold fast to the biblical gospel. I have one other passage on this. It not only defines the content of the gospel, 1 Corinthians. Corinthians fifteen, but it also describes the importance of holding fast to the gospel. First Corinthians fifteen One to five. Paul writes, Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I preach to you. Which you received, in which you stand, and by which you are being saved. If you hold fast to the word I preach to you, unless you believed in vain. For I delivered to you as of first importance What I also received that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in accordance with the scriptures. And that he appeared to Cephas, then to the twelve. And then verse six, you can skim your eyes over. Verse six he describes more appearances. In verses 3 and following, Paul summarizes the content of the gospel, the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. Um is he died for our sins. But in verses one and two, Paul reminds them Of the importance of holding fast to the gospel. He says, by which you are being saved if you hold fast to the word I preach to you, unless you believed in vain. He says if you give this up, if you give this up, this biblical gospel, it'll show that your faith was in vain. In vain. Finish on a quick comment about verse two. He says, by which you are being saved. And uh we've said this many times. That so the idea of salvation in scripture for the believer has an aspect that's in the past when we were saved, that's when we were born again In the future we will be saved. On that day of final judgment, we'll be spared from that final judgment from the wrath of God. We will be saved But also there's a present tense of being saved, and that's being saved uh from the ongoing presence of sin in our lives. Being saved, being sanctified is what this means. Being saved from the tyranny of sin in our lives and the reign of sin in our hearts. Because even though we have new hearts, we have the Holy Spirit. We still have the flesh. And the spirit wants one thing and the flesh wants another thing. And we need to be saved from what the flesh wants. And the Spirit is warring and fighting that we would walk in the ways of God. And the flesh is warring and fighting that we would walk in the ways of wickedness. And so we must be saved from the flesh and sanctified because yes, we have we have two natures as believers, the spirit and the flesh. Um if we give up if we give up the true gospel, it's not just our evangelism that's impacted, it's our own personal sanctification and maturity that's being impacted As well. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the gospel. Thank you for saving us. And I pray that you continue to build up each one of our hearts, not only in understanding of your gospel, but also the power of your gospel. And also the importance of always, always clarifying and guarding and defending the true gospel, not only in its content, but also in its proper response which is by faith, and also in the way be we behave so that we would not fall into conduct that is out of step with the gospel and thereby become hypocrites. We ask that you would guard us. We ask that you would keep us and guide us and give us wisdom and the power of the Spirit in our lives. It's in Christ we pray. Amen.