Take your Bible and turn to Ephesians 1 3-14. Today we're talking about the blessings of God in Christ. Specifically, seven aspects of the blessings of God in Christ. Seven aspects of the blessings of God in Christ from Ephesians 1, 3 to 14. Remember the idea of blessing is that of showing favor. Instead of showing a kindness to someone, if you want to bless someone or be a blessing to someone, find a way to show them a kindness Find a way to show them favor. That's what a blessing is. I remember back to our sermon, it was not forever ago, but it sure seems like forever ago. with what the weather has done to us. But remember back to this first sermon from this Ephesians series on chapter 3, verses 20. I'll read quickly here, chapter 3, verse 20, 2021 rather. To him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations Forever and ever. Amen. Does anybody remember that verse? Chapter 3, 21. And remember, God's purpose is to bring glory to his name. By doing good to undeserving sinners. That's God's purpose. That confounds human imagination. We wouldn't have drawn it up that way. I would not have mapped it out like that. But this is God's purpose. This is God's plan from eternity past into eternity future to bring glory to his name by doing good to undeserving sinners. Are you glad about that, church? I'm happy about that. Because I'm a sinner, and I'm a recipient of God's goodness and grace through Jesus Christ. Now, if God's purpose is to bring glory to his name by doing good to sinners, our purpose is to believe in his goodness toward us. It starts with faith. To believe in His goodness toward us. And when we believe in God's goodness, when we live in light of God's goodness, what are we doing? We're joining God in his purpose. In other words, we're joining God in bringing glory to his name. By faith. By faith. Now the question is: how has he done good to us? How has he blessed us? How has he shown his glory to us? In Christ. That is the Alpha and the Omega. That is the first word and the last word. In Christ. God's glory made known to us in Christ. And that's what we're talking about. The blessings of God in Christ, seven aspects of the blessings of God in Christ from Ephesians 1. 3 to 14. Let's read the whole passage before we go any deeper into this. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places, even as He chose us in Him before the foundation of the world, that we Should be holy and blameless before him. In love, he predestined us for adoption to himself as sons through Jesus Christ. According to the purpose of his will, to the praise of his glorious grace, with which he has blessed us in the beloved In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace, which he Lavished upon us in all wisdom and insight, making known to us the mystery of his will According to his purpose, which he set forth in Christ as a plan for the fullness of time, to unite all things in him, things in heaven and things on earth. In him we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will. So that we who were the first to hope in Christ might be to the praise of his glory. In him you also, when you heard the word of truth, The gospel of your salvation and believed in him. We're sealed with the promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance. until we acquire possession of it to the praise of his glory. Now quickly Where this topic, where this title comes from of the blessings of God in Christ, look at verse 3. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has what? Who has blessed us in Christ. You see it? Very simple. Straightforward exegesis, bless us in Christ. That's the blessings of God in Christ. Also take a glance at verse 6 To the praise of his glorious grace, with which he has what? With which he has blessed us in the beloved. It refers to the beloved eternal Son of God Christ. Verse 3, verse 6 is your quickest route to seeing this topic. What are we talking about? We're talking about the way God has blessed us in Christ. Now, why is this important to contemplate? Why is this important To understand, because the blessings of God and Christ make us who we are. And they also comfort us in our lives, no matter what comes our way. So let's just settle our hearts there for this morning, as far as application, as far as why this is relevant for each and every one of us. It's the blessings of God in Christ. That make us who we are. They give us our identity. They tell us and show us how we're to live. They tell us about our future, our eternal destiny, the blessings of God in Christ make us who we are. And they also Will comfort us in life no matter what comes our way, no matter what suffering, no matter what disease, no matter what loss or hardship Or trial comes our way, the blessings of God in Christ will be our anchor. So why do we need to think about this? Why do I need to know this? We need to know this because the blessings of God in Christ make us who we are and they comfort us in our lives no matter what comes our way. Seven aspects. Are you ready for the seven aspects? Would you raise your hand or say amen or just look at me? How about we do this? I think this is good for note takers. I'll give you all seven first, and then we'll go back and work through them as best as we can. You're welcome. That's the loudest amen or something I've ever gotten. Yeah Number one, the blessings of God and Christ are relational. Alright, that's number one, relational. That means they're about living in close and joyful fellowship with Jesus. Number two, the blessings of God in Christ are available. They're available. That means they're freely offered to undeserving sinners. So if you're here today and you're not a believer We want you to know that all the blessings of God in Christ are freely available to you. And at any moment, you in your heart could turn and believe in Jesus as Savior and receive all the blessings of God in Christ. They're relational and they're available. Number three, they're theological. Theological. Which means these blessings tell us about who God is. They tell us about God Number four there, doxological. Sorry about that. I had to get everyone ending in an L or at least an L sound. Technically available ends in an E. but it's got the same sound, so that's acceptable, right? Doxological, D-O-X-O, logical That means that these blessings of God and Christ are ultimately about praising and worshiping God. This is not just information. This is about worship. This is about praising God. Number five, they're legal. Legal. Which means these blessings of God in Christ Change our status before holy God. Without Jesus, we literally are guilty before God. And headed for judgment. But with Christ, that status changes. And we literally in Christ are no longer guilty before God and no longer headed for judgment. That's salvation. Brothers and sisters, that's a legal change. Not the court like Harford County, not the federal courts. But the court of heaven, a legal change in our status before God Himself. That's pretty amazing, right? That's everything for our salvation in the future. Number six, the blessings are transformational It's not just a legal change, it's also a heart change. These blessings are transformational. It means These blessings of God in Christ realign our hearts and realign our lives to live for Him and not ourselves To seek him first and not the things of this world. To seek to honor and please him first and not other people. Legal and transformational. And finally, number seven, these blessings are eternal. These blessings of God in Christ are eternal. There's at least two aspects of this. I'm sure we could work out more, but just for this morning, that means number one, they cannot be taken away from you. Your future is secure in Christ. Glory. Hallelujah. Praise the Lord. Our future is secure in Christ. They cannot be taken away. But also, Eternal is looking to this culmination. Where this salvation experience, this salvation gift that we have in Christ will culminate in the perfection of heavenly fellowship with God We don't have that yet. We have fellowship with God, truly now, but not in perfection. Not in his glorious presence in heaven. Relational, available, theological, doxological, legal, transformational. and eternal. Let's go back and work through them as best we can. Number one, the blessings of God and Christ are relational. This means God has saved us that we might live in close and joyful fellowship with Jesus. It's about a relationship. And this is all throughout the passage. First verse 3. You'll see this phrase, blessed us in Christ. All right, blessed us in Christ. And then verse 4 chose us In him. All right. In Christ, and then verse 4: in him. And then verse 5. Sons through Jesus Christ. All right. In Christ, in him, through Jesus Christ. Are you seeing all these phrases? Then verse six, He has blessed us in the beloved. Verse 7, in him we have relation or we have redemption. Verse 11, in him we have obtained an inheritance. Is this getting redundant? That's the point. This is the golden thread through this whole passage, through the whole Bible. You've got to be in Christ. You've got to have a relationship with the Savior. You've got to know the Savior that God has sent. Verse twelve, first to hope in Christ. That's the hope that we have in him. And then verse thirteen. In him you also. In him you also. Covenant standing before God. You see, when we're outside of Christ, we're alienated from God We're still under that curse of Adam and the guilt of Adam and the death that comes because of our sin. That came into the world because of Adam's sin. That's in Adam. Outside of Christ, in Adam, alienated from God. But then the gospel comes into our lives. And we hear about Jesus, the one who is God in man. The one who is the only mediator between God and men. And we hear about his righteous life that we could never live. And we hear the good news of his sacrificial death, dying in our place. For our sins, so that we could go free. And we hear the good news of his glorious resurrection. Who he received new life, eternal life, heavenly life. We hear about the free offer of salvation, that your sins can be forgiven if you put your faith in Jesus Christ. And when we turn in our hearts and put our faith in Jesus Christ based on that gospel, We're no longer in Adam outside of Christ, but rather we're in Christ. And in Christ, we're no longer guilty, but we're forgiven. In Christ, we're no longer alienated from God, but reconciled to God. In Christ, in the beloved, in him, we have salvation. Relationship. Salvation is relational. It's not a husband's goal, it should not be a husband's goal, just to know bullet point facts about his wife. It's not it's not good parenting, just to know bullet point facts about children. But to have a genuine relationship, to have a true union of love and devotion And service and connection. Every one of us in here knows the difference between having a genuine relationship with someone and then just knowing facts about someone, right? And that's what we're saying. Salvation is not just checking the boxes and knowing facts. It's about being brought into a living relationship with the infinite God of heaven. Blows the mind. It's astonishing. True Christianity is not just facts in the head. It is not just works of the hands. It is not external religion without the heart. It's being spiritually bonded to Jesus Christ so as to know him to find rest in being known by him. And to enjoy his love, grace, power, and compassion in our lives. Are you communicating with him daily? Through prayer. Multiple times daily through prayer, communicating with your Savior. Think about those in your life who are closest to you, who you depend on the most, or who are most important to you, and they stop talking to you. And they don't want to communicate with you anymore. How hurtful is that? Let's communicate daily, multiple times daily with our precious Savior. Relational. Relational. The blessings of God and Christ are relational. Are you seeking his will? and wisdom in your life? Are you seeking his power and grace in your life? Or are we taking those things for granted Am I treating those things as just like spiritual ideas and concepts floating up there that I come to church and hear about these ideas and concepts, but then I go out in the world and they mean nothing to me? And I'm just going through the grind, going through the motions and going to work and going to school and doing my chores. Or are we daily living in relationship with Jesus Christ? Going to him for help. Going to him, confessing our sins, asking for forgiveness, asking for help, asking for strength. Seeking His will, wisdom, power, and grace in our lives through prayer, through His Word, by the Holy Spirit Are we loving him, growing in our love for him, cherishing him , seeking to honor and glorify him in all things? Now, all of those things I just ran through are aspects of our spiritual growth and our discipleship. We're not saved by doing those things. Those things are a result of being saved. Does that make sense? Those spiritual disciplines And growing in our holiness, growing in our love for Christ. That's a result of being saved. Please don't leave here thinking, well, if I just do more of those things, I'll be saved. If I just do more of those things, God will love me more. God loves you more. God loves you with an infinite love. How could he love you more? Our goal is to believe in his love and to receive his love as a free gift. And that love of God fuels growth in all those other things we were talking about. But it is about a relationship It is about a relationship. The greatest enemy to closer fellowship with Christ and to a deeper enjoyment of Christ is the not explicitly horribly sinful things. Our greatest enemy to closer fellowship with Christ, and our greatest enemy to a deeper enjoyment of Christ is being distracted by everyday regular things. It's ordinary things that drown out the extraordinary, supernatural blessings of God in Christ. It's like driving down the road. You're driving down the road, and it's not explicitly horrible, sinful things that might take your attention away. But just ordinary sights of trees and cows and barns and nice houses and these ordinary things, and you get distracted and you drive into a ditch and crash and burn. And that happens so often. It's just ordinary, regular things that can take our focus off a daily relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. Relational in Christ, in Him, in the beloved, through Christ. If you do anything, if you do anything Strive to live in communion with Jesus Christ through faith. Number two, the blessings of God in Christ are available. This means they're freely offered to undeserving sinners. Now, this comes from verse 13. In him, you also, when you heard the word of truth, The gospel of your salvation and believed in him were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit, heard Gospel believed. Do you see that in verse 13? Heard Gospel believed. You see, the gospel was made available to them, and they heard it. The gospel has been made available to you. If you in this room this morning, the gospel has already been made available. It's already been explained, summarized, but explained About Jesus being God and man. Jesus lived a righteous life. Jesus died in the place of sinners, taking the guilt that we deserve. Jesus rose to eternal life. If you believe in him, you're saved. You've heard the gospel. Heard Heard gospel believed. Heard gospel believed. Salvation is not like a paycheck. Now you do not get a paycheck unless you what? Work. Or at least pretend to work while you're on the clock, which you should not be doing. You have to earn it. You have to put the hours in. It's a wage. It's earned. It's deserved. Salvation is not like that. You don't have to put time in to earn the offer of salvation. You don't have to work to receive salvation. Just as you are sitting there, sinful, disobedient, rebellious The gospel comes to us and is put before us as a free gift. It is a gift put before you that you might believe in, and when you believe in it, you receive it. The gospel is heard and believed, and when it's heard and believed It brings salvation. It is available. The blessings of God in Christ are available. Did you ever think about what holds us back from coming to Christ? Think about the old mat, the mat before being in Christ. And I can think about some particular things, things in my life, or thoughts in my head, or desires in my heart, things that kept me from coming to Christ and receiving salvation. Do you remember what it was for you? Is there anything particular There was a hindrance, there was a barrier, there was an obstacle, a habit , something in your mind, or a relationship maybe, something. And maybe if you've not yet come to Christ, maybe there's something now you can think of, multiple things. It could be fear of man. I think it's a very common one, fear of man. What others will say, what others will think, maybe what family will say, what family will think, what my friends will say about me. Maybe I get made fun of. Fear of man. Love of sin. A love of sin. That's the one we don't want to admit. We don't come across as spiritual when we admit that, you know, it's because I loved sin that I didn't want to come to Christ. It's because I love my sin. So I love that which defiles me so much that I don't want to come to Christ. But it is a love of sin, a pride within us. Loving that which is unholy that keeps us from coming. It's a self-reliance, also. Fear of man, love of sin. Thirdly, a self-reliance or a self-righteousness. I just think I'm good enough. I think I'm good enough. I'm good enough. I've tried to be good. I've lived a good life. Definitely not as bad as 80% Of the population. I'm good. I've done good things. I've tried to do good things. Self-reliance, self-righteousness keeps us from coming. But nonetheless, those things don't disqualify the sinner from receiving the free gift. That could be you today, all of those things to the nth degree. But you can be saved for free today. You don't have to go out and change your life and change those things about you and then come back and then be saved. No, you can be saved. Today, because the blessings of God in Christ are freely available to any sinner who would look to him and believe. God's love is so amazing. It's gracious. It's merciful. And that's why Jesus teaches that we must be born again. We can't make those changes in our own hearts, but the Holy Spirit can. The gospel is available. Salvation is available, freely offered, freely available to undeserving sinners. We must be born again. The blessings of God and Christ are relational. They're available. They're also theological, which means they tell us about God. This passage and the salvation that it explains is almost like an autobiography. Think of what an autobiography does. It tells you about a person, tells you about their life Tells you maybe about their job, their family, their education, their accomplishments. And this this account of salvation, God's work of salvation, is autobiographical. It reflects who he is. It tells us who he is. What was his plan? Why did he want to do this? How did he do it? And the blessings of God in Christ tell us about God. They're theological. Now, if you look at the passage 3 to 14, I'm not going to read the entire passage again, but. Verses 3 to 6 are about what God the Father has done in your salvation. Alright, so remember, this is autobiographical, theological, telling us about God. Verses 3 to 6 Tell us about what the Father did in your salvation. Verses 7 to 12 highlight what God the Son did in your salvation. Now we've done the Father, 3 to 6. We've done the Son, 7 to 12. So any guesses on what verses 13 and 14 will tell us? With the Holy Spirit. Verses 13 to 14 tell us what the Holy Spirit has done in our salvation. Summarizing a whole boatload of information here, the Father planned our salvation, the Son achieved our salvation, and the Holy Spirit applied salvation to our lives. The Father planned it, the Son achieved it, the Holy Spirit applied it. The Father planned our salvation in eternity past. That's verses 3 to 6. The Son achieved our salvation in history. And the Holy Spirit applied salvation in our lives when we heard the gospel. and came to faith by the grace of God. An autobiography is a good illustration. display case or a trophy case that you would see in a high school. There's also a good illustration. You walk into a high school and usually in the lobby or somewhere nearby you there's this like a long display case in the hallway and it ha it tells you about the school It tells you about certain students, it tells you about certain teams, certain championships, maybe um a football championship, maybe the band won a competition, uh different academic uh awards, but that display case is autobiographical. It tells us about the students, it tells us about the school's history. And that's what this work of God in salvation does. It tells us about God and his plan, what the Father did Because he loved us, what the Son did, because he loved us, what the Holy Spirit did, because he loved us. Salvation tells us about God. And brothers and sisters, that's the ultimate knowledge, his knowledge of God. If we want to know anything that's worth knowing, know God. Know who God is, be in a relationship with God. In verse 3, you can verse 3 and following, first you'll see that the Father Blessed us, who has blessed us in Christ. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ who has blessed us In Christ. Verse 4 tells us that the Father chose us from eternity past, even as He, who's the He? He is the Father. From verse 3, even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him. Now that's that's pretty far back. It's before we were born. It's before our parents were born. That's before God breathed life into Adam. Verse 5, the end of verse 4, end of verse 5 tells us that in love, God the Father predestined us. In love, he predestined us for adoption to himself as sons through Jesus Christ. The one word just to just to remember the gist here, planned. The Father planned your salvation from eternity past. That's what got the whole thing going. Apart from this, it doesn't happen. If the Father does not set the plan into motion, there is no plan. There is no salvation. The Father planned. Now the Son achieved. The Son achieved. Verse seven, which really is the heart. Right in the middle of this, this is the heart of it all. Not the only important piece, but this is the the heart, the center, verse seven. In him, that's Christ. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace. Redemption through his blood. Redemption through his blood. Set free from bondage to sin by the death of Christ. That's what that means Redemption, set free from the bondage of sin, by his blood, through his blood, is because Jesus died on a cross, shed his blood for us. He died in our place. He died taking our guilt. He died taking our sin. He died taking the judgment of God, drinking that cup to the very last drop. There's no judgment left for you because there's no guilt left on your record. Because Jesus has redeemed you by his blood. Redemption through his blood. What the Father planned In eternity past, the Son came from heaven, he came to earth in history, and he achieved it. And he died for sinners. He died for you. He died for me. He died for anyone who would come and believe in him. Jesus died to save sinners. And the Holy Spirit applies, you'll see this in verse 13 and 14 with the idea of sealing us, sealing us. In him, you also, when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit. So it's that promised Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit that God had promised. would come. The Spirit seals us. That means authenticates us as children of God. And then verse fourteen, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we acquire possession of it to the praise of his glory. The Holy Spirit seals us. The Holy Spirit brings into our lives the very thing that God the Father planned from eternity, and the very thing that God the Son achieved in history. Here comes the Holy Spirit into your heart, changing your heart, bringing to bear all the blessings of God in Christ for you. That's God's grace and that's God's power. The Holy Spirit applies salvation to our lives. You can think of the illustration of a stamp, like applying a stamp to an envelope. putting it on there, making it a part of the envelope, or applying a coat of paint to a wall. You're putting it on the wall. You're bringing it to bear on the reality, the experience of what that wall is. You're applying a coat of paint The Holy Spirit, like that, applying that stamp or applying that coat of paint. The Holy Spirit applies the grace of God and the power of God and the blessings of Christ applies to our lives. And that's irreversible. The devil can't take that from you. The world can't take that from you. Theological salvation tells us about who God is. The blessings of God in Christ are also doxological. Now, this is quick, but this is so important to the passage. You'll see in verse 6, verse 12, and verse 14, this idea of the praise of God's glory. Edoxological means that all of this is ultimately about praising God. If you're a Christian, your life is about praising God, worshiping God, honoring God, glorifying God, and God's work of salvation. That's this nature. It's doxological in nature. It's meant to promote and instill a sense of worshiping God. So you see this refrain almost. End of verse 6, or beginning of verse 6, rather, to the praise of his glorious grace, right? To the praise of his glorious grace. And then verse 12 To the praise of his glory. So it says a little bit differently there, more compact, but it's the same idea. To the praise of his glory is synonymous with to the praise of his glorious grace. And then he says again in verse 14 to the praise of his glory. It goes with these three sections, right? What the Father did was to the praise of his glory. What the Son did, it was to the praise of His glory. What the Holy Spirit did, it was to the praise of his glory. Why? So that we would be to the praise of his glory. Now God's glory is what he shines forth about himself. So picture God's glory over here. And he's shining forth his wisdom, shining forth his grace, his love, his power. God is shining forth himself. That's his glory. Now the praise of his glory is us as a group seeing it and responding with worship and adoration. So you have two things here. God's glory and then also us in our hearts praising him for his glory. That's the pattern of Christianity And it will be forever. To see God's glory manifest in Christ and to worship Him. That's what God wants. That's God's will for your life. To worship Him. To love him and adore him because of his work in Christ. Now I've got to hurry this up here, but there are some aspects. You can glance down at the passage. Specific aspects of his glory that we're praising him for. And at the end of verse 4, you'll see his love. So this isn't just theoretical, vague ideas of what God's glory is. First, it's the shining forth of his love. It's a revealing of his redemptive love. Also, his amazing grace. That's verse 6 and verse 7. You see this idea of grace. lavished upon us riches of his grace, abundant grace. So the glory that's shining forth is love that saves us. And it's grace that saves us. And also part of his glory is his astonishing wisdom, verse 8. His wisdom, verse 8, he lavished upon us in all wisdom and insight, specifically the wisdom of his eternal and unchangeable purpose Now this will be your homework. I'm sure you saw this all throughout the passage. This talk about God's will, God's counsel, God's purpose from all eternity. It's all about Christ. And now he's bringing it all together. And I'll give you these verses. I mean you can sift through. It's easy to find that language. It's not difficult, but verse 5 and then 9 through 11 in particular. So you have his glory, it's not just an idea, it's not just vague religious feelings or ideas, it's God showing you his love It's God showing us his grace. God showing us his wisdom and his insight. Specifically, the wisdom and insight of his eternal purpose. And what's our response to be? Praise. Praise. The highest activity we could ever engage in is to praise God. It's to worship God. There's nothing higher than that. The blessings of God in Christ, number five, are legal. That changes our status before God. You can see in verse 5 the word adoption. And we know an adoption is a change in legal status. I have two adopted sisters. First, they're not legally part of our family. We adopted them. Now they're legally a part of our family It's a legal change. Part of a family. A joint heir. And when we're adopted, we're no adopted in Christ. We're brought into the family of God. We're brought into fellowship. with God. We're plucked out of the dominion of Satan. We're brought into the household of God. Adoption. We were not children of God. Now we are children of God. Also verse 7, redemption. And forgiveness, redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses Think of debt forgiveness, where there's a debt that's owed, and then it's forgiven, it's erased, it's blotted out. In fact, in Matthew 18, that's one of the illustrations. That the Bible uses for our salvation, for forgiveness. Literally, in a parable, debt forgiveness is the illustration So that's a legal change. Adoption, we weren't children of God, now we are children of God. Forgiveness and redemption, we were guilty, now we're no longer guilty. We were slaves, we're no longer slaves. And number six, transformational. That's verses 13 and 14. I'll let you just look at that and just think about the power, the presence of the Holy Spirit in our lives to realign our hearts And realign our lives according to God's will. And then number seven, finally, the blessings of God in Christ are eternal. And as I said earlier, that means the one, they cannot be taken away. And two, they'll culminate in the perfection of heavenly fellowship with God. And you see this in a very simple word in verse 11, inheritance, and then verse 14, inheritance. That means something that's yours by right, it's yours legally, but you haven't acquired possession of it yet. It's your inheritance Now, one day you will acquire possession of your inheritance, but not yet. You'll have unending fellowship with God in his presence You'll have unhindered fellowship with God in his presence. And you'll have unstained fellowship with God in his presence. Right now we have fellowship with God, but It's we still live in these mortal bodies stained with sin, and we still sin. We're not perfect, but that's not always going to be the case. When your body dies, if you're in Christ, when your body dies, your soul will depart the body and be made perfect by the power of God. be morally perfect by the power of God, and your soul will also be transported to heaven to dwell in the presence of God in that perfection. And then on the last day when Christ returns, you'll get a resurrection body, and it'll be even better than that. The blessings of God in Christ. Eternal, transformational, legal, doxological, theological, available to everybody who would hear the gospel and believe And relational. Relational. Brothers and sisters, this is about living in daily communion and close fellowship with Christ. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your goodness, grace, wisdom, and power. And we thank you in the name of Jesus. By his grace, we lift this prayer to you. Amen.