The words we'll examine tonight come out of 1 Peter 1 Verses 10 through 12. 1 Peter chapter 1 verses 10 through 12. The long-awaited new covenant Beloved, as you turn there, I want you to think about your salvation. How often do you just celebrate that you have been rejected? That you've been saved, that your sins have been washed away. I think we go through a lot of seasons where that's more regular, more common in our lives. I think back to the the moment that I was saved and and that season of life, and many of you probably have a testimony that is similar, that you look back and go, wow, I was just So on fire. Do you remember those days, the early days of salvation when you were, you felt like there's nothing else you'd rather talk about. There's nothing else you'd rather do than talk and ponder on how you as a sinner have been saved from your sins. And then what happens? Life, right? Life continues on. You're still saved. You're still active in church. You're reading your Bible. You're in prayer. But the joy, the all that we have of our salvation starts to dwindle a little bit. I picture a little bit like our nose. Who here has a nose? Good. Alright. Just make sure we're awake. Who here thinks about your nose all the time? Matt and I, we have similar noses. We see it all the time, so we are thinking about it all the time. But right, who sees their nose right now? Now all the kids are going cross-side trying to look at their nose. But something that's right in front of your face, you just go through your lives and never think about it. Maybe when you look in the mirror, you think about it, every once in a while it itches and it reminds you. Or you walk into the kitchen on Christmas morning, at least in my house, and you have the smell of cinnamon and sugar in the oven Right? And then you start to remember and value your nose. Well, beloved, I worry that often our salvation is like this. It's there, it's real. You haven't lost it. You still have your salvation. But you're not in love with it. You're not in awe of what your salvation is. You're not amazed at what God has done. And it's because of who we are and how we live in this world. Peter also is concerned about this. So Peter is drawing the reader and the hearer of this letter to think about. We read earlier in this letter about our salvation and how great it is and all the blessings that come from our salvation. And what Peter's now doing is he wants us, as the those that are saved, to step out for a moment. and look at our salvation from a higher view. 30,000-foot view. To look outside of ourselves. And see that all of history, all of creation, all of God's splendor has been waiting for the moment of the salvation of the sinner. What I would like us to see tonight is that the Old Testament has been pointing to your salvation. That the angels are looking at your salvation in all of what God has done. That the gospel has been preached to you for your salvation. I want us to leave here tonight and joy and pleasure and happiness with God. In all that He has saved a sinner, a wretched sinner like you and I. I want us to be amazed that our sins have been washed away, that we stand before God as his children, forgiven and righteous because of what Christ has done. May we rejoice in our salvation. May we see that all of Christianity, all of religion, all of history has been pointing to the work of Christ. Now let us read 1 Peter chapter 1 starting in verse 10. Concerning this salvation, the prophets who prophesied about the grace that was to be yours searched and inquired carefully. Inquiring what person or time the Spirit of Christ in them was indicating when the predicted when he predicted the sufferings of Christ and the subsequent glories It was revealed to them that they were serving not themselves but you. And the things that have now been announced to you through those who preach the good news to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven. Things into which angels long to look. Now you see how Peter's drawing us in to be in all of our salvation. Now I use this term the new covenant. It's not found here in 1 Peter, but the idea of the new covenant is an important one for Christians, for us. We should think about it. We should understand that the new covenant is the reality that we live in today as redeemed and righteous in Christ. So, what is the new covenant? Well, simply put, it's the salvation of your soul. Notice that Peter starts that in verse 10. He says, concerning this salvation. He's just pointing right back to one verse, verse 9, at the end there says, obtaining the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls So we're talking about the salvation of our souls. Another way to put the new covenant, and this is what we see in Jeremiah 31, the new covenant Is God forgives sin and restores fellowship with his children through the mediation of Christ? Let me say that again: God forgives sin And restores fellowship with his children through the mediation of Christ. There's three pieces there: the forgiveness of sin, the restoration, the right relationship we have with God. And how is this all accomplished? Is through the work of Christ. This is the new covenant. This is the reality we live in as Christians. If you have faith in Christ, you're living in the new covenant. You have been forgiven of your sins. You have been restored to the right relationship with God the Father, the creator of the universe, and this was all accomplished through Christ. I mean it's what we talk about week in and week out. If you don't hear the gospel week in and week out, then then you're not listening, you're not hearing the word of God. This is what it's all about. But we're not living in a new reality in a sense because this is what has been talked about through all of Scripture. All of Scripture has been pointing to this reality, that there would be a Messiah to come and save the sinner. And we know that Christ is the fulfillment of this, and that's what the New Testament is proclaiming. We've talked about it. We heard about the the new covenant throughout all the Old Testament, and then boom, history is radically changed. History is just shaken. All of creation is shaken with the arrival of Jesus in the flesh. This little baby. How's this little baby radically sh changing history? How's this little infant changing the world? We know that's through his life. He lives a perfect life. He's the perfect sacrifice on the cross. He fulfills the law. He's obedient to the Father. Then he goes and dies on the cross. A death that you and I deserve to die. He pays the penalty for our sins. But he doesn't say dead. He's buried three days later. He resurrects from the dead, defeating sin and death. He ascended into heaven and now he sits at the right hand of the Father, having dominion over heaven and earth. This is the reality of the new covenant, that that Lord and Savior, that Messiah, has forgiven our sins and restored our relationship with with God. Luke 22, 20, Jesus says, this is at the Last Supper, he says, this cup that is poured out for you is the new covenant in my blood. You think he's talking about that chalice in his hand and the wine and the reminder that we do uh here with the Lord's Supper? You think that's the cup that's being poured out? You think that's the cup that saves us and forgives us for our sins? Or is he using that as the symbol for what he is about to do on the cross? That he is the chalice, that his blood is being poured out, that he is the one that is is spilling his blood out to forgive our sins. Beloved, this is the new covenant. This is the salvation of our souls that we're celebrating, that we live in. Now why should we be so excited about it? Well Peter tells us that the prophets have been looking forward to this death. They've been searching the scriptures for this moment in history. For the arrival of Christ, for the death of Christ, and for the salvation of the soul. They've been looking forward to it. So what what why did the prophets of old search and inquire? What were they looking for? What were they searching? Look with me. Back in verse 10, he says, Concerning this salvation, the prophets who prophesied about the grace that was to be yours searched And inquired carefully, inquiring what person or time the Spirit of Christ in them was indicating when he predicted the sufferings of Christ and the subsequent glories. It was revealed to them that they were serving not themselves but you. Do you hear this language? The searching, the inquiring. Sometimes as Christians we separate ourselves from the Old Testament, right? We separate ourselves and say there's a reason we put old in front of Testament because it's old and outdated and we don't need it. Well that's foolish if you think that's foolish when we we talk that way. Well we must recognize is that through all of Scripture All of Scripture is pointing to Christ. All of Scripture is talking about the salvation of our souls. The prophets knew this. They were searching for scriptures. They knew that there was a promise that God was going to save the sinner, that God was going to pour out grace upon the sinner and save them. Now we see in the Old Testament they lived in this world and this structure of laws, and they had these sacrifices and these ceremonies they would go to. All of that was pointing to Christ All of that, the temple, the tabernacle, was pointing to Christ. The sacrificing of animals and the pouring out of the blood was pointing to Christ. All of it was pointing to Christ, and that Christ was coming. And the prophets, they knew this, and they wanted to hear and know more. The searching and the inquiring, this is an intense language. It's not just the casual, you know, jump jump onto Wikipedia, search up something, read the first paragraph, get the concept, and write your college paper. That's not what we're talking about here What we're talking about is an intensity, getting into the Word of God, searching each letter and word and sentence and structure. They knew that the promised Messiah was in there. They knew that it was in there for them to see and read. And they searched it. Let me just take you through a short journey of some of the searches they had. Genesis 3, 15. Now what when we talk about Genesis 3, what comes to mind? The fall. Sin. In that very moment, the promised Messiah was there. 315 says this, that he shall bruise your head. He's talking to the serpent. He's promising that the offspring of Eve is going to come and bruise your head. The destruction, the defeat of Satan was promised all the way back at the original sin. Then we go into Idah 53. We read that tonight. We see the promise of the suffering servant That he would come and he would suffer. But his suffering's not just there to suffer and show how much he suffered. What's his suffering accomplishing? The forgiveness of sins. The iniquity of sins. He's paying for the sins of many. Could you imagine the prophets at that time? The first time as they heard Isaiah talk it. As Isaiah spoke this and wrote it down. Could you just picture how he's reading it? And he's he's flabbergasted And he's receiving the words from the Spirit and he's writing them down and he's just reading over them and he's he's in awe of this reality that there's going to become there's going to become one who's going to suffer and in his suffering he's Going to pay for the sins of many. With joy, he said, We've been waiting for this. We've been longing for the day that this would happen. He writes it down and he proclaims it to the nations. We see that others gather it. The the the priests and uh the prophets of old, they would read these letters and these these prophecies and they would Say this is it. We know a Messiah is coming. We know that God loves us so much that He's going to save us. We know that His love will give us grace and mercy. We know that we cannot accomplish this on our own, that he will send one to save us. The prophet saw this in old. The psalmist in Psalm 28 cries out a similar thing. He's singing songs about the coming Messiah. He's singing songs that there will be a day when the sinner's sins will be forgiven. He says in Psalm 28, verses 8 and 9, He is the saving of His anointed. O save your people and bless your heritage. Oh, save your people and bless your heritage. Psalmist is singing about it. He's writing songs and they're crying out and they're singing them. People are receiving the Psalms, they're reading them, they're studying it. The Messiah is coming. The day is coming. The day is coming when our sins will be forgiven. They're looking forward with great hope. They're excited for this. The last one I'll point you to, and this is obviously not all of the passages, all of the Old Testament, all of Scriptures pointing to the salvation, but Micah 7:19. What's it say? It says he will again have compassion on us. He will tread our iniquities. Underfoot. You, now talking to God, you will cast all our sins into the depths of the seas. This is what the prophets have been looking forward to. The days of old have been pointing to this. They've been searching the scriptures. Beloved. If those old timers, the people in the Old Testament, the prophets, have been talking about this. They've been excited for this. They've been pointing to this moment. That the sinner would be saved by Christ. Do you think it's important? Do you think it's a big deal? From the fall of Adam and Eve until Christ, everything has been pointing to Christ. Everyone has been looking to Christ. They don't even understand that it's Christ. This is what we see: they're inquiring and searching, and they're very careful. They're searching the Word of God. And verse eleven back in 1 Peter 1 it says, inquiring what person or time the Spirit of Christ in them was indicating when he predicted the sufferings of Christ and the subsequent glory. They knew it was happening. They knew it was coming, but they did not understand when or who. This was their searching. Now we see this right in the New Testament. What happens when Jesus comes on the scene, starts teaching in the temple, in the synagogues? What do the leadership of the Jewish people start to question? Are you really the Messiah? You're saying that you're God. How dare you say that? What's the issue? They had been searching, their forefathers had been searching, their forefathers had been proclaiming that the Messiah is coming. And then here comes Jesus. This isn't how we thought it was going to work. We thought she was going to be a little bit stronger, a little better looking. Thought you're going to be a little bit wealthier. And right now, what we need it from a savior, what we need from a Messiah, is someone that's going to pick up the sword and we're going to go storm Rome. That was the issue. At that time when Jesus came onto the scene, the leaders of the Jewish people were looking for a false Messiah. They weren't thinking about their hearts. They weren't looking for a Messiah to cleanse them of their sins, to make them new. They just wanted their own passions and their own power to be fulfilled. They missed the Messiah right in front of them. But their forefathers have been pointing and proclaiming and telling them about it. It's been stirring up in them, indicating. But notice what it's been indicating. The predicted sufferings of Christ and the subsequent glories. The predicted sufferings of Christ. The Pharisees who persecuted Christ. The Jews who voted for Christ to be put to death. Let's not forget that scene. Rome has him. They say we want him killed. And what does Rome say? We'll release him. Or we'll release Sparadus. You have these two options. And who do they cry out for? Do they cry for their Messiah to be released? No, they cry Alfred Baradas, a rebel. They said, release him, crucify Christ, crucify Jesus, put him to death Now notice this, that their misplacement of who Christ is in his earthly ministry, that their missing that Jesus is the Messiah is the fulfillment of Isaiah 53. That he would suffer and die for their sins. You see that? The very people that are looking for a Messiah, they're the ones that say, no, crucify him, which then fulfills Isaiah 53. The sufferings that were prophesied and told about that would come came at the hands of the Jewish people of that time God, his sovereignty. Oh, may we be in awe of how our sovereign God has worked all things together for our salvation. Who are our salvation, for the forgiveness of our sins that his son came and died in the time and the history that he did. But he didn't stay dead. They were predicting his sufferings. They knew he would suffer. They knew he would die. But also they knew his glories. He rose from the dead. He rose from the dead. Maybe we miss it. We we miss that. That's our nose right now. Because we hear it every year around Easter. We talk about it regularly in church that he rose from the dead, and it's become this just normal thing. It's this normal thing we say and we believe as Christians. But do we realize what happened? That God sent his son to die and that he did not stay dead, but he rose from the dead so that you and I will not stay dead. That we will be resurrected in new bodies with him. We miss the beauties of his glory. And then we we we we have our nose. Once again, the nose of our salvation. is that our Lord and Savior ascended into heaven and has dominion over heaven and earth, and we just live like that's not a big deal. We just act like, yeah, of course. That's what Matthew tells us. So what what about it? Beloved, may we recognize how beautiful this truth is Go crossfight for the moment and look at your nose of salvation and see how great that is. See the beauty that our Lord and Savior sits in heaven. And he is in control. He has dominion over all of creation. Nothing is more powerful than him. The world will not overtake him. Sin is not going to take the victory, but Christ has the victory. This is the glories that he's talking about. This is the glories that the prophets searched the scriptures and looked for. And anticipated with excitement. Oh, what about the glories of our salvation? You as a sinner sitting here right now are made righteous before a holy God in heaven right now. Have we missed this wonder? I'm talking about myself, beloved. I miss this so often in my life. I know it's true. I say it. I share this with people. I talk about it. I study it. But then the regularness of life happens and it just kind of goes to the wayside. But the glory is that we are forgiven. The prophets talked about and searched Thousands of years before Christ came onto the scene. And we see that there must be something important. That they've been looking for it. Verse 12, it says, It was revealed to them that you were Serving, they were serving not themselves but you. I want you to hear this language, even though I messed it up. I want you to hear it and see how important it is. As they were searching, in their searching of the scriptures, in their study and through the prophets, the prophets recognize. that what they were searching, the fullness of salvation, the fulfillment of the new covenant, was not for them in their day. Yet they valued it and they pointed others to it. How important is it that they knew it wasn't going they weren't going to experience it and fully understand it in their lifetime? They were going to die and never see the fulfillment of this until they're in glory with God. But it was for you and I. They found it so valuable to study the scriptures, to seek after who this Messiah and the new covenant and the salvation of the souls recognizing that they themselves would not get to experience it here on this earth. But when they enter into glory, they were looking back and they will get to see the work of Christ. But their study and their examination was for our benefit. The Word of God is for our benefit. The Old Testament is for our benefit to point us to the salvation found in Christ alone. It's found throughout all of Scripture. They yearned and searched the scriptures, knowing that they would not get to see the day, but their children's children's children would see the day of salvation in Christ. Beloved, do we live in this way? Do we see the beauty of our salvation for us? And are we living in a way that we are excited for our children's children's children to also get to see and experience the salvation of Christ? And if you can't do that, Matthew, children's, children's, children, you're not going to be here on this earth when that happens. But are we living, are we functioning? Are we proclaiming in a way That our offspring for generations will see the glories of Christ. The prophets did it. The prophets did it for thousands of years before Christ came onto the scene. Now we have tasted and seen the salvation of Christ. Are we going to live in a way that's going to pass down for generations? Beloved, this is your call. For some of you, you may think that's too late. My children have children already. It's never too late. It's never too late. Live it out. Proclaim the goodness of your salvation. Preach it to yourself. Remind your children of it. Youngsters. Heidi, I can see your eyes. So you're the youngster I'm talking to. Your salvation in Christ Jesus. Pass it on. Preach the gospel. To your children, to your grandchildren. Live in a way. Don't just say it and then you're living in a way that they're questioning it. Live it out. It is good for them, and we see the fulfillment of it throughout generations. We see that it's the prophets have been searching for it. But not only the prophets were searching for it, we also see that the preachers And especially in Peter's time, the apostles have been proclaiming it. Look right in the middle of verse 12. Well, I'll read all of twelve. It says, It was revealed to them that they were serving not themselves but you. in the things that have now been announced to you through those who preach the good news to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven. If this does not stir us up to preach the gospel, I don't know what will. How will the sinner know of salvation in Christ Jesus? How will they come to faith in Christ? How will they hear of the new covenant? How will they hear that they are sinners in need of a savior? It's through the preaching of the gospel. It is through the preaching of the gospel. Beloved, we can't ever hold back. We can't ever say, well the world, you know, they know they're sinners. They don't need to hear it. They'll just No. No, they don't No, they need to hear that they are sinners rejecting and rebelling against the Holy God and they need to turn to Christ. That the only way to be saved from their sins is found in Jesus Christ. That's the gospel that was preached to you and I. It's the gospel that needs to be preached to the world. We need to be preaching the gospel. We need to see that those that loved you so much that were willing to preach the gospel to you were working by the Holy Spirit. Hear that? That you received the gospel from someone preaching it because they loved you, and that was inspired by the Holy Spirit. It was guided by the Holy Spirit. So with that then you have three people that value your salvation. The prophets of old, they searched the scriptures, the preacher that preached it, they valued the gospel, they preached the gospel, and the Holy Spirit. If the Holy Spirit finds the new covenant valuable enough to inspire the prophets to write it down and proclaim it, to inspire the preacher to preach it, to stir up the faith in you and give you new life, do you think it's important? That the third person of the Trinity, this is their ministry, this is their role, this is their work throughout all of history? It's all wrapped up in the new covenant, in the salvation of souls. Beloved , may we see the value of it. May we see how good it is for us. To recognize our salvation. May we see that history and past has been pointing to the salvation in Christ She calls us to think about our salvation and live out our Christian identity in a little bit different and unique way. We start to see that it's not just about our salvation. Well, yes, that's that's a piece of it. History has been pointing to the salvation of Christ, that he would save the many. He would save many. Many sinners would be redeemed by the suffering and death of Christ. Many sinners. This isn't just about you. But then we start to see the glory of it. That the saints of old have been looking forward to it. We see in Hebrews the uh the the list of those in faith. the the faith the whole of faith in Hebrews and how they all had faith, they all had faith. What was their faith in? It wasn't in their works, it wasn't in their accomplishments. It was in their faith that there was going to be a day That Christ would come and redeem the sinner. We see in Romans 3 that God the Father passed over former sins for this day, that he would be just and the justifier. As he crucified Christ on the cross. All of history has been pointing to the moment of Christ. And now we, 2,000 years later, get to live in this reality. And we miss it so often. That all history has been waiting for the moment. History radically changed at the cross of Christ and his resurrection and his ascension. And now we get to live in that newness. We are participants. We take part in the new covenant. We have been redeemed by the blood of Christ. So that's what the prophets were searching in old. Then there's these what six, seven words at the very end. That's short, but very impactful. Look at the very end of verse 12. It says, Things into which angels long to look. Things into which angels long to look. What or why do the angels long to look? What are they looking at? What's the function of angels? We need to start there. What has God designed angels or what are they doing in heaven? We see in Revelation they're crying out. Holy, holy, holy. They're worshiping God. Day and night. They're worshiping God. They're worshiping Him, singing of His goodness, singing of H Praises Think about that. Some of the angels, their design and purpose was simply to worship God, to cry out to Him. To sing of his glory. That's what they're doing in heaven. The angels are crying out to him. We see that their purpose is to worship him. But then what happens? Why are they looking at us? Why are they looking along to look into the salvation of the sinner? It's because the salvation of the sinner completes their worship of God. The salvation of the sinner, the sinner has been made righteous before God, completes the angel. Worship. Let me work this out a little bit. We've got to understand that the angels, those that have rebelled against God, they will receive receive the eternal punishment. They will be cast into the lake of fire. Revelation tells us that. There's not a redemption process for the angels that have rebelled. So remember we we see in the gospels when Jesus shows up on the scene. What do the demons cry out? Oh oh they call him they recognize he's God they say is it time not yet don't do it yet they know that they're going to be Destroy it. They're not looking, they're not saying, oh, you're here to save us, because they know that's not a possibility. The angels will not see salvation, those that have rebelled. But then you have this other group of angels who have not rebelled. They're in heaven now. They're worshiping. They're worshiping all of God's goodness and his glories. But they have to look to us. To understand how a sinner has been made righteous. They have to look to us to see the grace of God in a unique and special way that they will never experience. Beloved, do you hear that? The angels in heaven right now are looking at us and our salvation in Christ because it will complete their ability and their way of worshiping God Because they see us. They see God's grace, His mercy, His sacrifice for sinners who have rebelled against Him. Something they will never experience. They see it. They see it worked out. They have heard the Spirit of God talk about it. They have heard the prophets of old talk about it. And now they get to witness it firsthand in you and I. Beloved, are you living in a way that you are you are proclaiming to the angels of how great their God is that they are worshiping Do you think about your salvation in a way that you're being reminded that even the angels are crying out your salvation and how good it is before God the Father? Do you see that the angels are longing and looking into this because for all of creation they have not seen it until Christ came unto the scene? It's really important to see that this language, things into which angels long to look, this intensifies their peering into it. Intensifies the language here, you could say they strained their necks. It's a metaphor to show that they were straining. That while they were singing the praises of God in heaven, holy, holy, holy, worthy is the land, they're crying this out. They need to strain their necks and look at what he has done for us. So what does that mean? There's a sense in the language of this lowering themselves. We know in Psalm 8 it says that a little lower than the angels. We see that we are created a little lower than the angels, yet we are made in the image of God, and we are now saved by God. So there's a sense that the angels are leaving their heavenly realm, not in a physical sense, they're still worshiping there, but they're they're leaving there to look down at us, not to see how great Anthony is. There's nothing to sing about that. Thanks Vince for that. You recognize it's true. There's nothing to sing about that, right? They're not looking and saying, oh, let me see what so-and-so is doing. What they're doing is they're peering down and seeing that that filthy sinner Anthony has been washed and cleansed by the blood of Christ. Wow, how amazing God is. Wow, his grace is more magnificent than we understood it before. Wow, we are in awe of who God is. Let us get back into heaven and continue singing. Let us get in heaven and sing louder. And may the praise of God be magnified because we see what He has done for the sinner. We see and recognize something we will never experience. This is what we see the angels doing. Now, does that lift up and cause us to value our salvation just a little bit more? Do we start to think about our salvation differently? Do we start to see the wonders, the glories, and the awe of our salvation? That from all of history they have been looking forward to Christ. And now we get to celebrate and to partake in the blood of Christ. And now the angels are looking down and being in awe of what God has done within us. Beloved, I hope this grows our nose of salvation. I hope we see it more. I hope we keep it in front of us and we don't just push it to the side and just live a life that appears as though we get it, we understand it. We talk about it, we celebrate at Easter, but come Monday through Saturday, we don't we don't address it at all. It never pops up in our mind May our salvation, that you, sinner, have been cleansed by the blood of Christ, dwell in us richly May it bubble up in us regularly. May we rejoice in it. May we celebrate it. May we talk about it and may we proclaim it to the world. So, what does that do for us? What should that look like in our lives? When you wake up in the morning, are you reminded that the breath you have, the fact that your eyes open in all of your physical pains All the trials of the world, you recognize that that life, that another, the other, the next day God has given you is a blessing from him. And are you gonna live in it? Are you gonna live in the reality that you are a forgiven sinner? This reality of our salvation for the souls that the prophets have Looks for and the angels are looking into and longing to see. Do we recognize that our forgiveness should empower us and strengthen us to live? That with boldness we should live in this world. With boldness we should fight against temptation and sin. We should not fear the world. If the angels are longing to see how a sinner has been forgiven, what strength, what weapon can the enemy use against us? What, point the finger and say you're a sinner? You hear me say this all the time. And what do we say? Yeah, we know, and we have been washed by the blood of Christ. We get it, Satan. Bring bring a new weapon. If accusing us of being sinners is the best you got. We know it, and we know that we are forgiven because of Christ. We stand before God now in the heavens. This is Ephesians. We now are in the heavens presently, seated in the heavens, because we have been made righteous by Christ. What attack can you bring, enemy? What then do we do with the world around us? We get timid, we get scared, well, oh, the world's gonna mock us. They're not going to listen to us. We should just isolate ourselves and sit back. No, we go into the world and we preach the gospel. We live as Christians in every aspect of our lives. We go to the powers of this world. Your bosses, your governors, your your presidents, and we call them to repent and follow after Christ. Not with any shame. We're not ashamed of the gospel. We're not ashamed of the gospel. You know why we're not ashamed? The apostles and the preachers have proclaimed it, and the angels long to see it. So then why do we get timid when we go into the world? Why do we get scared when we're about to preach the gospel? I'm I'm talking firsthand right now. I get scared. You call me to go talk, preach the gospel on the street. What's the first thing I do? Maybe I'd have a hair appointment that day Maybe I can schedule anything other than that. I don't want to do that. What if it hurts their feelings? What if someone doesn't like what I say What what if it doesn't you know what and the what ifs they just magnify, they just pile up on one another. That's not how we should live, beloved. We should go into the world with joy. Preach the gospel. Preach the truth of salvation for the sinners. Just the way the prophets have looked for it. Preach it with boldness. Preach it in a way that you actually believe that the Holy Spirit is going to save the sinner. Do you when you're preaching are in in the back of your mind as you're preaching the gospel, in the back of your mind you're going, I'm preaching this because this is what I'm supposed to do. This is I'm just being a good Christian. I'm checking the box. But I don't know if this is gonna work. Are you preaching it to yourselves and to the world with boldness, believing that it works? Because it was enough to save you. It was the gospel that saved you, and it's the gospel that's going to save the sinner and the world. May I, beloved, I hate, hate, hate the weak and scared Christian. Why do I hate it? I'm not mad at the Christian. Yeah, I guess in a little bit I am. But it's because we have fallen for the lie that the gospel and salvation isn't that important and that powerful. I hate look, I hate when I'm tempted by sin and I commit a sin. I hate when I hear that the brethren have done the same thing. Why? It's because it just shows A little bit that we have missed the value of our salvation. Now the beauty of that is that we confess our sin, we know we're forgiven. His his mercy is new every day. We we know that. But we must see that our weaknesses reflect our doubt of who God is. And Peter's preaching here. I'm preaching tonight. The prophets have looked for it. The preachers have proclaimed it. And the angels long to see that we should be strengthened in our salvation. Times of doubt, times of struggle, times of pain, times of temptation, times of sin, be reminded of your salvation in Christ Jesus Beloved, remember, it's my final words. Remember that you have been saved. God has forgiven your sins, and you have a restored fellowship with Him. Through the mediation of Christ Jesus. This is the new covenant that we live and proclaim to the world. Let's go before our Father in prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you recognizing our weakness, but your glory and your strength. We see our sinfulness. We see your forgiveness. Lord, I ask that you strengthen us. Remind us of our salvation. Remind us of how great your work, your son's work on the cross was and is. May we recognize and see that his blood is sufficient, that our sins have been washed away. Give us strength to proclaim this to the world. Give us strength to proclaim it to ourselves tomorrow morning. Father, remind us of your goodness. As we go into this world, may we see our salvation. May we see your goodness. That we know that we are forgiven. The enemy has no power against us because of your strength. We pray all this in the name of Christ. Amen.