Okay, welcome. Thank you for coming out on this freezing, freezing day. I will pray for us and then we'll begin. We have a lot of different verses and passages tonight. I'm not going to ask you to flip to all of them, but the very first one will be Revelation 1. 5 and 6. Revelation 1, 5 and 6. Tonight we are talking about the kingdom of God. Part one. Kingdom of God Part One. Let's pray together. Father, we're thankful that you snatched us from the clutches of Satan and transferred us into the kingdom of your beloved Son. We thank you for the Holy Spirit you've poured out within our hearts. Thank you for the forgiveness of sins, the hope of heaven. Father, we worship you. Help us to hear your word this evening. Would you teach us, Lord? Open our hearts. Open our eyes. That we might live for you, that we might love you more deeply, serve you more fervently. Father, we pray that you would help us. In Christ's name. Amen. Just remember that all these different topics that we talk about each week, no matter what passage we're in, No matter what topic we're focusing on, every single one of us should be asking the heart question. How does God want to change my heart? God, change my heart. Transform my mind. Transform my life that I might live for you. Give more of my life to your Lordship. No matter what topic we're on, the issue is discipleship. So let's be prayerful and mindful of that. This is not just an intellectual exercise. I know you know that, but the reminders are good The reminders are good. Alright. Ready to get into it? I feel like my lectern is a little bit too far. Away. I'm going to come over here. The kingdom of God is God's saving reign upon the earth established by the first coming of Christ. Okay, working definition. When we say kingdom of God, it's his saving reign or his redemptive reign. You could use the word rule there also if you It's God's saving reign upon earth, established by the first coming of Christ. And the two points I want to shine the spotlight on from the very beginning is that Christ is already King, and that you, if you are in Christ, are already in the kingdom of God. Revelation 1, 5. Let's begin in verse 4 just to get some of the context. John to the seven churches that are in Asia Grace to you and peace from him who is, and who was and who is to come. That's God, from everlasting to everlasting. And from the seven spirits who are before his throne. That's a representative phrase for the Holy Spirit. Verse 5: And from Jesus Christ. He says three things about Jesus Christ the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead, and the ruler of kings on earth. Presently, ruler of kings on earth. That's the the one thing I want to shine a spotlight on Jesus is already King of Heaven with all authority. All authority has been given to him in heaven and On earth. Supreme dominion over all things and all peoples and all nations and kings and languages. Jesus Christ. The other point I wanted to shine the spotlight on as we get started is that if you are in Christ, you are already in the kingdom of God. Continuing in verse five into verse six. To him who loves us and has freed us from our sins by his blood, and what good news that is. And made us a kingdom, priest to his God and Father, to him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. Based on the work of his first coming, he has made us a kingdom, namely a kingdom of priests. And as a cross-reference, you can flip to Revelation 510. You have made them a kingdom and priests to our God, and they shall reign on the earth. Already a kingdom, already a kingdom of priests. Made to reign on the earth. And of course, that looks forward to a day of consummate reigning with Christ, but in in one sense we already reign with Christ. Paul says in Ephesians 2, getting ahead of myself and in in our notes. We've been seated with Christ. We've been seated with Christ. We've been raised with Him, seated with Him. At the right hand of God in Christ Jesus. And so our status is that of a kingdom of priests in Christ Jesus. He is already king. We are already in his kingdom. Now if we're going to live for the kingdom of God, we're going to be if we're going to be faithful citizens, we have to understand and we have to appreciate that this is a present reality, that Christ is King, that He is Lord, and that we are already in His kingdom. And that should give us an urgency, and that should frame out and shape how we think about our lives on earth and what they're for. Hebrews twelve, twenty-two, and twenty-three are a fitting cross-reference. The author of Hebrews writes writing to Christians, and he says. You have come to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable angels in festival gathering. And to the assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, and to God, the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous, made perfect So even though we are not yet in heaven, we are a part of the heavenly gathering. You have come to Mount Zion. You have come to the city of the living God. You have come to the heavenly Jerusalem, to the innumerable angels in festival gathering. To the assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven. Now, if this does not reshape and reorient us in the way we think about our lives on earth, then nothing will. Then nothing will. The kingdom of God is God's saving reign through Christ and in Christ on earth established by his first coming. And so uh let me come to the whiteboard to do A little bit of review and make the connection between the last, uh the first two parts of this series and then what we're doing tonight. Tonight we're going to look at the nature, a little bit of the nature of the kingdom, and a little bit of the coming of the kingdom. The nature of the kingdom and the coming of the kingdom. And this will be a survey-style Bible study. We'll go through different aspects, giving a few cross-references for each one and summarizing the point. But First review. We've been studying the last days, making the point that we are in the last days, these last days. Hebrews 1, 1 through 3 has been the the s like the starting block for this study. In these last days God has spoken to us by his son. Or in his son. And so we've defined the last days. Scripture defines the last days as This era that's defined by God's redemptive revelation in His Son. God has spoken in His Son, and through His speaking in His Son, He's provided redemption for sinners that we might come into His kingdom. And ha and have a relationship with God that will last forever. These last days is this era of history between the first coming of Christ and the return of Christ. It's the last era of history before Christ returns. And so this line this main line is the line of history. This is the line, generally speaking, representing his first coming, his life, death. resurrection, the crown, the cross obviously represents his sacrificial death for the forgiveness of his people. The crown with these radiant these lines of radiant glory emanating from it represents his his resurrection and heavenly enthronement at the right hand of the Father. And then he pours out his spirit. And then this crown over here, which is the same crown representing the same Christ, as an arrow coming down represents his return, ending the last days. And we talked about a little well we didn't talk about the difference. I just mentioned the difference between the last days, which is this whole era, and the last things. The last a study of the last things would be a study of those things uh pertaining to the return of Christ and all that's connected to it in terms of Happening right before it, happening right after it, what's the results, the return of Christ itself, what happens on that day, what order does it , all of those last things, but we're focusing on the last days. There's a major historical event that should also be on here. That um We were talking about this this morning. I'm still debating whether to do a class or two on this. I think I probably will, but I'm not committing to that Uh A D seventy the destruction of Jerusalem would be a major element. When Jesus preaches Or would Jesus, yeah, preaches, teaches on the last days and then also the last things. Two main topics would be the coming judgment upon Jerusalem and then his final coming at the end of the age. Those are his two main headings. than anything else he says in terms of history or practical application fall under those two headings. So that's not all he talks about, but those are the two major headings. And so probably, but not definitely, we'll talk about that because there's a lot of Bible passages that address that issue. It's not just a historical concern. It's a theological concern. It's a matter of Bible study and understanding what God has done and is doing in these last days. And so last week So the first week we talked about the defining characteristic of the last days, which is God's revelation in his son, which is a redemptive revelation. It shows us who God is, Father, Son, Spirit, in a climactic way, and it is a redeeming revelation. It provides a way for sinners to be delivered from sin and come into a relationship with God. That was the first week. And then the second week of our study we talked about what is Jesus doing. What is he doing in the last days? He's building his church In all nations, and nothing will thwart his efforts. He's building his church that came from Matthew 16 Now, let's get into the nature of the kingdom. Stop me any time for questions. The nature of the kingdom is um number one, it's a kingdom, the kingdom of God is set in opposition to Satan's kingdom. It's a kingdom of light that is set in direct opposition to the kingdom of darkness. 1 John 3:8. The reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the works of the devil. Jesus has begun to do this, and he'll continue to do this throughout history till he returns for the resurrection and for the final judgment. and destruction of his enemies. How did he begin to reign? Well you would just summarize the first coming of Christ and all that he did to establish his kingdom. You would talk about the righteous life of Christ. Overcoming Satan's temptations, fulfilling the law in perfect obedience, his powerful ministry in the Spirit. Giving signs of his authority and power to reverse the curse of sin. His life, his death, his The atoning sacrifice of his death, his glorious resurrection, his heavenly enthronement, and the pouring out of the Holy Spirit on the day of Pentecost, which is a historically unique anointing of the Spirit, the Spirit of Resurrection. Glory. Believers, um In Old Testament times, just a way to summarize it, I think everyone understands what I mean by that, believers before the coming of Christ Would have had the work of the Holy Spirit upon their hearts, of course, otherwise they'd remain in the flesh and alienated from God, unable to do anything good But there's a historical difference. There's a unique anointing that you and I on this side of the death and resurrection of Christ. We are filled with the spirit of the exalted Christ. And that's historically unique. It's the blessing of blessings. It's the fullness of redemption. The spirit of resurrection glory, the spirit of new creation. First Corinthians, uh well, that's how he began his reign. How will he consummate his reign? How will he consummate his reign that he set up against Satan's kingdom of darkness. His glorious return. The resurrection Glorification of his people, final judgment of his enemies, the creation of a new heavens and a new earth, the home of eternal righteousness and bliss in the presence of God, in the presence of Of the Lamb who is slain, Jesus Christ. That's how he'll consummate his reign. But he's already begun to reign. First Corinthians 15, 25 and 26. He must reign until he's put all his enemies under his feet, and the last enemy to be destroyed is death. Which he does when he comes. It's not the first enemy that he destroys. It's the last enemy that he destroys his death. 1 Corinthians 15, 25 In the twenty-sixth passage, that that's just two verses, but you can stretch it out to the paragraph where Paul talks specifically about the order of things. Hebrews 10, 12 and 14, very similar, but when Christ had offered for all time a single sacrifice for sins, he sat down at the right hand of God. That's the establishment of the kingdom at his first coming. I'll read it again. When Christ had offered for all time a single sacrifice for sins, he sat down at the right hand of God. Waiting from that time until his enemies should be made a footstool at his feet, for by a single offering he had perfected for all time those who are being sanctified. So this is an age where Christ is subduing his enemies. It's a kingdom that he has set up in direct opposition. To Satan's kingdom. So to be a citizen of the kingdom of God, this is the obvious implication. is to be involved in a spiritual battle. It is an ongoing spiritual war between the lights and the darkness Between Christ who is Lord of all, and between Satan. So, next point. The kingdom of God is manifest, not exclusively, but primarily and centrally in the church of our Lord Jesus Christ. in the church. And let's say it this way so we're not confused about it. In local churches. In local churches. Now don't blurt it out, but just think to yourself, boy, how important is the local church? How important is the local church? If we're to seek first the kingdom of God, we must prioritize the local church. This will connect it. These next few I'm going to go through relatively quickly. That's on purpose. Because I really want to get to this the nature of the coming of the kingdom. There's some exciting things to be seen there. But this point right here where the the kingdom of God is manifest centrally and primarily in local churches connects it to where we ended last week with Christ building his church. And I want to talk just for a minute about the difference between the church. and the kingdom. The church of Christ and the kingdom of God. They're very, very, very closely related. You cannot define one properly apart from the other one. You can't separate them from each other. But just a simple way to think about the difference is the kingdom is the rule or the dominion of God. The church are the actual people who've been brought into that reign and dominion. So difference, but obviously connected. The church, local churches are how the kingdom is arranged. And how the kingdom is organized and how the kingdom advances in the world. Local churches, biblical local churches. The churches are the people of God who've been brought under his reign, under his dominion, snatched from the kingdom of darkness. And just for one example, when I said earlier that the uh kingdom is not limited to local churches. But centrally, well one clear example would be the fact that saints in heaven are are also reigning with Christ and are counted in his kingdom, although they're no longer here manifest on earth In a local church. But so the kingdom of God is his saving reign, his dominion in a broad sense The church or those people and how God has chosen to arrange and organize and advance his kingdom on earth. Now, how important are local churches? How important are local churches? We must prioritize The church, if we're to seek first the kingdom of God. Third, it's the center of God's purpose and plan for all things. The kingdom of God is the center of of God's purpose and plan for all things. Well, Christ would be, if you want to take it down to one topic, but what does Christ do? He Brings about God's kingdom. If I were to sum up the topic, it's so hard to do because it's uh so many facets to God's plan. It's It's not uh just one thing or one aspect, but if I were forced to summarize the one Topic of God's plan and purpose, as we see revealed in Scripture, would be that of God's presence with God's people. God's presence with God's people. And it begins in the Garden of Eden, and it ends Revelation 22, the new heavens and the new earth. in the climax of the whole story, the conclusion, the final chapter that never ends, it always gets better, never gets boring, but never ends, is God 's presence with God's people. And we see who He is and we worship Him for who He is and we enjoy His presence And he enjoys our presence. And of course, God has to create that people for him to be present with, but God's presence with God's people But the kingdom of God is his mech is his mechanism for bringing that about, or for getting there. It gets from point A to point B. His kingdom established and consummated in Christ. The way God has chosen It's what God has chosen to do in his infinite wisdom. So when we think about the nature of the kingdom of God, it's a kingdom he set up against Satan's kingdom. Is it manifest centrally But not exclusively in local churches. It's the center of God's purpose and plan for all things. It's not a minor issue or a side issue by any means. It's a heavenly kingdom. It's a heavenly kingdom. Romans 8. 9. You, however, are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if in fact the spirit of God dwells in you. Anyone who does not have the spirit of Christ does not belong to him. It's a heavenly kingdom. It's a spiritual kingdom. This does not mean that the kingdom of God does not have any effects on earth or have any impact on earth It does not mean that the kingdom does not exist on earth. The kingdom of God exists on earth. It shows its effects on earth. It has an impact on earth. We really are the light of the world. We really are the salt of the earth by virtue of the spirit that's within us. That's why I read that Romans 8, verse 9 passage. We are not of the world, but that does not mean that the kingdom is not present in the world. The kingdom of God is at war with Satan, at war with the enemies of Christ, but we do not wage war. This is a one example, one application of what I just said. The kingdom is in the world, but not of the world. Would you not wage war like kingdoms of this world wage war? Would you not pick up the sword and try to submit people into faith in Christ? That makes no sense. That's not the kingdom of God We do not seek victory through military strength, through political dominance, or any other kind of cultural or societal imposition. But that does not mean that we do not strive to advance the kingdom. We do not just rest on our laurels and just hope that the kingdom advances. No, we must give ourselves to this work. We do not fight as kingdoms of the world fight. But we are fighting this battle with the word of God and the power of the Spirit and the sanctifying presence of Christ. The preaching and teaching of the word, consistent prayer, a holy witness in the world, that we might Be instruments of God saving sinners, seeing seeing them released from Satan's grip on the mind and released from Satan's grip on the heart, and subsequently living sanctified Life in the world and all the different areas of life. We should be we should always be asking the questions in our life, well, how do I live a sanctified life in this area of my life? How do I live consecrated unto God in that area of life? This is as Christians, as citizens of heaven, this is how we should be thinking. We do not just go with the flow of what pop culture says. Or what any other segment of the world says. So the the kingdom of God It's a heavenly kingdom, it's a spiritual kingdom, but it is manifest on earth, it is present on earth, it does show its effects and have an impact. It's an otherworldly kingdom in the world. Maybe it's a good summary. And by the word of God and the transforming power of the Spirit. Through the ministries and body life of the church, God advances his kingdom, subduing his enemies. Number five, the kingdom of God is Inaugurated but not consummated. Inaugurated but not consummated. It started but it's not completed It started but not completed. And a good way to think about this is what we often say about our own salvation. We think of the kingdom the the kingdom of God as it is now. We think of it in an already but not yet fashion. Have you ever heard that about personal salvation? It's already, but it's not yet. It's already established, but it's not yet brought to completion. It's already powerful on earth, but not yet perfected in the new heaven and the new earth. This should make sense because that same already and not yet is true about the believer, already justified in Christ. But not yet glorified with Christ, already being sanctified, but not yet fully sanctified. Amen But praise the Lord, we one day will be already seated with Christ, Ephesians 2. 6, but not yet seeing Christ with the eye. Not yet talking to Christ, not yet hearing his voice, not yet singing to him face to face, shoulder to shoulder with angels in heaven. Not yet, not yet, but we're already A part of that festival gathering, as we looked at earlier in Hebrews. So do not ever think, please, do not ever think that just because the kingdom of God is still in its not yet uh form, it's it's uh not yet in its eternal form, that therefore it does not exist really and truly upon the earth. This is God's earth. This is the place where God is working out his plan. Christ has sovereign authority over all things. He is building his church. He is advancing his kingdom. Nothing can stop him. Isaiah 66, 1 Thus says the Lord, Heaven is my throne and the earth is my footstool. So a little bit on the nature of the kingdom. Number one, it's a kingdom that has been set up. It I mean you read Genesis chapter 3 for the background on this. All the way back to man's fall into sin and and the curse of sin and death. It's a kingdom set up against Satan's kingdom. It's a kingdom that's secondly manifest in the church. Centrally, but not exclusively, manifest in local churches. Number three, it's a kingdom this is the very center of God's purpose and plan for all things. Number four, it's a heavenly kingdom or a spiritually kingdom. But it's truly present on earth, truly can have an impact on earth. We've got to believe that. We've got to believe that God can use us to have an impact for good in the world. And it's a kingdom finally that's inaugurate been inaugurated but not yet consummated. There's an eternal kingdom. There's a glorified kingdom that's on the other side of Christ's return. On the other side of resurrection, on the other side of final judgment, an eternal kingdom that will never end. So the kingdom is inaugurated but not yet consummated. That's more exciting than sports, right? Not hypothetical. That's it's more interesting than the evening news. What That's more encouraging than uh T V sitcoms. This is everything. What God is doing in Christ is everything. So the kingdom of God is the saving reign of God. Upon the earth established in the first coming of Christ is life, death, resurrection, heavenly enthronement, giving of the Spirit. The rest of our time we're going to talk about the coming of the kingdom. And wow. I didn't realize I had this many notes on it. I have eight points. Eight summary points with some cross-references. You'll be doing some flipping for that. Any questions so far? Becky? You're good? Well theologically, yes. So we say not explicitly, just give us an example so you're talking about it. Primarily in the church, but not the same thing. Uh or other reasons that uh we're here to actually make have an impact on others. And I just thought, well of course you are because the impact was not through it. But if there were other people that are calling for the course, but it's just logical He's continuing to use the system of the church to do what he's been doing since he 's now we're in Yep. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Yeah, he's doing it through his church. So much we could say about the nature of the kingdom. You can look at the kingdom parables. in the gospel narratives and um see how the kingdom is like a mustard seed but it grows it starts small but it grows and grows and grows and it becomes the largest tree which is a parable but the kingdom grows outwardly or extensively, and then there's a parable of the kingdom. It's like yeast works through leaven until it goes through so it also works internally or intensively, inwardly. Having an impact and outwardly growing and spreading. So you can look at the growth of the kingdom. Um so there's so much to say about the kingdom of God again because it covers the whole Bible. Of what God is doing in one way or another connects to God's reign over all things and working out his purpose in Christ to create a people for himself. that would know him and love him and worship him and be with him and enjoy him forever. This is God's plan. So the coming of the kingdom. Turn to Daniel 24. So much we could look at in the Old Testament, not just in the prophets. But in the Old Testament, we're only going to look at one of my favorites Daniel 2, 44 and 45. So this is the first point under the coming of the kingdom. The kingdom of God. We're talking about the messianic kingdom that was prophesied in the Old Testament. It's a kingdom of God that's the messianic kingdom or the kingdom of the Christ, the anointed one. prophesied in the Old Testament. In Daniel 2, Nebuchadnezzar had seen this giant statue, a head of gold, chest and arms of silver. He saw this in a dream and a vision. A midsection of brass, legs of iron, and the feet uh were iron, but also mixed with some clay therein And nobody knew the meaning of this vision except for Daniel. Well, no, no, no, no. Nobody knew the meaning of this vision except for God. God chose to reveal the meaning and teach it to Daniel. And we come to find out that uh the different parts of the statue represent kingdoms that will rise and fall upon the earth. And the head of gold represents uh the Babylonians. The chest of ar chest and arms of silver represent the Medes and the Persians, which come after that. The midsection of brass represents the Greek Empire, which comes after that. And the legs of iron With the feet mixed with some clay represents the Roman Empire that will come after that. Quick overarching summary, okay? But Daniel 2, 44 through 45. Look what happens once you get to the legs of iron, the Roman Empire in history, here's what God Promises. And in the days of those kings, the God of heaven will set up a kingdom that shall never be destroyed. And that is the kingdom of the kingdom of heaven. The kingdom of heaven. The kingdom of God, the kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Nor shall the kingdom be left to another people. It shall break in pieces all these kingdoms and bring them to an end. And it shall stand forever. So it's a kingdom that God sets up, but the picture is one of Victory over and destroying these other kingdoms. It shall stand forever. Just as you saw that a stone was cut from a mountain by no human hand. So that was another part of the vision. But not by human hand. In other words, what Sister Nancy said, it's of heavenly origins, it's a heavenly kingdom. And that it broke in pieces the iron, the bronze, the clay, the silver, and the gold. A great God has made known to the king what shall be after this. The dream is certain, its interpretation is sure. So you what you have in that this image is Sequential kingdoms on earth, terrifying kingdoms, wicked satanic kingdoms sprawling in terror upon the earth, one after the other after the other, and then God is going to establish his kingdom, and the picture in the vision is of a stone that strikes the base, that Roman Empire, and utterly dismantles the satanic kingdoms that have been taking turns throughout history. The kingdom of God. Before we go back to uh before we go to the next point, let me skim through here, see if there's any other Verses that I want to read here. It's a long section. And there's some good things in here that if we look closely we see about the kingdom Okay. We'll hold it there. But you see uh if you go back and read this narrative, you see that God is sovereign. over these things that are happening on earth. And even though we don't we can't see into his secret wisdom and providence and why he's doing all the exact things that he's doing, we know that he's working. We know that God is sovereign. We know that he's working out all things for the good of those who love him. That have been called according to his purpose. Because he's working out all things according to his purpose. So of course it's work it's simultaneously going to be for the good of those who love him who've been called according to his purpose. And so the kingdom of God strikes the base of the kingdoms of the world, dismantles them, shatters them, and then that kingdom of God spread, spread, spread, spread, spreads. So the coming of the kingdom, first of all it was prophesied in the Old Testament. We looked at just one passage, two verses in one passage. But it is prophesied, and we need to understand that, although we're not doing a full study of that tonight. Secondly, the kingdom of God, God's arrival, was prophesied and prepared by John the Baptist. Okay, this is how the New Testament begins essentially, um essentially, with historically John the Baptist starts with the birth narratives and all that, but you understand what I'm saying, in a general sense. John the Baptist was the prophet sent to prophesy and prepare the way for the arrival of this stone that was hewn out of a mountain, but not with human hand. Matthew three, one through three. In those days John the Baptist came preaching in the wilderness of Judea. Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand, or the kingdom of heaven is near. It's arriving. It's at the doorstep. For this is he who was spoken of by the prophet Isaiah when he said The voice of one crying in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord, make his paths straight. Two things there. The kingdom is here The Lord is here. The Lord is on the scene. Prepare the way of the Lord, because the Lord has come to set up his kingdom. And who is that Lord? Jesus. Number three, the kingdom's arrival was also preached and further explained by Jesus. It was Prophesied and prepared by John and preached and further explained by Jesus. Mark 1, 14 and 15. Now after John was arrested, Jesus came into Galilee. Preaching the gospel of God and saying, the time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe in the gospel. Preaching of the gospel and preaching of the kingdom go together. Because the gospel is what grants us access into the kingdom. The power of the gospel is what brings us into the kingdom. That's why we must preach and teach and share the gospel of Jesus Christ. It is what saves lost people. And by the way, it is not only for lost people. It is what sanctifies saved people. It strengthens saved people. It encourages saved people. It shows us God so that we m we might worship him and love him and know him. The gospel of Jesus Christ. Acts 1 3, this is after the resurrection now. Still talking about Jesus preaching and further explaining the kingdom. Acts 1 3, he presented himself alive to them after his suffering. By many proofs, by many convincing proofs, appearing to them during 40 days and speaking about the kingdom of God. Jesus taught about how to interpret Scripture after his resurrection, and he taught about the kingdom of God after his resurrection. Preparing the apostles. For gospel ministry, and preparing the apostles that they might prepare others to be pastors, to prepare others for gospel ministry. So those pastors could pastor churches and prepare others for gospel ministry. And as you said, Vince, the kingdom impact spreads and spreads through people in the church. Number four, Jesus proved the arrival of God's kingdom by casting out demons By the Spirit of God. Jesus proved Luke 11, 20. Turn to that one. Jesus proved the arrival of God's kingdom by casting out demons by the Spirit of God. Luke eleven twenty. Jesus was working mighty works and claiming astounding things about himself. With all the authority and all the conviction of God Almighty Himself in the flesh, he was casting out demons. He was accused of casting out demons by the Prince of Demons. He was accused of working by the power of Satan. Go back to verse 19, just for context. If I cast out demons by Beezelbub By whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore they will be your judges. So he's dismantling their logic. Then he gives the positive explanation. But if , conditional statement, right? If it is by the finger of God that I cast out demons, then the kingdom of God has come upon you. What's the logic? If he's casting out demons, if he has authority and power over Satan's demons. What's the conclusion? The kingdom of God is upon you. The kingdom of God is upon you. He's more powerful than Satan's demons Satan does not have the authority to possess these people anymore. Then he gives an illustration. When a strong man, verse 21, fully armed, guards his own place His goods are safe. That's an illustration of Satan before the first coming of Christ. A strong man, fully armed, guarding his own palace, and his goods are safe. But when when one stronger than he attacks him and overcomes him, he takes away his armor in which he trusted and divides his spoil. Whoever is not with me is against me, and whoever does not gather with me scatters. You're either working for the kingdom. Or you're working against the kingdom. But he has come in scoring a victory over the evil one. And he is plundering His house. The kingdom of God is prophesied The arrival of the kingdom of God was prophesied and prepared by John. It was preached and further explained by Jesus. It was proved By Jesus and his ministry, his spirit-filled ministry. He is plundering Satan's house. Number five, the kingdom of God. Now we get to uh Well I've tried to make these sequential so we can get a historical picture of just how God has worked this out in history uh from a from a bird's eye view. The kingdom of God came first to Israel in fulfillment of God's covenant promises. This is important. If we don't see this point We'll think of the kingdom of God in isolation from all that God had been doing and working out his plan progressively through time. The kingdom of God came first to Israel in the fulfillment of God's covenant promises. Matthew 10, 5, and 6. These twelve Jesus sent out and instructed them, go nowhere among the Gentiles, and enter no town of the Samaritans, but go rather to the lost Sheep of the house of Israel. The good news of the kingdom was to go to Israel first. Romans 1 16. I'm not ashamed of the gospel, Paul writes, for it's the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes. They could have just ended it there. That would have been a perfectly fine statement to make theologically and practically. But for some of the issues that were going on in the church at Rome He adds this comment. I'm not ashamed of the gospel, for it's the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. This is the order of the coming of God's kingdom. First to the Jew, then to the Gentile. Number six. I will give you time for questions after I get through number six. Unbelieving and rebellious Israel, however, unbelieving and rebellious Israel Were cut off from the kingdom, and rather came under the fierce wrath of God for rejecting and for hating. And for killing God 's Messiah. Matthew 21, 42 and 43. Jesus said to them, Have you never read in the scriptures? The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. What's the problem there? Is the problem the stone? No, the problem is the rejecters. And this was the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes And therefore I tell you, the kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to a people producing fruit. Which would be believing Israel first, true Israel, with circumcised heart, with the faith of Abraham, and then Believing Gentiles. So the kingdom comes first to Jew, or first to Jew and then to Gentile, or first to Israel, in the fulfillment of God's promises. Unbelieving and rebellious Israel though is not just ignored as if they don't exist. There's a fierce judgment that's pronounced against them. It culminates in the destruction of Jerusalem. I said I'll probably do a another a a cla at least a class on that or at least a section of a class. Because it is important because the pro the promised kingdom, the promised salvation of God always includes both redemption for God's people and the destruction and judgment upon God's enemies. Both of those things are what's prophesied. And both of those things are fulfilled in Christ And now the final judgment, the final vindication isn't till the end, but for unbelieving Israel, it's pronounced Jesus pronounces it, he prophesies it and teaches about it in his ministry, it comes to fruition. what he prophesied in A. D. 70. Turn, we're going to look at two passages and then we'll open it up for questions or concerns from you. Turn to Matthew 23. Now gird your loins to what you were about to read. This is not the weak aloof Jesus of pop culture. This is the Jesus of Scripture who is God, who is holy, who is the judge over all things, who hates sin, and who brings judgment against sin. He's Savior and He's merciful and He's gracious and He's God and He's holy and He's just. Okay, uh what did I say? Matthew 23, 34. Matthew 23, 34. Matthew twenty three is an unleashing of Rebuke and fierce judgment against the scribes and Pharisees. We're just picking it up. Matthew 23 , 34 to 36. Therefore, I send you prophets and wise men and scribes. Well, they don't read don't look ahead. Don't look ahead. We love that, right? Yes, yes, that's what we want. We want prophets. Send us prophets to tell us the truth. Send us wise men to guide us. Send us scribes to teach us. Some of whom you will kill and crucify. Some of you will flog in your synagogues. And persecute from town to town. And read the book of Acts. This is exactly what happened. Verse 35. So that upon you may come. This is terrifying. Upon you may come all the righteous blood shed on earth, from the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zechariah, son of Barekiah. Whom you murdered between the sanctuary and the altar, truly I say to you, all these things will come upon this generation, the righteous judgment of God For all of this blood will come upon this generation. Well, they committed the climactic sin against God's climactic Messenger, the Son of God. And turn to 27, Matthew 27, 24. After that's the Olivet Discourse. In um chapter 24 and chapter 25 is the final judgment, the separation of the sheep from the goats, so it so it progresses there. As you get to twenty-seven, Jesus nails at his trial twenty-seven twenty -four. So when Pilate saw that he was gaining nothing Uh and what that means, uh you just skim up above above that paragraph break. These these people were so bloodthirsty, filled with hate, he could not reason with them. He could gain nothing with them Do you do you ever look at people in uh the political discourse or things that are going on in the world and just think, completely irrational. They can't even hear the words that are coming out of my mouth. I can't there's no communicating. He's gaining nothing, but rather that a riot was beginning. He took water and washed his hands before the crowd, saying, I am innocent of this man's blood. See to it yourselves. Verse 25, and the people answered: This is one of the most chilling statements in all of God's holy scripture. His blood be on us and our children. And it was. And it was. Then he really then he released them Barabbas. He released unto them Barabbas. And having scourged Jesus, delivered him to be crucified. Well, they said that about Jesus Christ, who did no wrong, who only did good things to help people, and only taught true things. to guide people and to free people from the grip of Satan. Here you have satanic influence working through The political powers, but also in league with unbelieving Israel. Unbelieving Israel. So the kingdom was taken from them, and they came under judgment for their rebellion and sin. I have two more points I've got to get through, but uh any pressing questions or concerns? All right. We'll move on. Number 7. The kingdom of God came second to the Gentiles, all nations of men, who were and who are made co-heirs of the very same covenant promises. We are made co-heirs. of the very same covenant promises that believing Israel received and believed and benefited from Don't think of the church as replacing Israel. Think of Israel receiving the blessing of God fulfilling his promises that he made, and Gentiles are now brought into the picture grafted into the picture. Doesn't it does not begin a new storyline. It's just part of the culmination of The storyline. The kingdom of God came second to Gentiles, all nations of men who were and are made co-heirs of the covenant promises. Ephesians 2 12 and 13. We can we can go there. There's two of them, two passages in Ephesians I want to look at. One in Galatians, a couple in Romans. I think we can do it. What do you think? Yeah, that's right. All I need is one vote to keep going. Ephesians 2, 12 and 13, remember, speaking to Gentiles, you were at that time separated from Christ. Alienated from the Commonwealth of Israel, strangers to the covenants of promise Having no hope and without God in the world. But now in Christ, you who were once far have been brought near by the blood of Christ. And that is synonymous with partaking of the covenants of promise. They're no longer strangers to the covenants of promise. They're partakers of the fulfillment of those promises. They're no longer alienated from the commonwealth of Israel, in quotations, believing Israel, spiritual Israel, but they have been brought in, they've been brought near by the blood of Christ. Flip the page, that was Ephesians 2, 12, flip the page to Ephesians 3, 4 and 6. And please Be a Berean and go back and expand the context and look at the greater context of all of these. I told you this is a survey study tonight. Ephesians 3, beginning in verse 4. When you read this, you can perceive my insight into the mystery of Christ. Mystery of Christ. That doesn't mean it's something cryptic for him that he has to decode or you have to decode. decode. All that means is something that we didn't know, but then God revealed it and now we know it. Very similar to how Daniel knew the interpretation. So Nebuchadnezzar's stream. He didn't know it, then God revealed it to him, now he knows it. The mystery of Christ Christ, which was not made known to the sons of men in other generations, as it has now been revealed to his holy apostles and prophets By the Spirit. This mystery, this gospel mystery, the mystery of Christ, is that Gentiles are, here it is, ready? Fellow heirs. Fellow heirs, members of the same body, same body I almost want to run down the hallway, get a box of highlighters, toss highlighters out to everyone as they bleed, highlight fellow heirs and same body, and highlight this, partakers of the promise, the promise. in Christ Jesus through the gospel. It's not another set of promises. It's not a different fulfillment. It's one set of promises given to God's covenant people throughout the ages, gradually progressing and advancing throughout history. Fulfilled in Christ, experienced by faith to Jew first, and experienced by faith to Gentile second. Fellow heirs, same body, partakers of the same promise. Galatians 6, 15 and 16. And this is why Paul can say, neither circumcision counts for anything, nor uncircumcision. But a new creation. What does that mean? Are you a new creation in Christ? That's what matters. And as for all who walk by this rule, um what rule? That you must be a new creation in Christ. As for all who walk by this rule, peace and mercy be upon them, upon the Israel of God. Upon the Israel of God. Who's the Israel of God? All those who are a new creation in Christ All those who are a new creation in Christ. Israel under the old covenant was a typological kingdom. It was a you've heard before that the sacrifices were types and shadows. That the priesthood was a type and was a shadow of what was the coming Christ. The tabernacle was a type and a shadow of what was the common Christ. Israel as a nation is a type and shadow of the Final kingdom in Christ. And that's why he would Paul calls believers the Israel of God. Let's go to Romans 2 in Romans. 2 in Romans. I promise to be brief. Romans eleven seventeen. Romans eleven seventeen But if some of the branches were broken off That is talking about the unbelieving Israel I mentioned earlier. Some of the believers broken off. And you Believing Gentiles, you believing Gentiles, although a wild olive shoot were grafted in among the others, and now share in the nourishing root. same nourishing roots symbolizing uh my interpretation of this and uh this is the common one and I b believe the right one uh other whether otherwise I wouldn't hold it would be the uh the covenant promises of God. But Gentiles are grafted in, now share in the same nourishing root of the olive tree. Do not be arrogant toward the other branches. So just another illustration of Gentiles grafted in. Flip a couple pages, I think maybe two or three pages. Romans 15, 8. Romans 15. 8. I tell you that Christ became a servant to the circumcised to show God's truthfulness in order to confirm the promises given to the patriarchs. And and in order that the Gentiles might glorify God for his mercy, as it is written. And then he gives Old Testament pro uh Cross-references and proof texts that prophesy the Gentiles would be brought in and they would be made partakers of the promises of salvation. So, one people of God made up of believers, the children of Abraham, new creations in Christ. Number eight and finally, the kingdom of God has a purpose on earth to make disciples of all nations. Great commission To make disciples of all nations. Psalm 2. 8, ask of me, and I will make the nations your heritage, and the ends of the earth your possession. All he has to do is ask, and the Father will give it to him. Let's pray. Father, we thank you. Thank you for Christ. Thank you for the Holy Spirit. Thank you for your kingdom. We are thankful. Just to be in it. And the fact that you've given us ministries and relationships and all kinds of good things that we do not deserve. You are to be praised. You are to be served. You are to be glorified. Father, we give ourselves to you. Consecrate us for your purposes on this planet. This very, very short time we have here. We ask that you would use us. For your kingdom, for your glory. It's in Christ we pray. Amen.