Let's take our Bibles and turn to Acts chapter 15 verse 3. As you're turning there, let me just uh say what a blessing it is to have the privilege of serving at a church and preaching at a church will where you come wanting the word of God. And every week I look out and see you attentive. And desiring the word of God. I do not take that for granted. That is a huge blessing. It is a huge grace of God to us and to me. And I just want to say thank you to you, church, for your heart and hunger for God's word. It's good that you're not coming for interesting stories, because I'm not a good storyteller. It's good that you're not coming for jokes because I'm not funny. Goofy, yes, but not funny. But you come for the word of God, and I thank you for that. Our sermon today is on two passages. Well, a verse, Acts fifteen three, and then a passage. Acts twenty-six, fifteen through twenty. I'm calling this message the glory of conversion. Whenever we say glory, we're just talking about the way God manifests something about himself. As God shines forth his power, that's part of his glory. As God shines forth and manifests his grace, that's part of his glory. When we say glory, something about how God has manifested something about himself to produce within our hearts a love and a worship unto him. So the glory of conversion is God manifesting his grace and God manifesting his power through the miracle of conversion. When a sinner is saved by the grace of God, that is the glory of conversion. That's our topic this morning. The glory of conversion. Let's pray together. Father, it is not lost on me, and hopefully it's not lost on us that in the preaching event You use a weak and helpless sinner to be an instrument of your word. What an amazing thing. What an incredible thing. That you have revealed your word to us. And our prayer is that very thing, that you would reveal your word to us. By your spirit and according to your truth, that you would reach our hearts. Father, create within our hearts an affection For Jesus Christ. If that's already present within us, I pray that you would deepen and strengthen that affection toward Jesus Christ. I pray that you would produce faith. In the heart, faith in Christ as the only hope for salvation. And where that faith is already present, we pray that you would strengthen it. For the battle ahead. Father, let it all be for your name and for your glory. It's in Christ we pray. Amen. Very brief review. Talk about the same thing we talked about at the opening of last week's sermon. There's two spiritual events that need to happen in the sinner's heart in order to come to know God. First of all, conviction. And that's what was the sermon last week. Conviction. Coming to agree with God's verdict of guilt over us, that is spiritual conviction. And when we come under conviction, we see our sin and we see that we need a savior. Conviction. But then the second spiritual event that needs to happen for a sinner to come to know God is conversion. Now once we're Convicted that we're sinners, once we're convicted that we need a savior, and then we hear the gospel, and in hearing the gospel with faith, We're saved. That's conversion. That's conversion. Conversion is changing one thing into another thing. The changing of a lost sinner into a saved sinner. This is conversion. Let's look at Acts fifteen verse three. So, being sent out on their way by the church. They passed through both Phoenicia and Samaria, describing in detail the conversion of the Gentiles, brought great joy to all the brothers. Paul recounting the conversion of the Gentiles, the saving of the Gentiles as a result of his gospel ministry. And that really goes from Acts 10 , beginning with Peter preaching to Gentiles, and the conversion of the Gentiles there at Cornelius' house. And then it goes all the way through Paul's first missionary journey, which goes through 14. This verse here in 15. 3, Paul's recounting and he's looking back. on the conversion of the Gentiles. Now keep a marker on that chapter and flip forward a little bit to chapter twenty-six, verse fifteen, and let's read this passage. Of twenty six, fifteen through twenty. Acts twenty-six beginning in verse 15. And I said, Who are you, Lord? Oh, by the way, this is Paul. Recounting his conversion experience and some things about his ministry, his call to be an apostle And I said, Who are you, Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting. But rise and stand upon your feet. For I have appeared to you for this purpose, to appoint you as a servant and witness to the things in which you have seen me and to those in which I will appear to you. Delivering you from your people and from the Gentiles to whom I am sending you to open their eyes, so that they may turn from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan to God. that they may receive forgiveness of sins, and a place among those who are sanctified by faith in me. Therefore, O King Agrippa, I was not disobedient to the heavenly vision, but declared first to those in Damascus, then in Jerusalem, and throughout all the region of Judea, and also to the Gentiles, that they should repent and turn to God, performing deeds in keeping with their repentance. Now, in just a second we're going back to chapter fifteen. But first, while we're in Acts 26, I want to highlight the critical phrases for the doctrine of conversion. First The first half of verse 18 to open their eyes, which would be conviction, to open their eyes So that they may turn from darkness to light and from the power of Satan to God. That's conversion. Turning from darkness to light, turning from the power of Satan to God. That's the miracle of Christian conversion. And then also the last part of verse 20. That they should repent and turn to God, performing deeds in keeping with their repentance. Conversion. The conversion of the Gentiles. Turning from darkness to light, turning from the power of Satan to God, repenting, and then performing deeds in keeping with their repentance. It's the miracle of God coming into our lives and turning us from service to evil and Satan to service to God and that which is good. We would never have done that on our own. And we could never do that on our own strength. But this is the glory of conversion. Now we can go back to Acts fifteen, verse three. And I really have this one passage in chapter fifteen, or this one verse in chapter fifteen, and then a passage in chapter twenty-six. Instead of doing one big sermon on one passage this morning, we're doing two half sermons from these uh these different passages So as we're going to talk first about chapter 15, verse 3, just want to talk about the meaning and the overwhelming importance of conversion. Conversion is essential for a Christian living. It's essential to understand biblical Christianity The meaning of conversion is God changing the sinner's heart to trust Love and obey Jesus. That's conversion. When God changes the sinner's heart to trust, to love, and to obey Jesus. The word conversion, which the literally the Greek word used here is to to turn back to something, to turn away from something or to turn back to something. Means to change one thing to another thing. A catalytic converter, those who know, is inside a It sends out a car and it changes toxic fumes into a safer exhaust. A convertible is a car that can change from having a top to a car that does not have a top. A conversion van is a van that's been changed from a cargo van into a passenger van or has been changed from a cargo van into a camper. This is what conversion is. It's the changing of one thing into another thing. And Christian conversion, the miracle of conversion Is God changing a sinner who does not love, trust, and obey Jesus into still a sinner, but one who's been saved, one who does love, trust, and obey Jesus. The overwhelming importance of this doctrine. Give you a couple of cross-references on this From the King James Bible, the word converted and conversion was more frequently used in that translation The modern translations will more frequently use the word turn or turned to for this word. Matthew 18, 3, Jesus says, Except ye be converted and become as little children, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven. You must be converted from an independent and defiant sinner to a dependent and compliant sinner who's trusting in Christ for the gift of forgiveness Acts 3. 19, Repent ye therefore, and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out. Be converted. Turn from sin. Turn to Christ. Turn from Lordship over your own life, or supposed lordship over your own life, and submit to the lordship of Christ. Be ye converted. Conviction is when we see our sin and see our need for a Savior. Conversion is when we see the Savior by faith and are forgiven of all of our sins. Known sins, unknown sins, past sins, future sins, intentional sins, unintentional sins, sins of the mind, sins of the mouth, sins of the heart, sins of the hands All of our sins forgiven when we turn to Christ in faith. That's conversion. Conviction is when we're grieved. Over our sin against God and grieved over our guilt before God and grieved over slavery to sin. That's conviction. Conversion is when we're comforted. When we're comforted by the blood of Christ that forgives us. When we're comforted. by the cross of Christ and the freedom that it brings, the comfort that we find in Christ. Take shelter under the care of his wings this morning if you've not already Come to Christ as your refuge and salvation from all of your sins. John 8, 34. Jesus answered them, Truly, truly, I say to you. Everyone who practices sin and is is a slave to sin, and then down in verse 36, so if the Son sets you free, you will be free indeed. Are you free? Have you found freedom in Christ? Freedom from slavery to sin, freedom from fear of death, freedom from the law, freedom from a works mindset where you have to earn your way to God, but rather resting and trusting. And finding peace and salvation by grace through faith. The Son sets sinners free, and they are free indeed. Conversion is God changing enemies into his friends. Conversion is God changing mockers into joyful worshipers Conversion is God, changing proud lords of their own lives into humble servants of their Heavenly Father. Conversion Have you been converted? Have you been convicted of your sin? And have you been converted? To embrace Christ as your Savior, you can do it today. You can do it right now. It's something that's invisible. It's something that happens in the heart. It's not something you need to go and do a prerequisite work for first. What's a pre-member a prerequisite course? What's what were your prerequisites in school? There are courses you had to take first. There are things you had to do first, and then you can take this other course. Well there's no prerequisites for receiving Jesus as your Savior. Terms of works. That's the meaning of conversion when God Changes. This is you understand this is a supernatural event when God changes the sinner's heart. To trust in Jesus, to love Jesus, and to serve Jesus and obey him. Now let's talk about the overwhelming importance. The importance of this doctrine is seen in the rich, rich variety of how it's taught and applied throughout Scripture. And I've given you a sampling on your outline from the Old and New Testament. First of all, it's talked about symbolically as the circumcision of the heart. Deuteronomy 30, verse 6, and the Lord your God will circumcise your heart. And the heart of your offspring, so that you will love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul, that you may live First of all, you notice it's something that God has to do. The Lord your God will circumcise your heart. And second of all, you see the result of this. It's a love for God. So that you will love the Lord your God with all of your heart and with all of your soul. First comes the conversion and then comes the love for God. Ezekiel 36, 26 and 27. I will give you a new heart, and a new spirit I will put within you, and I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh, and give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules. Again, only God can do this. We do not put inside of ourselves a new heart. We do not put with inside ourselves the Holy Spirit. God gives us a new heart. God gives us the Holy Spirit. And then what's the result of this new spirit-filled heart? I will cause you to walk in my statute. Obedience. First comes the conversion, then comes the love. First comes the conversion, then comes the obedience. Salvation can never be and is never. based on our love for God or our obedience to God. Love for God, obedience to God is a result of salvation, not the grounds of salvation. That is So important. This is core Christianity. Moving into the New Testament. Jesus also speaks of this doctrine. The circumcision of the heart as a symbol, Deuteronomy, the giving of a spirit-filled heart in the prophecy of Ezekiel. John 3, 3, Jesus answered him, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Another metaphor is birth. Spiritual birth. It also could be translated, not born again, but born from above. Which would both be true. Because where does the new birth come from? It comes from Jesus who is above The circumcised heart, the new spirit-filled heart, being born again. Move to Titus 3. 5. He saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness. Boy, circle that. Whatever whatever the reasons for God saving us, and by the way, we know the reasons for God saving us, his eternal purpose of grace and his love for us. But from this verse we know it can't be by works done by us. He saved us not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit. Regeneration is another way to talk about this doctrine. But it's a rich variety, consistently through Scripture, the importance and the application of this doctrine of conversion The regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit that happens on the inside. by the Holy Spirit. Are you awake with me this morning, church? You can do the external things and not be born again. I can verbally sing songs and not be born again. You can sign up for ministries at church and go through the motions outwardly and not be born again without Biblical conversion wrought by the Holy Spirit, it all means nothing. It all means nothing. And I'm not speaking in hyperbole here. It's actually sinful and we're just heaping up sin upon sin unless we're converted and born again by the Holy Spirit. True Christianity is not a work of man It's not religion and works and goodness that we muster together so that God would love us. True Christianity, all of it, is born of the Holy Spirit. And it's the result of God's grace. God 's grace and conversion comes first, and then the trust and the love and the obedience follows. Second Corinthians five seventeen Tell me if this illustration is vivid enough for us. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. Some of your Bibles say new creature. If there's a test, we'll accept either one. New creation, new creature. And he says, the old has passed away, behold, the new has come. I said this so many times. Hopefully, this is taking root in the heart. When we're born again and when we're saved, we still have sin in our hearts. Am I lying? We still have sinful things that we say. We're still plagued by sin. So what could it mean that we're a new creation or a new creature and that the old has passed away? If sin is still here, how can you say the old has passed away and the new has come? The you, who was a slave to sin , has passed away. The me who was completely blinded by sin and enslaved to sin has died You have a new relationship with God, completely new Before we came to Christ in faith, it's not like we were pretty well off. We just needed to cap it off with Jesus. We had nothing. Nothing true and good and lasting. No reason for hope without Christ But in Christ we're a new creation. Ephesians 2, 4 and 5. Another way to talk about conversion is being made alive with Christ. Made alive with Christ. So the idea of resurrection. But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which He loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved. Not tired and needs energy, not sick and needs to be healed, although in other places of scripture that is a metaphor that's used in a spiritual sense. But spiritually dead in trespasses, spiritually dead, and needs resurrection life. So you see the rich, rich variety. And the preaching and teaching and application of conversion, the circumcision of the heart, the giving of a spirit-filled heart, being born again or born from above. being regenerated and renewed by the Holy Spirit, becoming a new creation or becoming a new creature, being made alive together with Christ, and one more from Peter, from 1 Peter 1. 22 and 23. Peter talks about it as the purification of the soul. And he makes that parallel with being born again. Having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth. Which would have been their response to the gospel, their response of faith to the gospel. Having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth for a sincere brotherly love, love one another earnestly from a pure heart. Since you have been born again, not of perishable seed, but of imperishable, through the living and abiding word of God. Well, there's good application there for loving each other in the church, isn't there? Where he says Sincere brotherly love, love one another earnestly from a pure heart. I cannot love you earnestly from a pure heart unless God first gives me a pure heart. You cannot love each other earnestly from a pure heart unless God first gives us a pure heart. And what's that what that's talking about is the living and abiding presence of the Holy Spirit within our hearts. That's a pure heart. It doesn't mean you're sinless. It means the Holy Spirit lives within you. You're able to love each other, and I'm able to love you with a spirit-filled Earnest love from a pure heart. Now, I hope you understand. This is just a sampling. This is just a sampling. The whole Bible is about God's gracious redemption. And when we talk about conversion, well conviction and conversion, we're talking about how we get in on that plan. We're talking about God's redemption come to us personally. God's gracious salvation come to us personally A few quick points for personal application of meditation. Number one, biblical Christianity requires a changed life. Biblical Christianity requires a changed life. Does not mean we change our lives and then God forgives us. But biblically speaking, biblical Christianity, when God forgives us, God also always gives us a new heart, which leads to a changed life We're saying the changed life is the fruit of salvation, not the root of salvation or the grounds of salvate salvation. Harvest Requires a crop. If there's no crop, there'll be no harvest. If there's no salvation, there will not be a changed life. But if there is salvation, if there is a crop, there will be the fruit of a changed life Secondly, no matter what you believe, no matter what you do, or what I believe, or what I do If God has not changed our hearts, we still need the miracle of conversion in our lives The supernatural changing of the heart of a sinner is what we need. You won't have a fire that gives off heat unless you first have heat to create a fire. We must be born again first. And then the fruit of a changed life to the glory of God will shine forth. Number three, maybe asking yourself, what do I do if I was truly converted, but have since grown cold? And stagnant. Maybe a once bright flaming fire of love for Christ and hunger for his word and passionate obedience. Maybe that fire has been reduced to but a few embers. Well, the answer, in short, is to go to God in prayer and beg for mercy that He would fan the flame of love for Christ All true Christian obedience grows out of love for Jesus Christ. All of it God has saved us and He sent us a Savior who lived a righteous life, who died a sacrificial death in our place. He rose again to imperishable glory. He ascended on high, where he reigns at the right hand of the Father. And from there he gave us the Holy Spirit to justify us by faith and to sanctify us by his power. Do you think he's going to forget about you or leave you alone now? The answer to the problem of your fires become just a few embers is to go to Jesus Christ. Listen, the answer To get those embers flaming again is to do the same thing you did when you were first convicted of your sin in order to be saved. And what was that? You saw Christ In the gospel, and you trusted in him and you cried out to him, that's the solution. Brothers and sisters, friends and neighbors, that is always the solution. Look to Jesus Christ for mercy and help, and he will help you. Jesus does not turn away sinners who come to him humbled and desperate for help. I mean this is Bible 101. No, we do that to people. Jesus doesn't do that to people. The answer is Jesus and the answer will always be Jesus. He did die on the cross, but brethren, he's not a dead Savior. He is living and he is working and he is utterly accessible to sinners everywhere. You can access his grace and power this morning. Now you will not do that. Let's say you have the problem where your fires become just some embers. You'll never do that unless you're first convicted. Of that apathy, or convicted of that laziness, or convicted of a snare of sin, or a lifestyle of sin that you've been called. You must so it's the same paradigm For sanctification, as it is first for conversion, you must be convicted first, and then look to Christ in the faith. The meaning Of conversion when God changes the sinner's heart to trust and to love and to obey Jesus. Have you been converted? Be converted this morning. Forget what's behind and cling to Christ. Stop living for things of the world and live for Christ. Stop living for the approval and opinion of your friends, of your family, of your coworkers, of just culture in general. Live for the approval of God, which comes only through faith in Christ. Be converted this morning by trusting in Christ. And the overwhelming importance of this, the overwhelming importance of this. Doctrine of conversion. Well, let's flip forward in our Bibles. That is officially the end. of the Acts fifteen three. So if you stay in Acts fifteen three, you're going to be lost for the message for the rest of the message. Turn forward to Acts 26. verse fifteen. Acts twenty-six verse fifteen. And here we're talking about Still conversion just with more detail. And if you were to study the book of Acts, you would see this uh this issue Is brought up over and over and over again the nature of turning to Christ. What happens when you turn to Christ? The inward aspect of that, faith, repentance. the outward obedience that's connected to that, baptism, church membership, deeds in keeping with repentance. So in Acts 26, 15 through 20, we're going to talk about the means The marrow and the aftermath of conversion. The means of conversion is just what brings it about. The marrow of conversion is just getting to the core. What is this really about? And then the aftermath of conversion is What it results in. First of all, for the means of conversion, in Acts 26, we can we get a we get a clue to it in verses 15 through 17. When we talk about what God called Paul to do in the world. Here we go. Acts 26, verse 15. And I said, Who are you, Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus whom you are persecuting. Now let's just stop right there. Trivia question. Paul had been persecuting Jesus because Paul had been persecuting the what? Blank. Fill in the blank. The church. That's right. But rise and stand upon your feet. For I've appeared to you for this purpose, to appoint you as a servant and witness. Now you can underline that. God called Paul to be a servant and a witness. To the things in which you have seen me and to those in which I will appear to you, delivering you from your people and from the Gentiles to whom I am sending you. Now, this doesn't tell us everything about Paul's calling and why God is sending him, but we know from the witness of Scripture that God set Paul apart for gospel ministry. That's it. To be a herald of the gospel, to create faith, to create obedience, and to create worship in the world. The spirit-filled proclamation of the gospel is the means of conversion. Do this little exercise with me, if you will. Just humor me. Turn to Romans chapter 1. Paul was not confused about his calling, and therefore Paul was intensely And radically and consistently focused on gospel proclamation and the power of the Spirit. That is the means of the conversion, the primary means of conversion. Not that you're always converted while hearing the gospel or while reading the gospel, but that seed of the gospel must be planted in the heart and understood in the mind in some degree. for conversion to take place because the gospel is the means to of conversion. Romans 1. 1, Paul, a servant of Christ Jesus, called to be an apostle, set apart for the gospel of God. I love that verse. One short Bible verse, one short statement where Paul summarizes The reason that God plucked him up out of his own life and set him apart. He set him apart for the gospel, for the sake of the gospel, so sinners would hear the gospel and be saved by the power of the gospel. Now go down to verse 5, through whom we've received grace and apostleship to bring about the obedience of faith for the sake of his name in all the nations. How will you bring about the obedience of faith for the sake of his name in all the nations? Through the gospel. Gospel ministry creates The obedience of faith, which is the obedience that comes out of faith, the obedience of faith for the sake of his name, which means ultimately this is for the glory of God in Christ. For the fame of his name in all the nations. Now don't stop. We're just getting warmed up. Scan down further to verse 16. I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith unto faith, as it is written, the righteous shall live by faith. The gospel is the means of conversion. If we want to be a spiritually fruitful church, we must be a people just radically focused on gospel ministry. Not only spiritually fruitful in seeing conversions, but spiritually fruitful in seeing our the progress of our own sanctification, because the gospel is the means of sanctification as well. It all comes from the power of the gospel. Why is there power in the gospel? Well, because it's where we see the glory of God revealed in Jesus It's where we see the glory of God's grace, the glory of God's merciful salvation. And when we see the glory of God's grace in Jesus, Jesus transforms our hearts by his power. And that's always the pattern for spiritual change, for conversion, or for ongoing sanctification. That's the means of conversion. Never are we thinking up here, never should we be thinking up here, and never should you be thinking out there That people can become Christians just by us getting to like them more. Well both. Just uh us getting to like them more. We pander to what the world wants and pander to what people say. But tr we're not just trying to get people to like church. We're not just trying to get people to like us and to enjoy our worship service or to enjoy and have a good experience at our music or nothing like that. We're not just trying to get people to enjoy religion and like us. We want hearts to be changed. We want our own hearts to continue to be changed and reshaped. And therefore, the gospel must always be the center of everything that we're doing and everything that we're saying. Turn to First Corinthians. Just a few more verses to look at on the gospel as the means. Of conversion. First Corinthians two, one through five. Another place where Paul summarizes his ministry. In this section in 1 Corinthians 1 into 1 Corinthians 2, Paul's not only summarizing what his ministry is about, but he's also summaring summarizing why his ministry is about those things. So he's summarizing his gospel, the gospel that he preaches, but he's also summarizing his mindset that lies behind that. In First Corinthians two, verse one, and I, when I came to you brothers did not proclaiming to you did did not come rather did not come proclaiming to you the testimony of God with lofty speech or wisdom. That just means he's not trying to be a philosopher, he's not trying to be a good public speaker, charismatic personality. That's all he's saying there Verse 2, for I decided to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and Him crucified. That was always his central theme. That was always the center of his ministry, making known Jesus Christ and him crucified, to the extent that he says here, I decided to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and him crucified. If Paul didn't make sure that that was heralded, and if he didn't make sure that that was seen as What he's all about, he would have deemed his own ministry a failure. He's intensely focused on the gospel because he knows the gospel is the power of conversion and the power of sanctification. That's the means of true conversion, and brethren, that will always be the means of true conversion. I really love the phrase that Jason used in the sermon last Sunday evening that you can't reverse engineer Christian living You can't start with works. You don't start with the morality. You don't start with external religion and then hope that backward from there, God will change your heart. No, you must have a changed heart first. And that God through his grace and power will create all this other obedience and service. Secondly, the marrow. The marrow of conversion. The marrow of conversion is seen summarized in two places in this passage. First, it's summarized at the very beginning of verse 18. Look at 18. To open their eyes. So that they may turn from darkness to light and from the power of Satan to God. You could also just as easily say, so that they may be converted from darkness to light. And also converted from the power of Satan to God. But then also the end of verse 20 that they should repent And turn to God, performing deeds in keeping with their repentance. That they should repent and be converted to God, performing deeds in keeping with their repentance. Little side note on that clause, keeping deeds with their repentance, it's a reminder to the fact that repentance is primarily, first and foremost, inwardly. And whatever comes as a result of that repentance are deeds in keeping with that repentance. But repentance is first a turning of the mind, a changing of the heart. The marrow of conversion is a life no longer in bondage to Satan, but rather in bondage and joyful service. to Christ. This is the marrow. This is the core. This is the essence of this doctrine of conversion. It comes out so vividly and so powerfully in verse eighteen, well we don't want to think in these terms. naturally about ourselves that we once were of the darkness, that we once were under the power of Satan. But this is where conversion is. When God turns us, when God converts us from darkness to light And converts us from the power of Satan to God. Now, the lightning of conversion Will produce the thunder of love and obedience to God. So you see on your outline, if you have it, eight results Something for you to use to examine your hearts. What does conversion result in? When God converts Me from darkness to light. When God converts you from the power of Satan to God, what are the results? Number one, an abiding faith in Christ. That means a faith in Christ that remains. Being a Christian is not like being an employee in the kingdom of heaven. You got to keep working, keep punching that time clock, keep earning your future inheritance. You've come to Christ in faith. Your future inheritance is settled. You continue to walk in that faith. Continue to trust in Christ alone, not in works, not in performance. Abiding faith in Christ. Secondly, an abiding love for God. Now, our love for God, just like our faith in Christ, will not reach a measure of perfection in this life. But the one who's been converted has a true seed, at least, of love for God, a genuine love for God. And I know that love for God is often like the tide. The tide rises and the tide falls. Because we're so busy with so many things. And we're so distracted with so many things. Things out there in the world, desires, selfish desires and pride within us. I know it rises and falls, but God by his grace sustains his children. And we should have an abiding love for God. Third, we would have a growing hunger for obedience, a growing hunger to obey God and walk in his ways. Think of sunflowers. Follow the sun, because they're hungry for that sunlight. They need that photosynthesis to happen. As a sunflower is hungry for that sunlight, children of God should be hungry for obedience. Hungry to look to God and follow Jesus to produce obedience Fourth, you'd have a growing hunger for Scripture. You should have a growing hunger for Scripture It really is a danger if you fill yourself up too much on worldly things that you spoil your appetite. I remember growing up all the time, don't spoil your appetite, don't spoil your appetite, sneaking cookies, sneaking brownies. All kinds of things. Don't spoil your appetite. It's really true. You can fill yourself so you fill yourself up so much on worldly things and distractions. Not even Uh intrinsically sinful things, just just things that we spoil our appetite for what's most important. For true nourishment The Word of God. Are you hungry for the Word of God? Are you making an effort to read the Word of God? Study the Word of God? Come to the Bible studies, the Sunday school hour worth. Are you tuned in? Are are you are you proactively praying that God through His Word would change your mind and change your heart? A hunger for the Word of God. It's this thing about hunger. If you were to persist without food, to persist without clean water, the hunger is not static. That hunger increases. That hunger intensifies. Where's your hunger for the word? Number five, a deepening desperation for the power of the Holy Spirit. We should be desperate for the Holy Spirit. I mean you listen you listen to uh Numbers 1, 2, 3, and 4, abiding faith, abiding love Growing hunger for obedience, growing hunger for scripture. You you try to do any of that, you realize in about a second and a half that you can't do any of it on your own. We can't do any of this. unless the Holy Spirit enables. Number six, the deepening burden for the lost to know God A deepening burden for the lost to know God. We are not here just for ourselves. We're here primarily for the glory of God, for the name of Christ and all the earth, and that includes having a missions heart. A burden for the lost to know God. A burden means you feel the weight of eternity for those who don't feel that weight for themselves. That's what it means to have a burden for the lost. We know Everyone will stand in judgment. We know of the human soul. We know of the reality of eternity. We have a weight, a burden that we bear for others that they do not yet bear. For themselves. And this will drive us to pray and drive us to evangelize. Number seven, a narrowing passion for the kingdom of God. A narrowing passion for the kingdom of God. What's a narrowing passion? Well just think about a a child is so concerned with So many different things. This toy, that game, these friends, their chores, all kinds of different things. Well our goal and prayers for children as they grow older. to be saved, come to Christ, and now they have a new focus in life. But as we grow and as you grow, You realize all of the time and all of the effort and all of the energy spent on things that will not last And the impact that that should have is it should help us to zero in and zero in and narrow in and narrow in on what God is doing in the world. Not our collectibles. Not our ever-growing bank accounts or or um 401ks, not that these things are bad, but we're not living for these things. We have a narrowing focus on the kingdom of God and therefore number eight, a narrowing passion. for the local church. A narrowing passion for the local church. If I ever give you this question on a test, I expect you all to get it, okay? How has God organized And how does God advance his kingdom in this world? Local churches. It's God's wisdom, not mine, not ours collectively, it's not the result of church tradition. Large swaths of church tradition try to get away from this. God has organized his kingdom by gathering sinners into local churches, and then those local churches Which are just gathered sinners devote devoted to God. They give themselves to gospel ministry for the advance of the kingdom in the world. If we want to be about God's glory, we'll have a narrowing passion for the local church. You know, if you want to consistently earn more money, you give yourself to your job. If you want to have your marriage to improve, you give yourself more and more to your marriage and more and more to your spouse. You want to grow on your parenting You give yourself more and more over to parenting, trying to make the changes that you need to make. If you want to learn an instrument, you give yourself over to learning and practicing the instrument. If you want God to be known and loved and worshipped and served in this world for his kingdom to advance, you give yourself to the local church. For the glory of God. The means of conversion is the gospel. We it must be clear to people that we are about the gospel. The marrow of conversion Is a life no longer in bondage and service to Satan, but in glad service to Christ. And the aftermath, that's the next message. living under the grace and forgiveness of God and living as one who's being sanctified by the Holy Spirit. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your Holy Spirit. Thank you for your gospel. We pray for the conviction of all of us That you would show us where we need to repent, maybe for the first time, but maybe just in our ongoing growth, that you would soak those embers back to a flame of deepening affection for Christ. Father, we pray for all who are present that according to your perfect wisdom and plans, you would work in each one of our minds, in each one of our hearts, in each one of our lives for your name, for your glory. It's in Christ we pray. Amen.