The words we'll examine tonight come out of the letter from Paul to Philemon. The letter of Philemon. The gospel changes culture. This is our third sermon out of this short letter. It'll be our last one. Unless Jeremiah wants to do something again when that's up to him. But for me, this will be our last time in Philemon in this little series. We've seen how the gospel has changed. Different aspects of life and relationships and how we are to interact with one another. That's changed when we come to faith in Christ. And tonight we're going to look how the gospel changes the culture and how it changes the world around us. Maybe you don't have a a good definition of what the culture is, but simply put, the culture is the the world around us. All right. So it may be individually, you have a a little world around you. Within your family, you have a specific family culture, how you do things within your family. There's a church culture, how we conduct ourselves within the church. That's the culture that we have created. But mostly what I want to look at tonight is the culture outside of those elements, outside of our families and the church. What we we may refer to as the public square. The culture is that that area of life that's all around us that we're a part of, but it's outside of our family. In our church. And I believe that as Christians, we sometimes forget that the gospel has influence in the public square. Sometimes we forget that the gospel impacts and changes the culture. Sure, we believe in preaching the gospel to the lost, and we're fine with the idea of going into the public square and preaching the gospel. But we miss how the the culture is changed and as Axe tells us is actually turned upside down. With the advancement of the kingdom of God. My goal, not just tonight, but I think just in general, this is one of my goals as a Christian, as a pastor, is I want more and more Christians. To be optimistic. Alright? That's my goal. Vince, I think I've told you this a few times in some of our talks. I went optimistic Christianity. Christians, meaning hopeful, meaning Christians that can see the victory of Christ, can understand the advancement of Christ of the kingdom and believe that the gospel is powerful and is at work. I want optimistic Christians believing that the Preaching the gospel redeems and saves sinners, that the Holy Spirit works within their lives, brings them to faith in Christ, makes them new through the blood of Christ. When optimistic Christians that believe That as we pray, God hears and answers. I want optimistic Christians believing that as we send missionaries to the ends of the earth, that God will make and plant churches in those places. I want optimistic Christians. I want to take that even farther, and I want you guys to be so optimistic that you believe that if we live as Christians. If we function as a God-honoring church here in Jarretttsville, the culture of Jarretttsville can and will change. I want optimistic Christians. I don't want you just on like a fairyland, like, oh that's a great dream. You know, someday that's you know, in the in this fairyland that's a great the great possibility that will never happen because we're We live in the real world, Anthony. No, I want you to see that that's what Scripture has told us. And I want you to recognize that each and every one of you acts as an optimistic Christian. When you tithe, when you pray, when you greet and interact with missionaries, because you believe that God's work will be accomplished through them. As we read in this letter to Philemon, we'll see how the culture's changing within the society, around Paul, around Philemon. That the culture is changing around them, and the only way that can happen is through the gospel. And we'll take a quick glimpse at history. From the death and resurrection and ascension of Christ and at Pentecost up until today, and see how society has changed, not because of TikTok. Right, Jim, I know that was what you were thinking it was. Not because we've been enlightened, because we have more books, our technology is more advanced, but that culture has changed, actually, all those things happen because Of the advancement of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And I want us to leave here tonight going, praise be to God. How powerful the gospel of Christ is. Praise be to God that sinners like us have been saved. And praise be to God that more people will be saved by the preaching of the gospel and that the culture will change. Because of the preaching of the gospel. So let us look at Philemon. This will be our last time reading it. I'm sure you all have it memorized. We've perfected all the pronunciation of the names. I have not. But let us see how the culture is changing by the gospel. Philemon verse 1. Paul, a prisoner for Christ Jesus in Timothy. Our brother, two Philemon, our beloved fellow worker, and Athea, our sister, and a carpus, our fellow soldier, and the church in your house, grace to you and peace from God our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ. I thank my God always when I remember you in my prayers, because I hear of your love and of the faith that you have toward the Lord Jesus. And for all the saints. And I pray that the sharing of your faith may become effective for the full knowledge of every good thing. in us for the s excuse me, every good thing that is in us for the sake of Christ. For I have derived much joy and comfort from your love. My brother, because the hearts of the saints have been refreshed through you. Accordingly, though I am bold enough in Christ to command you to do what is required, yet for love's sake I prefer to appeal to you I, Paul, an old man, and now a prisoner also for Christ Jesus, I appeal to you, my child, of Nessimus whose father I became in my imprisonment. Formerly he was useless to you, but now he is indeed useful to you And to me. I am sending him back to you, sending my very heart. I would have been glad to keep him with me, in order that he might serve me on your behalf during my imprisonment for the gospel But I preferred to do nothing without your consent in order that your goodness might not be by compulsion. But if For this perhaps is why he was parted from you for a while, that you might have him back forever, no longer as a bond servant, but more than a bond servant. As a beloved brother, especially to me. But how much more to you, both in the flesh and in the Lord? So if you consider me your partner, receive him as you would receive me. If he has wronged you at all, or owes you anything, charge that to my account. I, Paul, write this with my own hand. I will repay it, to say nothing of your owing me even your own self. Yes, brother, I want some benefit from you in the Lord. Confident of your obedience, I write to you, knowing that you will do even more than I say. At the same time, prepare a guest room for me. I am hoping that through your prayers I will be graciously given to you. Paphris, my fellow prisoner in Christ Jesus, sends greetings to me to you. And so do Mark, Arcakis, Damas, and Luke, my fellow workers. The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with The gospel changes the culture. Just Before we dive into the gospel-changing aspect, just hear the optimistic language of Paul writing this letter. Remember, my goal is to make you an optimistic. To believe and have hope in the victory of Christ. And right there in verse 6, Paul's writing this letter. We've unpacked this verse many times already, but he says, and I pray that The sharing of your faith may become effective for the full knowledge of every good thing that is in us for the sake of Christ. Does that sound like a man that has hope in the sanctification? Of his friend, has hope in how the gospel 's working within his friend, has hope in how his friend's salvation in Christ is going to impact the people and the knowledge of others. Or does that sound like a man that's saying, ah, you're kind of hopeless? I know you, Philemon. I know all your problems. You know, we don't we don't know the depth of their relationship, but I think for some of us we we have these relationships where you're like, yeah, like I know my brother in in church is a Christian. But come on, you remember how he was when we were in high school? You remember what he did? You remember that foolish thing he said in one of our committee meetings 20 years ago? There's no hope for that guy. Right? That's the temptation is we we lack the hope that the gospel is going to change people. We lack the hope. We we don't trust that God's newness, the new life that He's brought into us, is actually new. And we think, well, no, you know, we're We're just gonna be the same old person, that guy that I've worshipped with for twenty years, it's gonna be the same goober that's not thinking through things and we We we we kind of lose the optimism of the gospel. Paul doesn't. Paul's writing in this optimistic sense of being encouraged. Look quickly with me in verse 21. He's given these instructions to his friend Philemon, very hard instructions. We're going to talk about some of the challenges there But look what he says in verse 21. Hear how optimistic Paul is. Confident of your obedience. Man, parents. if we could talk that way, right? You know, you tell your children go do something, and you go confident of your obedience, dinner's going to be wonderful tonight. Dishes are still dirty, room's still a mess. But confident of your obedience, the optimism Paul has here, he says, I write to you knowing that you will do even more Than I say. Paul recognizes that is he sharing the truth of God's word, the truth of the newness we have in Christ. That this little aspect, dealing with slaves, is going to impact more than just this one area of Philemon's life. And he knows that God is working within him that there's going to be a multitude of things That Philemon grows and is sanctified in. That's why he says, knowing that you will do even more than I say. Friends, may we have this type of optimism with one another. As Pastor Matt and I and Jeremiah we preach, we have this type of optimism for ourselves and for the church. We don't think, well, we've we're just going to stay Stay the same, we're never going to grow. No, we have optimism in the spirit at work within us that's growing. Likewise, if we believe that individuals Can be saved through the preaching of the gospel. Individuals can be sanctified through the work of the Spirit. Why then do we think that society and the culture can't be touched by the gospel? Right? We live in this day where when we read the newspaper, we're not very optimistic, are we? Right. Let's let's just be honest. I'm the most optimistic Christian in this room. My statement, I've set myself there. But even the most optimistic Christian sees the world around us and we go. I don't know. You're probably saying, Anthony, I get that you're optimistic in the advancement of the gospel. Yes and amen. Heaven's going to be glorious, but have you seen some of the wars that are happening around the world? Have you seen the struggle people have with drugs? Have you seen the un the tensions across this nation? And you're going, Anthony, there's This is that fairyland you live in with your optimism. But Paul's in a culture that's similar to ours, arguably actually worse in some aspects. Different aspects, but some aspects much worse. And he has the same optimism. And as he's writing this letter to his friend Philemon The Spirit has indwelled him, has given him the words to write, because God's plan was to change the culture on this one topic. Right, we see that in other letters in the New Testament. Right? We'll see in Ephesians and we're doing like two Two verses at a time. So in a year, we'll see in Ephesians when we get to how husbands and wives are to interact with one another. That's the gospel and God's truth starting to change. Relationships, starting to change marriages. And as marriages change, then the family changes. And as families change, then those kids grow up to have marriages that are changed by the gospel, to have more kids. Alright, this is what uh the technical Department of War term is this is a force multiplier. You know whose role is to force multiply in the military? Everyone knows this, it's the special force. 10th Special Forces, the best. Station Colorado, I had the privilege to be with them. That was our motto, the best, and we were a force multiplier. And our whole mission set was we would go into indigenous lands. And we would train their people to be the most elite fighting force to ever be in that land. That's the that's the one of the main roles of the special forces. Forces. But how much more are the special forces of God's army, the church, to do the same thing? To go into a land, to preach the gospel, to train and disciple the most elite Spiritual fighting force to ever touch that land. And that to replicate generation after generation And I believe that's the optimism we should have, and that optimism is coming out of this letter to Philemon. Now, one of the issues, well, the issue that Paul is addressing here is the issue of slavery. And what is one of the arguments that you may hear from the culture is that the Bible endorses slavery Has anyone ever heard that? That's a great argument. The atheists have it all figured out. As soon as we tell these young, ignorant Christians that are in college that the Bible endorses slavery, we'll turn them to the pages and they'll see C There it is, the Bible endorses slavery, their whole faith will be wrecked. It's a great argument that society has. And I'm here to tell you that they're not wrong. They're not wrong. But here's our issue. Our concept of slavery is all jacked up in our heads We have this 1800s American cattle slavery, which is a sin according to Ephesians 21:16. Manstealing is a sin. It's a crime against God. It's a crime within society. But that's what we have, the understanding of slavery in our minds. So then when the the atheist in the world throws this issue of slavery before us and says the Bible supports it, then we start doing gymnastics. Well no, no, no, no. That was in that time in that culture. We're in a different Time. Well instead of doing the gymnastics and saying, let's look at the text, let's look at scripture and see what scripture says, let us also see The optimistic work of the gospel that is changing the culture to include the culture of slavery. So let's let's just deal with the issue of slavery. That's why I don't have notes. You know, I don't have an outline for you guys. I couldn't just fathom up just a clear way to outline this. So It's a little hodgepodge, but in the end we'll see how the culture is changed by the gospel. But we've got to address slavery. Slavery is evident throughout all of Scripture. We can't say, well, that was just in the Old Testament. You don't have to turn there, but in your free time, take a look at Exodus 21. This is the law chapter on slavery, and it's not abolishing slavery. It's how do we do slavery? How are you righteous and honoring God in your conduct with slavery? And that that really can be the forefront. Young folks, sometimes I want to talk to you guys only because you're going to face this. in your life. I'm not looking at them because I know that's embarrassing to them. Young folks, right here, this young folks, someday when you guys get to college, you're gonna see and be faced with some of this. And that that's evident and we see it. Don't let this be this hammer that shatters your faith. So yeah, it's absolutely In Scripture. Exodus 21 radically changes the understanding of slavery in that context. For the first time, arguably, in society, there is a record of how slave masters are to treat slaves. Their slaves. First time in history. For we we we start to see that God's laying out righteous ways to do conduct within regards to slavery Treating them as humans. Not abusing them. Exodus 21 unpacks if you are if you beat your slave You are to pay them back or to release them. If you kill your slave, the slave's family is to be restored. We start to see, okay, well, this isn't that sledgehammer anymore. Just saying that the Bible endorses slavery isn't the sledgehammer that the world wants to say. As w as I mentioned and I've had some conversations uh about this topic, our minds get really muddied because of American chattel slavery. Chattel slavery is the selling uh just treating humans as though they're not humans, they're strictly property, the selling and trading of humans. That's what chattel slavery was. That's what the Americas experienced late 1700s, 1800s. Right. And we see this but this is a sin against God. Ephesians twenty one, sixteen says, Whoever steals a man and sells him, and anyone found in possession of him That's not a light crime. So we start is So we can start to see, all right, we have bad examples and sinful slavery, but we can't say all slavery of all time is sinful because we have a structure that God has given us in the Old Testament. Now, maybe you're thinking going, okay, well that was just for Israel. It was just in Israel's time, but now that Israel is gone, slavery is completely abolished, right? Well, we have examples, and Paul writes quite a bit about how to treat slaves and how slaves should interact with their slaves. So we can't use the argument that slavery is abolished with the new covenant But we do see the change happening in regards to slaves, slaves, masters in the church. In the proclamation of the gospel and in the salvation of sinners. When we s don't allow the world to say, Well, the the Bible endorses slavery, therefore the Bible must be wrong, we must say, Well, what are we talking about? Are we talking about chattel slavery of the eighteen hundreds? Yeah, I I can ride with you there and say, Yeah, that's a sin. But just to say slavery in general is wrong and is sinful can't be true. Actually, I have an argument that uh God honoring righteous slavery and God honoring righteous standards Would be better for society than some of the structures we have today. We are inflated with a welfare system of taking care of the poor and the needy. And part of that inflation happens because we can't sell ourselves into slavery. So if one person is poor and lacking in housing, a righteous God honoring slavery would be that that person Could sell themselves into a wealthy person's home and have care, have food, have housing provided for them, and work for them and do the services for them. But because we have a system that has completely abolished that, now we have to provide care for them in a different and unique way. unique way. We also see that slavery and the system of being in slavery for crimes is the God honoring way. God's law actually dictates and mandates that certain crimes and offenses, if not able to be paid for or paid back, that that person would then be enslaved to the person they offended And in our American minds, that sounds so perverse and so messed up. But that's what God's law dictated. And it creates an environment and a culture of restoration and restitution. In a modern-day law system, we don't have that. I commit a crime against you and I'm found guilty. What happens? Maybe I'm charged and paid back, and my failure to pay it back just makes that fine go up higher and higher and higher to the point then that I'm in prison. And you continue to pay for my living in prison. This isn't a God-honoring system that's being talked about. So instead of being scared of the language of slavery and fleeing from it, may we recognize what God had instituted, what is righteous in God's law, but now we're going to take a look at how God has changed. Is changing and changed the culture of slavery in Paul's time. We see this change happening, and we see that this is what Paul has been focused on. Look with me in verse 15 of Philemon. He says, for this perhaps is why he was parted from you for a while, that you might have him back forever. No longer as a bondservant, but more than a bondservant, as a beloved brother, especially to me, but how much more to you, both in the flesh and in the Lord Look at that in 16, no longer as a bondservant, but much more than a bondservant. Now notice Paul doesn't instruct Philemon to liberate Ones. Right? If if there was any point that in Scripture where God was making it very clear that any kind of slavery was sin and needed to be completely eradicated, this would have been the point that we We would have seen it. But that's not what happens. Because God 's work in the advancement of the kingdom works differently than a microwave. It's not this instant shock, everything's changed. We see that in the cross, but then we see the slow drip and the slow advancement of God's kingdom. We see the slow advancement of God's laws and righteousness in society. So if we look here, we start to see how the issue and the corrupted culture of slavery being changed is by Christians treating their slaves. In a Christian, God-honoring way. And even more, we see that Christians treating their Christian slaves in a brotherly way God is changing the culture of slavery in the time of Paul through this letter by changing the hearts of the men involved. How is it changed is that Paul takes Philemon and Onesimus and show that they are unified in Christ. They show that they're unified in Christ. Look with me in verse 8. It says, accordingly though I am bold enough in Christ to command you to do what is required, yet for love's sake I prefer to appeal to you. I, Paul, an old man and now a prisoner, also for Christ Jesus, I appeal to you for my child Onesimus, whose father I became in my imprisonment. So what Paul is saying is, Onesimus, he is now a child of God. I shared the gospel with him. I discipled him. He is a Christian. And now Paul is challenging Philemon and saying, How have you been commanded? In other letters, in other teachings of how you should treat your brothers and sisters in Christ. That starts to radically change that relationship instantly. It starts to shift. Well well now Philemon has to process, well he is my slave, he he's mine, he he he owes me to work in this environment. But he's also my brother in Christ. I'm going to love him. I'm going to treat him in a new and different way. Onesimus, likewise, is a new man in Christ. Uh his name, which Paul lays out there in verse eleven, is is kind of funny. His name means useful one or being of use, and he's caused some problems for Philemon. But now Paul says in verse eleven, formerly he was useless to you, but now he is indeed useful to you and to me. He's unifying. He's showing that their unity is in Christ. Beloved, can we see how the advancement of the gospel, how more and more people coming to faith in Christ and becoming Christians change Changes the culture around them. We start to treat one another differently. Barriers start to be broken. Hierarchies start to become flattened When we are unified in Christ. Classic verse, Galatians 3. 28. There is neither Jew nor Greek, neither slave nor free There's no male nor female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. Do you see how the institution and the culture of slavery radically changes in the life of Philemon? Now one of our problems is this is just one man's testimony. You know, this is just a letter between Paul and Philemon. Sure probably others read this letter. But we we don't like that. Like, well that's not really the culture, Anthony. You just addressed one man. There's just one household that has been changed. Well, we know that Philemon is an influential person. We know that Philemon is having a church gather in his home Do you start do you think do you think that maybe some of these teachings that he's received from Paul is going to trickle out of his conversations with the people within his church, within his home Maybe some of these high businessmen that he works with? Do you think that the world around him and the town that Philemon lives in will start to see how he's treating Onesimus? As a brother and not strictly as a slave, start to stir up some questions in society. Start to think that some of the market keepers and the people in the public square will start to say What's going on here? We thought the next time we'd see Philemon was he would have a black eye and and be punished for uh missing Mistreating. Excuse me, once next time we see Onesimus, he'd have a black eye and be punished for mistreating and going against Philemon. But here we see Philemon treating Him in a new and unique way. It's going to change the culture around there. We start to actually see that the destruction of the slave industry And the slave culture of Rome started changing right around 400 AD. There was already a a a phasing out of it. There was a there was really a a change in it from 200, really 150 up until 400. But 400 is one of the clearest examples in history that we can see that the culture of slavery radically changed In the entire country of Rome, arguably the known world of that time. Interestingly enough, around 404, 405 is also when the gladiator events started to dwindle and phase out. And guess what atheists, humanistic historians say was the reason for the destruction of the slave culture and industry in Rome as they understood It and the gladiator death games that were known. The church. Christianity. The church was advancing throughout the kingdom. The church was going forth. And as more and more people came to faith in Christ, they started saying, we got to change how we're doing This isn't how we treat human beings. We don't send them into games and then pay money to watch them die. We don't buy and sell them and and treat them as though they're just an oxen, but they're human. Even though they may work for us and be enslaved to us, we start to see that the industry is changed because of the advancement of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Now that's arguably 350 to 400 years after Paul writes this letter. It's a slow drip, friends. That's what we don't like about it. We want the microwave, we want the speed, we want it now. But it's the slow drip over time That changes the culture. It's how God has worked. We read in the Old Testament that as Israel enters into the promised land. Do they have all the day one? All right, they cross into the promised land, day one. Did Israel own and control and kick out all the enemies out of all the Promised Lands on day one? No. Because that's not how God works. He knows here it actually states in Scripture that the Israelites weren't prepared to take over the land and care for it. And the land would be neglected if God allowed, if God just banished all of them enemies out of there and Israel wasn't Wasn't prepared to take it over. Likewise, we see that here. We see the slow drip over time throughout generations of changes in society and culture. We see that has an effect on our culture today. Arguably, any church started before 1700 was established by the church Was established by Christians. The advancement of medicine and science was by the church by Christians Technology, the printing press, was for the advancement of the Word of God. Anyone know what the very first mass published book in the Americas was? It was the Bible in the English language. The Indian language, excuse me, the Indi Indian language. Because, why was this the advancement of the gospel? Right, I'm trying to make you guys optimistic, trying to show you that throughout history God has been at work and that his kingdom and his gospel has been advancing and growing. Do you know why the Americas exist as we understand them today? Is that group, the Mayflower, right? There's fifty Puritans on there. There at first, just a little side note, it was a hundred Puritans the first time they took voyage. Puritans don't know how to sail boats. They had to turn around and get 50 sailors to take 50. Puritans over to the Americas. But do you know what was in the Mayflower Pack? It was all about how they were establishing a land that they could worship God rightly. And they were coming to the Americas to proclaim the gospel of Jesus Christ to the Indians. Optimistic? Sure, we've had problems and we've had drama throughout history. But So we see the optimism and the hope of the gospel that changes hearts, changes people, changes the culture around them. So the question rightly is, how does culture change due to this? How does culture change due to the gospel? One sinner's heart coming to Christ at a A time. One sinner coming to faith in Jesus Christ at a time. The culture of slavery is being radically changed by one man's letter, Paul, to his friend Philemon. To address one slave that he has, one sinner coming to faith in Christ. We don't like this. This is the slow process. We want more Pentecost. We want the thousands and the multitudes coming to faith in Christ. But think about your own testimony and your own story. How is your family changed by the gospel? It is by one man coming to faith in Christ, one woman coming The faith in Christ, being married, having children, raising one child, two children, three, four, five. Is that where we're at? We're maxing at five right now at a time Right? It's one heart coming to faith in Christ. And we see this multiply over and over and over again. It's my favorite argument. my my go-to argument to make us optimistic in Christ. Alright? The day Jesus rose from the dead, there was arguably, I'm gonna give a high number. I don't believe it was this high. Arguably there was fifty people that believed he was the Son of God, that he had died for our sins and he had rose from the dead. Fifty people. Is there more than fifty people today? Yes, the answer is yes. The advancement of the gospel has changed hearts around the world. More and more people coming to Christ. So how does the culture change due to the gospel? It's one heart, it's one sinner coming to faith in Christ, becoming a saint, as Pastor Matt told us this morning. Those that are redeemed by the blood of Christ are considered saints. One sinner coming to faith in Christ at a time, establishing one church wherever they're at. It's by one sinner and one church. We don't need this uh this grand multitude that all right, right now all of us we gotta go plan a hundred churches each, and that's how the gospel is gonna be advanced. No, it's one person going and preaching the gospel. Can be a group. But it's it's the one message of the truth of Christ going to the lost, the lost coming to faith in Christ, and the church being established in that place. And then that church starts to impact and change the world around them, just like the individuals within that church is changing the world around them by living as Christians. It's not a cool answer. You know, I don't have a 10-step program of how we're going to change the culture. How are we going to end any any agenda that the culture has? How are we going to do it? It's by walking in faith in Christ. It's by preaching the gospel. It's by calling sinners to repent of their sin and turn to Christ. And believing that as Christians are living and functioning, as churches are being established, as we are living as Christians, the culture around us has to change. Change. It has to. It doesn't have the chance. As that one church is being established, they're seeking to rightly worship God. As that one church is being established and they are rightly worshiping God, they are seeking to proclaim the gospel to the lost in their town, county. State, whatever category it fits for that church. And as that happens, those people are multiplying physically. Having children, the children are growing up, hearing the truth of the gospel, coming to the faith in Christ, getting married, moving to other states, and this just keeps happening. Christians and how we see the advancement of the gospel should be like a mouse problem. Right? You think you have one mouse in a church building. Let me Just use this as an example. Theoretical. There's only one church mouse in here. Where are we up? 16, I think, was our catch. We're gonna start selling the hides. to make some money. Right? There's a multiple. Rabbits, we should be multiplying. But physically we're having children, raising them up in the church, proclaiming the gospel to them, raising them in the fear and the adoration of the Lord. But also in how we are multiplying in the community. And as the church has changed, let me just let me play this out. I'll end here. How we play this out. And I want you to be optimistic. And it may not be in your generation, in your lifetime. But it may be. Let us not lose hope. But that the gospel is changing culture so much that as we're preaching the gospel, as we have been praying for politicians and Sending them letters saying, We love you, and we're commanded in Scripture to pray for you, and we want the best for you, and the best is Christ Jesus. Synopsis of what that letter is. Just Just bring me some joy here and imagine this. The next one we'll be praying, or we prayed for Governor Moore. Governor Moore receives that letter and he sets it to the side and says, Those Christians are crazy. But a month later, a year later, when he's running for president that's we won't bet, but when he's running for president Something happens and he goes, wait a second. I remember these weird Christians sending me a letter and they signed their name saying they love me. What was that all about? Just dream with me that maybe he could come to faith in Christ. Just dream with me how that would change the culture and the political landscape. We've been beat down, church. We feel as though that's that's just a dream, Anthony. But that's not how Paul writes. That's not how Paul's thinking, even while he's imprisoned. Paul spends his days in jail preaching. And the jailers and the soldiers are hearing the gospel. And we know throughout history that that trickled into the culture, and then that got into the political system. And now all of culture has been changed throughout Europe, throughout England, throughout the Americas Why, yes, we have lots of land to still take. There's many dragons to still be defeated. We are little soldiers with hope and trust that the sword will yield is the same sword of victory that Christ yields. That we are washed in the blood of Christ and that He is the victor, and our hope rests in Him. That in the heavens all tribes, all nations, all tongues will be worshiping him. And in one day, all people will bow to him to include the wicked If we believe that is true, then let us act that way and live that way today and believe that the advancement in the preaching of the gospel of Jesus Christ will change the culture around us. Let's go before our Lord in prayer. Holy God, we look to you We have doubts. We have uncertainties. In times we lack hope and confidence in who you are and what you can do. So Lord, I ask that you strengthen us. Make us optimistic in your work. And what you are doing. Make us hopeful that the gospel works, that the Spirit is changing hearts, bringing people to faith. Let us believe that as more people have the Bible in their hands, that they will come to a knowledge of Christ. Let us believe that as we live as Christians in our schools, in our families, in our workplaces, in society, that more and more people will see The love of Christ. We'll see godly men and women living to honor the creator of the universe and all that they do. Strengthen us, Father. We ask all of this in the name of Christ. Amen.