Let's kick our Bibles and turn to Luke chapter 2. Again, Luke chapter 2, this week verse 13 through verse 21, picking up right where we left off. last week and this week we're looking at the idea of peace and since we're on the threshold of a new year putting that into the title the peace that we need in 2026 the peace that we need The peace that we need is a peace with God, a peace within our hearts, and peace with others. So that's an upward peace That's an inward peace, and then that's an outward peace. The peace we need is a peace with God. That's upward. And we also need peace within our own hearts. That's inward. And God also calls us to strive for peace with others. And that's outward. So that's where we are today. Luke 2, 13 to 21, the piece we need in 2026. Say it one more time so you can get this committed to memory before we even read the passage. Peace with God, peace within our own hearts, and peace with others. And um Let's go ahead and read the passage, and then we'll go deeper into this. Luke 2 , 13 to 21. Suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God and saying , Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace among those with whom He is pleased. When the angels went away from them into heaven, the shepherds said to one another, Let us go over to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened, which the Lord has made known to us. And they went with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the baby lying in a manger. And when they saw it, they made known the saying that had been told them concerning this child. And all who heard it wondered at what the shepherds told them. But Mary treasured up all these things, pondering them in her heart. And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all they had heard and seen, as it had been told them. And at the end of eight days, when he was circumcised, he was called Jesus, the name given by the angel, before he was conceived in the womb. It's pretty neat little book ends. This passage begins with angels breaking out of heaven. Rejoicing and praising God, and then it ends with shepherds on earth, lowly shepherds on earth, praising God glorifying God because of what God revealed, because of the substance of what God revealed, which we talked about last week, the gospel. The good news of great joy, Christ the Savior. I want to focus in on verse 14. I want to focus in on verse 14 this morning. Let's look at that again. These are the angels appearing from heaven, and they sing, Glory to God in the highest. And on earth peace among those with whom he is pleased. Now, some of your Bible translations will have a different phrase at the end of verse 14, and it will say, like we just sang in the song, peace on earth. and goodwill to men. Without getting into all the historical background and why that is, I want to focus on the key word of whatever translation you have. And that is peace. What's in view here is a peace that comes from God and is available to people on earth And that's a huge deal. So whether you have peace on earth, goodwill to men, or you have on earth peace among those with whom he is pleased, the issue is the same. The blessing is the same. And that is peace that comes from God. And beloved, that's what we all need. We all need a peace that comes from God. Let's talk a little bit about the basic definition of peace before we get into what you see on your outline. In the bulletin. To be at peace basically is to be at rest. It's to be in a state of calm. To be at rest or to be in a state of calm. The opposite of being bitter. The opposite of being in a state of despair and falling apart and panicking. To be in a state of peace is to be at rest or in a state of calm. And I wanted to emphasize As much as I can, just like I tried to do last week with joy, is that we're not talking about the surface. We're not talking about the superficial. We're talking about a deep An underlying spiritual reality in the heart. Because you can be sad, but still have peace. Deep underneath. You can be incredibly lonely, and you can feel abandoned, but still have peace underneath. You can be confused, I mean terribly confused about something in life for weeks on end But rather than sinking into despair on the inside, you can still have on the inside a peace Because you know that God is with you. And you know that no matter what happens in the situation, you'll still have Christ, and you'll still have forgiveness, and you still have the hope of heaven, you still have the Holy Spirit. When you read the Psalms, there's a lot of prayer. What else is there in the Psalms? There's a lot of praise, right? There's a lot of singing. You know what else you have in the Psalms? A lot of tears. And you have a lot of crying. But those are the tears, and that's the crying of people who believe in God who are leaning on God, who are calling upon God, who are desperate for God in times of brokenness. In times of desperation. And on the inside, no matter what's going on on the surface, on the inside, they have a peace. And no matter how sad they are, on the inside, they still have a joy because that inner spiritual reality still holds the day. Brothers and sisters, they still had God. And when you have God, you still, underneath everything else, you can still have a peace that gets you through. You can still have a joy that holds you up. And beloved, that's part of our witness in this world. In the cynical world of darkness and despair, here shines the light of Christians. Who shine forth the light of peace and joy in the midst of it all. We all know the difference between peaceful waters and stormy waters. We all know the difference between a smooth flight and a flight with lots of turbulence. We all know the difference between having a settled peace about a decision. But then sometimes we're just torn up inside and we don't know what to do we don't know what decision to make. We don't know what direction to go We all know the difference between an enjoyable, friendly conversation and an unhealthy, dysfunctional, bothersome argument. You have peace. To be at rest, to be in a state of calm, where you can lack that and be falling into despair. Falling onto a path, walking onto a path of bitterness. Choose the way of peace this morning. Choose the way of Christ this morning. God calls us to peace, but brothers and sisters, God gives us peace. And that's the only way we can answer the call. The thing that God requires of us, He also provides for us by His grace and power. Well, hopefully that's enough to get the wheels turning on just a basic idea of what peace is. And hopefully that's enough to get us grounded that we're not talking about the superficial, we're not talking about the service, but an underlying spiritual reality of the heart can have peace. because of its relationship with God. Well you'll see very simply on your outline three Roman numerals. And the first one is just talking about the passage. Alright, so let's just talk about the passage. I'll try to do this quickly without rushing. Remember the context of Luke 2. We've already had one angel appear. in verse ten, the angel said to them, the angel said to the shepherds in verse ten, Fear not, for behold, I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people, for unto unto you is born this day in the city of David. A Savior who is Christ the Lord. That's one angel appearing to the shepherds and delivering this gospel. But now in our passage, this morning, you have a host of angels appear and begin praising God. You can see this pattern. It's like proclamation of the gospel, and you have a response of glorifying God. That's sort of the way our worship works even today. We worship centered on the reality of the gospel. And we have the good news of salvation in Christ, and because of that we respond in singing God's praises. But this is the first thing you have in our passage is a host of angels glorifying God, or a host of angels. Praising God. Verses 13 to 14. Suddenly there was with the with the angel Okay, that's the angel from verse 10. Suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace. Peace among those with whom he is well pleased. Praising God, verse thirteen, you have a host, a chorus. A vast army of angels praising God. And then in verse 14, even within what they're saying, you see that this is praise. Because what are they saying? Glory to God. Praise God. It sort of reminds you of our purpose, doesn't it? To praise God and to glorify God in all that we are. In our hearts, our desires , to praise God and glorify God, not to chase after sin. In our words, the way we speak To praise God and glorify God the way we live. Host of angels praising God. I thought my voice could get through this, Dave, I told you, but now I'm not sure. Some of you might get your answer prayer of a shortened sermon But then you have the baby in a manger, verses 15 to 18. The baby in a manger. Verses 15 to 18, you can skim through that. It's an important part of Christian doctrine. It's an important part of What we teach and what we preach as a church is looking back to the baby in a manger and the whole birth narrative, which we focus on this season every year, because it reminds us of the incarnation. This is not Like any other baby. This is God in the flesh. This is the mediator. Truly God. Truly man. The Savior. The baby is a really big deal in this passage. So we look back at the incarnation, but currently we look up to the exalted Christ. He's not a baby anymore. He's completed the work of salvation. He lived a righteous life. He died a sacrificial death. Jesus died as a substitute. And through faith in him, we've been forgiven all of our sins, cleansed by the blood of Christ. We look up to our ever -living Savior. And we also look back to the baby in a manger, amen? To remember that this is no mere baby. This is no mere human, perfect, sinless, son of God, unique, the incarnate one. Then you see the name, the name above all names. Verse 21, he was called Jesus. He was called Jesus, which literally means Yahweh saves, or if you will, the Lord saves. Now, the Bible teaches. A lot of different things, doesn't it? But the central thing that the Bible teaches is that Yahweh saves God saves sinners through the life and death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. That's the theme of the Bible. That's the center of the Bible. Therefore, that's the theme of our lives. That's the center of our lives, is our fellowship with Jesus Christ, the one who saves Jesus. Well, that's the passage. Now, more of a topical focus on the idea of peace. You'll see this Roman numeral two on your outline before you, the idea of peace. Still want to focus on verse 14. Peace on earth, or in some of your translations, on earth peace. Alright, and in this section I just want us to think about some of the dynamics of peace, some of the different aspects of what peace is and how we experience the peace of God in our lives. And I've got four of these, all right. Number one, peace does not mean the absence of trouble in our lives. You will have that kind of peace once your body dies and your soul is perfected and goes to heaven to Live in glory with the ascended Christ. That is going to happen. But not in this life. Peace does not mean the absence of trouble. What it means is to not be derailed by the troubles that come our way. It means to not be offended by our trouble and go outside the will of God. You'll be driving in the fog You can be driving in the snow and you can just panic and lose it and cause an accident, or you can stay calm and you can be patient and you can make good decisions You're in the midst of potential fears, and we're in the midst of potential disturbances to our faith. We're in the midst of potential troubles and potential conflicts, things that are potential temptations to get us off. The road of faith. But in the midst of trouble, we can have peace. Jesus speaks directly to this, to the disciples. John 14, 27, he says, Peace I leave with you, my peace I give to you. Not as the world gives, do I give to you. Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid. There is going to come some things very shortly in their lives that had great potential to trouble them and had great potential to cause them fear. He says, I'm giving you peace, so let your hearts Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid. Verse 16, 33, I've said these things to you. That in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation. Have you ever heard this verse before? But take heart. Say this if you know it. I have overcome the world. So therefore we can have peace. And this phrase is so important in John 16, 33. Jesus says, in me you may have peace. That's the way we experience the peace. Of God in Christ, which means in communion with Christ, walking in daily fellowship with Christ, being joined to Christ through a spirit-forged faith That's how we can have a true and lasting peace in the midst of troubles, in the midst of fears, in the midst of tribulation, to cling to Christ more than ever. Peace is not the absence of trouble. Number two True and lasting peace comes from the Holy Spirit. That's the reading from earlier in the past, earlier in the service. Galatians 5. 22, at least the beginning of it, says: the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace. If you want a deeper and greater experience of supernatural peace. You must be busy in prayer. You must be crying out to God for peace. It's one of the things we should be Praying for every single day of our lives. Praying for purity, praying for strength, praying for wisdom, and praying for peace. Give yourself to prayer. You will not regret it down the road. True and lasting peace does not mean the absence of trouble. or potential fears or tribulation. True and lasting peace comes only from the Holy Spirit Number three, God commends and God blesses those who seek peace and those who make peace. God Loves peacemakers. God speaks blessing over peacemakers. It's as if he lays his hand on your shoulder and says Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. Matthew 5. 9. Let's not be troublemakers. Let's not be instigators. Let's not be the people at work who are always poking and prodding, stirring others up with gossip and slander or sarcasm or whatever. Let's be peacemakers. The world needs peacemakers, amen. Those who pursue peace and pray for peace and model peace. God commends and God blesses peacemakers, not troublemakers. We've got enough of troublemakers, amen. Number four, the enjoyment of peace is linked to devotion and prayer. The enjoyment of peace. I'm saying that too in the abstract. Let me say it like this. Our enjoyment of peace. Your enjoyment of peace. But enjoyment means just the experience of it in fellowship with Christ. That's what I mean by you enjoy the peace that you have in Christ. It's linked to devotion and prayer. Philippians 4, 6 to 7. Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything, by prayer and by supplication and with thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God. And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds In Christ Jesus. Can't get away from that. If you want these things apart from Christ, you're in trouble. You've got to be in Christ. You've got to seek them in Christ. But what came first in this Philippians 4 classic passage? The greater experience of the peace of God that guards the heart or a firm devotion to prayer? Which one came first? The firm devotion to prayer. Mark it down. Write it down Read it tonight. Meditate on it tonight. Philippians 4, 6 and 7. Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving. Let your request be made known to God. And the next verse says the result. You do that. You devote yourself to prayer. The peace of God which surpasses all understanding will guard your heart and your mind in Christ Jesus. Put that on the list of stuff that I want. The peace of God to guard my heart. The peace of God to guard my mind. But if I'm negligent in prayer, shooting myself in the foot. I'm hindering my own daily experience of supernatural peace. Now, why in the world would I want to do that? Oh, it's simple. I'm just distracted by things in the world. I'm distracted by things in the world. I'm too worried about so many different things. My life's all out of whack. My priorities are all out of whack. To where I don't even have the time to make my request known to God, to get on my knees and to cry out to God, fill my heart with peace. We all need to be doing that. Isaiah 26, verse 3. You keep him in perfect peace. whose mind is stayed on you because he trusts in you. Isn't that an incredible picture? The mind of somebody is stayed on God. Like you have a you can picture a light, a spotlight in your front yard, that maybe you you first put it up and you were very careful to direct it just exactly where you wanted it to go so that you could see this area. And that light is stayed on that area. And it never moves. It's fixed. And in this passage , The idea is the mind of the believer is stayed on God. The mind is fixed on God. And God keeps that person in perfect peace. Perfect does not always mean has no defects. In Scripture it often speaks of just maturity. A completion, it means the right kind. And here you have a maturity. The person is maturing in their peace. They're growing in their enjoyment of supernatural peace. Why? Because their mind is not stayed on earthly things. Their mind is not stayed on themselves and their own temporal comfort. Their mind is not stayed on sinful things that they just will not give up. Where is their mind stayed? Beloved of God, their mind is stayed on God. If you want peace and a deeper Experience a supernatural peace that can get you through anything. Fix your mind on God. You keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on you because he trusts in you. Don't turn God off right around lunchtime every Sunday morning. And then turn him on early the next Sunday morning Keep your mind stayed on God. Don't fall into the routine of superficial outward religion. Wake up every morning and go to God in prayer and purpose afresh every single morning for your mind to be fixed on God, like that spotlight is fixed. On your patio. Peace is not the absence of trouble. Peace only comes from the Holy Spirit. God commends and blesses those who seek peace and those who make peace. And number four, the enjoyment of peace is linked to devotion to prayer. My enjoyment of peace and your enjoyment of peace is linked to devotion to prayer And I'll actually expand that summary, the summary of that point, because it's come up a few times. The enjoyment of peace is linked to devotion, to prayer. In Christ Jesus. In Christ Jesus. Because you can be outside of Christ Jesus and fake prayer. And you can be outside of Christ Jesus and go through the motions of prayer and external religion. But the true experience, the real peace that we need is found only in spiritual communion. With the crucified and risen and exalted and returning Savior, Jesus Christ. Are you with me, church? Roman numeral three. Dave making it, praise God. Now the piece we need. I went really out of character and I put fill in the blanks on your outline. How about that I'll give you the blanks first, then we'll work through them as much as we're able to. Looking at some more than others Number one, the peace we need is peace with God. Hopefully you were able to guess that one. Peace with God. That was on the introduction to the sermon. Peace we need in 2026. We need peace with God, peace within our own hearts, peace with others. That's upward, inward, outward. Peace with God. Number two, peace within our hearts. Peace within our hearts. And um number two is the result of number one. Yes? Okay Number three, peace in our mindset. What that means is like our approach to things. The way we approach our attitude, I guess you could say. Number four, peace with others. Something we should always be praying for and trying to grow in, right? Is being at peace with others. Number five, peace in the church. Peace in the church. It's part of our witness. It's part of the, when you have peace in a biblical local church, that's part of the manifestation of the kingdom of God on earth. And that's the most important thing that happens on earth. It's the manifestation of God's grace, glory, and kingdom. And number six, peace between Jew and Gentile. That's more of a global point, more of a historical point, but that's very important biblically, that's already been established, but it continues to grow and grow and spread and spread as the gospel continues to advance in the world. Let's back up. Peace with God. Peace we need. Romans 5. 1. Wonderful verse. Terrific verse. Encouraging verse. Romans 5. 1. Therefore, since we've been justified by faith, We have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. This is a relational peace There's no more hostility from the sinner toward God. There's no longer a righteous anger and wrath from God to the sinner. But what's happened? The sinner and God are at peace. You've been reconciled. Since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. This is number one. This is top priority. Faith in Jesus, and then faithfully walking with Jesus by the Holy Spirit. Our sin has separated us from God. Scripture teaches that. It's Jesus that brings us back. It's Jesus that reconciles us to God. Our sin separates us from God because of the guilt of sin. We have guilt on our record. Jesus died in the place of sinners to what? To erase that guilt. That 's me with an eraser and a chalkboard. Okay. That's a living illustration. Jesus, by taking our sin As his own on the cross, and taking our guilt as his own on the cross, taking the judgment of God that we deserve as his own on the cross. He erases the guilt of our sin and therefore reconciles us to God. Maybe you have been hesitant to put your faith in Jesus Christ for one reason or another. Maybe there is something you're afraid of. Maybe it's your reputation. Maybe you don't want to risk being made fun of or something like that. Maybe you've been Resisting God's drawing and resisting God's providence in your life and drawing you to his word and bringing the gospel into your life But no matter what's been going on there, today you can change. Today you can believe in Jesus Christ. You can say in your heart, I believe in Jesus Christ I believe he died for my sins. He is my Savior. And all the guilt is erased. And you have peace with God. And you have the gift of eternal life. Put your faith in Jesus today for peace with God. That's number one. That's got to be settled first. And then number two, peace within our own hearts. Colossians 3. 15 has this great phrase. It's one of the most underrated phrases in the Bible. Colossians 3. 15, let the peace of Christ Rule in your hearts. Isn't that nice? Let the peace of Christ sit on the throne in your hearts. Let the peace of Christ have the scepter and have ruling authority in your hearts. Not hobbies, ruling. Not being right all the time, ruling. Not money or reputation, ruling. Not temporal earthly comforts ruling, certainly not sin ruling. What's to rule in our hearts? The peace of Christ. Rule, which means dictate us and guide us in the way we think, speak, and act. Let the peace of Christ rule in our hearts. And that will change how we interact with each other. And that will boost the witness of the church to the watching world. Peace in our hearts. Number three, peace in our mindset. Or you could say attitude. The way we approach things. Romans 14, 17. Good verse on the kingdom of God. You ever want to do a devotion on the basic nature of the kingdom of God? What does it look like? What is it about? This doesn't say everything, okay, but this is a good verse for that, Romans 14, 17, that really summarizes from a practical standpoint, from a spiritual standpoint, the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking. But of righteousness, peace, and joy in the Holy Spirit. The kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking, but of righteousness, peace, and joy in the Holy Spirit. If we're to be a kingdom people, we're to pursue righteousness. It's a fancy word for practical obedience. Righteousness is that which aligns with God's will and character. Righteousness. Kingdom people pursue righteousness, and we also pursue peace, and we also pursue joy That's the what the kingdom of God is about. Eating and drinking in that verse is it's it's not just generally speaking about external matters, although those are external matters, but more specifically Debatable matters, debatable matters in the church, matters of conscience in the church, where you may fall on this side of the decision. I may fall in that side of the decision over here. We have a difference. It's a debatable issue. It's an external matter. It's a matter of conscience and personal conviction based on Scripture. Paul's saying that's not the essence of the kingdom anyway. That's not what the kingdom is all about anyway. What the kingdom is all about is righteousness. We all need to be on the same page of that. You can't have the matter of conscience come on this side of it and say, No, it's not important to me to pursue righteousness. No, we all have to be on the same page pursuing righteousness practical obedience to God. And we all have to be on the same page of we all are striving to pursue peace in fellowship with Christ. And we're all striving to pursue joy by the work of the Holy Spirit Not matters of conscience, not debatable matters. There's no we're over here, you're over here. We're all in the middle. We're all in the same boat. That's what the kingdom of God is about. We all need to have a kingdom mindset. Peace in our mindset James 3. 18 is a really cool verse too. A harvest of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace. I know I was going too fast. James 3 :18. A harvest of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace. What in the world is a harvest of righteousness? Well, that's easy. I mean, you know what a harvest of corn is. You know what a harvest of peaches is It's corn that grew and was gathered. It's peaches that grew and were gathered. They were harvested. There's a whole lot of those things. Harvest of righteousness is an increase. It's a growing up in godly speech Godly living and godly relationships. That's a harvest of righteousness. Plentiful, plentiful, doing the will of God. Isn't that what we want? A plentiful doing the will of God. Living for Christ and not ourselves. A harvest of righteousness is shown in peace by those who make peace. What's the point? The harvest , in this verse, the harvest in large part depends on peacemakers. A flourishing of practical obedience in large part in the fellowship, a flourishing of practical obedience in large part depends on the presence of genuine peacemakers in the fellowship. What do you get? What kind of harvest do we reap? If a fellowship is full of troublemakers, the selfish, the proud, the self-righteous, the argumentative. Gossipers, slanderers, what kind of harvest do you reap in that kind of fellowship? Now that's easy to imagine. That's easy to imagine because we've all been in those situations in different settings to one degree or another. Well the point that James is making is the opposite. You want a harvest of righteousness, a harvest of practical obedience and the joy of sharing practical obedience in Christ. In large part, it depends on peacemakers So practical application lets each one of us purpose to be a peacemaker and not troublemakers and praying for peace because you know why? A harvest of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace. Peace with others, number four. I got to speed up here, but under peace with others, you can be thinking about your your loved ones, your family, your closest friends. That's one area of life. We need peace with others. Your coworkers or your neighbors or your classmates classmates. That's another area of life where we need peace with others Maybe your enemies, maybe you have particular people who've set themselves against you, and in your heart, in the flesh, you've set yourself against them. We're commanded to love our enemies and pray for those who persecute us. Bless those who persecute. Pray for wisdom on how to make peace with your enemies. That's another area of life. Loved ones, family, neighbors, co-workers, enemies, and in the church. That's another area of our discipleship. We need to be at peace with each other. Hebrews 12, 14. Strive for peace with everyone And for the holiness without which no one will see the Lord. In Romans 12, 18, if possible, as far as it depends on you, live peaceably with all. Our effort does not guarantee peace. It's a two-way street in relationships. Sometimes in the complexities of family or whatever, it can be a three-way, four-way, five-way street. It gets very difficult. But as far as it depends on us, we have the spirit of a peacemaker. As far as it depends on us, we strive for peace with all. And in God's providence, if God doesn't grant that peace, God is still in it. He's still with you. And He'll still give you wisdom and endurance and joy and peace within your own heart to get through that situation in a godly way. And we all have or will have those situations. Now, peace with others requires effort. You have to go listen to the playback because I'm I'm going to rip through these pretty quickly. These are pretty simple. Peace with others requires effort. Number one, the grace to forgive. You don't have the grace to forgive. Sorry. You're not doing your part for peace. The humility to confess. A lot of times I need to forgive and I need to have the grace to forgive, but the other half of the time, I'm the one who needs to be forgiven. I messed up again. I again said something I shouldn't have. I again slipped up. And I need to have the humility to confess. So the grace to forgive, the humility to confess. The strength to desire reconciliation. In some situations, this is the hardest one. The strength, the spiritual fortitude to even desire reconciliation, or To do the biblical thing, to do the obedient thing, to pursue reconciliation, even when your feelings haven't gotten there yet. We're such a feelings-based culture, but biblically Spiritually, many times you'll do the right thing first, you'll be the obedient thing first, and then then the right feelings, then the right attitude will follow up on that, will be more like the caboose than the engine. The engine is obedience The engine is submitting to God's will, trusting in God's will. If we're always driven by feelings, a lot of times we won't do the right thing. You do the will of God and strive to obey God despite feelings. Because our feelings are shaped and limited by our sinful flesh and are just our natural limitations. Grace to forgive, humility to confess, strength to desire reconciliation, and the obedience to pursue it even when we don't desire it. Number four, self-control to speak in a godly manner. That's easy, right? We don't need to hear that one. To self-control to speak in a godly manner. Number five, the wisdom. The wisdom to pursue reconciliation in the right time frame. Sometimes there are situations that are urgent. need to get right on it. Sometimes there's situations where you need to exercise more patience and lay back and wait. And it takes great wisdom and discernment to Decide and understand the pace God wants you to move at. Peace with others. And then number five is peace in the church, which is just the subcategory of that. You can look at Ephesians 4:1 to 3 for that And then number six, peace between Jew and Gentile. I want to emphasize how that is a part of God's plan that has been accomplished by the death of Christ. Ephesians 2. 14 for that. Alright, Ephesians 2. 14 for that. What are your goals in 2026? Well, hopefully, because I've been here the last two sermons Hopefully one of them is joy in Christ. And hopefully another one of them is, you guessed it, peace in Christ. We all need to be striving for joy and peace and righteousness because I'll close us with this reminder from Romans 14:17. The kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking, but of righteousness. And peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. Let's pray. Father, we pray that you'll help each and every one of us Give our lives to you more and more, our whole lives, to lay them down as offering, offering in Christ. Help us to be diligent in prayer Help us to be saturated by your word. Help us daily to remember your love and your power that's available for us. Through the Spirit and through the Scriptures, Father, we pray for the lost that they would come to Christ and be forgiven and have these kingdom things that we've been talking about. It's in Jesus we pray, Amen.