Well, God continues to do an amazing thing in his churches spread all over the world. He continues to bring people together based on his truth. He continues to bring people together based on his truth and by his providence and by his spirit. I I pray that we'll always be known as a church where anyone is welcome to come. And hear the word of God. And in hearing, Amen indeed. Thank you for that, brother. And in hearing the word of God, thereby be fed by God Himself through the work of His Spirit. Amen? Today we're in Matthew 2, verses 13 to 23. The flight to Egypt. Let's take our Bibles and turn there, if you will. Matthew 2, 13 to 23. The flight. To Egypt. But first of all, a correction on last week's sermon. I had that presentation of Jesus at the temple on the eighth day. That's incorrect. The circumcision would have been on the eighth day, but the presentation at the temple that we read last week, remember Simeon taking Jesus in his arms, that would have been on the fortieth day. Process is mapped out in Leviticus 12. Leviticus chapter 12 maps that process out because that presentation and those offerings were made after the time of purification. I'm sure you were up all night, all week. This is like, I wish Matthew today, Matthew 2, 13 to 23, the flights. To Egypt and quite simply try to keep this as simple as possible. Today we're looking at three scenes that highlight three truths. Three scenes that highlight three truths. And what I'd like to do is run through all three relatively quickly. You know what that means for me. That'll be done around 1230. Run through all three relatively quickly just to get oriented with the passage and the three scenes and the three truths. But then I want to circle back to the first one, which is on Jesus the Son of God. And I want that, if God will allow, I want that to be our main topic. Jesus Christ, the perfect Son of God. But first I want to look at number one, number two, and number three, three scenes that highlight three truths. Number one, Jesus the perfect son of God. This is verses 13. Matthew 2, 13 to 15. Now, when they had departed, they is the wise men, all right, and that's why we had those readings before. When they had departed, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream and said, Rise. Take the child and his mother and flee to Egypt. That's where the title comes from. The flight to Egypt. Fleeing to Egypt. And remain there until I tell you, for Herod is about to search for the child to destroy him. And he rose and took the child and his mother by night and departed to Egypt. It's kind of the opposite of the Exodus story, right? Where you're departing from Egypt to be saved. Here you're departing to Egypt to be saved. He rose and took the child and his mother by night and departed to Egypt and remained there until the death of Herod This was to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet. Out of Egypt I called my son. So you see the event? The angel appearing in a dream to warn Joseph, get out of here, flee to Egypt. And you also see this is the fulfillment of a particular prophecy, which is from Hosea. The prophet Hosea that we'll get to later on, but you see this out of Egypt I called my son. And you're supposed to see the irony there because what's happening in the event? Are they going out of Egypt or are they going into Egypt? They're going into Egypt. You see the irony there of fleeing. uh Judah in order to be saved going into Egypt. We'll circle back to that, but that's the main point from this first paragraph is Jesus, the Son of God. And you see God's providence, God's supernatural work even here to save Jesus at this point as a young child. And just a side note here, remember there's two aspects of the sonship of Christ. And two messages ago, we really focused on the eternal sonship of Christ. Christ, where we talk about the second person of the Trinity, because God eternally, unchangeably, God is one in essence who exists in three persons. And you know who those persons are. Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. That's the eternal sonship. But you also have the incarnate sonship of Christ. The incarnate, which just means in the flesh His obedience as a man on earth. That's where the focus is this morning when we talk about Jesus the Son of God. But just so you have those categories in your mind, uh the eternal sonship, the second person of the Trinity, the Son of God. Eternally, co-divine, unchangeably, but then the incarnate sonship and taking on a human nature and living an obedient life here on earth That's Jesus, the perfect son of God. And then secondly, Herod, the wicked ruler who sets himself against God's son. The wicked ruler, Herod, who sets himself against God's God's son. son. Wicked rulers on earth have always set themselves against God's purposes. Amen. It's all throughout scripture. It's all throughout history. Wicked rulers, wicked judges, false prophets. Apost imposter priests setting themselves against God's purpose. Sixteen to eighteen, verses sixteen to eighteen. Then Herod, when he saw that he had been tricked by the wise men, became furious, and he sent and killed all the male children in Bethlehem. And in all that region who were two two years old or under. Sometimes we forget that phrase, all that region. We just remember Bethlehem, the whole region. So um think not just Jarrett's village but Harford County just as an illustration who were under who were two years older or under, according to the time that he had ascertained from the wise men And then it was fulfilled what was spoken by the prophet Jeremiah. A voice was heard in Ramah, weeping and loud lamentation. Rachel weeping for her children. She refused to be comforted Because they are no more. Now that's a whole sermon in itself, and I've just chosen not to expound on this because I want to focus on Jesus, the Son of God, but This is this a tragic. Just one more example in history of man's wickedness. One more example of history of of a ruler, of a king, who completely sets himself against all that is good, that murderous unhinged wickedness of this ruler of Herod. And sadly that's not an anomaly in human history, is it? Uh a wicked ruler setting himself against God and his anointed. It's not only world rulers, uh beloved, but the whole world system, the whole kingdom of darkness. fighting against God's will. That's part of our spiritual warfare, isn't it? We've we have to wage war against the passions of the flesh that are waging war against our soul. But also also dealing with this whole um What Paul calls in Galatians the this present evil age, trying to navigate that with wisdom and godliness, to not live for the world, to be in the world, but not of the world It's a world full of opposition to God and rebellion against God. Did you remember that Jesus died for us so that we would live for God and not for the world? Galatians 1 4 talking about Jesus who gave himself for our sins to deliver us from the present evil age according to the will of our God and Father. Man, if you blink, you'll miss that. But it's right there on the page. One of the reasons Jesus died for us was so that we'd be able to live for God He gave himself for our sins to deliver us from the present evil age. To deliver us from the present evil age according to the will of our God and Father. This should go without saying, but for your practical application, don't be like Herod. Don't be like Herod. And I don't even mean this big murderous rampage, I just mean the spirit of Herod. Don't have that Herod spirit to set yourself against God's will. But press into God's will. Learn God's will, embrace God's will, pursue to live according to God's will. That's what sets us apart as God's people on earth. Amen? And make no mistake, God has set you apart as this child on earth to represent him in a world of darkness Number one, Jesus, the perfect son of God. Number two, Herod, this wicked ruler who sets himself against God and against God's son. And number three, Jesus called a Nazarene. In fulfillment of the prophets. Jesus called a Nazarene in fulfillment of the prophets. This is verses 19 to 23. So track with me. This looks like this is the biggest paragraph. Verse 19 to 23. But when Herod died, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to Joseph in Egypt. saying, Rise, take the child and his mother, and go to the land go to the land of Israel, for those who sought the child's life are dead. And he rose and took the child and his mother, and went to the land of Israel. But when he heard that Archelius was reigning over Judea, in place of his father Herod, he was afraid to go there. And being warned in a dream, he withdrew to the district of Galilee. That's north, northern Israel. He withdrew to the district of Galilee, and he went and lived in a city called Nazareth. So that what was spoken by the prophets might be fulfilled, he would be called a Nazarene. Oh, it's his Living in Nazareth that fulfills this prophecy, he'd be called a Nazarene. Um in that time and in that place Nazarenes, people from Nazareth, uh were not esteemed by surrounding towns. They were looked down upon. It was just a cultural thing. A social thing at that time and in that culture, uh Nazarenes were not esteemed by others. They were looked down upon, they were seen as low class, despised even. Now there are some difficulties with this because there's no text of the Old Testament that says he'll be called a Nazarene because he'll live in Nazareth or anything like that. There are different interpretations of this. It's most likely referring to prophecies that Jesus would be despised and rejected by the towns and by the people of that region when he came. And that's, in fact, a major theme in Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. Jesus came and he was despised. He was rejected for the most part. Isaiah 53, verse 3 is one such prophecy. And it says this. He was despised. And he was rejected by men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, and as one from whom men hide their faces. He was despised, and we esteemed him not. And um If you've read any of the Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, or John, you know that's a key theme that runs through the whole story. And what what's the climax of that? They cry out in the streets, crucify him, crucify him, crucify him, crucify him, as a murderous, angry mob riding in the streets. That's the level of despising him. That's the degree of esteeming him not. John one ten to thirteen Says this about Jesus. He was in the world, and the world was made through him, yet the world did not know him. He came to his own, and his own people did not receive him. But to all who did receive him Who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God, who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God And friends, that's our call to everyone to be a child of God through faith in Christ. Receive him. Believe in him on the basis of his life, his death, and his resurrection. Believe in Jesus Christ and be born of God. Become a child of God. But by and large, he came to his own, and his own people did not receive him. Mankind's sin is perverse and it's just irrational. Because in Jesus, the person of Jesus, you have all that is good. You have all that is kind, all that is true, all that is love All that is wisdom, all that lines up with God's character and goodness, you have revealed in fullness in the person of Jesus Christ on earth, and yet the world says, nope, don't want that. Let me find something better over there. So the natural man does this. The flesh does this. It sees what is most glorious. And esteems it not. It sees what is most wonderful, and it despises it. And apart from the supernatural work of God's grace, that's where we would all be in the flesh. in the natural man. Praise God for the regenerating work of his Holy Spirit. Yes? To give us new hearts. And new minds that we see what is most wonderful and we highly esteem it. To see what is most beautiful And not reject it, but embrace it and rejoice over it. God 's revelation through the Lord Jesus Christ. It's the greatest gift you could ever receive. But in the fulfillment of prophecy, Jesus was called a Nazarene. Jesus was called a Nazarene. From the world's perspective, from the world's perspective, and you see historically the surrounding towns, that region, he came to his own, but they esteemed him not. They in fact despised him And had him executed. Well, there's your three overarching points, three scenes that highlight three truths. Jesus called Nazarene in fulfillment of the prophets. Herod this wicked ruler against God 's son. Well this rich application on that point too because we don't want to get in on what the world is doing in opposition to God. We want to get in on what God is doing in the church, in his kingdom, his kingdom of salvation. Get in on God's work with God for his glory, for his name, for his gospel. For all eternity, the best thing we could have a part in. Getting in on God's work, not getting in on the world's work against God. And um So Nazarene, and then Herod, this wicked ruler, and the first one, Jesus the perfect son of God, that we're circling back to If you're okay with that. You good with this circling back? The Jesus, the perfect son of God. So let's just get our hearts there and let's settle our hearts there. Jesus, the perfect son of God. Verses 13 to 15 was that paragraph. But just to point out this verse where that's directly coming from again. Um out of Egypt I have called my son. That's the end of verse fifteen. They remained there until the death of Herod. This was to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet out of Egypt. I called my son. Jesus the Son of God, brothers and sisters, anyone, friends, neighbors, Jesus the Son of God is the source of God's love. Amen. The source of God's love. You want to experience divine love. You want to experience life-changing love. If you want to experience destiny changing. Love. Go to the Son of God. He is the source of God's love. The Son of God is the center of our worship. He's the central theme of our worship, of the message, of our prayers, of our singing. of the fellowship and encouragement that we share one to another. It's all about Christ. It's all because of Christ. It's all unto Christ. Jesus the Son of God is the source of God's love, and Jesus the Son of God is the center of our worship. Otherwise, it's not Christian worship. Someone tells you they're going to take you to a football game, so you say that's great. I love football. So you show up and they're playing baseball. You say This is not a football game. You know it's not a football game because there's no football. They're not playing football. It's not a football field. It's Different spore. Well, if our worship is not centered on Christ, it's not Christian worship It could be something else. It could be outward religion. You can have season here, a word here, or a phrase here, or an idea there that somehow connects to the Bible. But if it's not truly centered on the living Lord of Jesus Christ and his great salvation, It's not Christian worship. It could be a counterfeit. When you have a counterfeit, it's supposed to look like the real thing. But the keen eye knows it's not the real thing. Let's strive in our lives to be Christ-centered. Amen? Let's strive in our worship to be Christ-centered. Let's strive in our ministries to be Christ-centered. In other words, let's be biblical Christians. Let's be biblical Christians. The source of God's love, the center of worship. One more here. Before we really open this topic up. The Son of God should be the supreme treasure in our hearts. The supreme treasure in our hearts. What do you love most? What do you desire most? What are we going to pursue most in 2025? What's the supreme love The supreme adoration, the supreme affection in our hearts. Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. And he deserves it. And that's right. It's right to love most the most lovable thing. The most lovable person. Not a thing, a person. But a salvation is the thing. The person of Christ and the work of Christ and the salvation of Christ that He's given to us. It's all about Christ. Have we said yet? It's all about Christ. Don't miss that. Don't go through the motions. Don't miss this. Don't miss this. Cultivate. Be diligent, brothers and sisters. Be diligent to cultivate a love for Jesus Christ. Jesus the perfect Son of God. Let's look at the doctrine, what that means. Now in general A son of God, just in general, a son of God is one who's appointed by God to exercise authority as his representative. That will be on the final exam. A son of God, just generally speaking, what is a son of God? Someone who is appointed by God to exercise authority as God's representative. And so Jesus, the son, capital S, is always obedient. And it's not like us. We're not always obedient. And one day we will be. When the soul departs the body and goes to heaven, you'll always be obedient. But in the this flesh package of sin and corruption, we're not always obedient. Jesus was always obedient, always faithful Always faithful. Always reflected God's character in every motive, every desire, every word spoken, every action carried out. Jesus always reflected God's character. He always represented God's will. Jesus always represented God's will. That's why he doesn't need to be saved. He is the savior. We, on the other hand, could never be our own savior. We need to be saved. Jesus, the Son of God. God's representative, God's appointed representative, perfectly represented and reflected God's moral character. Perfectly represented God's Principles of justice and principles of mercy in his decisions, in his relationships, in his judgments. Every aspect of his life, inwardly, outwardly, he was always offering true and acceptable worship to God. Jesus was never negligent in prayer. Jesus never looked for personal fulfillment in created things. Now these are the things that we struggle with. Because we are sinners, but not so the perfect son of God. Always obedient, always faithful. Now you don't have to turn to Hosea 11, verse 1, but that's where this prophecy comes from. Out of Egypt I've called my son. You can just It'd be perfectly fine if you just let the words, as I turn to Hosea 11. 1, if you just let those words seep into your heart. Adam in Scripture is called the Son of God. Adam in the garden. And he was Adam perfectly obedient, perfectly faithful, great rep perfect representative of God? No. Believers are called sons of God, heirs of God, but we're like Adam, we fail. And Israel as a nation, Israel also was called the son of God, as collective, as a nation, under the law. Israel was called God's son. And that's what this passage in Hosea eleven one is referring to. Out of Egypt I called my son means out of Egypt I called Israel. We learn in Matthew that this is fulfilled in Christ, the Son. The Son of God. Hosea eleven one When Israel was a child, I loved him. And out of Egypt I called my son. That's the whole book of Exodus right there. The whole book of Exodus, Israel's a child enslaved in Egypt, and out of Egypt I called my son. Exodus. Out of. Out of Egypt I called my son. And God made Israel into a nation. He gave them the law of Moses. He gave them the worship. Which is the tabernacle, all the furniture of the tabernacle, the priesthood, the whole sacrificial system. But it all starts with this out of Egypt I called my son. No, that doesn't uh doesn't all start with that. That's not till Exodus. Don't forget the book of Genesis, because that too is the fulfillment of promises made to Abram. But out of Egypt I called my son. Now, I would challenge you, even if you don't do that yearly Bible reading program that we handed out today, make sure, I would challenge you this in 2025, read the prophets in the Old Testament Read the prophets in the Old Testament. And you'll find out by and large what kind of son Israel proved to be as a nation. Not every individual in Israel, but as a whole, by and large, what kind of son were they? And they were a rebellious son, a stubborn, hard-hearted son. It's like all of us in our flesh, isn't it? Apart from the grace of God, that's all of us. But Jesus is the unique son of God. He doesn't have the shortcomings of Adam. He doesn't have our shortcomings as believers He doesn't have our shortcomings. Shortcomings, is that too mild a word, Jason? Is that too mild a word? Shortcomings? The vile wickedness, the natural corruption is probably a more appropriate biblical phrase for that. Jesus didn't have any of that. Um that Adam had, that we have, and that Israel had. He's the unique Son of God. I'm gonna give you some just passages from the Gospel of John for this. I have an A, B, and C on this. First of all, Jesus imitated the character of God the Father always. Imitated the character of God the Father always. John, and this is part of this teaching. John 5. 19. So Jesus said to them, Truly, truly I say to you, the Son can do nothing of his own accord, but only what he sees the Father doing. For whatever the Father does, the Son does likewise. Isn't that isn't that incredible? So this is part of Jesus' teaching. The Son can do nothing of his own accord. He doesn't want to He doesn't want to break away from the Father and come up with his own plan. Again, that's stuff that we struggle with. Jesus, if the Father Goes right, Jesus goes right. The father goes left, Jesus goes left. The father lays down, Jesus lays down. I know these are silly illustrations, but that's the point of the passage Always imitated the Father. Always imitated the character of the Father. Whatever the Father does, that the Son does likewise. Jesus taught that. Secondly, I guess it's B. I didn't say one, two, three, I said A, B, C, didn't I? So, B, he always reflected the righteous judgment. of God the Father. He always reflected the righteous judgment of God the Father. We have difficult situations that come up in our life Uh th mistakes that we make, we've got to deal with the fallout. People in our lives are just difficult. We've got to learn how to deal with them in love, but also in wisdom. It's hard to make the right decisions. It's it's hard to make the right judgments. And Jesus always reflected the righteous judgment of God the Father. John 5, verse 30. I can do nothing on my own. As I hear, I judge, and my judgment is just, because I seek not my own will, but the will of him who sent me Those two things are connected. Seeking God's will with making just judgments. Seeking God's will and making just judgments. Making wise decisions. Making the right decision. As I hear, I judge, and my judgment is just, because I seek not my own will, but the will of him who sent me. Well that is just a that is just ripe for practical and personal application, isn't it? Seeking God's will and not our own? That's a daily battle. You n if you're trying to follow God's will, you're in a daily battle. You're in a war. If you don't feel like you're in a war, if you don't feel like you're in a battle, then you're not making a d Dill is an effort to do the will of God. To do the will of God is to go against the grain of the world. To seek the will of God is to go against the grain of the natural flesh, the corruption of the flesh. To do the will of God, brothers and sisters, it takes the supernatural work of God. It's a spiritual warfare, a spiritual battle daily To seek God's will rather than our own is central to Christian living. Letter C. Jesus always desired to do and always did the will of the Father. John 6. 38. I have come down from heaven, not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. Always desired to do and always did the will of the Father. You know, our problem is deeper than uh we don't do the right things. Our problem at the heart of it is in our hearts, in our flesh, in our natural selves, we don't want to do the right things. That's called, you all know that that's called. Sin. That's called sin. Sin is not just external. It's this poison that resides inside of us that will never be rid of until these bodies die and the soul departs the body and is made righteous in the presence of God. Oh glorious day. Glorious day. But that's not yet. We're still here on earth. We're still in these flesh bodies. We still carry within us the seed of sin, this poison of sin. And naturally, we don't want to desire God. That's why, brothers and sisters, pray for the Holy Spirit every morning. Every, I'm serious about that. Don't move a millimeter away from your bed without praying for the work of the Holy Spirit, without praying for the wisdom of the Holy Spirit, without asking for God's help. That's all I'm saying. Every morning, ask God to help you. Ask God to help you. Ask God to give you wisdom. Ask God to help you make just judgments. Ask God for the ability, but deeper than that, the desire, the genuine desire to do His will, not your own will. Are you with me on that? Can we live like that? Roll out of bed. Don't even roll out of bed. Before you roll out of bed, pray for the Holy Spirit. God is faithful. Don't forget that God is faithful. He will give you what you asked for when you asked according to his will and when you ask in faith Jesus the perfect Son of God. That's the doctrine. Always obedient, always faithful, always reflects God's character, always represents God's will, the one appointed by God to exercise authority as God's representative. Now, application. Application. Isn't that the kind of leader that we need in our lives? Isn't that the one we want in charge of us Guy who knows what he's talking about. A guy who's been there. A guy who know what a guy who knows what's the right direction We follow Jesus. That's who we are. We're followers of Jesus. He's our teacher. Never be ashamed to say Jesus is my teacher. Jesus is my master. That's just another way of saying I am a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. That's what the world needs. Disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ. Trophies of his grace. You're not earning a trophy, you are the trophy. Christ earned you. That you would be his prize, part of his bride. That's the kind of leader that we need. And also this is the kind of example that we need. This is the kind of example that we need. The life of Christ, the obedience of Christ, the willingness of Christ, the desire of Christ to live for the Father's glory, to live for the Father's will. That's the kind of example we need Why do we keep flooding our minds and flooding our hearts with the wrong stuff? Why are we so addicted to things that are pointing us in the wrong direction? Why are we so addicted, so consumed with things that are just pouring into us, pouring into us things that are contrary to God's will? The kind of example that we need is Christ's example. We are called to imitate God. Ephesians 5. 1, therefore imitate God as his beloved children. Make imitation of God, the imitation of Christ. Make that a goal. Make that a life goal. He's the leader we need That we follow him. He's the example we need. We strive to imitate him. But before any of that, he's the savior we need. He's the redeemer that we need. Jesus living a life as perfectly obedient son is part of the gospel. If I do this gesture, does it help you to remember the point? His righteous life is part of the gospel. In other words, it's part of the message of salvation. It's say it another way. It's part of what Jesus did to save us. He couldn't just skip the righteous life and go hang on a cross. There was a righteous life, an obedient life. It was part of his work. Because, because when you repented and put your faith in Jesus, not only was something taken away from you But also something was given to you. Now if I said to you, what was taken away from you when you put your faith in Jesus? There's multiple aspects to that, and I I think all of us would get the right answer. The guilt of our sins taken away. You come to Christ, you can come to Christ today. And the guilt of your sin taken away from you. No longer on your account. No longer on your record. Now you don't want someone going into your bank account and taking all of that away from you, but your account before God that's full of guilt. You do want somebody coming in and taking the guilt off of your account before God. That's what we want, right? That's called forgiveness So when you put your faith in Jesus, he takes away from you the guilt of your sin. He cancels it. He blots it out. One scripture says, He Cast it into the sea. He separates your sin from you. He takes away the guilt of your sin. And when he takes away the guilt of our sin Rejoice, O heavens, rejoice. People of God rejoice. He also takes away the penalty of our sin. So that we don't have to suffer and torment forever apart from God's presence. That's salvation. Being saved from the guilt and penalty of our sin, taken away. But salvation is more than that. More than that. More than that. Yeah, absolutely more than that. Because when your guilt is taken away, you're not left as a blank slate. That would be one thing if you're a blank canvas, a white canvas Morally speaking, you're a blank slate where now you have a second chance to prove yourself worthy of heaven, where now you have a second chance to earn your way into God's favor. It can never happen. So, what's taken away from us is one thing, but what's given to us is very simple. Be as simple as we can. Simple, simple, simple. What's given to us? The righteousness of Christ. The righteousness of Christ is put into your account. And now that's your standing before God. Because, brothers and sisters, Salvation at its heart is being joined to Christ. Salvation at its heart is being spiritually united with Christ So that all that is his becomes yours. Isn't that wonderful? All that is his, all that he earned becomes yours because you're joined to him. So his righteous standing before the throne of God, it's your righteous standing before the throne of God. Praise. God for that. There's no other source of righteousness. Where are we going to go for a righteous standing before the throne of God in heaven? Jesus Christ. It's just one place. And I do want to proclaim this, metaphorically, from the rooftops. But We'll settle for this little little pulpit here. This pulpit is little. Oh man. Sometimes I get so wrapped up in the righteousness of Christ. really is my righteousness and really is your righteousness before God, then I just don't want to move on from the point. So I'm going deep into my bag of tricks now to keep me on this point of Christ's righteousness is your righteousness. Christ's righteousness is your assurance. But the thing I do want to preach, proclaim, metaphorically from the rooftops, is there's no steps in between you and Jesus. There's no mediator between you and Jesus. There's nothing you have to do to qualify yourself to go to Jesus. You can come today. You can be the worst sinner in the world You could be, literally, you could be the worst sinner in the world. You can have in your heart the greatest hatred for God that exists in the world right now at this moment. The greatest rebellion, the greatest skepticism, the greatest hatred of Jesus, of God, of the Bible in your heart. But if you repent on the basis of the gospel, if you repent And put your faith in Jesus, you're immediately reconciled to God for all eternity. Isn't that incredible? There's no religion you have to come through. There's no priest you have to come through. Jesus is the priest. There's no step in between sinners and Jesus. Sinners come right to Jesus. That's our proclamation. That's our message. It's not Jesus plus your good works. It's not Jesus plus sacraments. It's not Jesus plus faithful church attendance. It's not Jesus plus good deeds. It's not Jesus plus anything. You come directly to Jesus solely on the grounds of Jesus and his work on the cross, and you are a child of God, your sins are taken away, the righteousness of Christ is given to you. And nothing can ever, ever, ever reverse that. That's good news. That's the good news of the gospel. Sinners can come right to Jesus. That's what we herald as a church. The righteous life of Jesus is part of the gospel. Romans 5. 17. Paul talks about those who receive the abundance of grace and the free gift of righteousness. Those who receive grace are the ones who receive the free gift of righteousness. It's the season of gifts, right? It's the season of giving. It's a season of shopping and buying and giving and wrapping and unwrapping and receiving. It's all about gifts. The gift of righteousness, the free gift of righteousness. Those who receive the abundance of grace and the free gift of righteousness. Romans 5. 19, Paul writes, by the one man's obedience, the many will be made righteous. The many will be made righteous. And if you have put your faith in Christ, if you've repented and put your faith in Christ, you have been made righteous. And one more here, 2 Corinthians 5. 21. For our sake, he made him to be sin who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. There it is. In him we might become the righteousness of God. Of God. Joined to Him. United with Him. In Him, we might become the righteousness of God. So as long as I am apart from Christ, as long as I am separate from Christ, I have no righteousness before God. I only have my guilt. But when I put my faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, and when you put your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, You are joined to him. You are united with him. You are in him. And now his righteousness is your righteousness. And the guilt of Your sin was the guilt of him on the cross. In his body he bore our sins so that we could go free. That's the gospel. He takes something away, but he also gives Something to us. Jesus, the Son of God, the source of God's love. You can be saved by Him today. You can find God's love today through faith in Christ. He's the center of our worship. Let it always be so. When you get up and you're getting dressed and you're driving to church and you're walking in the building, let our hearts, let your heart be centered on Christ. That we come for Christ. We come to worship him. We come to know him more deeply. We come to sing his praises. And let the Son of God be the supreme treasure in our hearts. You know all that God is doing, and all that God has ever done is for the glory of his unique Son, Jesus Christ. Did you know that this is not just like one chapter in the world, but this is God's eternal purpose? to magnify himself, to show forth his glory through his son Jesus Christ, so that he would be praised and worshiped for all eternity 2 Corinthians 4 4 even refers to the gospel as the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. And glory is just shining forth the attributes of something, right? You know the glory of the sun shines forth in in light, it shines forth in heat. And you know the the glory of a of a sunset, its beauty and its coloration. And all that God is doing, and all that God has done, all that God is doing in your life as a child of God is for the glory of his beloved Son the glory of his son. Now that's better than living for trivial created things that are fleeting and soon to pass away. That's better than collectibles. That's better than money. That's better than the world's approval. Stop living for the world's approval and live for the glory of the exalted Lord Jesus Christ. Nothing's better than him. Nothing's better than God's glory as revealed through Christ. The shining forth of his goodness. is found in Christ. The shining forth of his grace is found in Christ. The shining forth of his power is found in Christ. The shining forth of his kindness is found in Christ. The shining forth of his mercy is found in Christ. The shining forth of his wisdom is found in Christ. Come to God through Jesus Christ, the perfect Son of God. Out of Egypt I've called my Son, and into the Son he calls all sinners everywhere. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for Jesus. I pray that in our hearts you've shown us not only his righteousness, but also shown us The goodness, the greatness of his character, of his wisdom, the greatness of his salvation, and the centrality That all things truly center on your son. And I pray, we pray, Father, we join our hearts in prayer. Make us more and more and deeper and deeper of people who love your son and gladly serve him. Conform us to the likeness of Christ by the powerful working of your Spirit. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen.