James 1, 19 through 27, the power of God's word, but first a little bit of review. Remember the theme verse we looked at in the It was just one theme verse of many because there are several verses in James that pick up on this idea that faith without works is dead. But chapter 2, 26 is a vivid one that I really like. It says For as the body apart from the spirit is dead, so also faith apart from works is It really crystallizes the overarching theme of James. And then last week we looked at the first major section, the first specific pastoral issue that James deals with is enduring trials. How do we endure trials to the glory of God? How do we grow in our faith in the midst of trial and not shrink back? and give ourselves over to sin. And this week is the power of God's word. It'll h it'll hit on a lot of different things, but the theme that underlies it all is We need God's word. It's not something that we only needed to be converted. But now, as converted and adopted children of God, we need the word of God to guide us. To sanctify us, to encourage us, to rebuke and correct us. We need God's word. Thinking about God's word to the believer is a lot like thinking about being um Parched, thirsty, dying of thirst, or starving for food. Not only do you really, really want it, but you actually do need it to survive. And that's how we should be toward the Word of God. We want it, we desire it, and we know we need it. We literally actually need it if we're to grow in our faith and persevere. For the glory of God. James 1, 19, through the end of the chapter, through verse 27. Here's what it says: Know this, my beloved brothers Let every person be quick to hear, slow to speak , slow to anger. Because the anger of man does not produce the righteousness of God. Say amen if you know that's true. Therefore, put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness. Rampant means Running wild. Rampant means out of control. Rampant means you need to reel it in. Put it away. Put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness. And rather receive with meekness the implanted word which is able to save your souls. But be doers of the word, and not only hearers, thus deceiving yourselves. And just to highlight, just think just to connect it to the topic that I've Extracted from this passage, the word. You see it in verse 21. We have to be a people who receive with meekness the implanted word. And then in verse 22, be doers of the word, and not hearers only, thus deceiving yourselves. Verse 23. For if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like a man who looks intently at his natural face in a mirror. For he looks at himself and goes away, and at once forgets what he was like. But the one who looks into the perfect law Now, here, instead of calling it the word, he's substituting something that's more specific, but it's still a part of the word, God's law. The one who looks into the perfect law, the law of liberty, we'll talk more about that later, but you can just plug in in your mind's eye the law of freedom in Christ. Freedom in Christ, and perseveres, being no hearer who forgets, but a doer who acts. He will be blessed in his doing. And of course, I'm sure you've picked up on this that the word doing and do and doer is just talking about obedience. Or receive the word and then live out obedience based on what the word showed us. Like looking in a mirror. But you'll be blessed in your doing. If you look into that perfect law, the law of liberty, and persevere, being no hearer who forgets, but a doer who acts, he'll be blessed in his doing. the final two verses. If anyone thinks he is religious, means uh means a person devoted to God. If anyone thinks he's religious And does not bridle his tongue, but deceives his heart, this person's religion is worthless. Striking language. It reminded me of the language in 1 Corinthians 13, where he basically says you can do all of these things that on the surface are good, but if you have not love, you have nothing. It says similar thing here with the way we use our tongues. Religion is worthless if you can't bridle your tongue. Verse 27: Religion that is pure and undefiled before God, the Father, is this Visit orphans and widows in their affliction, and to keep oneself unstained From the world. So he gives two representative examples of benevolence, and then he summarizes personal holiness. This is what true devotion looks like. Being a benevolent person and living a holy life to God. Of course, we don't do that perfectly, but friends, we can do that truly. By faith in Christ. We can do that increasingly by the work of the Holy Spirit within us. But it'll start with a commitment in my heart, in your heart. We 've received God's word. We want to be doers of God's word. So God help us. Help us to be benevolent And kind and charitable, and also to live holy lives and not just blend in with the rampant wickedness and selfishness and greed and materialism of the world around us. That's true devotion. So the power of God's word is what we need if either of those things are going to be true in our lives. Being truly benevolent, living holy lives, we'll need the power of God's word. To bridle our tongue, which is The thing that came right before that. We'll need the power of God's word to help us to begin to even want to bridle our tongue because we know how words hurt others. and can disrupt unity and can distract us from our focus and purpose and hurt people's feelings and on and on and you can think of Many more aspects of the trouble that the tongue can bring, and think of examples. But again, that's another thing. Apart from the power of the word, we wouldn't be able to do that. Let's go back to the beginning, and on your outline, you see I have four points. Number one, God's word must be received with a gentle and humble spirit. Humble is uh seeing ourselves in a proper light, seeing ourselves in proper proportion to God. He is great. We are small. He is our creator. We are his creature. He is our King. We are His servant. He is holy. We're sinners. Sinners saved by grace, but sinners nonetheless. And we must Receive his word with a gentle and humble spirit, that should define that's one of the defining marks of a Christian Is that we are a people who desire God's word and uh understand that we need God's word and humbly, gladly, joyfully Receive God's word. Note this, verse 19 through 21 is where I'm getting this. And as we read through, you'll see that James moves from a general point. To a specific point. Verse 19, know this, my beloved brothers. Let every person be quick to hear, slow to speak, and slow to anger. That's the general point. That's a general point about Christian character. Three things he says there. What are they? Say them out loud for me. Right, so it's about zipping our lips. And being good listeners, listening well to other people, caring about what other people have to say, not just discounting it or discrediting it before we even hear it or give time to think about it and appreciate their perspective. We should be not quick to speak and slow to hear, but quick to hear. Tell me what you're thinking. Tell me how you're feeling. Tell me what I did wrong. Explain it to me. Be quick to hear, slow to speak, and slow to anger. We should be striving against the short fuse. I mean this is probably going to be a constant theme in many of our prayer lives. God, help me to strive against a short fuse. Help me to repent. Of a bad temper, a short temper, of being angry with people. And oftentimes, isn't it, by just reading into things they say instead of things they actually say? Motives we impose and import into people's minds and hearts when we don't know people's minds and hearts. We have to be diligent. This is a general point about Christian character and relationships and how we deal with other people. Let's be good listeners Slow speakers, quick listeners, slow to anger. Give the benefit of the doubt. Think the best of the other person and their motives and their desires. Really see people through eyes of grace. God has seen us through eyes of grace, and He's shown us a great mercy. Great, God has shown us great patience with our lives. and the things that we say. And here's the thing, he does know our hearts and he does know our motives. He shows us patience and compassion and grace. And in our interactions with people, particularly here, whether we listen to them And uh and being slow to speak and slow to anger, we should reflect God's character. We should be gospel humbled people who are quick to listen, slow to speak. Slow to anger. Verse twenty gives the simple kindergarten level application of this and why to be slow to anger uh because that doesn't produce the righteousness of God That doesn't produce obedience. That doesn't please God. That doesn't line up with God's character. So be slow to anger. Now quick to anger. Be quick to anger, opposite of God. Be slow to anger. Lines up with God. You manifest patience and grace and compassion. Why would we be slow to anger? Verse 20. Because the anger of man does not produce righteousness It doesn't produce righteousness. Matthew 6. 33. Jesus said, seek first the kingdom of God and his Righteousness and everything else will be taken care of. All these things will be added unto you. Everything else that you need will be taken care of in God's way, according to God's will and purpose. We seek first his kingdom, the advance of his kingdom, and we seek first his righteousness, which is, practically speaking, our obedience, obedience to God's will for us. It's so funny when I see verses like this. It's just two little verses of scripture, verses 19 and 20, and that's a lifetime of growth, is it not? I mean it's just a lifetime of growth, these these three things. But it's so important. And it's part of our witness. It's part of our gospel ministry and ministry of love to each other. But as we interact in this way, this unique, peculiar Christian love creates a a unique fellowship. Which the watching world will see. That's part of our witness to the community, to visitors and guests in the church, people that outreaches. They should see something different about us. And God will use that. He'll use our witness and our example in His providence to work in people's lives and stir them up to be interested in God's word and in God's ways. Verse 21, therefore put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness, and receive with meekness the implanted word. Which is able to save your souls, able to see you through to the end, able to sanctify you, which is one of the ways save is used. in scripture. So now, bless you, James has moved from the general point of Christian character of being a good listener. To a particular point as that applies to God's word. Be a good listener. Be a good listener. Be a good listener. Be a good listener. To others, but supremely to God's word. We must be good listeners. We must hunger for God's word and receive with meekness the implanted word. It's really getting to The heart of James's theology of this main point of faith without works is dead. Because the problem is not just that they lack Works. But the fact that they lack works or concern, even a concern for works, shows a deeper problem that they lack the right kind of faith. Because the true faith always gives birth to works. So they needed to learn this lesson, and that's why I said in the opening lesson to this study, James's exhortation is to pursue faith and works. Not one or the other, not to pit those two things against each other, but to strive to grow in our faith, a biblically healthy faith, and strive to grow in our works that are born from true faith. It starts here with the word. The implanted word, which simply means the word we've already received in our hearts. That's all that means. It's a word you've already believed, you've already received Christ, you've already been changed by the gospel. But that doesn't mean that our uh receiving the word and being changed by the word has ended. No. Friends, it's just begun once we receive that implanted word, the word of Christ. That gave us new life is the word of Christ that will sustain us and grow us in this new life. The Christian walk is anything but static. The Christian life is anything but stagnant spinning wheels. It is dynamic growth being conformed to the likeness of Jesus Christ by the power of his word, by the work of his spirit This is Christianity. So, how do we see ourselves in the day-to-day? One of the things we should see ourselves is we should see ourselves as people who with meekness receive God's word. Pretty simple practical stuff. Harder to live out. But that's why we help each other and encourage each other. And we're in this together. God 's word must be received with a gentle and humble heart, with in other words, with meekness Now verse verses twenty two through twenty-five. It's number two on the outline. It says that God's word must be obeyed through genuine repentance. Repentance is turning from sin to obedience. Turning from sin to God. It's a turning. From one thing to the other, from the right to the left. I'm living for myself, turn from that, live for God. God's word must be obeyed through genuine repentance through genuine repentance. And as we read through twenty verses twenty-two through twenty-five, you'll see that there's a deception, there's a warning. The warning about the possibility of deception. But then there's an an encouragement that comes in the form of a blessing. See if you can pick out both of these things. A warning and an encouragement. Verses 22 Through 25, but be doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving yourselves. There's your warning. Don't be just a Bible hearer, a Bible believer on paper. Be a Bible doer with the hands and the feet and the life and the lips, which I'll say. That's the warning. Don't be a hearer only. If you're a hearer only and not a doer, we're deceiving ourselves. Verse 23, for if Anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer. He's like a man who looks intently at his natural face in a mirror. He looks in himself and goes away and at once forgets What he was like. So he looked, he saw the truth of the situation, but he stopped looking, he went away, and he completely forgot about it. And in terms of receiving the word, James is simply saying, Don't be like that Don't forget what the Word of God said. Remember what the Word of God said and apply it to our lives. We need to be Bible appliers, Bible doers, not just hearers. He, verse twenty-four again, he looks at himself and goes away and at once forgets what he was like. If I did that today, I would have a straggly neck and straggly cheeks. Because I would have looked in the mirror, saw that I was not shaved. for midweek Bible study and then I I saw that in the mirror but I look I looked away and it instantly forgot So I was not a doer of what I should have done, but rather I put it into action what needed to happen so that I could look somewhat tempt. For class. But that's the illustration, the simple everyday illustrations. You don't look in the mirror to see what needs to be fixed or whatever, and then turn away and completely forget. And that's not how we treat the Word of God either The Word of God is to be our God. It's to shape and reshape our hearts and minds and words and lives for service in the kingdom of God. Verse 25. After this warning, he gives a blessing. The one who looks into the perfect law He's still talking about the word. Remember the whole thing, so don't get confused by using a different phrase. The whole thing is about receiving God's word and then putting it into action. He's not he hasn't changed topics. The one who looks into the perfect law, the law of liberty, and perseveres, being no hearer who forgets, but a doer who acts, he will be blessed in his doing. This one has the blessing of God upon his life, who receives God's word and then puts it into action. Again, perfectly no, but truly, truly, by faith We can have true obedience in our lives, even though not perfect obedience. We can really, each day of our lives, strive to obey God and pray that God would help us to obey Him. And that is to God's glory. And that is spirit wrath, obedience in our lives. And it honors God and it pleases God. And God uses that in his providence. In our lives, under his blessing, as obedient children, not those who are deceived, which was the warning. The law of liberty also shows up in chapter two, verse twelve. So speak and so act as those who are to be judged under the law of liberty Under God's commandments, under God's moral law, as those who are free in Christ. Law of liberty. Pursue obedience as adopted sons. That's the law of liberty. We're free from the law in the sense that we're not under the law. That means we're free from the threats of the law. The law threatens eternal punishment for those who disobey. Of course, we're sinners. We've disobeyed. Are we going to receive The eternal punishment that the law threatens? No. Why is that? Because we've been set free. We've been cleansed by the blood of Christ. We pursue obedience as adopted sons. We're free from the law's threats of punishment. That's how the law operates My threats is one of the ways the law operates, by threatening punishment to lawbreakers and promising reward to those who keep the law perfectly. We're under grace, not under law. But God still has a will for us. He still has his commands for us that guide and shape our lives. So the law becomes a pattern of sanctification, but it's not a path to justification. We pursue obedience as adopted sons. Law of liberty. We're free from the laws threats of punishment and therefore we're free from sin's power. First Corinthians 15, 56. The power of sin is the anybody know Law. The power of sin is the law because we have naturally sinful hearts. So the law comes and it stokes up Our sinfulness, to expose our sinfulness and show us that we need a savior. As those who are filled with the Holy Spirit, we are no longer enslaved to sin. So , law of liberty. We are free in Christ, free from the threats of the law, free from the enslaving power of sin. Aren't you happy about that? If you can remember back what it was like to be enslaved to sin, to be blind to the reality of sin, to be numbed and hardened to the reality of what sin actually was. Water, you are happy to no longer be enslaved to sin, under the ruling power of sin, as a tyrant in our hearts. So we are free from the law's threats of punishment because we're under grace. We are free from sin 's enslaving power. Because we're under grace, we're no longer under the law, and we're free from the external regulations and ceremonies of the Mosaic Law. We're not under the Mosaic Law in any sense. It was a law covenant in the blood of Christ We are under a grace covenant. Fundamentally different kind of covenant. Works on different principle So we're not treated as slaves anymore, this comes from Galatians, as those who lived under the Mosaic Law, but we're treated as sons, sons under grace. I take that Thomas Law of Liberty because it it's a not totally unique phrase. It's twice in James and the concept is discussed other places, but it it's not one we see too often or talk about too often. Uh let's look at two cross references. Galatians two four, first of all Yet because of the false brothers, pseudo brothers, because of the false brothers secretly brought in who slipped in to spy out our Freedom. Freedom is just another word for what we've been talking about. Starts with an L. Liberty. The freedom we have in Christ, so they might bring us into slavery, to legalism, Judaism legalism. which was one of the plagues of the fighting against true Christianity in the early church. When Paul says w the freedom that ha he has in Christ, the He's not a moral relativist. That doesn't mean you live however you want. No, we're uh still under the commands of God. When we want to know how we should live our li lives, we go to God's word and God's will and God's moral commands and God's ethics. But there's freedom in Christ. There's liberty spiritual liberty in Christ. And one more, 1 Corinthians 9, 21. First Corinthians nine twenty one One of those classic passages. In verse 20, Paul says to the Jews, I became a Jew in order to win the Jews, to those under the law, became as one under the law. Though not being myself under the law, meaning not under the Mosaic Law, that I might win those under the law. Now in verse 21, to those outside the law I became as one outside the law, not being outside the law, but under the law of Christ. Under the law of Christ. He's in Christ. He has freedom in Christ. He has liberty in Christ. But that doesn't mean that We make the law null and void God's moral requirements for us, but rather we are delighted in his moral requirements for us. Because of the spirit within us, and we pursue obedience again. Have I said this yet? As adopted sons. As adopted sons, not slaves. So we pursue obedience Law as adopted sons, law of liberty. Those under grace striving to do God's will. God 's word must be obeyed. That is worth expounding and meditating on these different things in detail to understand our spiritual Just the s the spiritual nature of our obedience. One more time I'm going to go over the three primary ways we are not under law, where we are free from the law. First of all, we are free from the threats of the law. The law threatens punishment and death for Those who disobey. Praise God, we're under grace. And all of our sins have been blotted out by the blood of His cross. Praise God and hallelujah. Secondly, we're free from sin 's enslaving power, which comes from the law. Because we're filled with the Holy Spirit, guided by Christ, being sanctified by Christ. Third, we're free From the external regulations and ceremonies of the Mosaic Law. We're not under a law covenant with its external Forms and types and ceremonies and calendar, but we are now sons, no longer treated as slaves Are any questions on anything so far before we go to points number three and four on this outline? Quickly just to restate number one, God's word must be received with a gentle and humble spirit. And number two, God's word must be obeyed through genuine repentance, turning away from filthiness and rampant wickedness, and receiving the word and doing the word. Anyone? All right, we'll go on. Going once. Going twice? Okay. Okay. Number three. God's word alone can tame our tongues. God's word alone can tame our tongues. And I mean that in a true sense. Of course we tame our tongues. We all tame our tongues in certain situations when we're really are thinking about our reputation. or when we're thinking about w something that we want and it's a pragmatic thing to tame our tongues. But to tame our tongues simply out of love for God, for the glory of God and as an act of love and kindness to others. Is difficult. God's word alone can tame our tongues. Well, of course that's true. God's word and God's spirit alone can help us grow in any aspect of personal holiness and obedience. So it shouldn't be shocking. This comes from verse Twenty six. If anyone thinks he is religious and does not bridle his tongue But deceives his heart. This person's religion is worthless. So let's just talk about the word religious. It's talking about devotion. It's talking about living out our devotion. If anyone thinks he is Truly devoted to God, but doesn't bridle his tongue , and does not bridle his tongue, but deceives his heart. Now it's interesting that those two things are contrasted. If you're a circler, you can circle bridle his tongue, or does not bridle his tongue. Does not bridle his tongue. And then the other thing you can circle is deceives his heart. Two things are in play, the tongue and the heart. So if you're not bridling your tongue or even caring about bridling your tongue, and you think you're religious, you're deceiving your heart Deceiving your heart. And the heart in scripture is representative for you, yourself. You're lying to yourself. You're only what do we say? You're only kidding yourself. She's only kidding herself. This is probably envisioning people who James is writing to who are outwardly going through the motions of Christian devotion. Involved, attending, active, whatever, but really let it fly with their tongues, and they're causing a lot of problems. And if you think that's overstating it, you'll see when we get to chapter three, there's no way in the world I could state the issue and the problem with the tongue stronger than James. And God speaking through James in James chapter three. I can't up the any on him. It's as strong as you can get. Some of the strongest language in Scripture with how Diabolical, literally, the tongue is, and the trouble that it causes us. So He's just previewing it here. It's almost like he's getting them ready, softening them up a bit for what's coming in chapter three. You think you're religious because you're doing this and you're doing that and other people think you're all this you can think of the Pharisees come to mind at a re uh Not attitude. What's the word I'm looking for? Reputation. A reputation of being the religious ones, of being the obedient ones, of being the the intellectual and the spiritual leaders. But if you don't bridle your tongue, you're deceiving your heart. You're lying to yourself. It says your devotion is worthless. Your religion is worthless. And of course, we know that because All of our righteous deeds uh are just filthy garments anyway, apart from faith. Apart from forgiveness in Christ, they gain us nothing. They gain us nothing. Final point. Which is the longest one? I have six sub points under this. God's word should make us rich in good deeds and compassion. Rich means you should have a lot of them. Rich means abounding. Abundant. What is the rich person? It is abundant money. To be rich in good deeds, to be abounding, abundant in good deeds and compassion. Verse 27. Religion that is pure and undefiled before God, the Father, is this. Visit orphans and widows in their affliction. That's a common theme throughout scripture. Very big deal. Especially in ancient cultures. She could be outcasts, and your life was in danger. So these are rep big representative ministries, could we call them? Or areas that need benevolence and compassion. Visit orphans and widows in their affliction, and keep oneself unstained from the world. That's both of those things, benevolence and holiness. Doing all kinds of good deeds and yet living like the devil in your own time is not God's will And then being but also really focusing on personal holiness, but not caring an ounce about the affliction. of others and not giving one ounce of energy or anything to help others. That's not God's will either. Benevolence and personal holiness. Loving others and living for God. These things need to go together. Sub point number one, just in thinking about uh benevolence and compassion and good deeds. First of all, within the church, this needs to pri be a priority first in the church. serving and ministering to one another. You see this in different places in Acts chapter 2. Throughout the book of Acts, the passage I want to look at is Matthew 25, 31. And for each of these subpoints I have Passage to look at. Matthew 25, 31. As soon as I say Matthew 25, you should know what scene we're in. Separation of the what from the what? Yeah, sheep from the goats. I mean there's more in there, but that's The second half of the chapter. Final judgment. It's a picture of the final judgment. Matthew 25, 31 through 40, not looking at the whole thing. This actually is not about um good deeds in general, but about good deeds to the brethren. The least of these my brothers, that's Jesus talking about his church. Who are his mothers and sisters and brothers, those who hear the will of God and do it. You see this throughout Acts. It's a major storyline in Acts, the collection for the church in Jerusalem because of the famine, taking care of the church of God, the children of God. It's not the only area of benevolence and compassion, but it is a priority for the church Matthew 25, verse 31 through 40, when the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne, before him will be gathered all the nations. So you see this is one general judgment. All the nations, he will separate people one from another as a shepherd separates the The sheep from the goats. This is the one final judgment, general judgment. All nations, but also the sheep and the goats are here. Verse 34, then the king will say to those on his right, Come, you who are blessed by my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. For I was hungry and you gave me food. I was thirsty and you gave me drink. I was a stranger and you welcomed me. I was naked and you clothed me. I was sick and you visited me. I was in prison and you came to me. Just a timeout before we read verse thirty-seven through forty, when Jesus appeared to Saul and said, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? What was he referring to? He's referring to his church. The me is the church. Christ is one with his church. The church is one with Christ. We are united to him. Each individual Christian should never think of himself in isolation. From Christ. You are united to Christ. The church is united to Christ. He is the head. We are his body. Therefore, we are joined together spiritually, but we are one with him. Saul saw, why are you persecuting me? Means why are you persecuting my church? Same thing, same kind of thing is happening here. Verse 37: then the righteous will answer him, saying, Lord. When did we see you hungry and feed you or thirsty and give you drink? And when do we see you a stranger and welcome you, or naked and clothe you? And when do we see you sick or in prison and visit you? And the king will answer them. Truly, truly I say to you, as you did it to one of the least of my brothers, you did it to me. The brothers, the brethren. That's the church. That's believers. That's those who hear the word of God and do it. Our benevolence , being rich in good deeds deeds, should start one to another in the church. In fact, it's almost like an ongoing boot camp. For caring for people, care for each other, and then we go out in the world and care for others. And that's the second point. We also should be benevolent in a general sense in the world as is needed. Galatians 6 10. Galatians 6. 10. If we love Jesus, we'll we'll love the church. And just as attentive we would be to Jesus if he literally walked in here and we want to talk with him We should be that attentive to each other, to the church, because the church is his body. We care for him, we care for the church. We c so Benevolence in the house of God, and then secondly, benevolence in the world, Galatians 6. 10 I mean there are many verses on this, just a quick hitting one. So then, as we have opportunity, let us do good to Everyone, but especially to those who are of the household of faith. And that verse is a good verse because it says both. Do good to all. There's no law against doing good. There's no boundaries on doing good. Do good to all. Do good to everyone. Do good to the waiter, the waitress. And the person who's driving in front of you, the person who's driving on your bumper, do good to all. Look for opportunities to do good, to exercise compassion, to show mercy and grace. As we have opportunity, let us do good to everyone, but especially to those who are the household of faith. If we can't treat each other well Where we're in the place where we share the same faith and are filled with the same spirit and have the same hope. What in the world makes us think we'll be able to go out into the world and do good to others? It doesn't work that way. We would just be deceiving our hearts. So we do good to everyone. Strive to be rich in good deeds, but especially to those who are the household of faith. Build up the church. Help the kingdom advance for the glory of God. Benevolence in the church, first point, benevolence in the world. Second point, pray for those. Look for opportunities for those. Purpose in your heart to do those. And the third point is just to emphasize that this is the individual Christian's duty. Turn to Matthew 6, 1 through 4. And I'm saying this with a practical pastoral application I'd like to attach to it. Matthew 6 1 through 4. This is the Christian's individual duty. Don't always think if you have something that God's put on your heart to show benevolence to this person Maybe in the church or to this group of people out in the world. Don't think that that means that it's God's will for you to come into the church and now have that become a ministry of the whole church. Church wouldn't be able to do all of those things that God puts on every individual's hearts. God wants you to help. You go help that person. You go do a good deed. You give. Personal duty before the Lord. The church couldn't possibly carry out and create a full orb of ministry to do And make a full orb to ministry out of every burden for benevolence and compassion and kindness that God puts on the hearts of his people. It just couldn't happen. No, Christian, you you do what God's called you to do. Here's a passage for us. Beware of practicing your righteousness, acts of devotion, acts of religion, before other people in order to be seen by them, for then you will have no reward from your Father who is in heaven. Thus when you you give to the needy when you give to the needy, sound no trumpet before you, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may be praised by others. Truly I say to you, they've received their reward. Now what's their reward? Well, he says it. They're praised by others. That's what they wanted, that's what they got. They received their reward. And unless they repent, they're really going to receive their reward when they stand before the Lord. But when you give to the needy, when you when you give to the needy, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing, so that your giving may be in secret, and your father who sees in secret will reward you. God puts a burden on your heart to call this person, go call that person. God puts a burden on your heart to make a contribution to this person to meet this need. Meet it. Meet that need. Sometimes, yes. The church is going to help. We have different ministries for these things. But what I'm saying is don't Don't feel like it's God's will that every burden, every desire for a benevolence that you have is something that God wants to make into a huge, massive ministry in the church and everybody now has to get on board because God's called you to do this. No, you do this. You go do it in secret. And God will be pleased, the person will be helped, and it'll you'll have God's blessing upon you. So, first point, benevolence in the church, it's got to be a priority. Also benevolence in the world. There's no law against doing good. So we do good to all as God gives opportunity. Thirdly, see this is your duty. I need to see this as my duty, looking to do good deeds. Fourth, we always have to say this, or at least I always try to get this one in. Always remember that our good deeds do not save us. They do not help to save us. They do not help keep us saved. They do not increase God's favor and love toward us. Good deeds don't save us. Romans 3. 28 The only thing that makes us righteous before God It's the blood sacrifice of Jesus Christ and being united to him by faith. That's it. Period. There's nothing that needs to be added to that Romans three twenty eight. For we hold that one is justified by faith Apart from works of the law. I love the phrase there, apart from So here you justified by faith over here, faith in Christ, based on his blood sacrifice. You justified by faith Apart from works of the law, works of the law are over there. We're justified by faith over here, works of the law over there. And all the law is summed up in what? Love. So you don't think necessarily of outward ceremonies of the Mosaic Law. Just think of the actual fulfilling of the law, which is love. The one who's loved has fulfilled the law. Our loving God and our loving others does not help us to be justified before God. Justified by faith. Understanding that our good works and our obedience don't save us or help save us, that's the thing that's really going to propel us to pursue good works. And to pursue benevolence with the right mindset, a mindset that honors God and honors Christ. Not helping our standing with God It really is linked to the core doctrine. The core doctrine of all doctrines is the sufficiency of Christ's sacrifice for us. That's why we gather together. This is what made us into the church. This is what fills us with the Holy Spirit. It's Christ's sacrifice for us that's sufficient for our salvation. All right. You remember how many subpoints I told you I had under this? Six. So first, good deeds in the church. Hey guys, let's prioritize that. Let's be kind to one another. Let's be rich in good deeds and benevolence. Let's care for one another. We do that well, but let's do that all the more. Secondly, in the world Let's prioritize that. Let's look for opportunities. Third, see this is your responsibility, your duty. God's called you to good works Fourth, please remember, each one of us, let us remember that our good deeds do not help save us. Fifth, Um any any deed that is outwardly righteous or formally Is obedience must also be done in true faith for it to be truly good and truly pleasing to God. For instance, lots of give m lots of people give money to humanitarian efforts for the poor different areas of justice and things like that to help people in different ways. But not everybody gives that money to the glory of God because they love Christ have a proper view where they want to glorify God and serve people in the name of Christ. True good deeds are done in faith. I'll give you one. Well, no, two. I'll have you turn to Matthew 7. 21. The other one I'm just going to read. Turn to Matthew 7. 21. And I'm going to read Isaiah 646. As soon as I say that, many of you know what that is. I think I alluded to it earlier. We have all become like one who is unclean and all our righteous deeds. Are righteous deeds good or bad? Righteous deeds are good, right? But check this out. All our righteous deeds are like a polluted garment. They're actually unclean and def and defiled. Because they weren't joined with true faith. They weren't from the heart of true faith. You know, if you serve God on the Sabbath day and you worship in Baal two days later Your righteous deeds do not mean anything. True devotion to God in the heart is the fountain spring of all true obedience. If you don't have that, you have nothing. Matthew seven twenty-one. I want you to look See that these people here who are lost people are nevertheless very, very active in outward religion and things that we'd consider good formally speaking. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord Well, right there, I mean, that's a good deed. We would say that's that's a chief righteous deed of professing Christ as Lord. But not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven. But the one who does Does that was the important word in James this evening, wasn't it? The one who does. You do. You're a doer, doer of the word. The one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven. So, contemplate for just a second before we read the next verses that whatever these people were doing, they were not doing the will of the Father in heaven. They weren't doing it. Verse 22, on that day many will say to me, Lord, Lord, do we not prophesy in your name? Cast out demons in your name, and do many mighty works in your name. Good things. I'm sure they were doing more than that too. They're trying to name the biggies. They're trying this what you do on your resume. Put the real biggies. Make yourself stand out from the crowd. Stand out from the applicants. Well, that's the problem. They're thinking in terms of a resume when it comes to their standing with God. But these are good things, righteous things, formally speaking. Prophecy prophesying in Christ's name, casting out demons, doing mighty works, all in his name. Then I would declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you workers of lawlessness. Outward religion, even if it looks from the uh surface level formally, if it looks like true obedience, it could still be a counterfeit. It actually is lawlessness. They're workers of lawlessness. doing those things because they weren't done in true faith from a true heart. Good works must be done in faith to be truly good. Final point is that our benevolence and personal holiness was also a part of that last verse in James, where I keep oneself unstained from the world. Is part of our witness in the world. It's part of God's self-testimony in the world. He testifies to himself. Through his word, by the work of his spirit, through the lives of Christians. Through the lives of Christians. Another one, if we're all over Matthew, Matthew 5 Sermon on the Mount again. Been there a lot tonight, which makes sense. The Sermon on the Mount really Matthew five, six, and seven summarizes life for children of God in the world. What does it mean to Live as a citizen of heaven, a citizen of the kingdom of heaven, still on earth. Sermon on the Mount summarizes that for us And what I'd like to do is conclude tonight's study with a reading from Matthew 1 all the way through six Matthew 5, 1, not Matthew 1. Matthew five one through verse sixteen, reading the Beatitudes, and then you'll see the climactic verses, at least of this reading, that highlight that our lives Is our witness, our Christian witness, our Christian living in the world as part of God's testimony in the world, and he'll use that for his glory. Verse one, seeing the crowds, Jesus went up on the mountain And when he sat down, his disciples came to him, and he opened his mouth and he taught them, his disciples. He taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of God. Blessed are those who mourn, for they will be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. And blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, they will be satisfied. Blessed are the merciful, they'll receive mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they'll see God. Blessed are the peacemakers They'll be called sons of God. Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. And blessed are you when others revile you and persecute you and utter all kinds of evil against you falsely on my account. Rejoice and be glad, because your reward is great in heaven. And so they persecuted the prophets who were before you. You are the salt of the earth. But if salt has lost its taste, how shall its saltiness be restored? It's no longer good for anything except to be thrown out and trampled under people's feet. You are the light of the world. A city set on the hill cannot be hidden, nor do people light a lamp and put it under a basket, but up on a stand, and it gives light to all who are in the house. In the same way, let your light shine before others, so that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in heaven.