The message comes from 2 John verses 7 and 9. Well, what chapter? Well, there's only one chapter, so just 2 John 7 and 9, or if you want, 2 John 1, 7 through 9, on the doctrine of Christ or the teaching of Christ. King James Bible, I believe New King James also translates the doctrine of Christ. The newer Bibles will have the teaching of the Christ. But that's what doctrine is. Doctrine is teaching. That's why we want biblical doctrine, biblical teaching. And today we're on the doctrine of Christ from 2 John 7 to 9. We've seen that Christ, in this series, we've seen that Christ adorns his bride, and his bride is the Church. He adorns his bride with a passion for the truth of God. And Christ also adorns his bride with a passion for the love of God. And Christ also adorns his bride with evangelical obedience, or if you want a shorter word, gospel obedience. The obedience that's created by the gospel. This is the kind of obedience that the that fills the Christian's life. That should be a top priority for the Christian. Evangelical obedience. It's a gift from God. Salvation creates obedience. Obedience does not create salvation. That would be salvation by works. But we are not saved by works, brothers and sisters. We're saved by grace. We are saved as a free gift. Salvation creates obedience. So when we talk about the obedience of a Christian or evangelical obedience, we're not talking about what we do to be saved. We're talking about what we do and how we live because we are saved. Christ adorns his bride with a passion for the truth and a passion for the for the love of God and a passion for gospel obedience. And so also, coming to this morning's topic, Christ adorns his bride with the doctrine of Christ, with the experiential Knowledge of the risen Lord. The experiential knowledge of the risen Lord, Jesus Christ who lives in heaven. It's my favorite topic. I hope it was your favorite topic, because it's the favorite topic of Scripture. It's the chief adornment, the bride of Christ. It's the brightest star in the sky. If you don't have this right, nothing else matters. You can have every other doctrine right. If you're wrong, if I'm wrong of the doctrine of Christ, I lose it all. In fact, the doctrine of Christ, the experiential knowledge of the risen Christ, is the source of every other adornment in the bride of Christ. See if you can hang with me on this. Experiential knowledge of Jesus is the source of having a passion for God's truth Experiential knowledge of Jesus is the source of having a passion for God's love and for our love one to another. The experiential knowledge of Jesus is the ever-flowing fountain source of all obedience that could ever exist in our life. Brothers and sisters. Friends and visitors, this is it. The doctrine of Christ, the spiritual, relational Experiential knowledge of the risen Lord Jesus Christ. Second John seven to nine For many deceivers have gone out into the world, those who do not confess the coming of Jesus Christ in the flesh. And such a one is the deceiver and the Antichrist. So watch yourselves, so that you may not lose what we have worked for But may win a full reward. Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the doctrine of Christ. Or the teaching of Christ does not have God Whoever abides in the doctrine has both the Father and the Son. And in the broader context, we know that it's also true that he has the Spirit. Amen? Well, as you let your eyes linger on verse 9, let me just ask you: could the stakes be any higher? Could the stakes be any higher if you abide in this doctrine You have God. If you do not abide in this doctrine, what does it say? Does not have God. Friends, that's the only reason I'm here. God. That's the only reason I have hope. Is because Jesus has reconciled me to God And it's the only reason I can have joy as I stand before you, even with the seriousness and the weightiness of what we're talking about. But the joy that we can have, the joy that we share. Because God has forgiven us our sins. And God has given us the gift of eternal life. And how has he done that? Through Christ. We forfeit the doctrine of Christ. You forfeit everything for now and eternity. The doctrine of Christ. So, what we'll do this morning is discuss the nature and the importance of the doctrine of Christ. I already clued you into this. It's the experiential knowledge of the risen Lord. So we'll discuss what that means. We'll discuss the nature and the importance of the doctrine of Christ, and then we'll look at three Major applications of it in this passage. Not the only applications, and not the only major applications, but three major applications of this doctrine. But first of all, let's camp out for a little bit and just discuss this doctrine. The doctrine of Christ is the defining mark of a spirit-filled church. Verse 9, once again, everyone who goes on ahead And does not abide in the doctrine of Christ, which tells you at one point they had at least superficially, they had at least in some degree, they had the doctrine of Christ, in some measure And now what are they doing? They're going on ahead. They're moving on from it. That's the picture that we see. Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the teaching of Christ does not have God. But whoever abides in the teaching, whoever stays there, whoever remains there, whoever drops anchor there in the doctrine of Christ Whoever abides in the teaching has both the Father and has both the Son. The chief mark of a spirit-filled church. And the chief mark of a spirit-filled Christian, which is the only kind of Christian there is. A true Christian is a Christian who's been born of the Spirit and is filled with the Spirit. But the the defining mark, the ear mark, the hall mark, the chief mark is the doctrine of Christ. We're not talking about an intellectual knowledge, but we're talking about a relational Experiential knowledge and what's the difference between an intellectual knowledge and a relational or experiential knowledge? I'm glad you asked. I know that this person exists. That's intellectual knowledge. You know their name. You may know where they live, you know they exist. I have a close relationship with this person. That's experiential knowledge. You could know a person exists You can know things about the person. But that's a different kind of knowledge than the knowledge of a close relationship. You have an intellectual knowledge of your favorite athlete, right? You may some of you may have a very detailed intellectual knowledge of your favorite athlete, and you know statistics, and you know accomplishments, and you know height, and you know weight, and you know their rookie gear, and you know their championships. You don't have an experiential knowledge. You don't have a relational knowledge with them. You have an intellectual knowledge. of your favorite athlete, or your favorite actor, or your favorite singer, but you have an experiential knowledge of your closest friend. Your closest friend is the one you call. Your closest friend is the one you confide in. Your closest friend is the one who shows up at all hours of the night if you're in need of desperate help. And you can have an infinite amount of intellectual knowledge of someone doing something somewhere in some way. But what you need in life are close friends. You need experiential knowledge. You have an experiential knowledge of your mom or dad. Mom and dad have experiential knowledge. You see what we're talking about? Christianity is not just intellectual knowledge. Brothers and sisters, Christianity is not just up here. It's not just from the tin up. It's not just the heads thing. It's not just the understanding of facts. It's not just the agreeing with certain facts. It's it's the soul's relationship. It's the soul's Bond with Jesus Christ and how Jesus Christ has powerfully changed us inwardly and is and he continues to change us inwardly. The spiritual dynamic, which is the opposite of static, which is the opposite of stagnant. Dynamic, growing relationship. Experiential knowledge with Christ. That's what Christianity is. When we say the doctrine of Christ, that's what we're talking about. That's what we're talking about. I'd rather you have one teaspoon of an experiential knowledge of Christ and maybe not be so good on the facts or exactly how to say them rather than knowing all the facts. Having a mountain of intellectual knowledge of Christ, but not one drip, not one drop of a transformative experiential knowledge of Christ. You see the difference between intellectual knowledge and experiential knowledge, the knowledge of a relationship, of trusting, of knowing, of loving, of caring. Of close, intimate communication. Galatians two twenty, Paul writes, I've been crucified with Christ And then he's going to say one of the most shocking things I've ever heard. I've been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live. Bless you. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. Isn't that shocking? Is that the way that you picture your salvation? Is that the way that you picture your walk with the Lord? You picture Christianity? That it is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And then Paul goes on to say this, still in Galatians 2. 20. In the life I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. What is he talking about? I've been crucified with Christ. What is he talking about? It's no longer I who live. What is he talking about? Christ who lives in me. What is he talking about? The life I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God. Who loved me and gave himself for me. What is he talking about? He's talking about the experiential knowledge of Christ. He's talking about a spiritual bond, a spiritual relationship with Christ, the transformative presence of Christ. In the Christian, and then by extension, in the local church. In the New Testament, the Christian is the temple of God, the dwelling place of God's Spirit, and also the church. The local church is the temple of God, the dwelling place of God's Spirit. The doctrine of Christ is the defining mark of a spirit-filled church and a spirit-filled believer. It's the only kind of True believer. Real quickly, three aspects of this. Three aspects. These aren't your major headings, but just real quickly three aspects on the doctrine of Christ. Number one, it includes a biblical understanding of Christ. We have to have a biblical view of Christ. A lot of groups, a lot of people. take the name of Jesus, but then fill in their own substance and fill in their own teachings about who Jesus is, about what Jesus did, about the significance of Jesus in general and then in your own life. We must have a biblical understanding of Christ. That's one part of the doctrine of Christ. Number two, another part of our knowing that we have the doctrine of Christ is Christ will be our first love. Not our only love. Love your family. Love your friends. Love the church. Love your favorite food in a different way. Now you can love your love your favorite food, whatever. It's different kinds of love. But your first love, our first love, our top love, our deepest affections, are reserved for Christ. Because Christ is God. Christ is God. Biblical understanding of Christ, that Christ would be our first love, and number three, the faithful preaching and teaching of Christ. The faithful preaching and teaching of Christ. The gospel going forth is not a theory. It's not just something that can exist on paper. The life of a Christian is devoted not only to hearing and believing in Christ, but each in our in the different ways that God has assigned according to our different gifts According to different situations in life, all of us have a part in the preaching and teaching of Christ. All of us. We all share in that work, that great work of God, and it's a work of God, not of me, not of us, it's a work of God. That he puts preachers and he enables preachers to preach and teach Christ in the world. We all have a part in that in one way or another This is the doctrine of Christ. It is the defining mark of a spirit-filled church. Visitors should be able to discern this about us very, very quickly. That's a church that loves Christ. That how do they know? Well they're always talking about him with joy, talking about their love for Christ, talking about Christ and not themselves, talking about what Christ did, not what they're doing, not trying to entertain people, but they they preach Christ. That's what they give you You go to Italian restaurant, you get Italian food. You go to Chinese restaurant, you go to Chinese, you get Chinese food. You go to Greek restaurant, you get Greek food. You go to That church you get Christ That's what we want to be known for. The preaching, the teaching of Christ, the love of Christ, the truth of Christ, the singing and rejoicing in Christ, and on and on and on. Brothers and sisters, in the church, we're not under the spotlight. Well, kind of when you preach in this church, you are under these spotlights. We're the ones who hold the spotlight on Christ. We fade into the background, but leave us in the dark. Leave us behind the curtain. Put us up in in the tech room. We shine the spotlight on Christ. What people need is Christ. What people need to see is Christ. What people need to understand intellectually and deep in the soul is Christ. And so we preach and we preach and we teach and we teach. Christ is on the pedestal. That all the spotlights shine on Christ. That's what makes church church. That's what makes a ministry a biblical ministry The doctrine of Christ is the defining mark of a spirit-filled church. Now, I told you, and I was not lying, three major applications in this passage. Do you still want those? Fella, you want these three major applications. Number one, the doctrine of Christ equips us to avoid the Antichrist. Let me ask you, do you want to do that? Do you want to be able to identify and avoid the Antichrist? The answer is yes. I saw at least a few heads nodding. I mean if there's one thing to run from with all your might, would be the Antichrist. Verse 7. Many deceivers have gone out into the world. Brothers and sisters, is that not true? Many deceivers. It's not just scattered a few here and there. Those who do not confess the coming of Jesus Christ in the flesh. Such a one is a deceiver and the Antichrist. This particular, the the particular. Aspect of the doctrine of Christ that's being denied in this passage is what? It starts with an I. The incarnation, right. These deceivers, these antichrists, are denying that Christ really came in the flesh. He would have appeared as a man. He appeared as a human. But not really. It's one of the earliest heresies in the church era. And that would have been a sign for that teacher that they're a deceiver. They're out of step with the apostolic gospel. They're out of step. They're rejecting the truth of Christ. In this one particular way, they're denying the incarnation. They're denying that he really was a human being. Those who work in counterfeiting. Need to be experts on the real deal so that you can spot the fake. You need to be an expert You need to be schooled up. You need to be equipped thoroughly in the genuine article so that when the counterfeit rolls around, you can identify it and call it what it is. Deceiver Antichrist Don't ever stop growing in the doctrine of Christ. You can deny the incarnation of Christ. You can also deny the deity of Christ Affirming he really was a human, but denying that he really is God. That also would mark one as a deceiver and an antichrist. You also could deny the perfectly holy and perfectly righteous life of Christ. He was a great teacher He was the best teacher, and he was a very spiritual, very good man, but not perfect, and not perfectly holy in every aspect of life and existence. That also would mark one as a deceiver and an antichrist. Jesus Christ was perfectly holy in heart, soul, mind, and strength, in word, in deed. Everywhere, every day, perfect the righteousness of Christ. Now that is something that should make us do somersaults if you prefer to cartwheels rejoicing Because this is the righteousness that's credited to our account, brothers and sisters. Are you awake this morning? This is the righteousness that's given to us as a gift This is the righteousness with which God clothes us. This righteousness of Christ and his perfect obedience to God and his perfect love for others, this righteousness is credited to our account. Why would God do that? Why would God do that? Because in love, in an infinite love. An incomprehensible grace. God wants us to be able to stand before Him and not be guilty. I don't even remember where I was in my notes. Something on Jesus. Right, Jerry? Something on Jesus and what's great about him. That's always this. If you get lost, if you're ever teaching, you're ever preaching, you get lost, just circle back to Jesus and something about him that's great. You could affirm the righteous life of Christ, but deny sacrificial death. That would also mark one as a deceiver and an Antichrist. Yes, he's God, yes he's man. You can affirm you can affirm so many things. Yes, he's God, yes he's man, yes he lived a perfectly righteous life, but he didn't die in the place of sinners There was no supernatural thing going on at the cross. It was just the greatest example of love. And you can sound very spiritual preaching it and denying The substitutionary death of Christ in the place of sinners. Antichrist. Deceiver. That's the core of the gospel. That's the centerpiece of the gospel. If you think of Christian doctrine as a ring that has All kinds of itty -bitty tiny diamonds going all around it. And in the setting, it just has all kinds of small diamonds and small gemstones. And then right in the middle, it's a glorious. Rare precious diamond like you've never ever seen. That rare precious diamond, the radiance of the glory of God, is the sacrificial death of Jesus Christ in the place of sinners That's it. This is the gospel. So if you deny that, no matter what else you affirm, deceiver antichrist. But you know what? You can even affirm that And still be an antichrist? Affirm his humanity, affirm his deity, affirm his righteous life, affirm his sacrificial death, and deny the bodily resurrection of Christ Antichrist. Deceiver. You take out the bodily resurrection of Christ. You lose salvation. You lose salvation. If Christ is dead, if Christ is not alive, you can't come to Him for life. So you can affirm all kinds of things. That's why you've got to have your discernment radar on high alert when you're watching so-called Christian television. Or so-called Christian movies, or so-called Christian section of the bookstore, or so-called Christian radio station. I'm not saying that everything that's out there is bad in Antichrist, but there's a lot of it And they say lots of things that sound good, lots of things that are true. And if you don't have your radar up, you'll r unwittingly Embrace a little nugget of the Antichrist deception that defames Christ and detracts from his glory. By trying to put forth an unbiblical Jesus using his name or using the name of Jesus to roll you in a lot of cash if you do it. If you do it in just the right way, according to the principles of the flesh. And if we could go on and on and on. You could affirm all of those things. You could even affirm the The resurrection, you can affirm everything that I've said to this point, but you can deny the ascension of Christ, that he supernaturally and spiritually ascended back into heaven and is seated at the right hand of God. You could deny the sufficiency of Christ, which means, yes, I do need Christ to be saved Plus, I need my good works to be saved. Plus, I need my obedience to be saved. You could you could you could deny the exclusivity of Christ. I've heard this one a lot. I've heard this one a lot. The exclusivity of Christ is that He's the not just that He saves, He's the only way to be saved. He's the only way to be saved. The exclusivity of Christ. The doctrine of Christ. You see, you've got to be biblically grounded in all the aspects of Christ's identity and all the aspects of Christ's Work and all the aspects of Christ's glorious salvation to spot the counterfeit. To spot the counterfeit. The doctrine of Christ equips us to avoid The Antichrist. You know, we have a duty, not just your pastors, but your Sunday school teachers, whoever preaches or teaches, or shares the word, we have a duty. To preach and teach and contend for sound doctrine. But you also have a duty to seek and to learn. And to devote yourself to, and to abide in sound doctrine. Someone can serve All the food in the world to someone who's starving and dying of hunger. But if they don't eat it, what good is it? A doctor can prescribe the right medicine and the right procedure But if you don't take the medicine and you don't show up to the procedure, what good is it? God can give you his word and give you his word and give me his word and give me his word, but if I'm not humbly receiving that word by faith, what good is it? Number one, the doctrine of Christ, which is the defining mark of a spirit-filled church. The doctrine of Christ equips us to avoid the Antichrist, verse seven. Secondly Second major application, the doctrine of Christ equips us to guard the ministry. Verse 8: the doctrine of Christ equips us to guard the ministry. Here's verse 8. Watch yourselves, so that you may not lose what you have worked for, but may win a full reward. Now, some with a sensitive conscience, and maybe you struggle with assurance, maybe you think that he's talking about that you can lose your salvation I want to prove to you real quick. Hopefully I can do this under 20 seconds. Prove to you that it's not talking about losing your salvation. Alright, who has a timer? Go. It says, may not lose what we've worked for. Let me ask you, did you work for your salvation? Point proven. Well that was quicker than I thought. Yeah. If you worked for your salvation, then lose what you work for, it would be plausible that you could lose your salvation. If my salvation is based on my works, I had to work for it, and there's a chance I could lose what I worked for. Yeah, you could lose your salvation. I can't be talking about salvation. Why says lose what we have worked for? Some about the ministry of the apostles, which when John is talking in the first person plural throughout his epistles, he's referring to the apostles in the apostolic ministry and in conjunction with that the ministry of the local churches in general. It was the time in history where God was first planting and establishing and strengthening local churches, biblical local churches, under this one apostolic gospel. And from the work, the hard work of the apostles and those in ministry with the apostles and pastors and members of local churches, there is much spiritual fruit. As a result of the hard work of the apostles of the church. It takes hard work to be a good church member. There is a fruitfulness in ministry that comes from hard work. Now we don't get the glory. We don't get the glory for that. Our hard work is a result of God's grace. Our hard work for the Lord is a result of God's work in us. We don't get the glory. We don't get the praise. We're not the power source of spiritual fruitfulness in the world. Spiritual blessings and the spiritual fruit that result from biblical ministry, that's what we work for. We want spiritual blessings and we want spiritual fruits that result from biblical ministry. And if you want to lose all that's been worked for in this church since the nineteen fifties We want to lose all that's been worked for. We just get away. It's very easy. All we do need to do is just get away from biblical ministry centered on Christ. That's all we need to do. We want to forfeit what we worked for. You want to lose what's been worked for over the decades. You want to lose what's been worked for. Just move on to something other than biblical ministry. Just start trying to draw people in by any means necessary. And we'll lose what's been worked for. And we'll no longer have the rich spiritual blessings and the spiritual fruit That's resulted from biblical ministry centered on Christ based on the Word. Now we've not arrived. We've got a lot of growing to do. There's lots of room for growth for every individual and for the church as a whole. Well, there's something to a biblical church into the unity, into the care. And to the peace that results from biblical ministry. And biblical ministry does not come without hard work. You know how hard it is just to sustain your own private prayer life. It takes a lot of effort. It takes a lot of energy So the doctrine of Christ will equip us to guard the ministry. And thirdly, the doctrine of Christ equips us to walk in assurance. Verse 9. The doctrine of Christ equips us to walk in assurance. If you've not been taking notes, maybe write this down somewhere. If you've been taking notes on paper, maybe take this to the next level. Write it down on your forearm. The doctrine of Christ equips us to walk in assurance. Look at verse 9. It is so glorious. I can barely contain myself, as if you haven't noticed. Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the teaching of Christ does not have God. Now, we've already dealt with that. The Antichrist, the deceiver. Okay, we've dealt with that. What about the one who abides in the teaching of Christ? What's it saying about him or her? He has God. Brother, sister, you just stay with Christ. Just stay with Jesus. Dig your heels in there and don't move. Be encouraged Be strengthened by the Spirit. Brother and sister, don't give up. Don't give up when trials come. Where else can we go, O Lord? You have the words of eternal life. You have God. If you have Christ, you have God. That's why I call this point assurance. If you have Christ, you have God. And nothing can take that away from you. Whoever abides in the teaching has both the Father and the Son. Whoever abides in the teaching, and what does that mean? In the context, of course it means the teaching of Christ. That's what he's talking about. The doctrine of Christ, the teaching of Christ. You have the Father, and you have the Son. How can and how does a sinner on earth experience Jesus When Jesus is in heaven, it's a pretty big question. Simple answer faith. Faith. And that's something that's invisible. Friends, that's something that happens in the heart. You put your faith in Jesus, which means you lean on him, which means you trust in him as your forgiveness based on his death. Means you rely upon Jesus. You put your faith in Jesus. In your heart, put your faith in Jesus. And you're a child of God. You put your faith in Jesus and all your sins are forgiven. This is how you experience Christ. This is how you have, first of all, it's how you begin, you begin or you start The experiential knowledge of Christ is through faith. And then how you advance in that knowledge and how you grow in that knowledge is by faith. Christ lives within the sinner through faith. The sinner no longer lives for the approval of this world. Aren't you happy to have that kind of liberation? That your identity is not based on what the world thinks about you That your sense of security is not based on what the world says about you, but that you no longer live for the approval of the world because you've been united to Christ. Galatians 6. 14, Paul says, Far be it from me to boast, except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by which the world has been crucified to me, and I to the world. The world has been crucified to me and I to the world. I don't need the world's approval and brother and sister you don't need the world's approval to be to have a sense of fulfillment and meaning and purpose and rest and assurance in your life. All you need is God's approval. And God's approval comes through faith in Christ. Not proving yourself to God. Not doing enough good deeds. Not going to church enough. Not reading your Bible enough. Not praying enough. But your faith in Jesus Christ Receive the free gifts of God's approval, his eternal approval, approval that none can take away. The doctrine of Christ. The doctrine of Christ. I mean it's a doctrine If someone challenged me and said, Well, Pastor, let's see if he I challenge you. See if you can see if you can preach till dinner time on this. Yeah, easy. Because everything connects to Christ. Everything's about Christ. Christ is all I have. If you haven't noticed, Christ is all I have. If you're in Christ, Christ is all you have, and that's all we need. He's all we need. He's all we need for time and eternity. The doctrine of Christ is the defining mark of a spirit-filled church and of a spirit-filled sinner, aka a saved sinner. AKA, a child of God through faith in Christ. And friend, that could be you today You can have all your sins erased today, all the guilt of all your sins erased today. You can be reconciled to God for all eternity today if you put your faith in Christ. You could have the gift of eternal life today. You could no longer be a slave to sinful passions today. You'll still have sinful passions waging war against your soul But you'll no longer be a slave. Today, if you look to Christ and based on his sacrificial death in your place for your sins, taking your guilt and your shame, if you look to Christ in faith, you'll have God Alright, so I plead with you, and I urge you, and I cordially invite you. On the basis of his sacrificial death, would you believe in Jesus for the forgiveness of sins and the gift of eternal life? Close this with John 3:16. And you can say it with me if you'd like, for God so loved the world that he gave his only son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. Amen and amen.