All right, let's turn to Jeremiah chapter 2, 1 through 13. Calling this message the treachery of sin. You know, if you go home this week and start reading through Jeremiah , There's probably a ton of passages that you can name the sermon, The Treachery of Sin. Because this is what God has sent Jeremiah to deal with, the treachery and the sin of Judah, calling this the treachery of sin. Whenever we talk about the treachery of sin. We should also be reminded of this tremendous mercy of salvation. Sin is not the end of the story. Condemnation is not the end of the story, but God has sent a savior. God so loved the world, He sent His only begotten Son, that whoever believes in Him would not perish, but would have eternal life. But the reality is Sin is treacherous and sin is real and it needs to be dealt with. The world is wrong about this. Sin does need to be dealt with. Sin is a problem. Jeremiah 2, 1 through 13. Let's read that entire passage and then we'll work through it as best we can. The word of the Lord came to me saying, Go and proclaim in the hearing of Jerusalem, thus says the Lord. I remember the devotion of your youth, your love as a bride, how you followed me in the wilderness in a land not shown. Israel was holy to the Lord, the first fruits of his harvest. All who ate of it incurred guilt. Disaster came upon them, declares the Lord Hear the word of the Lord, O house of Jacob, and all the clans of the house of Israel. Thus says the Lord. What wrong did your fathers find in me that they went far from me and went after worthlessness and became worthless? They did not say, where is the Lord who brought us up from the land of Egypt, who led us in the wilderness, in the land of deserts and pits in a land of drought and deep darkness, in a land that none passes through, where no man dwells. And I brought you into a plentiful land to enjoy its fruits and its good things. But when you came in, you defiled my land and made my heritage an abomination. The priests did not say, Where is the Lord? Those who handled the law did not know me. The shepherds transgressed against me. And the prophets prophesied by Baal , went after things that do not profit. Therefore I still contend with you, declares the Lord, and with your children's children I will contend. For cross the coasts of Cyprus and see, or send to Kedar and examine with care, see if there has been such a thing. Has a nation changed its gods, even though there are no gods? But my people have changed their glory for that which does not profit. Be appalled, O heavens, at this. Be shocked Be utterly desolate, declares the Lord, for my people have committed two evils. They've forsaken me, the fountain of living waters. And hewed out cisterns for themselves, broken cisterns that could hold no water. Is Israel a slave? Is he a homeborn servant? Why then has he become prey? So you see that verse 14 is a transitional verse. It's a hypothetical question. Or not a hypothetical question. It's a rhetorical question. We've just learned why Israel has become a prey. The judgment of God against their sin. Now, quickly, just to highlight one thing as we get going here Verse 7. Think about the overarching purpose why God brought Israel into the promised land. It wasn't for them to make money. It wasn't just to give them freedom so how they could live however they wanted to live. God brought Israel into the promised land so that that land would become a land of true worship and obedience and devotion to God. The land that was a gift to Israel so that Israel would have a place to give their lives. to God for God's glory to worship him and to serve him. Look at verse 7. I brought you into a plentiful land to enjoy its fruits. and its good things, but when you came in, you defiled my land, and you made my heritage an abomination. They did the exact opposite thing that God had purposed for that land to be a place of worship, not idolatry. The land was a gift. It was full of good things to enjoy its fruits and to enjoy its good things. And all of those good things in the promised land and the promised land itself was supposed to be a reminder of God's goodness, of God's benevolence, that God is generous. He redeemed us, but he didn't just leave us in the wilderness. He's made us a nation. He's given us the law. He's given us the priesthood. He's given us a land, and now we're using that land not to serve him, but to serve idols. The language in Jeremiah becomes devastating. It becomes shocking. It's so graphic and so vivid with the treachery of Israel's sin. One of the phrases that really, really stood out to me. I mean there's a lot in here, but toward the end of verse 8. Look at what the prophets are doing. Look at what the prophets are doing. Are they prophesying? Are they preaching? Yeah. By bail. They're prophesying in their preaching by a wicked demon God, by a God who is no God. And You know, a prophet, that's a position of leadership. That's a position that has a huge impact on people's lives and on the nation. A prophet prophesying by Baal. Sometimes those things don't really have the impact to our hearts that they should. Imagine if I got up here and started preaching a different God. Hopefully you would go berserk. Hopefully the security team would come up right on the spot and usher me out. No, no, that's not what we're about here. We're about scripture. We're about the one true living God. You can't preach that here Don't don't be we shouldn't be ashamed to do that or to say that. We have the prophets , another of God's gifts to the people. Prophets, ministers of the word, prophesying by Baal. Treachery. The treachery of this sin. But it begins with a remembrance of love First of all, a remembrance of love from verses one through three. The word of the Lord came to me saying, Go and proclaim. Now some of you have in there, not go and proclaim, but but what? Go and Cry out. This is the verb here. Cry out. Cry aloud. What's your preaching is? A preacher is a herald. It's the imagery of a town crier. Who goes into the middle of town and he stands tall and he lifts his voice and he cries aloud the truth of God. Go and proclaim in the hearing of Jerusalem. Thus says the Lord, I remember the devotion of your youth. So this is Israel as a youth, as a nation, as a youth, your love as a bride. Your love is a bride. Now that imagery will become so important in Jeremiah when the uh the main Metaphor for Israel's sin will be that of spiritual harlotry, spiritual prostitution, prostituting herself out to other gods. So th again that's the opposite of what Israel was called to be and made to be by God, a bride. I remember the devotion of your youth, your love as a bride, how you followed me in the wilderness. In a land not sown. So that's not a fruitful land. That's not a land flowing with milk and honey. That's the wilderness. That's a land not sown. Israel was holy to the Lord, set apart unto the Lord. Given the covenant, given the law, given the book of the law, given the priesthood, given the temple, given the worship And then he says, Um, Israel was holy to the Lord, the first fruits of his harvest. They were supposed to be a light to the nations. They were supposed to be a light to the nations to have a kingdom impact that went beyond. ethnic Israel. All who ate of it incurred guilt. Disaster came upon them. Some um maybe some obscure imagery there, but that's talking about how God protected Israel against enemies in their journey to the promised land. He gave them victory over enemies or victory over those who would uh not allow them passage or things like that. Those who would want to plunder Israel of the gifts that God was giving or of the or to thwart The purpose for which God had set forth for Israel, God protected them. This remembrance of love, God loved With a special love, a unique love. Picture this in all the earth. God chose this nation, a special love bestowed upon this nation to redeem them and bring them into the promised land and make them a nation. Your love as a bride. Should stand out to us this phrase, how you followed me in the wilderness, because we know a lot of the stories in the wilderness that was not always stories of Israel's faithfulness. There were not always stories to be emulated. But the fact of the matter is, I mean, you can, if even if you want to just say relatively speaking Here there's something of a devotion of their youth when the exodus was fresh on the mind. And when there was at least, at least A sizable portion of true believers in the nation. And it's just degenerated and devolved. We studied that I forget if it was the first message or the second message when we looked at the reign of Josiah, which was an age of Biblical reformation and restoration of true worship, but then after Josiah straight downhill spiraling into decadence and immorality and idolatry, generation after generation, kings leading the charge in wickedness. So God remembers the devotion of Ishmael's youth, their love as a bride, betrothed to the Almighty God. What a privilege. Brothers and sisters, that's a privilege. That's a privilege. And so this adds to their treachery because they're sinning against grace. They're sinning against special mercy. They're sinning against Benevolence that was unparalleled in the earth. The remembrance of love. And then you go right into verses four and five, we see a rejection of that love. This is the essence of human sin, whether you're you're in the Mosaic Covenant or outside in the Gentile nations. Um this is the essence of what sin is. God is creator, God is king, God is a benevolent father who's given us good gifts. He's given us life. He's given us breath. He's given us food. He's giv given them water. He g Gives them crops, he gives them a measure of health. He gives them children. He gives them families. He gives them nations. God has revealed his power and his goodness through creation. What does man do? Ignores it and worships the created thing instead of the creator who gave those things. You see this also in Israel in a more acute and more focused way, the rejection of his redeeming love, not just his general benevolent love. Verses 4 And five, the rejection of love. Hear the word of the Lord, O house of Jacob, and all the clans Of the house of Israel. I can picture Jeremiah standing up and literally preaching that. There's his opening statement. Hear the word of the Lord, O house of Jacob, and all the clans of the house of Israel. Thus says the Lord. Which is the basis of any true preaching. Thus says the Lord. Not just uh thus is the opinion of the pastor. Thus says the Lord. Check out this question. What wrong did your fathers find in me that they went far from me and went after worthlessness And became worthless. That's a whole sermon right there. That's a whole seminar. Let's do that seminar. We'll do a whole weekend on this portion of this verse. What wrong did Israel find in God that they deemed it better to leave him in the dust and go live for other gods that didn't exist, never did anything for them? What did he do that was so bad? What did he do that was so wrong that they left him? That's what he's asking here. What faults What wrong did they find in me that they went far from me and went after worthlessness and became worthless? You go after idols that have ears but do not hear. You become a person who has ears but cannot hear. You don't grasp the truth. And you go after idols, they're carved in stone or they're carved in wood, and they have eyes, but they can't see. You become like them. And you have eyes, but you can't see. You have ears and you don't hear, and you have eye. You become like the thing that you're beholding and worshiping. You become conformed to its likeness. Now the same paradigm is true for Christian growth. We're conformed to the image of Christ by beholding the glory of Christ in the gospel. As we see his glory, we're conformed to his image. 2 Corinthians 3. 18. Well here, this is what happened to Israel. It's the opposite. Same paradigm, but the opposite thing. What wrong? What wrong did your fat fathers find in me, or what fault did they find in me? That they went far from me, went after worthlessness, the worthlessness of idolatry, and they became worthless. Maybe the tragedy of sin would be a better title. I mean sin is treacherous, treacherous, but what a tragedy this is to forsake a God who's done nothing but good things for them. And make no mistake about it, God has done good things for us. He's done good things for us. This is the goodness of God. The goodness of God, that He He intends our good. He wants our good. He works for our good. Just what love is. This is love, to work for the good of another, even at great sacrifice to self. Husbands, love your wives. Look out for her good, not just for yourself. Wives, love your husbands. Parents, love your children Church members, let's love each other. Let's seek the good of each other. Let's build up and encourage each other. Let's love the community around us. Let's seek their good. Let's pray for them. Set a good example. Bring the word. Speak the truth in love. Seeking the good of another. This question, what faults did your fathers find in me? If you want to burrow underneath that, it does give us the heart of sin. And it's treacherous, the heart of sin, to find fault in the faultless one. To run away from the one who is most worthy to be pursued. To see the most beautiful thing, the most beautiful being. The most valuable being, the most valuable thing that exists, God Himself, and to despise it and go the other way. The foolishness of this, the rejection of God's love. To find fault with the faultless. They rejected his love. Verse 6, they forgot his redemption. They did not say , this is what they did not say. And they should have said this. This should have been their heart. They did not say, Where's the Lord who brought us up from Egypt, from the land of Egypt? Who led us in the wilderness, in the land of deserts and pits, in the land of drought and deep darkness, in a land that none passes through, and where no man dwells. Well, this is referenced as a sin, right? Not saying this. Basically, they ceased to call on God as their Redeemer and as the one who would preserve them and help them. That's what you should say. Where's God? Where's our Redeemer? He's the one we need. He's the one who can help us. He brought us out of the land of Egypt first. God's resume, He brought us out of the land of E of Egypt, and then in a land of deserts and pits, drought and darkness that no one goes through, no one dwells there. He preserved us and took care of us and provided for us all the way through. And he watched over us and he led us and he guided us. He redeemed us and he took us through the wilderness. He took us through the darkness. And he's brought us into the promised land. No, no, no. They forgot about that God. They forgot about that redemption They rejected his love. They forgot his redemption. Number seven, they defiled, or verse seven rather. Verse seven, they defiled his gifts. I brought you into a plentiful land to enjoy its fruits and its good things. And when you came in , You sang my praises faithfully because of the good gifts I gave you. Is that what your translation says? It says the opposite, right? When you came in, you defiled my land. I love that phrase. My land. Not your land, Israel, my land. And made my heritage an abomination. That nation was supposed to be a nation of true worship, true remembrance for the mercy and power of God. You can apply this principle to our own bodies. New Testament says our bodies are not our own. We've been bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God in our bodies. It's God's body. We're steward, the body that God has gifted us with. God is the author of life. And every aspect of the life that we have is a gift from God. And we owe God to live for Him. He deserves it. And we're accountable to do that. Our heart, our our passions, our desires, our will, our decisions, our priorities, our mind, our thoughts, our thought patterns, what we fixate on, our words, what we say. How we say it, the way we talk about others, the way we speak to others and converse with others, and our bodies Our actions, our hands, our feet, where we go and what we do, we owe it all to God. We owe it all to Christ who purchased us to be his prized possession. When God gives us something, he gives us that thing so that we would use it in such a way that honors him, not in such a way that forgets him and does whatever we want. No, brothers and sisters, that's the way of the world. In fact, you can apply this not just to the body, but to every second of our existence we owe to God. Moment by moment, we owe to God. A rejection of his love, forgetting his redemption, defiling his gifts, and rejecting his ways. Verse 8 Really just giving us some examples and summarizing how they rejected his love and what happened when they forgot his redemption and in what way did they defile his gifts. Here you go, the leaders of the pack, verse 8. The priest did not say, Where is the Lord? Well, there you go, the whole thing trickles down from there. If you don't have priests seeking the Lord, I mean, there you go. Because they're the leaders. They're the spiritual leaders. The priests aren't even seeking the Lord. The priests did not say where is the Lord? Those who handle the law did not know me. Can you imagine? This is the first prerequisite for being a minister of the word. You've got to be saved. You've got to be saved. Here you have ministers of the law of God, teachers of the law of God. Influencing the people, leading the people, guiding the people. They did not know me. They're lost. They're lost people. As if it could not get any worse than priests who don't seek the Lord. And those who handle the law, teachers, scribes who do not know the Lord, you have shepherds transgressing against him. They're lawbreakers. Their lives are given to law-breaking. The shepherds, the leaders, just more teachers, more influencers whose lives are marked not by law keeping and true obedience. But by law breaking. And I'm most certain of this, that that would lead to legalism and depression of others, which is another theme throughout the prophets. You're oppressing others. You're not showing mercy to others. You're not showing love to orphans, to widows, to the poor. Why that lack of mercy? Well, it's just one other aspect of transgression. So you have priests who don't seek the Lord, heaven forbid, those teaching the law, the word of God, who don't know the Lord, you have shepherds, leaders of the people, counselors. Guides whose lives are marked by law breaking, and then you have prophets. Prophets Chanting songs to Baal. Leading public prayers to Baal. Offering sacrifices, probably, or at least attending the offering of sacrifices to Baal Public ministry, public worship to Baal. The prophets prophesied by Baal and went after things that do not profit I really don't think we know how bad sin is. Sin is the worst thing in existence. God is the best thing in existence. Amen? God is the best thing in existence. Sin is a defamation of the best thing, which makes sin the worst thing. Sin is seeing that which is most beautiful. And hating it, seeing that which is most worthy of love, and fleeing from it. Not only wanting to get away from it, but wanting to rid the world of any trace of God. This is why when we think of outreach and evangelism, outreach is any event or any effort where we're just seeking to meet people, but we're always thinking and we're always praying that God would open doors for the gospel. That's the actual evangelism, sharing the gospel Sharing your testimony of salvation which hopefully includes the gospel. Not just, well, I got really interested in religion. felt so good when I went to church. No. Rather, I was lost. God showed me I was lost and he showed me the Savior that he provided and I was saved. Praise the Lord. When we're thinking about outreach and we're thinking about evangelism, it's always good to remember what people need. What people need is a steady diet of the Word of God. If this is anywhere in our minds, crumble it up, ball it up, throw it in the trash can, squeeze some lighter fluid on, throw in a match, burn it up If it's anywhere in our minds to reduce evangelism down to a three-minute sales-pitched gospel, and I'm going to share it real quick, and I've got to get them to make a decision that they want to go to heaven. People need a steady diet of the Word of God. They need a steady diet of the Word of God. They need a steady diet of the example of Christians, the good example, the witness of Christians That's not all they need, but that's the two core things that people need. If I was to add a third, it would be people need Christians to pray for them. Christians who pray for them. Christians who are trusting God to change hearts. Trusting in God's providence that God is already working in people's lives And that his word will bring people under a conviction of sin. And that his word, his gospel, will bring people to faith in Christ. The word, the gospel, is the power of God unto salvation. People need a steady diet of truth, of spirit-empowered teaching, preaching, sharing, witnessing of the truth of God. Because sin blinds. And sin is a much deeper problem than what recent evangelicalism has led on. Sin is the worst thing in the world, and it is a deep-rooted corruption in the human heart. And what people need is the truth of God, the truth of God, the truth of God, by the Spirit of God. to plant seeds, to be watered, and to spring forth a new life in Christ. I guess what I'm saying is we can't be in a rush. We're to have urgency And we're to have zeal, but we should not have anxiety, and we're not to be in a rush, and we're not to get quick, we're not to try to get quick human decisions to go to heaven. Salvation is a miracle. To be born again is a supernatural work of the Spirit. Shall we do outreach? We're praying for open doors for gospel ministry, outreach and evangelism. But we're not anxious. We're not in a rush because we know God is working and He'll change people through His Word and through His Spirit. Our goal for people is that they would get a steady diet of the word in their lives and a steady diet of Christian example in their lives. First of all, you had the remembrance of love. God voices through Jeremiah a remembrance of Israel of older older years, the remembrance of love, and then you have the rejection of that love, which really summarizes what sin is a rejection of love And now, beginning in verse 9, you have a rendering of the verdict. You like these? They're all all starting with R. How about that? Who would have ever guessed? Alliteration in a sermon. Remembrance of love, and then a rejection of that love, and then a rendering of the verdict. Verse 9, therefore I still contend with you, declares the Lord, and with your children's children I will contend. It's not what you want to hear. God 's set himself against you as an enemy because you've set yourself against God as an enemy in rebellion. Now he's contending with you as the judge. He's rendering the verdict. And thank God, thank God, Christ died for our sins. And thank God that Christ intervened in our lives to bring us the gospel. And to change our hearts, to save us, so that God will not contend with us, so that he will not come in as our enemy, because he's already dealt with our sins in the body of Christ. On the cross. But here he says, I'll contend with you. This is a rendering of the verdict. In verses ten and eleven we see the absurdity of sin. The absurdity of sin. Really set set Israel apart as the most foolish nation in the world at that time. For cross the coast of Cyprus to sea, or send a Qadar and examine with care. So, um, what kind of mission would this be? Uh observation? Uh just go, see, go, look, gather intel. See if there's been such a thing. Has a nation changed its gods, even though there are no gods? So nations nations would have had their gods. Gods that didn't really exist. Gods that they invented. But one nation didn't give up their gods and adopt the gods of another nation But look at what he says in verse 11 in the middle. But my people have changed their glory for that which does not profit. It's absurd. Friends, that's absurd. So you have one nation who worships gods that they invented. So deep in their hearts, they know they're not real. But they won't trade those gods. They'll keep those gods as if their life depended on it. Keep these false gods. Here you have Israel. whose God is the one true living God, who in history, in their experience, before their eyes, has manifested the reality of Himself, manifested His power and his mercy and his benevolence over and his justice over and over again. He's proven that he's real. He's proven that he loves them. He's proven that he's worthy to be worshipped. He's worthy to be served. They traded them in. They've traded in the real thing and adopted gods that do not exist, that other nations have. He says it's absurd. Go, go to Cyprus, see, go to Kedar, see, look carefully Nations don't do this. Nations don't do this. But Israel did. It's absurd. The absurdity of sin. And then you have the treachery of sin. Verse 12. God calls a witness. He calls a witness to the stand against Israel. What's the witness? The whole universe. Be appalled, O heavens, at this. Be disgusted. The whole universe should be disgusted at this. Be appalled, O heavens, at this. Be shocked. Be utterly desolate, declares the Lord. For my people have committed two evils. First of all, they've forsaken me the fountain of living waters. That means he's the fountain of all that's good. He's the fountain of life. He's the fountain of love. He's the fountain of righteousness, he's the fountain of truth, he's the fountain of justice, he's the fountain of all good things. Like in um in 1 John chapter 1, where John writes, and this is our message that God is light. He's light, he's the shining forth of all that is good. Here's another metaphor to say the same thing. He's the fountain of living waters. Now, if you lived in the desert, at any time, I was going to say if you lived in the desert at that time, if you live in the desert. Anytime. And you have a plot of land where there's living water, flowing fountain of water underneath the ground that's providing you with clean water that's fresh. That would be such a treasure to you. It would make all the difference in the world. And it would be foolish to forsake a fountain of living water. Now here's the second sin. It really brings out the the uh the foolishness of this. The the treachery of this, of wh why the whole universe is called to the witness stand and is supposed to be disgusted at this because look at what they took. Instead they they went after instead of the fountain of living waters and the source of all that is good. Hewed out cisterns for themselves. Alright, let's just stop there. Don't peek ahead. Don't peek ahead to what's said next. Alright. Living waters is much, much better than a cistern that you basically would carve out just to gather rain water. And it would be good for a little bit, but essentially that's a last resort. That's a necessity to gather water. But it would become stagnant and it would get muddy. Stuff would get in it. Much, much better to have an ever-flowing stream, fountain, living water source, a spring of living water. That you could use for drinking, for washing, whatever. Living water, good. Cistern, not so good. So you leave the living water for a cistern, foolish. And not only that, look at the end of verse 13. Broken sisters, they can't even hold water. So there you go. It doesn't even at that point it doesn't even matter how well a cistern could work in theory. Because the cisterns that they went to couldn't hold water at all, which is a metaphor for idolatry And wickedness and error. You leave the source of life, the source of redemption The source of hope, the source of peace, the source of joy, the source of meaning, the source of all that is good, shining forth from God And go to false gods that don't even exist and can't help us, can't take away our sins, can't provide us with a true and lasting hope. They can give us the uh the illusion. The feeling of spirituality. Those good feelings that come from just practicing religion. People have always loved religion. People have always mankind has always, always, always loved and faithfully practiced and fought over religion. But what we need is truth. We need truth. We need God. So there you have it. A rendering of the verdict based on the absurdity of sin, based on the treachery of sin, calling the heavens to the witness stand. Then you have the foolishness of sin once again, verse thirteen. Once again, verse thirteen, the foolishness of this. Two evils Forsaking God and in one way or another, living for created things Living for created things. Paul make the same argument basically in Romans one, eighteen and following. This is really the essence of sin. To ignore the creator, but then worship the created thing in the place of the creator. He says more about it than that right there. He says it in a way that's much, much better than I could ever articulate. But you see the same thing here. And isn't that the impulse of sin that that we fight against daily? The impulse of sin within us, this lingering, indwelling sin. That wants to go off and do its own thing rather than devote more and more of life to God. We're always fighting that. Let's close by looking a little bit at Romans eight, verse one. I gave this as homework in the sermon, but It would be a nice thing to end the Lord's day looking at Romans eight verse one. Jeremiah is Preached and written to a people under the old covenant, which was a covenant of law. And so, yes They were condemned, and judgment really did come for them and against them in history for their sin as the covenant people of God But we're in the new covenant. We're in the new covenant. It's a covenant of grace, not a covenant of law. So you can't make an exact parallel between Uh a historical judgment and God condemning Old Covenant Israel. You can't make an exact parallel with that to New Covenant people Because there's no way in the world the condemnation will come for those who are in Christ. It cannot happen. It comes for those who live in Israel. For their lawbreaking under a covenant of law. But it can't come for people who are cleansed by the blood of Christ and whose sins have already been punished. God will not punish your sins twice because He is a just God. Romans 8:1. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Oh, the blessedness of this. For the law of the Spirit of Life Has set you free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death. The law of sin and death was the principle for those under law. And here's the law of sin and death. You ready for it? It's very complicated, so if you're a note taker. Get ready. Here's the law of sin and death for those under those under law. Sin and die. That's the law of sin and death. The wages of sin, law of sin and death. Three words sin and die. But the law of the spirit of life has set you free in Christ Jesus from that law. We are made alive by the Spirit. The Spirit of life. And that set us free in Christ Jesus. And we were united to Christ. He is our covenant head. One more verse. For God. Verse 3. For God has done what the law, weakened by the flesh, could not do. The law couldn't provide a righteousness for us. The law couldn't and the law can't make sinners right in the eyes of God. So what the law could not do, but God has done what the law, weakened by the flesh, could not do by sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh. And for sin, he, God, he condemned sin in the flesh Well just stop there. I just want us to end the day with that phrase and that imagery in our minds. He condemned sin in the flesh. He condemned your sin in the body of Christ if you're in Christ. If I'm in Christ, he condemned my sin in the body of Christ on the cross. For all those who are in Christ, your sin has already been condemned. And the penalty, the just penalty against our sin, has already been dished out. Although the metaphor in the Bible is a cup of wrath, not a dish of wrath, but you understand what I'm saying. Praise God that He is just, He's merciful And that he sent Jesus to die in our place and to shed his blood for our life and for our salvation. And praise God that he's just. He's not going to punish our sins twice. Sin is treacherous. Treacherous. I always say that word wrong to get a some kind of speech pathologist or something to help me with the word treacherous. Or to find a new word. Denise, how about this? We make no apologies for talking about sin. By God's grace, our church will not become a statistic. By God's grace. And what I mean by that is we by God's grace will not become just another church that's afraid to talk about the truth of sin because we so much want people to like us. Or enjoy coming here. But Lord I if you if this has happened for you, you know it's true. When God pulls back the veil and shows us the truth of the treachery of our sin, it's It's just the first step in a great great journey of liberation and freedom and joy and peace and salvation. It's a good thing When we learn that we need a savior. It's a good thing when people learn that they need a savior. So we preach God and His holiness and His commandments, what He requires And from there we preach how man has sinned and violated God's commands, and violated and fallen short of his glory. Sin is treacherous. Sin is great, but we have a tremendous mercy. We have a great Savior whose blood covers all of our sins, all of your sins. Past Current, future, known, unknown, internal, external, however you want to say it, the blood of Christ covers Every single ounce of guilt for every sin that we will ever do. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the cross of Jesus Christ, and I pray that You fix our hearts more and more on Him, that we would rest in Him, find joy in Him, increasingly so Conform us to his likeness. Show us your glory. Show us your power. To Christ we pray. Amen.